Feeding the future Our vision for tomorrow’s agriculture Sustainability Report 2018 COFCO International Ltd Feeding the future In the year 2050, there will be close to 10 billion people on Earth This means higher demands for food than ever Agricultural development has before and unprecedented pressure on natural Our mission: resources and food producers. According to tremendous potential to enhance to create a positive the International Finance Corporation, agriculture food security while creating and sustainable impact will need to grow by 70% during this time in on our people and order to meet demand. opportunities and raising income shareholders, on farmers for the world’s poor, threeand communities and on How can we achieve this while at quarters of whom live in rural our customers and partners. the same time protecting natural resources, maintaining climate areas. In low-income countries, Our values: stability and creating value for the agricultural sector often Integrity, Inclusiveness, those along the supply chain? Innovation and Sustainability. accounts for half or more of These are challenging questions. GDP and 60 to 80% of total And we want to be part of the answer. employment.” International Finance Corporation Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 3 Welcome Our products What we do What’s Welcome 4 6 inside? Our products What we do 7 Our sustainability strategy 8 Welcome to our 2018 sustainability Our five strategic priorities report. Inside is our progress update against five strategic priorities that support Connecting supply Taking care of Managing our our sustainable growth as a business, and demand our people environmental while ensuring value creation for all responsibly impact our stakeholders. 11 19 25 Building strong Upholding communities standards Reporting boundaries 30 34 Covering the 2018 calendar year, this report is aligned to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards, Core option. It also contains non-financial 36 information on material aspects from our Environmental and Social Action Plan, as agreed on with International Finance Corporation, Managing sustainability our shareholder. The reporting scope includes all facilities and operations 100% owned and/or operated by COFCO International throughout 2018. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 4 Welcome Our products What we do Progress in partnership As a rapidly-growing Globally, we partnered with other agri-businesses to digitise post-trade transactions using international agri-business, blockchain technology for more transparent, meeting rising demand for food efficient operations. in a sustainable way is key to our We took further steps towards sustainable supply purpose. Sustainability is defined chains. We mapped key environmental and social risks in our soy footprint in Brazil, while as a core value for COFCO risk-assessing over 1.1 million hectares of International. Together with farmland with satellite mapping (an increase of Integrity, Inclusiveness and 15% from 2017). In palm oil, we started to develop an environmental and social profile of our supply Innovation, it is part of our chain. Launching a consolidated Integrity Hotline culture that guides day-to-day has further reinforced our core value both inside and outside COFCO International, while business and behaviours. cooperation between colleagues helped us achieve an unprecedented safety performance Last year, we published our first sustainability in 2018. Our people came together in inclusion report. In this second report, we are happy to and cultural diversity training across 12 countries report steady progress against our own priorities during the last year, while our community and to share our collaborative efforts to address partnerships continued to improve prospects systemic challenges. These challenges span for approximately 16,000 people. pressures on natural resources and climate We worked side-by-side Looking ahead, we change; labour exploitation and human rights We may be in the early stages of our sustainability with governments, civil will maintain our – all against a backdrop of rising food demand, journey but there is great potential and opportunity for rapid progress when working as a team – with volatile commodity markets and societal society organisations focus on executing expectations for traceable, sustainable produce. one another and with trusted partners. Looking and industry peers, a business strategy In 2018, we worked side-by-side with governments, ahead, we will maintain our focus on executing a business strategy with sustainability at its heart. together forging a with sustainability civil society organisations and industry peers, We thank our partners for their support throughout path towards more at its heart.” together forging a path towards more resilient and sustainable food systems. We confronted land 2018, including our customers and shareholders, notably COFCO Corporation and the International resilient and sustainable David Dong conversion challenges in agriculture production Finance Corporation, who continue to trust us to grow sustainably. food systems.” CEO COFCO International under the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and its Soft Commodities Forum, the Cerrado Working Group in Brazil and the Johnny Chi and David Dong Johnny Chi Tropical Rainforest Alliance, among others. Chairman COFCO International Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 5 Welcome Our products What we do We are COFCO International Storage Processing Port  Trading hub Trade route As a global agriculture trading house, COFCO International sources, stores, processes, transports and trades grains, oilseeds, sugar, coffee and cotton. In doing so, we connect farmers with more than 50 consumer markets around the world. We also play our part in the planetary goal of universal food security – in 2018 alone, we traded 106 million tonnes of agri-commodities, helping to bring vital foods from field to family. Warehouses Processing Ports APAC 2 1 1 EMEA 10 2 4 Latin America 36 8 10 North America 2 4 COFCO International shareholders $31bn 106m 30m 10,839 35 2.2m 24m Revenue Tonnes turnover Tonnes port capacity Employees Countries Tonnes inland storage Tonnes processing capacity Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 6 Welcome Our products What we do Commodities that touch our daily life A growing demand for products as diverse as coffee and cosmetics, bread and biofuel Grains Oilseeds means that the commodities we handle Wheat, corn, barley, sorghum Soybean, sunflower seed, rapeseed, palm oil touch the lives of virtually every one of Origin: South America, Black Sea, North America, Origin: South America, North America, Black Sea, Europe, Australia, Southern Africa Southeast Asia, Southern Africa us on the planet. Our role: sourcing, storing, trading, distribution Our role: sourcing, storing, processing, trading, distribution 40+ million tonnes 3rd largest soybean traded in 2018 exporter from Brazil Coffee Cotton Sugar Origin: South America, Central America, Origin: South America, North America, South Asia, Origin: South America, South Asia, Southeast Asia Southeast Asia Middle East, West Africa, Southeast Asia Our role: farming, sourcing, storing, processing, Our role: sourcing, storing, processing, Our role: sourcing, storing, trading, distribution trading, distribution trading, distribution 7 sustainability 300+ 16 million tonnes certification and thousand tonnes sugarcane verification schemes traded annually crushing capacity Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 7 Welcome Our products What we do Our role in the global food system By efficiently connecting the supply of agri-commodities with a growing demand from people and industry, we contribute to global food security and local livelihoods. Meanwhile, we work proactively, in partnership with producers and other stakeholders, to protect natural resources and people within the food system. This is how we do it. Connecting supply… ....with demand Our value chain footprint Production Sourcing Storage Processing Trading Transportation Agricultural We are a primary We source grains, We store agriOur dedicated As an international and Distribution Retail and Consumption producer of oilseeds, sugar, commodities in plants process trading house, we Our freight and inputs sugarcane. For coffee and cotton warehouses and agri-commodities trade commodities marketing distribution services other commodities from small and largesilos operated by into products at scale via numerous ensure safe and that we don’t scale farmers directly ourselves or third for local and trading platforms. timely delivery of produce, we strive to or via cooperatives parties before onward global markets. products to customers support sustainable and third parties. trade and delivery. in import markets. agricultural production wherever possible. Optimising our impact We ensure sustainable We apply sustainable Our storage sites Our processing We monitor global Shipping is the most sugarcane production sourcing standards to uphold the highest facilities operate supply and demand efficient way to move within our leased promote responsible product quality and under a corporate trends to ensure products across plantations. More farming practices safety standards, as environmental, timely responses to continents at scale. widely, we work that enable longlaid out in our Food health and safety market shortages Our freight team strives with farmers and term productivity and Feed Safety Policy. management system, where demand exists, to improve operational communities to and conservation of benchmarked against facilitating commodity efficiency and reduce maximise their natural resources. international standards, flows within and its environmental produce and incomes, including ISO 14001, across borders. footprint. We are while minimising OHSAS 18001, IFC starting to track the environmental and Performance Standard carbon footprint of all social impacts. 1 and 2, as well as the time-chartered ships World Bank Group EHS to identify emissions Guidelines. reduction opportunities. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 8 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Our sustainability strategy In order to prioritise where we can make the greatest contribution to a more sustainable global food system, we are guided by our sustainability strategy that is aligned to the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and to the expectations of our stakeholders. In this section  eeting tomorrow’s M 9 demand 2018 progress 10 Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 9 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Meeting tomorrow’s demand Our sustainability strategy, Our strategic objectives Meeting Tomorrow’s Demand, helps us to deliver social, economic and environmental Connecting supply Taking care Managing our Building strong Upholding standards value across the business model. and demand of our people environmental communities Ensuring the quality and It is based on 12 material issues safety of our products, responsibly Respecting human and labour impact Generating a positive impact maintaining good corporate identified by stakeholders and rights, providing a safe and and supporting livelihoods in Efficient, responsible and Pursuing resource sustainable supply chain healthy work environment and efficiency and minimising the communities where we governance and compliance. addressed under five strategic supporting personal growth. work and live. management and innovating for agricultural productivity. waste and emissions. priorities – also the chapters of this report. Our material issues The bigger picture Sustainable agricultural sourcing Respect for human Water management Community engagement Good governance As we expand into new communities, countries and labour rights and compliance Agricultural innovation Waste management and regions, we have an opportunity to make Occupational health Product quality and safety Responsible agricultural and safety Energy efficiency and a deeper impact on global issues such as hunger, production reduction of emissions Talent attraction responsible production and consumption, health, and staff retention decent work, innovation and economic growth. Our strategy reflects the United Nations (UN) 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Our policies Its 17 Sustainable Development Goals span Supplier Code of Conduct Human rights and labour policy Environmental Policy Stakeholder engagement policy Code of Conduct the most pressing economic, social and Sustainable soy sourcing policy Occupational health and Community investment policy R  esponsible land acquisition environmental challenges of our time. By aligning safety policy and leasing policy with these goals, we aim to measure and report Food and feed safety policy our sustainability progress with the ‘bigger picture’ in mind. For more detail on our sustainability governance, engagement and material issues, see page 37 and for our sustainability policies, please visit our website. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 10 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards 2018 progress 1,581 392,000+ Integrity hotline launched for anonymously farmers received sustainable reporting concerns production training in Colombia and grievances and Paraguay See page 18 See page 14 and 17 hours of EHS training to employees and contractors See page 22 329,000+ cubic metres of water saved See page 29 16,000+ people benefited from our community programmes See page 32 50+ beekeepers in Brazil supported by our Pollinate Project 51% of waste recycled, reused or composted See page 29 66% See page 16 ZERO fatalities among employees 330,000 homes equivalent powered by our 18% and contractors bioenergy surpluses in Brazil See page 21 See page 27 67% 1.1 of treated wastewater reapplied 88 % back to agricultural land See page 29 of global energy consumption from 4,002 coffee growers in our of employees covered million hectares of soy farms geo-mapped renewable sources sustainable production by collective bargaining for environmental and social risk screening See page 27 programmes agreements See page 13 reduction in employee lost-time injuries See page 17 See page 24 See page 21 Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 11 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Connecting We manage our supply chains in an efficient and sustainable way by mitigating environmental and social risks and working in partnership, while supply and innovating for agricultural productivity. Our wider contribution UN Sustainable Development Goals demand IFC Performance Standards responsibly In this section Sustainability in a dynamic marketplace 12 Soy13 Sugar15 Coffee, palm oil and cotton 17 Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 12 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Sustainability In this section, we introduce how we are The apparent ‘new normal’ of addressing our first strategic priority – connecting unpredictable markets is only supply and demand responsibly. Whether it is reinforcing our commercial imperative soybeans or sugar, coffee, palm oil or cotton, in a dynamic the commodities are very different but the for sustainable commodity supply environmental and social challenges associated chains. It is only by working together with their production are often similar. These that we can innovate and feed the world include traceability to origin, human and labour at the scale needed to meet tomorrow’s marketplace rights exploitation, land use, extraction of natural resources, biodiversity, soil health, climate change demand. At COFCO International, adaptation and mitigation and livelihood security. it is our philosophy that cooperation The centrality of partnerships to address these outweighs competition.” challenges is also evident across all commodities and is discussed throughout this report. Johnny Chi Chairman, COFCO International How we collectively prepare for – and respond to – challenges is fundamental to how we Following a trajectory of sustainable growth, meet tomorrow’s demand for food sustainably Consistent standards, wherever we are and grow our market position. Structured, As a diverse, international business, it is vital while maintaining the uninterrupted flow that we enforce consistent principles in our ongoing dialogue remains key to executing of commodities in an increasingly our sustainability strategy (see our materiality operations and through our supply chains. Our Supplier Code of Conduct helps ensure unpredictable global market, is our daily approach on page 37). that all suppliers uphold minimum standards challenge. As well as being highly efficient of social and environmental responsibility, and agile, we must also be proactive in the regardless of jurisdiction or geography. The Code is complemented by more specific guidance for face of evolving consumer preferences, individual commodity supply chains with potential volatile commodity prices, geopolitical significant environmental and social risk exposure. instability and environmental change. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 13 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Targeting ‘hotspots’ COFCO International’s enthusiasm to work with The Nature in our soy chain Conservancy and WWF to design a revised and enlarged Soy As the second largest producer of soybeans Sourcing Policy that includes native vegetation conversion Soy in the world after the USA, Brazil meets 30% risk in the Cerrado Biome represents a vital private sector of global demand. In recent decades, its production has expanded into fragile ecosystems practice to increase food security and foster a more sustainable in Latin America, making sustainable soy production. In a collaborative approach, we hope to steer cultivation a key issue for governments, civil soy production over already cleared and suitable land and society and all actors along the value chain. therefore protecting nature while accommodating soy In 2018, we continued to deploy satellite mapping expansion to meet global demand, since there is enough to screen for environmental and social risks in pre-financed farms in the Amazon and all other cleared and suitable land available to do so.” farms throughout Brazil. In 2018, more than a Rodrigo Spuri million hectares were mapped and assessed for Soy Sector Coordinator, The Nature Conservancy Brazil compliance with our Sustainable Soy Sourcing Edegar de Oliveira Rosa Policy – an 18% increase on the previous year. Head of Food and Agriculture Programme, WWF Brazil Balancing security For all soy sourcing in Brazil, we have set four mandates that production is: with sustainability – free from the Ministry of Labour forced labour list; Illustration – free from IBAMA’s embargoed areas list; Containing 12 times more protein than milk, – for suppliers in the Amazon biome, compliant One of 11 geo-rating maps for Brazil Cerrado: the soybean is not only the most nutritious with Soy Moratorium cut-off date; deforestation in growth feed, but also the most efficient – for suppliers in the Para state, compliant 2016/2017 (PRODES), with the Para Green Grains Protocol. Agrotools methodology to produce1. However, growing demand combined with ease of production have put Furthermore, with advice from WWF and The Nature Conservancy (TNC), we are mapping pressure on both natural systems and people. environmental and social risk ‘hotspots’ across our soy supply chain. We are finalising this exercise for Brazil while starting the same for Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay. This work enables us to better prioritise and focus our supply chain risk monitoring and mitigation efforts on the ground. On the basis of this mapping, we are working with WWF and TNC to review our Sustainable Soy Sourcing Policy. 1 According to the UN Food and Agriculture Organization Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 14 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Soy continued In Mato Grosso state, Brazil, we are working with Certified soy Why all eyes are public and private stakeholders under the state’s In Argentina and Paraguay, we source 2BSvs The Policy will cover our entire soy footprint with Produce, Conserve and Include (PCI) strategy, certified soy for the production of sustainable on the Cerrado clear supplier expectations on issues ranging with the objective to support and incentivise biodiesel. Under this scheme, soy production  overing a fifth of Brazil’s C from habitat conservation, to protecting indigenous sustainable agricultural production. As a member must meet a range of sustainability criteria, land mass, the Cerrado peoples and labour rights. We will develop a of the PCI Corporate Action Group, we look for including GHG emission savings, conservation biome is highly biodiverse, policy implementation plan to ensure compliance opportunities to participate in programmes that of land with high biodiversity value and biodiverse with many species found and we will report progress. contribute to the PCI strategy. grassland, high carbon stocks and peat land. nowhere else on Earth and We also source soy under the International the source of half of Brazil’s Collective action for Find out more about our work on Sustainability and Carbon Certification, which river systems. It is also the sustainable soy sustainable soy ensures environmentally sustainable production largest agricultural region and traceable supply chains. in the country. Collaborative As a signatory to the Soy Moratorium, which For more on our approach to climate action is urgently needed prohibits financing or sourcing of soy produced change, see page 26. to find ways of protecting on deforested land in Amazon biome after 2008, the natural landscape and we uphold its principles in our sourcing practices. 787 Our compliance is audited by third parties Building capacity of biodiversity, while supporting local livelihoods. and shared with our stakeholders. We are now soy farmers in Paraguay focusing our collective efforts in eco-sensitive In Paraguay, we support MejorAgro, regions beyond the Amazon, most notably a continuous improvement programme for Brazil’s Cerrado. 100 smallholder farmers. The programme farmers received brings us together with Solidaridad and technical training in We are a member of the Soft Commodities Forum, 2018 in Paraguay Cooperativa Colonias Unidas. a coalition of the world’s six largest agri-traders, to establish common standards to report and Currently focused on the Itapúa and Alto Paraná monitor soy sourcing in high conversion risk areas regions, the two-year initiative started with a of the Cerrado. Another key partnership is with baseline evaluation of each participating farm the Cerrado Working Group, which is bringing and a subsequent improvement plan for each, together consumer brands, financial institutions, with technical experts supporting progress and non-governmental groups and agri-industry to a digital tool to track improvements. It also covers design a ‘compensation for conservation’ scheme. farmer training on challenges such as chemical The proposal would incentivise farmers to protect management, disease prevention, soil protection, forests and native vegetation and recognise sustainable forestry and wider environmental their longer-term economic value and we look management. In 2018, 787 farmers attended forward to reporting on how this is progressing eight training sessions. during the year. Now halfway through the programme, feedback suggested that MejorAgro is helping farmers improve soy yields, while improving their land and forestry management. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 15 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards COFCO International is one of the largest sugar and ethanol producers in Brazil and in 2018, we produced over one million tonnes. Sugar Thanks to satellite mapping, we now have a clear picture of how land is being used around the fields we lease and cultivate, as well as those supplying our four sugar mills. This helps us to ensure that we avoid indigenous land with high conservation value, as defined by the Brazilian Institute of Environment and Renewable Natural Resources. Innovating for more sustainable cultivation We work with technology partners to increase yields and protect land for long-term cropping. Solutions include avoiding tilling and increasing Responsible sugarcane natural mulching during the rainy season. These small adjustments to farming regimes have reduced soil erosion and improved cultivation climate resilience. More complex innovations include biological Sugarcane is the one commodity that we pest controls and intercropping. For instance, produce and mill ourselves. Across Brazil’s we have successfully introduced natural predators Drone-tracking São Paulo state, we are promoting cultivation on certain farms – insects that feed on sugarcane land use pests to substitute pesticide use, as well as methods that are in harmony with nitrogen-fixing legumes such as soybeans and In 2018, we introduced drones to aerially map areas ecosystems, while maximising economic crotalari. Benefits include field stability, reduced of permanent preservation fertiliser requirement and weed suppression. development for farmers and communities. We are also applying nutrient-rich vinasse and or reforestation. Footage ‘filter cake’ residues from sugarcane filtration at helps farmers better monitor our processing mills nearby. In doing so, we are native vegetation land feeding new sugarcane plants with harvested cover and comply with waste. In 2018, new fertiliser mixing plants were conservation standards. established at our mills for optimal mixing of vinasse and liquid fertilisers, further avoiding the need for fertiliser. Alongside generating bioenergy (see page 27),we are ‘closing the loop’ on sugar processing and production. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 16 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Sugar continued Project Pollinate, Brazil After all, both sides wanted the same outcome: healthy bees mean higher honey Around the sugarcane fields in Catanduva productivity and greater sugarcane production. and Potirendaba of São Paulo state, millions It was the start of Polinizar, or Project Pollinate, of hard workers are creating something even which is becoming a beacon for good community After receiving support from sweeter than sugar. Thanks to the harmonious impact management in the region. coexistence of bees and sugarcane production, COFCO International’s Pollinate beekeepers are enjoying more secure livelihoods. Supporting beekeepers Project, the mortality of our Project Pollinate now extends technical It all started in 2016 when we set out to consult beehive practically zeroed.” consultancy to help beekeepers maximise communities around the impact of our crop the health and productivity of their hives. protection methods. While the product we apply Altair Baiocchi It also offers legal support to register is laboratory-tested as safe, we wanted to Beekeeper, São Paulo state, Brazil businesses and access new markets. offer further assurance to beekeepers that their colonies would remain safe and healthy. What’s next? We also wanted to use the opportunity to Based on the successes to date, we are build closer relationships and constructive now rolling out Project Pollinate to two further dialogue around our presence in the region. sugarcane production units in Meridiano and Sebastianópolis. Brazil’s Sugarcane Industry Our technical teams identified neighbouring Union (UNICA) has welcomed the project, beekeepers and mapped the management with a view to replicating it beyond São Paulo zones for each of them. They established state, to other sugarcane producing regions. a good relationship with the beekeepers to open up dialogue on how to work closely for mutual benefit, for example, agreeing optimal coordination of pesticide application with bee habitats. 50+ beekeepers in Catanduva and Potirendaba are registered with our Pollinate Project Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 17 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Waking up to more Growing together with Colombian coffee farmers sustainable coffee In Colombia, we have been helping smallholder We are one of the largest coffee merchants in coffee growers capture new value by accessing Coffee the world. In 2018, several million bags of Arabica sustainable markets. In Tolima, a region impacted and Robusta coffee changed hands along the by the country’s civil conflicts, we are working COFCO International chain, with most originating together with 20 associations to bring technical from Colombia, Brazil, Vietnam and Indonesia. support to farmers. Together with farming cooperatives, we operate voluntary sustainability verification and certification Training includes the use of technologies to programmes, supporting sustainable farming monitor water, weather and soil, including practices and safeguarding workers and detailed assessments by our agronomists. vulnerable groups in the wider community. Diverse sustainability challenges are also Through these partnerships, we are helping included, from environmental protection, 4,002 farmers gradually increase their yields and improve pest/disease control and wildlife conservation, quality, meaning higher incomes and longer-term to climate change and health, safety and fair livelihood security. In 2018, two new programmes labour practices on farms. In 2018, 794 farmers coffee growers in our were launched in Vietnam to support farmers took part in 29 technical training sessions, sustainable production improve practices towards 4C standards. Since empowering them to further understand and Partnerships for programmes 2016, we have partnered with S&D Coffee & Tea implement sustainable crop management. and verified 1,558 hectares under its Raíz sustainable coffee Sustainability® program in Brazil. We are working to support sustainable coffee production in Vietnam, Colombia Our sustainable coffee certification and verification programmes: and Brazil. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 18 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Palm oil: understanding Looking ahead our supply chain We will continue our collaborative efforts for Found in a wide range of foods and consumer sustainable soy, both sectorally and in our own Palm oil products, palm oil is one of the most versatile and supply chains. We will expand Project Pollinate affordable oils. Yet its rapid development brings to other sugarcane regions of Brazil and sustainability concerns. We do not operate any improve palm oil traceability, while monitoring oil palm plantations or mills. With only one refinery supplying mills and engaging suppliers on our in India, our main role in the palm oil value chain and policy. On coffee and cotton, we will work to is as a trader and refiner, servicing markets in further increase sustainably certified volumes. China and India. Despite our limited presence, we recognise our cotton role in supporting a sustainable system. We are preparing to launch our Sustainable Palm Oil Sourcing Policy in 2019, which will outline our supplier expectations around deforestation, peat, labour exploitation and traceability. Working with our partner, Proforest, we are also building a sustainability profile for all of our direct suppliers and we are tracing palm oil to mill level. Based on this information, we will conduct environmental and social analysis of our supply base and identify potential hot spots for further supplier engagement and corrective action. Our newly launched global Integrity Hotline is also made available for stakeholders to lodge grievances related to palm oil supply chain sustainability. We will report Mitigating risk on progress in our next report. Better cotton We are initiating work to better understand The Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) is a multiand mitigate sustainability risks in stakeholder initiative to make sustainable cotton the norm. We support BCI and look for cotton our palm oil supply chain. We support suppliers that comply with its standards on sustainable cotton production under the production, livelihoods and supply chain Better Cotton Initiative. management. In 2018, we sourced 12,768 tonnes of BCI cotton, up from 4,037 tonnes in 2017. We will continue to promote the BCI principles with our customers and partners. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 19 Connecting Connecting supply supply andand demand demand responsibly responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building Building strong strong communities communities Upholding Upholding standards standards Taking Taking care of our people is above all about ensuring safe, healthy workplaces, enabling people to grow with us and standing up for their rights and equal opportunities. care of our people Our wider contribution UN Sustainable Development Goals IFC Performance Standards In this section Investing in our most valuable resource 20 A safer workplace in 2018  21 Talent and growth 23 Diversity and human rights 24 Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 20 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Investing In this section, you will see how we are addressing our second strategic priority – taking care of our people. We show how safety initiatives are making a positive impact (page 21) and how diversity is in our most being upheld across our global business in innovative ways (page 24). You will also gain an insight into how we nurture the development of our employees while attracting talent of the future – from graduates and valuable apprentices, to potential leaders (page 23). Consistent standards, whoever you are resource To ensure we uphold the same universal standards of fairness and respect, regardless of jurisdiction or geography, our Code of Conduct is informed by UN Global Compact principles of human and labour rights. We are proud of our culture of inclusiveness and collaboration that enables us to achieve our mission and engage positively with each other and with those we work with. Every person who works for, or with, COFCO International should be able to Integrity Inclusiveness Innovation Sustainability do so with the peace of mind that they will We need to be open, honest and act with integrity at all times. Embracing difference and We strive to create new Sustainability is a core value and diversity is vital to our Sunshine opportunities, exchange our robust corporate governance be respected and cared for, regardless of We also need to hold ourselves Culture. We don’t just celebrate knowledge and information, keeps our people and products and each other to account if difference, we recognise the and work entrepreneurially to safe, helping us to balance our who they are. We are continually working this value isn’t demonstrated. value it adds to business. enhance our performance shareholders’ needs. towards a culture where this is engrained. through innovation. At the same time, we are investing in the growth and development of our people as our most valuable resource. Our ambition to grow makes attracting the right talent a key priority. We are aware of the Our culture and values help us navigate challenges in staffing new operations as we grow our business, specifically in light of global the big picture and make the right agricultural skills shortages. This is why we take decisions, at all times – providing a proactive approach to talent and inclusion. structure and a strong foundation for our businesses and organisation.” Marcus Seelbach Chief Human Resource Officer, COFCO International Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 21 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards A safer We reduced employee lost-time injuries by Lost-time injury frequency rate 18% 18% and significantly improved our Safety (per 200,0002 work hours) Index performance1, finishing the year with Employees zero employee or contractor fatalities. This is workplace testament to ongoing efforts to build a culture 2018 0.39 of safety and apply the highest standards at 2017 0.47 reduction in employee every working site. Completing the rollout of lost-time injuries Contractors our corporate Environmental, Health and Safety 2018 0.98 in 2018 (EHS) Management System to all global facilities was a significant milestone and further strengthens 2017 0.48 how we apply consistent standards. Despite solid progress, there was an increase in safety Safety Index incidents among contractors. This was mainly due (per 200,0002 work hours) to our construction work in Argentina. We have completed root cause analysis of every incident Employees to further reinforce contractor safety at these sites, 2018 2.4 with further training and supervision as required. Creating a working environment in 2017 4.7 which safe practices are the norm relies We commissioned Royal Haskoning DHV, a global Contractors safety specialist, to perform a full-scope safety 4.2 on a combination of robust management assessment at our main crushing facilities in Brazil 2018 2017 3.8 systems and context-appropriate awareness and Argentina. The findings were incorporated to enhance onsite safety management and ensure campaigns. In both, we made steady the rigour of our system as a whole. progress during 2018. A culture of safety Local safety teams are empowered to apply global standards in ways that work for their context and Zero culture. In 2018, we successfully rolled out Brazil’s ‘Eyes on Risk’ safety programme to all countries. We also implemented the ‘5S’ workplace methodology (seiri (整理), seiton (整頓), seisō employee and (清掃), seiketsu (清潔), and shitsuke (躾)) at our contractor fatalities global sites, leading to enhanced safety and operational efficiency. 1 Safety Index = (Medical Aid frequency rate/7.5) + (Total Lost Time frequency rate) + (Severity Rate/5) 2 200,000 represents the number of hours of 100 employees working 40 hours per week, 50 weeks per year and provides the standard base for calculating incidence rates. (100*40*50=200,000) Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 22 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards A safer workplace in 2018 Sharing best practices continued In 2018, a cross-audit programme was piloted in Ukraine. All EHS teams came together for joint quarterly assessments of each facility in Zero safety incidents over the country, based on a checklist developed 1,700 working days in Ukraine by the whole group. This allows our teams to Our port in Nikolaev, Ukraine is an export terminal apply ‘fresh eyes’ to identify safety improvement that handles three million tonnes of grain a year. opportunities and create a benchmark to compare Here, teams have achieved an outstanding record performance at each facility. Given the success of zero safety incidents for more than 1.4 million of this pilot, we plan to expand it to other work hours – since COFCO International took over countries including Kazakhstan. operations in May 2016. As well as keeping people In the UK, we have introduced an interactive safe and well, they have reduced unplanned Health and Safety e-learning programme outages and operational efficiency improved. In for employees and contractors. Expected 2018, the port won three categories in the Ukraine to run until 2023, it includes periodic tests National Maritime Rating Award: Absolute Growth, and a final exam to monitor learning. Rate of Growth and Golden Ton categories. 389 Worker and farmer Worker and cancer screenings for employees and their farmer wellbeing families in Brazil We are doing more at a local level to support the health and wellness of our people and our partners. For Health initiatives instance, in Brazil we ran 850+ Total hours of safety training We run various programmes to raise employee a campaign for more than health awareness. In 2018, we launched a 850 truck drivers and soy Employees campaign in partnership with Hospital do Amor, farmers supplying our grain 2018 307,313 a leading cancer treatment hospital in Brazil, silos. It included free blood truck drivers and including 140 mammograms and 249 cervical pressure and glucose tests, farmers received 2017 273,515 and prostate scans. as well as the educational blood tests and Contractors materials on use of personal a health kit 2018 85,199 protective equipment, speed awareness and healthcare 2017 87,760 for long-distance drivers. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 23 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Talent and In 2018, we delivered extensive training to Nurturing tomorrow’s employees and contractors. This spanned technical and role-related skills training, talent and leaders as well as wider transferable skills courses. As a global agri-business with a mission to feed growth We also conducted a strategic review of our a growing population sustainably, we need to have employee development programmes in every the most talented people that share our vision. country and we will use this insight to offer Our new Commercial Graduate Programme aims better learning and development programmes to bring a new generation of talent into and up for our teams going forward. through the organisation. Starting by attracting a gender-balanced, diverse cohort of university Around 40% of our employees are registered students, graduates gain valuable insights into in our digital system for performance appraisal, how we operate as an integrated global agricultural while the rest, mostly colleagues working on supply chain company. They also have the Our rapid growth to date and future opportunity to become part of a global community sugarcane plantations without regular digital expansion plans are dependent on the access, conduct performance reviews off-line. of like-minded graduates, building their career in the availability of skilled people. Strategically In 2018, our overall employee turnover rate origination markets as they learn from role rotations, stood at 21%1, while overall hiring was 19%, working side-by-side with industry leaders. investing in our current workforce, (28% for females and 15% for males). while also attracting the best of 1 Excludes the divestment of industrial facilities in China and seeds business in 2018. tomorrow’s talent, is business-critical. 2 Gender hire rate = new male or female hires throughout Top employer recognition, the year / total male or female employees at end of year. Brazil In 2018, our sugar business was recognised among Brazil’s top employers. The Mercer and Valor Economico surveyed more than 800 COFCO International employees about their satisfaction. We came third within our size category (3,000-7,000 employees); 98% of the interviewed employees said they were proud to work at our company and 94% felt that the company has a genuine interest in the wellbeing of the community. 28% new female employee 40 hours of Leadership hire rate2, compared Programme to 15% for male implemented in Brazil Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 24 Connecting Connecting andand supply supply demand demand responsibly Taking care of our people responsibly Managing Managing our our environmental environmental impact impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Diversity With 49 nationalities represented across 35 industrial operations globally where we are 67% countries, we are a truly global workforce. proactively challenging historic stereotypes. Each person brings a unique contribution Our global freight operations team has set and background to the challenge of feeding a good example, with 11 females, up from and human a growing global population. Inclusiveness is just two in 2015. one of four corporate values (see page 20) of employees are and an important component of our culture. covered by collective Where do our people work? In 2018, we ran in-person training in 12 countries bargaining agreements rights on our values and the importance of inclusion North America 2% and cultural diversity. These sessions helped Asia Pacific 4% colleagues recognise cultural similarities and Europe, Middle differences between our various locations. East and Africa 17% On gender diversity, we still have a significant South and Central imbalance, with only 17% women. This is largely America 77% due to our farming operations in Brazil and We are proud of our diverse global What type of work? workforce – people from different Office 2,325 countries, backgrounds and beliefs not employees Supporting Women’s only mirror the many communities in Employment Award Facility 8,514 employees which we operate, but they make us a more innovative, resilient company. As a female captain, I am very proud to receive this award on behalf of COFCO International. I’m equally proud to work Protecting our people Looking ahead with a company that always Equal opportunities for all begin with our Human Rights and Labour Policy, which sets In the year ahead, we supports women’s employment, out our commitment to treating everyone fairly will continue to focus from trainees to top and respectfully. In 2018, we launched the on employee safety and Integrity Hotline, a grievance mechanism which development. We will scale management level.” up our efforts to address enables any employee, contractor or member Captain Aylin Coskun of the public to anonymously report a concern gender equality and work Head of Supramax Operations, (see page 35). To ensure people know about it, alongside local partners to COFCO International we will use creative communications to reach adopt culturally-effective all of our stakeholders. diversity strategies. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 25 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding Upholding standards standards Managing our The long-term success of the agri-business sector relies on a replenishable supply of natural resources and a stable climate. Just as we engage farmers and partners along the environmental value chain to protect ecosystems, we also focus on conserving resources and mitigating against climate change in our own operations. impact Our wider contribution UN Sustainable Development Goals IFC Performance Standards In this section Global standards of environmental stewardship  26 Towards a low-carbon operation  27 Resource efficiency  29 Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 26 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Global Our direct environmental footprint lies mainly with Our Environmental Management System is our crushing plants, refineries, port terminals, aligned to ISO 14001. It is at the heart of how warehouses and sugarcane plantations. Across we systematically identify, assess and manage our operations, we embrace the opportunity to risks and includes key performance indicators. standards of apply consistently high environmental standards, The system is overseen by our EHS Director and pioneer innovations that conserve resources. and is implemented by teams in each region. Regular internal and external audits hold Consistent standards us to account. environmental Our Environmental Policy outlines a commitment to align operational management Note: Our 2018 carbon, energy and water data have been with international principles of best practice audited by Bureau Veritas Brazil. In early 2018, we divested such as IFC Performance Standards and World five oilseeds crushing and refinery facilities in China, which Bank EHS Guidelines. We work to continuously were significant contributors of our global environmental stewardship footprint. To ensure year-on-year comparability, we updated analyse risks and identify opportunities in the 2017 environmental data to ensure a consistent scope. decision-making processes. Accordingly, we encourage the use of innovative technologies and production systems that favour optimal use of energy and water, waste management and prevention of pollution. With an extensive network of processing and logistics facilities but limited owned farming operations, our main environmental priorities are water, waste, energy and greenhouse gas emissions (GHG). We strive to reduce our direct impact through a COFCO International-wide policy framework and management system. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 27 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Towards a In 2018, an increasing number of our facilities, This ensures a more complete and accurate 88% notably our sugar mills in Brazil, deployed crop reflection of our sugar carbon footprint waste and wood to produce sustainable energy going forward. for operational needs. Alongside divestment low-carbon of fossil fuel powered crushing plants in China, We saw a reduction of carbon intensity for this has significantly reduced our reliance on our storage facilities due to increased use of of our global energy non-renewable fuel and electricity. In 2018, biomass to power onsite dryers and equipment. consumption comes our total operational energy consumption from renewable sources operation was 51.2 million GJ, 88% of which was from renewable sources. Carbon Intensity per Facility Type (kg CO2e/tonne of Production) Our sugar mills supply surplus bioenergy into local power grids. In 2018, this amounted to over G+O Industrial Facilities1 630,000 MWh, enough to power approximately 2018 59.0 330,000 homes, while adding a revenue stream to the business. 2017 Sugar Operation2 52.4 330,000 homes equivalent Reducing emissions, even as we grow, Our global carbon footprint 2018 36.9 powered by our is challenging but vital if we are to In 2018, the carbon intensity of our grains 2017 33.3 biomass energy maintain efficient operations and, in turn, and oilseeds plants increased. This was due Storage facility3 to expansion works at the Puerto General 2018 2.6 our competitive edge. Our focus is on San Martin complex, Argentina, which consumed 2017 3.4 further increasing renewables in our energy energy while stalling operational output. 51.2 Port terminal4 mix and identifying innovative efficiency The carbon emissions intensity of our sugar 2018 1.1 projects across our operations. operations is also inflated, due to increased 2017 1.1 reporting scope – in 2018, we added organic fertiliser in addition to synthetic fertiliser. million GJ total energy 1 Production of G+O Industrial Facilities: crushed oilseeds consumption 2 Production of Sugar Operation: crushed sugarcane 3 Production of Storage Facility: stored commodity 4 Production of Port Terminal: terminal throughput 2018 greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2e) Scope 1 719,523 11% Scope 2 86,591 10% Scope 3 98,764 79% All our 2018 carbon, energy and water data are audited by Bureau Veritas Brazil. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 28 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Towards a low-carbon operation Sustainable shipping Supporting IMO sulphur continued In 2018, we transported over 50 million tonnes of reduction goals agri-commodities by sea and we delivered freight From 2020, IMO sulphur limits for ships operating services to other industrial customers. Shipping is outside designated emission control areas will significantly more carbon efficient than road, rail be reduced to 0.5% (mass by mass). This is and air. Yet due to the sheer volume of freight estimated to significantly reduce sulphur oxide movements, it is a key priority for us to address. emissions and, in turn, improve air quality for people living close to major ports and shipping We support the International Maritime lanes. To support this goal, we are investing in Our shared vision for the Blockchain Organization’s (IMO) mission to halve global exhaust cleaning systems on our existing vessels carbon emissions from ships by 2050. For our collaboration is to develop a new own operations, in late 2018 we began work and trial testing ultra-low sulphur marine fuel solutions. For chartered ships, we are using standard available to everyone, on a system to track carbon emissions from our more ECO-classified bulk carriers that use time-chartered ships, with the aim of broadening bringing industry-wide benefits.” our carbon footprint reporting to scope 3 the latest low-sulphur technologies. Johnny Chi emissions. This data will help us benchmark the energy and carbon efficiency of our fleet Chairman, COFCO International and make more informed chartering decisions. We will be reporting this data in our 2019 report. Meanwhile, we are deploying a number of approaches to further increase efficiency, ranging from optimising speed to artificial intelligence to predict the position of vessels. This allows us to better plan and optimise fleet operations and improve our overall operational and energy efficiency. 50 Going paperless with Blockchain technology In 2018, we joined other agri-businesses in an initiative to digitise post-transaction trade. million tonnes This represented the first step to digitalise of agri-commodities post-trade operations. This initiative also has shipped to over the potential to create a more transparent and 50 countries efficient platform for post-trade operation and reduce overall environmental impact. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 29 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Resource In 2018, freshwater withdrawal decreased by Reducing waste 66% 435,512 cubic metres, 4% from the previous year As part of our Environmental Management System and water intensity held constant at 0.255 m3 aligned to ISO 14001, we monitor non-hazardous per tonne of production. We are continually waste (including construction waste, biomass efficiency looking for opportunities to further reduce this. waste, scrap metal, boiler ashes, bleaching clay, of treated wastewater For example, our sugar mills are analysing the used PPE and packaging) and hazardous waste is reused to whole water life cycle, from water input and (including chemicals, oil, sludge, and mercury irrigate farmland circulation, to reuse and wastewater discharge. lamps). During the year, we expanded group-wide This will allow us to pinpoint where we can waste categorisation and recycling. For instance, make the greatest impact in reuse and efficiency. we repurposed boiler ash as natural fertiliser at our crushing plants in Ukraine and Brazil, Freshwater withdrawal significantly contributing to waste reuse. At our The agricultural value chain is highly (million cubic metres) sugar mills, a new waste management procedure resource intensive, using more water than 2018 11.8 was implemented to optimise waste storage and management. any other industry and wasting over 40% 2017 12.2 of biomass from farm to fork. While our Due to the construction work in Argentina, our overall waste generation increased role as primary producer is limited to a small In 2018, wastewater discharge per tonne of slightly compared to the previous year. production decreased by 1% to 0.096 m3/tonne. number of sugar plantations, we recognise Onsite treatment facilities ensure that discharged an opportunity to support lean practices wastewater always meets national and local Waste generation per production Hazardous Nonhazardous along the supply chain and at our own sites. legislative requirements and 66% of our treated (kg/tonne of production) waste waste wastewater is reused as irrigation and 2018 0.028 0.666 natural fertiliser. 2017 0.023 0.620 51% of solid waste recycled, reused or composted Looking ahead In 2019, we will include scope 3 shipping emissions into our wider carbon footprint and we will also report back on sulphur goals. We expect to see further water efficiency improvements from our sugar mills life cycle analysis project, which we will report back on. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 30 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Building We strive to create secure, sustainable livelihoods for those along the agricultural supply chain. At the same time, we invest in our neighbourhoods more directly, focusing strong our community investment on education, wellbeing and environmental stewardship. Our wider contribution communities UN Sustainable Development Goals IFC Performance Standards In this section Sustainable livelihoods  31 Community investment  32 Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 31 Connecting Connecting andand supply supply demand demand responsibly Taking responsibly Taking carecare of our people Managing our environmental impact people of our Building strong communities Upholding standards Sustainable Helping to create more sustainable livelihoods Livelihood security starts with safeguarding community land rights. As part of our wider social investment in Our Responsible Land Acquisition and Leasing smallholder farmers, we are active in north-east Policy makes clear our position to support secure Brazil to help create stable year-round incomes for livelihoods and equitable rights to land and natural resources. smallholders. For instance, we are helping peanut We expect all suppliers to uphold this and we farmers from the Quilombolas communities to monitor compliance through screening (page 12). build economic resilience. Having mapped the costs of production, infrastructure and human Building livelihood Investing in smallholder farmers resources, farmers are now deploying a best In southern Brazil, many rely on soy for a practice model of peanut cultivation. Learnings are in post-conflict subsistence livelihood. Here, we are working under being shared with other farmers in the community Colombia Brazil’s Social Fuel Stamp programme to expand and we are now assessing possibility of expanding In the mountains of Tolima, The majority of our operations and opportunities for smallholder soy farmers for our the programme to coconut farmers in the region. west-central Colombia, sourcing partners are located in rural areas, biofuel production. The programme means we coffee is an important must ensure that 40% of our investment in soy for Overall, our investment in Brazil’s smallholder farmers often in developing or emerging markets. biodiesel supports smallholder farmer livelihoods. is building constructive dialogue in our communities, means of rebuilding livelihoods after years of Our local teams are active on the ground, particularly by focusing on empowering women and conflict. We are working with Meanwhile, we are offering technical assistance young people as critical to the future of agriculture. partnering with government agencies, in partnership with 15 local cooperatives and It also helps us retail our Social Fuel Stamp and smallholder farmers to build drying silos and improve trade unions and civil society organisations agencies including the Special Secretary of Family contribute to the government’s rural agricultural sanitation standards, as Agriculture and Agri Development and Embrapa, development strategy. to enable more people to benefit from the country’s public agricultural research institute. well as training growers in productive, sustainable sustainable agriculture. With expert input on productivity and responsible agricultural methods and growing, farmers are given the chance to increase facilitating access to yields and have a guaranteed buyer. international markets. 15 farming cooperatives partner with us in Brazil Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 32 Connecting Connecting supply supply andand demand demand responsibly Taking care of our people responsibly Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Community Reaching out to Brazil’s Contributing to our neighbourhoods is vital to 33 our future workforce and strong, sustainable supply chains. future farmers Today’s school children in rural Brazil may be investment Through community dialogue over two years, tomorrow’s farmers and agricultural leaders. we have decided to focus on three focus areas: To help inspire them and unlock their potential, Education and capacity building: as key we run a number of youth programmes in the schools participated drivers of sustainable development, we seek in Guardians of country. These include Guardians of Tomorrow to facilitate access to education for children and Tomorrow, Brazil and Young Farmer of the Future. young people, while also supporting skills and local human capital in the agri-business sector. Guardians of Tomorrow Community wellbeing: we seek to improve In 2018, we launched Guardians of Tomorrow In 2018, our community programmes the quality of life of our neighbours, particularly to engage children, teachers and wider those facing economic or social disadvantage. communities in the importance of sustainable benefited over 16,000 people globally. farming. Using fun, interactive methods such The Guardians of This includes promoting inclusion, health and Our approach is to apply our skills and safety, healthy lifestyles, and development as cartoons, comics and tree planting, COFCO Tomorrow project was International volunteers are helping schools convey very cool. The comic book resources strategically to projects that of arts and culture. sustainable agriculture messages to 9-11-yearEnvironmental stewardship: we seek to narrates the story of the create a positive lasting impact. In 2018, olds. We are also inspiring a sense of competition raise community awareness and build capacity guardians who defended we launched a Community Investment with a contest for the best essays on sustainable in environmental stewardship and nature the land from destruction, agriculture. Two winners in each participating Policy to formalise this commitment. conservation. school received a bicycle and their schools and I found it very cool won a projector. because we all need to Based on overwhelmingly positive feedback, take care of plants and we will replicate this programme in more regions nature. I thought it was a during 2019. great opportunity to learn Young Farmer of the Future about producing with 16,000+ In partnership with SENAR, Brazil’s leading rural vocational training institute, we help deliver Young Farmer of the Future, a programme to deliver sustainability.” Gabrielly Barbosa beneficiaries of Rodrigues Barros skill training in agri-business among young people. our community 10-year-old student, In 2018, the programme reached 432 youngsters programmes programme participant from Meridiano, Nhandeara, Potirendaba and globally Catiguá regions. Sessions covered topics such as health and sanitation, tractor and harvester operations and electrician training. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 33 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Community investment A second chance at school: My mother had to pull me out of continued working with Save the school as she couldn’t afford it Children in Romania anymore. Thanks to this project, With our support, Save the Children is running I can continue my education. I am Recognised as a an integrative project on education and social care in Bucharest, Romania. Second Chance involves so grateful for the opportunity.” child-friendly company after-school support in reading, writing, maths Alis, 15 In 2018, the Abrinq Foundation and Save and computing for those at risk of dropping out. Second Chance participant the Children officially recognised our It also sensitively addresses any barriers Brazil operations as supportive to the preventing attendance, with expert counselling rights of children and young people. It is for students and their families. Where needed, Bringing music to marginalised based on our ongoing commitment to school materials, nutritional and medical support defend children’s rights, eradicate child families, Ukraine are also provided. labour in our supply chains, as well as the In Nikolaev, Ukraine, we sponsor the awardeducational and health-related activities Second Chance also offers children a break from winning Youth Folk Orchestra. As well as funding we offer for employee families and the pressures of school and a chance to bond with musical instruments and offering volunteer throughout our communities. their peers. Activities included sports competitions, support, we are also helping reach out guided tours in Bucharest, workshops with to those in the community who may otherwise children from other schools, art competitions be unable to participate. Together with the House and a trip to swim in the Black Sea. of Children and Youth Creativity initiative in the Zavodskyi district, we are making it possible for The holistic support for families has improved children from underprivileged families to learn exam results and the number continuing into an instrument by subsidising free music lessons the new school year. by professional teachers. This work is an example of our ongoing 12 commitment to Nikolaev communities, as one of the largest employers in the region. parents supported under the Second Chance Looking ahead programme Going forward, we will continue our in Romania community dialogue and expand existing programmes across our three priorities. We will also work with more partners to identify new opportunities where we can have a positive, lasting impact. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 34 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Upholding We create value and balance stakeholder interests through compliance with applicable laws and regulations and ensure the quality and safety of our products. Upholding standards standards is also about living our values, transparent governance and astute risk management. Our wider contribution UN Sustainable IFC Performance Development Goals Standards In this section Driven by our values 35 Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 35 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Driven by Drawing on the UN Global Compact principles of We strictly comply with all applicable laws human and labour rights, environmental protection and regulations regarding food and feed safety, and anti-corruption, our Code of Conduct reflects as outlined in our Food and Feed Safety Policy. the COFCO International values and applies to all We have established specific systems to our values employees and contractors. It is translated into a systematically identify, assess and manage Our values dedicated Supplier Code, which all suppliers and food safety hazards, as well as stringent business partners are expected to uphold. supplier qualification control and third-party We are currently developing systems to monitor inspections or supplier onsite audits. in action compliance with the Supplier Code, focusing initially on suppliers that have higher exposure to Good governance potential social, environmental and ethical risks. and compliance Our commercial success is rooted in consistent, Our corporate values of integrity, decisive structures of governance and inclusiveness, innovation and sustainability accountability. The COFCO International Board of steer the direction of our company and Directors is composed of 12 members, including two independent non-executive directors. The guide the behaviour of our employees. Board appoints an Executive Committee, led by the CEO, to set, deliver and report progress on Integrity hotline corporate strategy. This clarity of governance We launched our global grievance mechanism helps us to endorse a zero-tolerance stance on in November 2018. Named after our core fraud, bribery or corruption, while championing value, the Integrity Hotline enables anyone open, honest communications across our culture. inside or outside COFCO International to report a concern, misconduct or incompliance with our corporate policies or laws via telephone or secure digital channels hosted by an external grievance specialist agency. The hotline is part of a rigorous internal structure that enables the timely and proper investigation, settlement and feedback of grievances. The structure systematically involves internal audit, human resources, legal and compliance functions, with transparent One lines of escalation to Board-level committees, the Corporate Code Committee and the Risk and Compliance Committee. In 2018, 69 concerns were raised through the Integrity Hotline. consistent grievance mechanism for global integrityhotline@cofcointernational.com operations cofcointernational.com/integrity-hotline Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 36 Our materiality Our partnerships Managing sustainability In this section Our materiality 37 Our partnerships 38 Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 37 Our materiality Our partnerships Our We continue to work on 12 priority issues shown in the matrix below. These have been identified by internal and external stakeholders as important to society, the environment and COFCO International. materiality The top four are sustainable agricultural sourcing, respect for human and labour rights, occupational health and safety, as well as community engagement. COFCO International Materiality Matrix Accountable to the CEO, the sustainability Sustainable agricultural team at COFCO International serves to sourcing execute our Meeting Tomorrow’s Demand Respect for human and strategy, with the ultimate goal of balancing labour rights stakeholder interests for the long-term Responsible viability and success of our business. agricultural Community Importance for External Stakeholders production engagement Energy efficiency and reduction of emissions Occupational Good health and (Agricultural) safety governance innovation and compliance Water management Product quality and safety Waste management Talent 12 4 attraction and staff retention material issues focus areas Importance for COFCO International Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 38 OurConnecting materiality supply Ourand partnerships demand responsibly Our We contribute to the development of AgroIdeal, an innovative tool used to map and facilitate sustainable soy production With support from Proforest, we are building a clearer understanding of the environmental and social profile partnerships expansion in South America. of our palm oil supply chain and defining actions to mitigate supply chain risks (see page 18). We are a member of Better Cotton We are a member of the Round Table Initiative, a key multi-stakeholder initiative on Responsible Soy (RTRS), a civil to make sustainable cotton the norm. organisation that promotes responsible production, processing and trading of soy on a global level, to ensure socially equitable, economically feasible and Collaboration is key to better understand and environmentally sound soy production. sensitively address the many diverse and complex Cerrado We are a member of the Cerrado Working We are a member of the Roundtable on Working Group (GTC), whose mission is to Sustainable Palm Oil, a not-for-profit that sustainability challenges we face as a company and Group eradicate, in the shortest time frame unites oil palm producers, processors or as an industry. We work with stakeholders from possible, deforestation in Brazil’s Cerrado traders, consumer goods manufacturers, Biome, reconciling the production of soy retailers, banks/investors, and NGOs, to across the public, private and NGO spheres for with environmental, economic and social develop and implement global standards interests (see page 14). for sustainable palm oil. a longer-term positive impact. We are a member of the Green Grains We are a member of the Soy Working Protocol of Pará, which bans financing Group (GTS), a multi-sector group made or sourcing of soy associated with illegal up of producers, traders, civil society, Opposite are examples of key partnerships that deforestation or forced labour in the state government and retailers which works to have helped us to accelerate understanding and of Pará, Brazil. We receive annual external ensure the permanence of environmental action on issues discussed in this report. audits to ensure our compliance with this protection achievements related to the commitment. Amazon Soy Moratorium. Our sustainability strategy is guided We are a Tropical Forest Alliance Steering by the Environmental and Social Committee member. Here, we join other Performance Standards of International members in supporting multi-stakeholder Finance Corporation, one of our efforts towards ending deforestation in shareholders. agricultural supply chains. We joined the PCI Corporate Action As a member of WBCSD and its Soft Group with the objective to support Commodities Forum, we partner with concrete sustainable agriculture our sector peers to collectively monitor projects in Brazil’s Mato Grosso progress on transparent and traceable State (see page 14). soy sourcing in Brazil’s Cerrado (see page 14). Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 39 Join the conversation cofcointernational.com/sustainability sustainability@cofcointernational.com  ot a concern? Report it: G integrityhotline@cofcointernational.com cofcointernational.com/integrity-hotline Global Headquarters Route de Malagnou 101 1224 Chêne-Bougeries Geneva, Switzerland Tel: +41 22 528 6888
