Nabtesco Value Report 2 018 Integrated Report FY Ended December 31, 2018 Dialogue Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile With its motion control technology based on the key concept of 2018 “Moving it. Stopping it.”, the Nabtesco Group strives to provide Nabtesco Value Report Contents safety, comfort and a sense of security in daily lives. Value Creation Path 01 What Is the Nabtesco Group? We provide products and services that beneﬁt people’s lives in a broad range of ﬁelds surrounding 03 To Our Stakeholders us including “transportation of people and goods,” “manufacturing, urban development and Aircraft 05 Value of the Nabtesco Group renewable energy,” “daily lives and welfare” and “production of daily commodities.” 07 Growth History Large tanker/large 09 Value Creation Process of the Nabtesco Group passenger vessel 11 Financial/Non-Financial Highlights 13 Materiality 15 Steps toward the Future 17 Value Creation Process of the Nabtesco Group (Explanations) Excavator High-speed train Industrial robot 25 Message from the CEO Dialogue with Investors 29 CEO Dialogue 33 Financial Information Local train Dialogues with Business Market 47 Business Overview Bus/truck Dialogues with Society 65 Dialogue on Governance 69 Nabtesco Group’s Approach to ESG Issues 75 Management Team 81 Dialogue with a Strategic Partner 99 Corporate Profile 100 Disclosure Policy Editorial Policy Electric wheelchair to We endeavor to enhance our integrated report based on dialogues ease care burden with stakeholders Rollator with a speed control system The Nabtesco Group believes that it is important to establish trust with its stakeholders through dialogue in order to ensure management transparency and realize sustainable growth. Automatic door In this 2018 version of the Nabtesco Integrated Report, we strived to deepen Platform door the understanding of our attitude and thoughts toward the enhancement of corporate value as well as our mediumto long-term strategies by publishing dialogues with Intelligent prosthetic various stakeholders while presenting the overall picture of our value creation path Pouch/retort food from the past, present and future timeframes. knee joint In the “Dialogue with Investors,” we invited an investor and an analyst who have an in-depth knowledge of the Nabtesco Group to seek candid opinions for the enhancement of corporate value and to engage in active discussions (pages 29 to 32). In the “Dialogues with Society,” we had a dialogue with external members of the Compliance Committee and exchanged opinions on how we can leverage the lessons Manufacturing, urban from scandals of other companies for the enhancement of effectiveness of the Group’s Transportation of people Daily lives and Production of daily compliance (pages 65 to 68). In addition, we had a discussion on the success factors development and for open innovation with a strategic partner in CVC (Corporate Venture Capital) (pages and goods welfare commodities 81 to 84). renewable energy In preparing this report, the Integrated Reporting Framework, the Intangible Reporting Framework and various other guidelines on sustainability were used as references to ensure objectivity and transparency. We will continue to aim for the enhancement of our integrated report through Improve the safety and comfort of railroad Contribute to the establishment of industrial Improve the safety and comfort of public spaces Ensure the safety of food and daily consumables candid dialogues with our stakeholders in the future. vehicles, aircraft and commercial vehicles infrastructure in emerging economies Provide support for the elderly and people with Reduce the use of packing materials for food Foster the use of clean energy and safety Support automated, high-precision processing disabilities and daily consumables Questionnaire navigation for marine vessels and conveyance at factories Contribute to the creation of a barrier-free Contribute to product research and Please kindly send us your opinions and comments about the Promote laborand energy-saving at society development integrated report. manufacturing sites URL : https://questant.jp/q/NVR2018_en Spread the use of renewable energy 1 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 2 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile To Our Stakeholders We will accelerate sustainable growth based on dialogue. Since its establishment in 2003, Nabtesco has continin Germany, which joined the Nabtesco Group as a arrival of the Internet of Things (IoT) society and the discussion. The second is a dialogue with external ued to grow by carrying forward the business bases result of acquisition, turned out to be a signiﬁcant advance of artiﬁcial intelligence (AI), it is essential members of the Compliance Committee. We exchanged of Teijin Seiki Co., Ltd. and NABCO Ltd., the merger factor behind the decline in proﬁt, albeit temporary. to execute initiatives in a steady and speedy manner opinions on how we can leverage the lessons from between which created Nabtesco, and by developWe understand that we caused concerns among our looking ahead to the future. For that purpose, we will the scandals of other companies for improving the ing its value creation process. In order to accelerate stakeholders since we could not fully disclose the promote open innovation through not only M&A but effectiveness of the Group’s compliance. The third is a growth, we are currently pushing forward with the factors behind the impairment loss and ﬁnancial also CVC (Corporate Venture Capital), which was estabdialogue with a strategic partner in CVC. By setting the medium-term management plan for the period ending forecasts on a timely basis due to certain restrictions lished last year. However, since the usage of external solution for the “dilemma of innovation” as the theme, FY2020. In the medium-term management plan, we including conﬁdential agreements with customers. resources entails uncertainty, bilateral communication we discussed success factors for open innovation. have a commitment toward achieving an ROE of 15% In FY2019, we aim to achieve record-high sales will become more important in order to ensure that As the Action Guideline, “Be open, fair and honest” and a consolidated payout ratio of 35% or more in and proﬁt. In addition, we will strive to generate value our intentions and aims behind decision-making will is prescribed in “The Nabtesco Way.” This is exactly the addition to placing a focus on solving ESG issues. In exceeding the cost of capital in a sustainable way be adequately understood by our stakeholders. attitude that I value the most. Our challenge is how to order to realize these commitments, we have been by proactively investing resources in growth drivers From such a perspective, we chose “dialogues” as expand our value in a sustainable way through canstrengthening our business activities and pushing forbased on the usage of the return on invested capital the theme of this integrated report. We published three did dialogue with our stakeholders. I sincerely hope ward with integrated management both from ﬁnancial (ROIC) tree. dialogues in this report to help the understanding of that this report will pave the way for dialogue with and non-ﬁnancial perspectives. Meanwhile, shifting an eye to the future 10-20 our attitude and thoughts toward the enhancement of everyone. In FY2018, while achieving record-high net sales, years ahead, we believe it is necessary for us to corporate value. The ﬁrst is a dialogue with an invesMay 2019 we posted a decrease in proﬁt, which forced us to develop new business pillars in order to continue to tor and an analyst who have an in-depth knowledge of revise our ﬁnancial forecasts. The posting of the grow over the long term. Amid changes in customer the Nabtesco Group. We sought candid opinions on the Katsuhiro Teramoto impairment loss on goodwill from OVALO GmbH needs and the competitive landscape, including the enhancement of corporate value and engaged in active Representative Director, President and CEO The Nabtesco Group, with our unique motion control technology, will provide safety, comfort and a sense of security in daily lives as well as any form of transportation. Corporate Philosophy Reason for corporate [Action Guidelines for Top Management] existence and value Based on these guidelines, top executives will manage the Nabtesco Group by focusing on four important points to ensure its sustainable growth as a global Our Promises corporate group. What we value in implementing the ● Communicate the Present Situation and Future Vision Corporate Philosophy of the Company (Organization) to Employees. ● Encourage Active Discussions and Align All Members to a Common Direction. ● Ensure Succession. Action Guidelines ● Manage in a Manner That Increases the Nabtesco Speciﬁc actions and attitudes to be taken to Brand and Corporate Value. fulﬁll Our Promises 3 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 4 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Value of the Nabtesco Group Nabtesco will continue to act as an unsung hero in solving social challenges. By providing products and services with leading market shares, the Nabtesco Group will contribute to solving social challenges through business and strive to provide value on a continuous basis. Challenges related to Market Share We create economic value by fulfilling our responsibilities for ensuring stable supply in each market. Value of Nabtesco Value of customers’ Social issues solved by customers’ products products and services products and services customers and services Traveling units for excavators 25 % Globally High product Elimination of In the case of performance High-performance •Automation and labor stagnant production Contribute to the elimination of industrial robots saving precision reduction due to labor shortages labor shortages and reduction • Lightweight and through the Precision reduction gears for gears for industrial robots… • compact Durability •Compact •Long life provision of Prevention of accidents in hazardous of hazardous work with high product performance joints of medium-and-large-sized industrial robots 60 % •High accuracy industrial robots Globally • Positioning accuracy workplaces Flight control actuation systems 100in Japan % •Improvement of flight Safety, comfort and sense of security In the case of flight Highly reliable operation safety through the provision Safe flight operations Prevent aircraft accidents and control actuation products Highly reliable and on-time flight delays through a system Moving it. Stopping it. systems for aircraft… Extensive MRO* aircraft of aircraft •Improvement of on-time departures and arrivals to control the attitude of the airplane Air dryers for commercial vehicles*1 75 % in Japan services flight operation rate through MRO services Engine remote control systems for marine vessels 50 % in Japan Safety measures for High safety the opening part Prevention of Contribute to the prevention In the case of functions of the building, Ensuring safety for accidents during of accidents during passing automatic doors… Careful service appropriate maintenance and pedestrians passing through automatic doors through automatic doors by using control technology Door operators for railroad vehicles*2 70 % in Japan system management Brake systems for railroad vehicles*2 50 % in Japan High product •Enhanced Elimination of In the case of productivity performance stagnant production •Prevention of Contribute to food safety and packaging machines for retort pouch •Super high-speed filling contamination by foreign objects Ensuring of food safety due to labor shortages labor-saving needs with high product performance Automatic doors for buildings*3 50 % in Japan foods… •High airtight sealing in the production of Ensuring of food •Space-saving processed food safety Packaging machines for retort pouch foods*4 85 % in Japan *MRO (Maintenance, Repair, Overhaul): After-sales service *1 Nabtesco’s estimate based on “Large and Medium-Sized Freight Vehicle Unit Sales (2016),” Japan Automobile Dealers Association *2 Nabtesco’s estimate based on “Statistics Data of Production (2016),” Japan Association of Rolling Stock Industries *3 Nabtesco’s estimate based on “Number of Automatic Doors Installed (2016),” Japan Automatic Door Association *4 Nabtesco’s estimate based on “Production Volume of Retort Package Food (2016),” Japan Canners Association and the 2016 survey by Tokyo Shoko Research, Ltd. 5 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 6 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Growth History Accumulating managerial resources for growth by building upon the business foundations laid by our two predecessors Nabtesco Corporation was formed in 2003 through the merger of Teijin Seiki Co., Ltd. and NABCO Ltd. The company management foundation and expanding its overseas bases. Since FY2017, it has been implementing the current has expanded the technology base and businesses inherited from the two companies, while enhancing the medium-term management plan to accelerate business growth in global markets. Disciplined portfolio management for growth • Technology base: Unique motion control technology Technologies developed by the two companies Technologies developed/enhanced after the integration Companies that joined the Group through M&A Teijin Seiki NABCO Leading-edge Advanced development Innovative production Railroad vehicle (Head ofﬁce) element technologies methods technologies Automatic doors equipment Hydraulic equipment Commercial vehicle equipment Technology and R&D Division • Cutting technology • Fluid control technology • Assembly technology • Pneumatic control • Surface treatment and • CAE analysis technique, additive • Advanced automation • Gilgen Door Systems AG (Switzerland) • OCLAP S.R.L. (Italy) • Hyest Corporation • ITG Serienfertigung Fahrzeugteile • OVALO GmbH, adcos GmbH technology heat treatment manufacturing (AM) technology and smart production • NABCO DOOR Ltd. GmbH and ITG Kompressoren GmbH (Germany) technologies and model base development management • NABCO SYSTEMS Co., Ltd. (Germany) Businesses inherited from the integration Businesses discontinued/restructured after the integration Teijin Seiki NABCO Discontinued businesses Restructuring Current portfolio (main businesses) • Precision reduction gear • Railroad vehicle equipment • IT-related product business • Divestiture of commercial vehicle business business • Automobile and motorcycle equipment business (Nabtesco Component Solutions (CMP) Transport Solutions (TRS) Accessibility Solutions (ACB) Manufacturing Solutions (MFR) • Hydraulic equipment • Marine vessel equipment business component business Automotive Co., Ltd. established) business • Commercial vehicle equipment • Textile machine maintenance • Restructuring of production bases in the • Precision reduction gears • Railroad vehicle • Commercial vehicle • Automatic doors • Packaging machines • Aircraft equipment business business business hydraulic equipment business in China • Hydraulic equipment equipment equipment • Packaging machine • Hydraulic equipment business • Vacuum equipment business • New Energy Business Development • New energy equipment • Aircraft equipment • Marine vessel equipment business • Automatic door business etc Division was abolished Started to apply voluntarily the International Financial Reporting Standards 300,000 Changed the accounting closing month from 1944 March to December to adopt the same accounting period as overseas consolidated subsidiaries 2003 250,000 Withdrew from an unproﬁtable business in The world economy Teijin Seiki Co., Ltd. commercial vehicle started to recover due was established. Nabtesco Corporation was established and listed equipment; Business structure to China’s large-scale 200,000 on the Tokyo Stock Exchange (First section market). was realigned. economic package. 1925 150,000 NABCO Ltd. The Lehman Brothers collapse triggered a (formerly Nippon Air Brake Co., Ltd.) Long-term Vision, “Global Partner with Best Solution – Enjoy the Challenge –” 1100,000 100 , was established. slowdown in the Teijin Seiki and NABCO global economy. were absorbed and merged into Nabtesco Corporation, 50,000 which shifted to an Long-term Vision,“Global company group growing with society – Challenge, Creation and Progress to the higher stage –” operating holding company. Trends in Net Sales 0 2004/3 2005/3 2006/3 2007/3 2008/3 2009/3 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2015/12 2016/12 2017/12 2018/12 2020/12 (¥ Million) (Reference*1) (Reference*2) Period of the Medium-term Management Plan Reinforcement of • Introduced the in-house company system and the • Formulated the Corporate Philosophy and the • Established the Quality & PL • Formulated The Nabtesco Way • Compliance Committee, CSR Committee and • Establishment of the Nabtesco R&D Center corporate ofﬁcer system Long-term Vision Committee • Opened an R&D base in Kyoto Risk Management Committee were established • Launch of the Business Transformation Division the management • Established the Nabtesco Group Code of Corporate Ethics • Announced participation in and signed the UN Global • CSR Basic Policy was formulated • Formulation of the Nabtesco Group Human base and the Nabtesco Group Code of Conduct (consolidated Compact • Nabtesco Group Code of Ethics was established Rights Policy into the Nabtesco Group Code of Ethics) • Formulated the Nabtesco Group CSR-Oriented • Formulation of the Nabtesco Group Community Procurement Policy Investment Policy • Establishment of a corporate venture capital (CVC) fund *1: Due to the change in the accounting closing date, the ﬁgures have been estimated for the 12-month period to make a comparison. *2: Reference values for the ﬁnal year of the Medium-Term Management Plan 7 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 8 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Value Creation Process of the Nabtesco Group Our unique “Stopping it. Moving it.” technology keeps driving our business globally. MISSION We will realize “all stakeholders’ dreams” Long-Term Vision Status in FY2020 VISION Global Partner with Best Solutions External Environment Growth opportunities for each of the businesses for Increased request for management transparency Created Value which we have large shares of niche markets • Increased demand for the development of a governance system OUTCOME Market trends for the continuous enhancement of corporate value • Domestic and developed markets: Win orders steadily • Expansion of the scope of risk management and compliance as a result of globalization Value for the Nabtesco Group Value for external stakeholders • Emerging markets: Increase orders Technological trends Major risks Relationship capital • Engineering innovation in the manufacturing industry • Risks related to the economy and market trends Relations of trust with Customer bases founded on top-class market shares QCD* performance that meets the requirements of customers • Increased needs for mechatronics and systemization technologies • Risks related to overseas business expansion customers Trust in the management team and high-scoring ESG Enhancement of partnership with stakeholders • Risks related to competition Relations of trust with evaluation Enhancement of the value chain for mutual growth and for Opportunities to contribute to the solution of social • Risks related to intellectual property shareholders Responsible supply chain management the expansion of trade opportunities challenges through businesses • Risks related to large-scale disasters Relations of trust with Contribution to the solution of social challenges • Demand for automation and labor saving at manufacturing sites • Risks related to the environment etc suppliers Relations of trust with local Improvement of the brand image through community in the environment, education and welfare fields • Demand for products that can mitigate environmental impacts investment • Needs for the enhancement of safety and comfort of vehicles Growth opportunities provided by global social communities • Needs for increased safety and comfort in public spaces challenge Financial capital • Robust balance sheet that supports steady growth investments • Capital efficiency and stable return of profit that meet • Needs for safe transportation means for the elderly, people with • Contribution to the achievement of the Sustainable Development -Equity ratio of 58% on average for the past five years shareholders’ expectations disabilities and their caregivers Goals (SDGs) -ROE for FY2018/12: 12.1% • Needs for the enhancement of safety for food and daily -Payout ratio for FY2018/12: 43.0% commodities • Social demand for realizing sound working environment Technology and • Creation of new products and a highly competitive production • Provision of safety, comfort and a sense of security and manufacturing capital system contribution to climate change mitigation Human capital • Securing of human resources who implement The Nabtesco • Provision of safe and comfortable workplaces Management Strategy Medium-Term Management Plan (FY2017/12 – 2020/12) Way Market Creation Technology Innovation Operational Excellence Obtain new markets Create new solutions Raise profitability and reinforce operational basis. Organizational capital • Highly ethical corporate culture based on a global compliance • Management transparency based on the autonomous by accelerating overseas business through transition from components to systems Revitalize the organization and promote effective use system improvement of its functions by the Board of Directors and developing new domains. and services. of human resources. Consolidated payout ratio: QCD stands for quality, cost and delivery. Our commitments ROE: 15% 35% or over Focus on solving ESG issues OUTPUT Major businesses Business segment Characteristics Main products and services Relationship with society Significant impact of • Precision reduction gears Manufacturing Managerial Resources That Support Value Creation Activities for Sustainable Growth Component Solutions Business Model (CMP) changes in production/sales volume on profitability • Hydraulic equipment • New energy equipment Urban development Renewable energy INPUT BUSINESS ACTIVITIES • Aircraft equipment • Railroad vehicle equipment Organizational capital Transport Solutions Transportation of Technology and • Commercial vehicle (TRS) people and goods • Speedy business execution based on the in-house company system equipment • A range of committees that provide a system to implement measures for ESG manufacturing capital After-sale services • Marine vessel equipment issues across the Group • Motion control technology (MRO*1) that mitigate • Corporate governance system with a focus on the sustainable increase of that meets development Accessibility Solutions impacts from changes in • Automatic doors Daily lives and corporate value requests from customers (ACB) OEM*2 production volume • Platform doors welfare • Local production and • Welfare equipment Financial capital Human capital local consumption system to fulfill responsibility to Manufacturing Solutions Production of daily • Capability to generate • Management team members who demonstrate diverse expertise realize stable supply • Packaging machines (MFR) commodities stable cash flow to increase corporate value • System to create and • Diverse workforce made up of people who value quality as well enhance intellectual *1 MRO: Maintenance/Repair/Overhaul as collaborative creation, competition and sharing property *2 OEM: Original Equipment Manufacturer Relationship capital Measures for Operational Excellence • Major customers • Characteristics of our shareholders • Higher ROE and making growth investment compatible with -Industrial robot manufacturers and construction machinery manufacturers -High rate of non-Japanese shareholders Financial management the return of profit to shareholders -Manufacturers and companies engaged in railroad, marine and air transportation businesses -Large ownership by growth investors -Major construction companies and others engaged in the construction business • Relationships with a range of suppliers • Ensuring “management transparency” and providing “safety, -Food manufacturers • Favorable relationships with local communities Measures to solve ESG issues comfort and a sense of security” * Growth investors: Investors who make investments with a focus on the growth potential of companies 9 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 10 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Financial/Non-Financial Highlights •ROE •Operating Income Margin/Net Income Margin *2 •Affirmative Vote Rate of Selected Directors •Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate *4 Announced results Actual results* Operating income margin Net income margin Nabtesco Average for Nikkei 500 constituents All industries in Japan Manufacturing industry in Japan Nabtesco Group 20.0 15.0 100.0 2.0 99.2 99.4 1.83 98.6 98.8 15.9 1.66 1.61 1.63 1.66 12.0 98.0 15.0 10.8 10.6 10.4 97.1 1.5 12.6 13.0 12.1 9.0 8.2 1.20 14.3 7.4 96.0 1.15 95.0 95.3 95.1 1.06 1.06 1.02 10.0 94.9 94.8 1.0 7.6 11.8 8.9 6.0 8.1 94.0 7.6 7.1 5.0 5.9 0.53 0.47 0.52 3.0 0.5 0.40 0.36 92.0 0 0 90.0 0 (%) 2015/3 2015/12 *1 2016/12 2017/12 2018/12 (%) 2015/3 2015/12*1 2016/12 2017/12 2018/12 (%) 2015/3 2015/12*3 2016/12 2017/12 2018/12 (%) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) Nabtesco is focused on continuously securing a capital efficiency For FY2018, the operating income margin decreased due to the Nabtesco values relations of trust with our shareholders to Nabtesco gives first priority to safety, deeming safety as a basic level that can meet the expectations of its shareholders and posting of impairment loss and others. However, being freed from enhance our business management for sustainable value creation, requirement to be met in all its business activities. We are making investors and has made a commitment of “ROE: 15%” in the the influence of these losses, profitability will improve in FY2019. and defines an affirmative vote rate for selected directors at the efforts to eliminate workplace accidents as the basis for protecting Medium-Term Management Plan. In FY2017, we started to use the Nabtesco deems it critical to secure a sound level of profitability general meeting of shareholders as an indicator of confidence in the day-to-day safety of employees and for sustainable value “improvement rate of return on invested capital (ROIC)” as a new as a prerequisite for business growth, and endeavors to improve management. The affirmative rate has been over 97% for the past creation. internal management indicator. While paying attention to cost of the operating income margin. To improve the net income margin five years, exceeding the average for listed companies in Japan. At Although Nabtesco’s lost time injury frequency rate has capital, we will work to increase the absolute amount of profit and through an increase in the operating income margin, we will the general meeting of shareholders held in March 2019, Nabtesco always been lower than the all-industries average and the improve the operating income margin and total assets turnover, promote cross-organizational measures to increase sales received a 97.1% rate. We will continue to reinforce our approach manufacturing average in Japan for the past five years, we have which are ROE elements. We will also consider using financial in business sectors offering MRO* services, while aiming at to corporate governance to ensure management transparency not achieved the Group’s target of zero industrial injuries, including leverage as necessary. In FY2018, our ROE was 12.1% and below enhancing added value through the development of mechatronic and improve corporate value to meet the expectations of our commuting-related injuries. To attain the target, it is necessary the committed level. We will strive to raise it to 15% as soon as products and systems. shareholders. to raise safety awareness at our workplaces. To this end, we are possible and maintain the level toward the future. *MRO : Maintenance, repair and overhaul (after-sales service) (Note) Nabtesco’s affirmative vote rate of selected directors is the average rate calculated conducting activities to nurture a Nabtesco-style culture of safety *For In FY2017, and In FY2018, the graph shows the actual results excluding the equity based on the affirmative vote rates recorded for each of the selected directors at the in addition to implementing ongoing measures against individual method-based profit gained through the overseas subsidiary acquisition by Harmonic ordinary general meeting of shareholders for the fiscal period. For Nikkei 500 constituents’ risk factors. Drive Systems Inc. affirmative vote rates of selected directors, the average rate was calculated for companies (Note) Data for the all-industries average and the manufacturing industry average in Japan that submitted temporary reports on their general meetings of shareholders held in June by are from the 2018 Survey on Industrial Accidents, Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. early July. (Surveyed by Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank) •Total Assets Turnover •Financial Leverage •CO Emissions per Unit of Sales [Global] 2 •Rate of Those who Resigned for Personal Reasons *5 Sales Per unit of sales Male (Total turnover rate) Female (Total turnover rate) 300 0.5 Rate of those who resigned for personal reasons 1.0 2.0 294.6 6.0 282.4 5.7 0.9 0.9 0.9 2,44.6 0.9 1.0 1.9 240 0.4 5.0 219.6 228.9 0.8 180 0.3 4.0 0.8 1.8 3.5 3.1 3.3 3.0 2.9 0.7 1.7 1.7 1.7 1.7 120 0.255 0.2 0.239 0.238 0.249 0.238 3.1 2.3 2.0 1.8 2.6 1.6 1.6 1.5 0.6 1.6 60 0.1 1.1 1.0 1.0 0.7 1.4 1.2 0.5 1.5 0 0.0 0 (Times) 2015/3 2015/12*1 2016/12 2017/12 2018/12 (Times) 2015/3 2015/12*1 2016/12 2017/12 2018/12 (¥ Billion) (Per unit of 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 sales) (%) 2015/3 2015/12 2016/12 2017/12 2018/12 (IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) It is indispensable to efficiently use management resources in Nabtesco upholds a policy of maintaining an A credit rating in To combat climate change as one of our material CSR issues, Nabtesco sees our employees as human assets, as they constitute order to improve total assets turnover. At present, the Nabtesco order to secure balance sheet soundness as a prerequisite for Nabtesco is working to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the human capital that underpins the Group’s sustainable value Group is fostering group-wide manufacturing innovation to long-term value creation. As we have recorded steady earnings to conserve energy. As a result, our CO2 emissions per unit of creation. Retention of the workforce is essential to maintain and enhance our production technologies, production management every year, equity capital is increasing. With a view to further sales have been decreasing globally. In order to achieve business enhance competitiveness in the long run. At Nabtesco, the rate ability and procurement ability. We are also promoting the improving capital efficiency, we will implement control of the growth while reducing CO2 emissions, we built plants by using of employees who resigned for personal reasons has remained introduction of optimal production management by the use of AI balance of cash on hand and explore the use of financial leverage advanced environmental technologies and have proactively around 1%, which shows that Nabtesco provides our employees and IoT for digitization, visualization and automatic scheduling, as necessary. Moreover, to make efficient use of internal reserves, introduced renewable energy equipment. In FY2016 we set a with a good work environment. We have been promoting while implementing logistics reforms. By using the ROIC tree, we we will drive growth investment including in capital expenditure, medium-term target to achieve a reduction of at least 9% from the measures for work style reform, while endeavoring to revitalize will boost our competitiveness in manufacturing and improve the R&D and M&A. At the same time, we will practice the type of base year. Moreover, we established long-term targets to reduce the organization through workplace diversity. We will continue rate of utilization of business assets. financial management that enables stable and flexible shareholder CO2 emissions by 30% in FY2030 and by 80% in FY2050. We are activities to develop human assets that drive global business returns. committed to achieving the mediumand long-term targets operations and to increase employees’ awareness of The Nabtesco through stepping up our efforts to save and create energy. Way, while encouraging them to fulfill their own goals and foster a (Note) The mediumand long-term targets are expressed as percentages of reduction from sense of unity across the Group. actual CO2 emissions in FY2015. *1 Due to the change of the accounting closing date of fiscal year since FY2015/12, the results for FY2015 are calculated on a basis of 9 months for Nabtesco Corporation and the *3 Period covered for Non-financial data: January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 other consolidated subsidiaries in Japan, and 12 months for the overseas consolidated subsidiaries. *4 The calculation scope includes Nabtesco Corporation and domestic Group Companies. *2 Net income attributable to owners of the parent *5 The calculation scope covers only Nabtesco Corporation. 11 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 12 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Nabtesco Group’s Materiality We strive to ensure management transparency and to provide safety, comfort and a sense of security. We at the Nabtesco Group are committed to fulﬁlling our corporate social responsibility through our CSR management. To this end, we will seriously take on the challenge of pursuing economic rationality while Nabtesco Group’s CSR Basic Policy also addressing ESG (environmental, social and governance) issues, based on our belief that this kind of business management will give us a competitive edge that will underpin our sustainable corporate growth. By practicing The Nabtesco Way, the Nabtesco Group strives to ensure management ■ Process of Materiality Reexamination transparency, provide safety, comfort and a sense of security, and fulfill its corporate social responsibilities, thereby contributing to solving environmental and social issues and seeking In 2016, we launched the CSR Committee as an organiscope of stakeholders’ expectations for the fulﬁllment of to enhance corporate value on a sustainable basis. zation that supervises all our CSR activities and reports corporate social responsibility by the Nabtesco Group directly to the CEO. Subsequently, we reexamined the have been rising and expanding. In response, we will material CSR issues (materiality) of the Nabtesco Group continue to examine the materiality on a regular basis and formulated the CSR Basic Policy. The level and to earn even more trust from our stakeholders. The CSR Basic Policy clearly states that the Nabtesco security” upheld under the abovementioned CSR Basic Group will fulﬁll our corporate social responsibilities, Policy represents the Group’s material issues. By incorthereby meeting the expectations and requests of our porating the concept of materiality into the CSR Basic stakeholders. The policy to “Ensure management transPolicy, we are strategically tackling CSR issues that are parency” and “Provide safety, comfort and a sense of important to the Group as well as to our stakeholders. Step 1 Listing issues ● Materiality (Material CSR Issues) We identified the issues faced by the Nabtesco Group and grasped what our stakeholders needed based on our cusGeneral Category ESG Category Materiality (Material CSR Issues) Major SDGs of Relevance tomer CSR questionnaire results, various guidelines on susStrengthen corporate governance tainability*1 and information provided by ESG research organizations*2. We then listed the issues that need to be tackled Ensure Governance Promote risk management and compliance management for the Nabtesco Group’s sustainable growth. (G) behavior transparency *1 ISO 26000 (Guidance on organizations’ social responsibility)/International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) International Integrated Reporting Ensure proactive dialogue with stakeholders Framework/Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) SASB Standard/Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting GuideEnhance customer satisfaction, ensure quality lines/Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) *2 RobecoSAM/FTSE4Good/Sustainalytics/VigeoEiris and safety Develop human capital and promote workplace diversity Provide safe and comfortable workplaces Society (S) Respect human rights Step 2 Deciding on the materiality of each issue Prevent corruption Fair, proper and transparent procurement Materiality for stakeholders Next, we assessed the materiality of the issues identified in activities Provide safety, Step 1 from the perspectives of “importance for stakeholdcomfort and a ers” (vertical axis) and “importance for our company” (horLocal community development sense of security izontal axis) and specified those assessed as particularly material to be included among our material CSR issues. Countermeasures for climate change Regarding “importance for stakeholders,” we referred to the evaluation made by ESG research organizations, while Environmentally friendly manufacturing for “importance for our company,” we decided on priorities Environment (E) Reduction of environmental impact through based on relevance to business plans of our operating and products and services corporate departments and divisions. Recycling, reuse and remanufacture of products Materiality for our company Step 3 Selection of material CSR issues Through the materiality reexamination process, we have described in “Nabtesco Group’s Approach to CSR.” While Based on the opinions given by external experts, we reexamclassiﬁed Nabtesco’s material CSR issues in relation to giving due consideration to potential impacts of each ined the issues deemed important in Step 2. Then, finally, the 17 SDGs as per the table shown above. In 2018, we issue, we will invest resources efficiently and effectively the Board of Directors selected the material CSR issues added Goal 4 to “Major SDGs of Relevance” in line with to address wide-ranging ESG issues and will systematithrough discussion. the newly formulated Nabtesco Group Community cally promote speciﬁc activities with a view to contributInvestment Policy. ing to achieving the SDGs. Impacts of each issue on our corporate activities are 13 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 14 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Steps toward the Future The biggest driving force that underpins Nabtesco’s growth is “people.” By leveraging human assets as its growth driver, the Nabtesco Group will realize “All Stakeholders’ Dreams.” We endeavor to develop human resources for next-generation growth by understanding and implementing the values described in The Nabtesco Way through Way meetings* while promoting teamwork in order to respond to the demands of our customers based on cooperation among all departments. *Meetings aimed at raising employees’ awareness of the values and encouraging them to share the values at their workplaces 1. Value close communications with our customers worldwide One of the comments that were raised the most at Way meetings 2. Value each individual’s spirit of challenge and innovation was on the importance of maintaining a positive attitude toward Corporate 3. Continue to expand our business and profit challenges. “A challenging spirit gives us a chance to grow Philosophy 4. Continue to reinforce our sense of ethics and highly transparent Reason for corporate business activities ourselves while it may increase the potential for failure.” “To existence and value 5. Value the environment and promote harmony with local continue to challenge without giving up when faced with difficulties communities and cultures will result in great achievements in gaining the trust of customers Our Promises and developing new products.” “The younger generation should What we value in implementing the proactively take on difficult tasks, and their superiors should Corporate Philosophy delegate jobs and watch over and support their subordinates.” Many participants deeply agreed with these comments. The importance of teamwork was another point that Action Guidelines Speciﬁc actions and attitudes to be taken to was emphasized by a large number of participants. fulﬁll Our Promises In order to make “relentless progress,” I believe it is important to constantly look ahead into the future and pursue challenges and innovation while continuing Voices of employees who implement The Nabtesco Way to make improvement by focusing on sites, products and reality. I totally agree with one of our promises described in The Nabtesco Way, “Value each individual’s spirit of challenge and innovation.” The strong will to improve The law of 2:6:2 applies to organizations. Twenty percent ourselves from the current level and of the constituents are those who drive innovation, 60% In any business environment, Nabtesco’s ingenuity are strengths that differentiate are those who realize innovation, and the remaining strength is based on the accumulation human beings from AI and robots. I believe 20% are those who keep the balance by proposing of trust and we should give the utmost that personal communication and mutual different views. All of them are invaluable constituents. priority to ensure, maintain and improve help are key elements of such will and Each of us should raise challenging targets which are such trust. Our promise in The Nabtesco ingenuity. difficult to attain and learn and involve others in order Way, “Continue to reinforce our sense of to achieve such targets. We should start with changing ethics and highly transparent business the landscape of our daily workplace. This will result in activities,” is our eternal theme. changing the landscape of the outside world. 15 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 16 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Value Creation Process of the Nabtesco Group (Explanation) In order to ensure our management transparency, Increased requests for management transparency Dialogues with 1. Risks related to the economy and market trends Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Proﬁle Value Creation Process of the Nabtesco Group we need to help stakeholders understand how Our unique “Stopping it. Moving it.” technology keeps driving our business globally. With the expansion of investments made from MISSION We will realize “all stakeholders’ dreams” Long-Term Vision VISION Status in FY2020 Global Partner with Best Solutions 2. Risks related to overseas business development External Environment Growth opportunities for each of the businesses for which we have large shares of niche markets Increased request for management transparency Created Value Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) viewpoints, we are striving to fulfill our corporate social 3. Risks related to large-scale disasters • Increased demand for the development of a governance system OUTCOME Market trends for the continuous enhancement of corporate value • Domestic and developed markets: Win orders steadily • Expansion of the scope of risk management and compliance as a companies are increasingly required to fulfill their result of globalization Value for the Nabtesco Group Value for external stakeholders • Emerging markets: Increase orders Technological trends Major risks Relationship capital • Engineering innovation in the manufacturing industry • Risks related to the economy and market trends Relations of trust with Customer bases founded on top-class market shares QCD* performance that meets the requirements of customers • Increased needs for mechatronics and systemization technologies • Risks related to overseas business expansion customers Trust in the management team and high-scoring ESG Enhancement of partnership with stakeholders • Risks related to competition Relations of trust with evaluation Enhancement of the value chain for mutual growth and for Opportunities to contribute to the solution of social 4. Risks related to changes in the foreign exchange market • Risks related to intellectual property shareholders responsibility and achieve sustainable growth. To Responsible supply chain management the expansion of trade opportunities challenges through businesses accountability for the sustainable improvement of their • Risks related to large-scale disasters Relations of trust with Contribution to the solution of social challenges • Demand for automation and labor saving at manufacturing sites • Risks related to the environment etc suppliers Relations of trust with local Improvement of the brand image through community in the environment, education and welfare fields • Demand for products that can mitigate environmental impacts investment • Needs for the enhancement of safety and comfort of vehicles Growth opportunities provided by global social communities • Needs for increased safety and comfort in public spaces challenge Financial capital • Robust balance sheet that supports steady growth investments • Capital efficiency and stable return of profit that meet • Needs for safe transportation means for the elderly, people with • Contribution to the achievement of the Sustainable Development -Equity ratio of 58% on average for the past five years shareholders’ expectations disabilities and their caregivers Goals (SDGs) -ROE for FY2018/12: 12.1% corporate value. The globalization of business has also • Needs for the enhancement of safety for food and daily -Payout ratio for FY2018/12: 43.0% 5. Risks related to procurement commodities this end, the Nabtesco Group is focused on sharing • Social demand for realizing sound working environment Technology and • Creation of new products and a highly competitive production • Provision of safety, comfort and a sense of security and manufacturing capital system contribution to climate change mitigation Management Strategy Medium-Term Management Plan (FY2017/12 – 2020/12) Human capital • Securing of human resources who implement The Nabtesco Way • Provision of safe and comfortable workplaces expanded the scopes of risk management and compliance the overall picture of its value creation process with Market Creation Obtain new markets by accelerating overseas business Technology Innovation Create new solutions through transition from components to systems Operational Excellence Raise profitability and reinforce operational basis. Revitalize the organization and promote effective use Organizational capital • Highly ethical corporate culture based on a global compliance system • Management transparency based on the autonomous improvement of its functions by the Board of Directors 6. Risks related to product quality to be ensured by companies. and developing new domains. and services. of human resources. Consolidated payout ratio: QCD stands for quality, cost and delivery. Our commitments ROE: 15% 35% or over Focus on solving ESG issues stakeholders. In this section, we will make detailed Major businesses OUTPUT The Nabtesco Group will proactively disclose how it 7. Risks related to competition Business segment Characteristics Main products and services Relationship with society Managerial Resources That Support Value Creation Activities for Sustainable Growth Significant impact of • Precision reduction gears Manufacturing 8. Risks related to information security Component Solutions Business Model (CMP) changes in production/sales • Hydraulic equipment Urban development INPUT BUSINESS ACTIVITIES is striving to achieve sustainable growth and to ensure volume on profitability • New energy equipment Renewable energy explanations about the Group’s value creation, which Organizational capital • Speedy business execution based on the in-house company system • A range of committees that provide a system to implement measures for ESG issues across the Group Technology and manufacturing capital • Motion control technology Transport Solutions (TRS) After-sale services (MRO*1) that mitigate • Aircraft equipment • Railroad vehicle equipment • Commercial vehicle equipment • Marine vessel equipment impacts from changes in • Automatic doors Transportation of people and goods management transparency, thereby continuing to win the 9. Risks related to intellectual property • Corporate governance system with a focus on the sustainable increase of that meets development Accessibility Solutions Daily lives and corporate value requests from customers (ACB) OEM*2 production volume • Platform doors welfare • Local production and • Welfare equipment Financial capital Human capital local consumption system is represented in the tables and figures shown on to fulfill responsibility to Manufacturing Solutions Production of daily • Capability to generate • Management team members who demonstrate diverse expertise realize stable supply • Packaging machines (MFR) commodities stable cash flow to increase corporate value • System to create and • Diverse workforce made up of people who value quality as well enhance intellectual *1 MRO: Maintenance/Repair/Overhaul trust of stakeholders. as collaborative creation, competition and sharing property *2 OEM: Original Equipment Manufacturer Measures for Operational Excellence 10. Risks related to laws and regulations Relationship capital • Major customers • Characteristics of our shareholders • Higher ROE and making growth investment compatible with -Industrial robot manufacturers and construction machinery manufacturers -High rate of non-Japanese shareholders Financial management the return of profit to shareholders -Manufacturers and companies engaged in railroad, marine and air transportation businesses -Large ownership by growth investors pages 9 and 10. -Major construction companies and others engaged in the construction business • Relationships with a range of suppliers • Ensuring “management transparency” and providing “safety, -Food manufacturers • Favorable relationships with local communities Measures to solve ESG issues comfort and a sense of security” * Growth investors: Investors who make investments with a focus on the growth potential of companies 11. Risks related to the environment 9 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 10 Major risks The Risk Management Committee, which manages risks on 12. Risks related to M&A and others a company-wide basis, identifies the serious risks for the 13. Risks related to the impairment of fixed assets MISSION We will realize “all stakeholders’ dreams.” entire company based on the risk assessment results and 14. Risks related to the securing of human resources deliberates on countermeasures. The committee worked The Nabtesco Group has formulated The Nabtesco Way, which comprises the Corporate Philosophy, mainly on identifying the following risks in FY2018. Growth opportunities provided by global social Our Promises, Action Guidelines and Action Declaration. We encourage each of our management challenges team members and employees to comply with The Nabtesco Way and turn “all stakeholders’ dreams” As a global business entity, the Nabtesco Group deems it into reality, as stated in our Action Declaration. We will work to meet our stakeholders’ expectations essential to contribute to the United Nations’ Sustainable (“dreams”) in a sincere manner on a long-term basis, thereby providing them with greater value while Development Goals (SDGs). We are committed to fulfilling achieving sustainable and profitable growth as a company. our corporate social responsibility as a precondition to External Environment achieve the sustainable growth of the Group. The Nabtesco Group manufactures, sells and provides after-sales services for machinery-related components in Value Creation Process of the Nabtesco Group Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Proﬁle the area of B-to-B business. In this business area, we absolutely must make appropriate responses to changes Business Model Our unique “Stopping it. Moving it.” technology MISSION External Environment We will realize “all stakeholders’ dreams” keeps driving our business globally. Long-Term Vision VISION Status in FY2020 Global Partner with Best Solutions Growth opportunities for each of the businesses for Increased request for management transparency Created Value which we have large shares of niche markets in market trends, including trends in the market of final products, as well as to related risks. We also think it • Increased demand for the development of a governance system OUTCOME In our business activities, the Nabtesco Group inputs a range of managerial Market trends for the continuous enhancement of corporate value • Domestic and developed markets: Win orders steadily • Expansion of the scope of risk management and compliance as a result of globalization Value for the Nabtesco Group Value for external stakeholders • Emerging markets: Increase orders Technological trends Major risks Relationship capital • Engineering innovation in the manufacturing industry • Risks related to the economy and market trends Relations of trust with Customer bases founded on top-class market shares QCD* performance that meets the requirements of customers • Increased needs for mechatronics and systemization technologies • Risks related to overseas business expansion customers Trust in the management team and high-scoring ESG Enhancement of partnership with stakeholders • Risks related to competition Relations of trust with evaluation Enhancement of the value chain for mutual growth and for Opportunities to contribute to the solution of social • Risks related to intellectual property shareholders Responsible supply chain management the expansion of trade opportunities challenges through businesses • Risks related to large-scale disasters Relations of trust with Contribution to the solution of social challenges • Demand for automation and labor saving at manufacturing sites • Risks related to the environment etc suppliers important to contribute to the solution of domestic and global social challenges through our businesses, believing Relations of trust with local Improvement of the brand image through community in the environment, education and welfare fields resources to supply products and services. We also work to provide our own • Demand for products that can mitigate environmental impacts investment • Needs for the enhancement of safety and comfort of vehicles Growth opportunities provided by global social communities • Needs for increased safety and comfort in public spaces challenge Financial capital • Robust balance sheet that supports steady growth investments • Capital efficiency and stable return of profit that meet • Needs for safe transportation means for the elderly, people with • Contribution to the achievement of the Sustainable Development -Equity ratio of 58% on average for the past five years shareholders’ expectations disabilities and their caregivers Goals (SDGs) -ROE for FY2018/12: 12.1% • Needs for the enhancement of safety for food and daily -Payout ratio for FY2018/12: 43.0% commodities • Social demand for realizing sound working environment Technology and • Creation of new products and a highly competitive production • Provision of safety, comfort and a sense of security and manufacturing capital system contribution to climate change mitigation that these efforts will in turn help us achieve growth in the businesses. Group and stakeholders with more value by implementing measures for financial Management Strategy Market Creation Obtain new markets by accelerating overseas business and developing new domains. Medium-Term Management Plan (FY2017/12 – 2020/12) Technology Innovation Create new solutions through transition from components to systems and services. Operational Excellence Raise profitability and reinforce operational basis. Revitalize the organization and promote effective use of human resources. Human capital Organizational capital • Securing of human resources who implement The Nabtesco Way • Highly ethical corporate culture based on a global compliance system • Provision of safe and comfortable workplaces • Management transparency based on the autonomous improvement of its functions by the Board of Directors Consolidated payout ratio: QCD stands for quality, cost and delivery. Our commitments ROE: 15% 35% or over Focus on solving ESG issues management and the solution of ESG issues. In the following, we detail our Managerial Resources That Support Value Creation Activities for Sustainable Growth Major businesses Business segment Component Solutions Characteristics Significant impact of OUTPUT Main products and services • Precision reduction gears Relationship with society Manufacturing Business Model (CMP) changes in production/sales • Hydraulic equipment Urban development INPUT BUSINESS ACTIVITIES volume on profitability • New energy equipment Renewable energy business model for value creation with a focus on the flow from the input of • Aircraft equipment • Railroad vehicle equipment Organizational capital Transport Solutions Transportation of Technology and • Commercial vehicle • Speedy business execution based on the in-house company system (TRS) equipment people and goods • A range of committees that provide a system to implement measures for ESG manufacturing capital After-sale services • Marine vessel equipment issues across the Group • Motion control technology (MRO*1) that mitigate Growth opportunities for each of the businesses for overhaul (MRO) services. Through these business activities, • Corporate governance system with a focus on the sustainable increase of that meets development Accessibility Solutions impacts from changes in • Automatic doors Daily lives and corporate value requests from customers (ACB) OEM*2 production volume • Platform doors welfare • Local production and • Welfare equipment Financial capital Human capital local consumption system to fulfill responsibility to Manufacturing Solutions Production of daily • Capability to generate • Management team members who demonstrate diverse expertise realize stable supply • Packaging machines (MFR) commodities stable cash flow to increase corporate value • System to create and major managerial resources to the output of major products and services and the • Diverse workforce made up of people who value quality as well enhance intellectual *1 MRO: Maintenance/Repair/Overhaul as collaborative creation, competition and sharing property *2 OEM: Original Equipment Manufacturer Relationship capital Measures for Operational Excellence • Major customers • Characteristics of our shareholders • Higher ROE and making growth investment compatible with which we have large shares of niche markets we will contribute to the solution of social challenges, -Industrial robot manufacturers and construction machinery manufacturers -High rate of non-Japanese shareholders Financial management the return of profit to shareholders -Manufacturers and companies engaged in railroad, marine and air transportation businesses -Large ownership by growth investors -Major construction companies and others engaged in the construction business • Relationships with a range of suppliers • Ensuring “management transparency” and providing “safety, -Food manufacturers • Favorable relationships with local communities Measures to solve ESG issues comfort and a sense of security” * Growth investors: Investors who make investments with a focus on the growth potential of companies outcome (created value). 9 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 10 Sales outside Japan account for about 50% the Nabtesco focusing mainly on those listed below. Group’s total sales. In addition, our domestic sales include sales of components used in products to be exported from INPUT Japan. In the niche markets in which we command large • challenges Opportunities to contribute to the solution of social through businesses Managerial Resources That Support Value Creation market shares, demand for our products will steadily The managerial resources that support the Nabtesco Group’s business operations include relationship capital, expand, mainly in Japan and other developed countries, •Demand for automation and energy conservation at manufacturing sites in line with financial capital, technology and manufacturing capital, human capital and organizational capital. The most which have stable and mature markets. Moreover, we can Manufacturing/ the aging of society, decreasing birth rate and important capital among these is relationship capital, which is based on relations of trust with customers, increase our growth opportunities in these niche markets Urban shrinking labor force shareholders, investors and other external stakeholders. Relationship capital and the other types of capital by winning more orders in the rapidly and widely changing development/ •Demand for wind power generation devices for supplement each other. By using such capital, we create value through our business activities and based on our emerging markets. Renewable energy the effective use of renewable energy The advent of an IoT society and progress of AI are efforts for financial management and the solution of ESG issues. •Needs for products that can mitigate fueling engineering innovation, which has increased the environmental impacts needs for mechatronics technologies and systematization of machinery-related components. By meeting these Transportation of •Needs for the enhancement of safety and Relationship capital technological needs, the Nabtesco Group can add more people and goods comfort of vehicles Relationship with customers • Major customers by segment value to its products. •Needs for increased safety and comfort in public The trust of customers provides us with the basis for our Industrial robot manufacturers, FA spaces business operations. The Nabtesco Group has customers Component Solutions machine manufacturers, construction Opportunities to contribute to the solution of social Daily lives/Welfare •Needs for safe transportation means for the representing a broad range of industries, including those machinery manufacturers, etc. elderly, people with disabilities and their engaged in manufacturing and infrastructure building. challenges through businesses Aircraft manufacturers, companies caregivers The Nabtesco Group conducts business in a range of Among them are excellent corporate customers that Transport Solutions engaged in railroad, marine and air domains, including “Manufacturing/Urban development/ •Needs for the enhancement of safety for food are operating on a global scale and fulfilling their social transportation businesses, etc. Renewable energy,” “Transportation of people and goods,” Production of and daily commodities responsibilities to a high standard. We have been meeting daily commodities •Needs for resource-saving packaging of food Major construction companies, others “Daily lives/Welfare” and “Production of daily commodities.” the high expectations of these customers, thereby Accessibility Solutions and daily commodities engaged in the construction business, etc. We supply machinery-related components and systems continuing to survive in the market. Our excellent customer to manufacturers of completed products and provide Business activities in •Social demand for realizing sound working base was, is and will continue to be a sustainable source of general Manufacturing Solutions Food manufacturers, etc. these corporate customers with maintenance, repair and environments our profits. 17 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 18 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Relationship with shareholders and investors addition, we have an enviable collection of advanced the rise. For Nabtesco’s employees on a non-consolidated CEO makes business decisions through the Management The Nabtesco Group has been focusing on capital cost element technologies, such as those for surface treatment, basis, employees of the former Teijin Seiki, those of the Committee, while the Board of Directors formulates the for disciplined management, with a view to meeting the heat treatment, CAE analysis and additive manufacturing. former NABCO, and new graduates and mid-career hires Group’s basic policies and strategies, decides on important expectations of shareholders and investors on a longAll these technologies provide the basis for our motion employed by Nabtesco (founded by the merger of the operations, and supervises the execution of business. The term basis. Non-Japanese shareholders account for control technology. aforementioned two) each account for about one-third of Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee and nearly 50% of Nabtesco’s shareholders (48.0% as of the For production, we secure sufficient production capacity the total number. With diverse backgrounds, its employees Compliance Committee serve as advisory organizations to end of December 2018). Moreover, the Group gets a high to meet demand that will expand on a mediumto longare committed to collaborative creation, competition and the Board of Directors. rating for our growth potential, and the percentage of our term basis in the businesses for which we take the top spot sharing as a unique feature of the Nabtesco Group. In addition, we have the CSR Committee, Group Quality shares owned by institutional growth investors*, including in the market, including the business of precision reduction & PL Committee, Group ESH (ESH stands for “environment, those both within and outside Japan, is uniquely high. We gears to be used in mediumto large-sized industrial Organizational capital safety and health”) Committee, and Risk Management proactively engage in dialogues with these investors for robots. We have established stable supply systems for The Nabtesco Group adopts the in-house company system Committee to address ESG issues across the Group under more sophisticated management of the company. these businesses, and these systems make it difficult for and the executive officer system. Under these systems, the leadership of the directors and executive officers. * Growth investors: Investors who make investments with a focus on the growth new companies to enter the market. each in-house company pursues profits by making The Nabtesco Group thus has a highly transparent potential of companies corporate governance system for prompt and flexible Moreover, the Nabtesco Group identifies the core values decisions independently and attributing importance to that give us our competitive edge (“core competences”), capital efficiency and sustainable growth and has a prompt execution of business and for the sustainable increase of its Relationship with suppliers such as the technologies and ideas incorporated into our business execution system suitable for its business corporate value. A total of around 1,000 companies, including both large products as well as our design/manufacturing knowenvironment. For the management of the entire Group, the and small, supply their products (mainly metal, electronic BUSINESS ACTIVITIES and electric components) or offer machine processing how. We classify such competences into those to be protected as confidential information and those to be Activities for Sustainable Growth and component assembly services to the Nabtesco Group. protected by patents and others, and have established a In a wide range of B-to-B businesses that support people’s daily lives and social infrastructure, the Nabtesco Group The Group’s cost structure and QCD performance depends to a considerable degree on its relationship with these system for the global protection of these competences. supplies products and services to customers who are providers of completed products. Our products and services suppliers. For its mediumto long-term success, it is We are establishing core competences in terms of both are connected with society by being used in or for our customers’ products, which are then used by their own essential that the Group has a sustainable supply chain, for technologies and production capabilities, and implementing customers in society. At the same time, the Nabtesco Group is working to provide itself and its stakeholders with which it is working closely with its suppliers based on fair measures to maintain and enhance them so that we can more value through financial management and the implementation of a range of measures to help solve ESG issues. and proper trade practices founded on an appropriate cost continue to be a competitive player on a long-term basis. structure. OUTPUT Human capital (manufacture, sales, installation, maintenance and afterRelationship with local communities Management team members who demonstrate diverse Major businesses, products and services sales service) to integrate the production and marketing expertise to increase corporate value We believe that we can enhance relations of trust with processes to generate more profit. The Nabtesco Group has a global production and sales In the Action Guidelines for Top Management, which is customers and other stakeholders by making contributions In the Manufacturing Solutions Segment, we mainly network comprising 14 subsidiaries in Japan and 46 outside included in The Nabtesco Way, it is clearly stated that to the solution of social challenges through our business operate the packaging machine business, which the country. We attribute importance to good relationships top executives shall manage the Nabtesco Group in a operations. contributes to food safety and labor saving at production with local communities in the regions where we operate, manner that increases corporate value. All members of In the Component Solutions Segment, which facilities for food and others. for which we foster exchange and cooperation with the *OEM: Original Equipment Manufacturer the management team are strongly committed to leading comprises the precision reduction gear business and communities through local activities and activities in areas the Group’s activities to increase the Group’s corporate the hydraulic equipment business, we focus on OEM* of society deeply related to our businesses. Many of our employees live near the plants and sales bases where they value. Also, all members of the Board of Directors, including production. These businesses provide social value by Measures for operational excellence the three independent outside directors, have general contributing to automation, labor saving and infrastructure The Nabtesco Group is working to increase its profitability work, and improving our brand image in the surrounding knowledge about business/risk management, including improvement mainly in the domain of “Manufacturing/ and efficiency and gain a sharper competitive edge for its communities helps increase the satisfaction of these financial, legal and compliance-related knowledge as well as Urban development/Renewable energy.” Compared with businesses by implementing financial strategies as well employees. It might also be expected to help us recruit expertise regarding technologies and business operations. other businesses, the profitability of these two businesses as by reforming its manufacturing sites and revitalizing its excellent local talent in the future. We work to contribute to These professionals are using their diverse knowledge and can easily be influenced by productionand sales-related organizations. the solution of local issues across the globe as the basis for expertise for corporate management and global business changes, while great synergy effects can be generated in At the same time, we are promoting systematic increasing our corporate value on a long-term basis. promotion and are supervising the management of the the segment through the joint procurement of materials measures for ESG issues while giving due consideration Group for the sustainable increase of its corporate value. and flexible use of core production staff. to their economic rationality, thereby making our value Financial capital The Transport Solutions Segment, which is composed of creation sustainable and meeting the increasingly The Nabtesco Group has continued to post operating cash Diverse workforce made up of people who value quality the railroad vehicle equipment business, aircraft equipment demanding expectations of our stakeholders. We are flow that on average exceeds the roughly ¥20 billion mark as well as collaborative creation, competition and sharing business, commercial vehicle equipment business and thereby enhancing the foundation of our operations to for the last five years. This stable cash flow provides us The Nabtesco Group has a unique system to educate marine vessel equipment business, contributes to higher achieve Operational Excellence. with the financial resources to make growth investments employees on high-quality manufacturing. The Group safety and greater comfort in the domain of “Transportation and return profit to stakeholders. develops workers who can manufacture high-quality of people and goods.” We provide the maintenance, repair Financial management products based on systematic and regular education on and overhaul (MRO) after-sales services in all of the For financial management, we are improving our capital Technology and manufacturing capital businesses and can share MRO bases and know-how to efficiency to achieve “ROE: 15%.” We are also working In each of the businesses for which we boast a large quality, compliance education and awareness-raising activities, which also provides the basis for the Group generate synergy effects between the businesses. to have stable cash flow to make proactive growth market share, the Nabtesco Group has a proprietary to develop human resources who can conduct business The Accessibility Solutions Segment, in which we investments and return profit to shareholders in a steady system for developing products and services in a way with a high sense of ethics and transparency as well as to conduct the automatic door business and the welfare and flexible manner. that is integrated with the product development of our create value for customers. equipment business, contributes to higher safety and customers. The core technology that allows us to do this As of the end of December 2018, Nabtesco has 7,713 greater comfort in public spaces and to the creation of a Measures to solve ESG issues is our unique motion control technology. By continuing to employees on a consolidated basis and 2,296 employees on barrier-free society in the domain of “Daily lives/Welfare.” The Nabtesco Group deems it one of our material CSR issues meet the demanding requests of customers, we have built a non-consolidated basis. In accordance with the expansion In the automatic door business, we have adopted the to ensure management transparency and provide safety, up our basic technologies, including cutting technology, of its businesses, the number of employees has been on following business model: expand the sales and service comfort and a sense of security. We will contribute to the assembly technology and fluid control technology. In network through M&A and enhance the value chain attainment of the SDGs by working on a range of ESG themes. 19 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 20 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile OUTCOME Created Value Value for the Nabtesco Group Value for external stakeholders By inputting various resources and conducting activities for sustainable growth, we will continuously create value for ourselves and for external stakeholders. Related SDGs Relationship capital By enhancing its relationship capital, the Nabtesco Group can contribute to Goal 17 of the SDGs: Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global Value for the Nabtesco Group Value for external stakeholders partnership for sustainable development. Relations of trust with customers Customer bases founded on top-class market shares QCD performance that meets the requirements of The large market shares we command in each business are customers Financial capital proof of the trust our customers have in the Nabtesco Group and We can create value for customers by continuing to provide the basis for us to offer more value to society. meet their expectations and trust. We are contributing Value for the Nabtesco Group Value for external stakeholders The Nabtesco Group boasts top-class shares and adequate to increasing our customers’ own quality, cost and profitability in both domestic and overseas product markets. delivery (QCD) performance by providing them with high Strong balance sheet that supports growth Improvement of capital efficiency and stable return of We will make use of the ability to collect information, which value-added products and services that meet their QCD investments profit we have gained through holding these leading market positions, to requirements. Strong balance sheets support growth investments and The Nabtesco Group is committed to “ROE: 15%” in its identify more social needs and contribute to the solution of social the stable return of profit to employees and shareholders. medium-term management plan. For the fiscal year ended issues through our business operations. The Nabtesco Group is fostering the improvement of capital December 31, 2018, our actual ROE is 12.1% and is below the efficiency and disciplined financial management, being level committed to. However, it is above the average level of Relations of trust with shareholders rated A by the credit rating agencies. As a result, the equity listed companies in Japan and has been on the rise. Trust in the management team and high-scoring ESG Enhancement of partnership with stakeholders ratio has remained at 58% on average for the most recent five We are also committed to “Consolidated payout ratio: evaluation Ensuring management transparency and building a years, and this means that we are on a level that allows us to 35% or over” in the medium-term management plan. We We regard the affirmative vote rate of selected directors as one sustainable value creation process helps increase make steady growth investments and stably return profit to have steadily increased the dividend amount in line with the of the indicators of trust in our top management team. Over the the opportunities for shareholders and investors to stakeholders. expansion of profit and have been maintaining a payout ratio past five years, the rate has been 97% or higher, exceeding the make investments on a long-term basis. Proactively of 35% or over. average rate among listed companies in Japan, and thus proving communicating with these stakeholders also fosters our strong trust in our management team. The Nabtesco Group is partnerships with them. By enhancing this relationship included in the major ESG stock indexes both in Japan and abroad capital, we will continue to make contributions to Goal 17 and is highly rated by ESG evaluating organizations. We will of the SDGs: Strengthen the means of implementation Technology and Manufacturing Capital continue to foster dialogue with shareholders and investors who and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable Value for the Nabtesco Group Value for external stakeholders make long-term investments and with investors who attribute development. importance to ESG issues, thereby deepening our understanding of their ideas to create value in a more sophisticated manner. Creation of new products and a highly competitive Provision of safety, comfort and a sense of security production system For the Nabtesco Group, which is engaged in the Relations of trust with suppliers By enhancing our technology and manufacturing capital, we manufacturing industry, safety means to manufacture Responsible supply chain management Enhancement of the value chain for mutual growth can meet more diversified and advanced customer needs products safely; manufacture safe products; and ensure that The Nabtesco Group is committed to fulfilling our corporate social The Nabtesco Group believes that the improvement of to increase our competitiveness in the existing businesses the manufactured products can continue to be used in a safe responsibility across our supply chain based on fair, proper and suppliers’ QCD performance will directly help the Group while also adding value to our products by including more manner. Based on this recognition, we are working to provide transparent transactions with suppliers. Based on the relations improve its own QCD performance. Based on this recognition, mechatronic products and systems in them. Moreover, we can customers with safety, comfort and a sense of security by of trust with our suppliers, whose understanding of the Nabtesco the Group is working to increase our QCD performance foster the development of new products and services through implementing a range of measures at our manufacturing Group’s CSR-Oriented Procurement Policy we seek, we will build across our supply chain. The enhancement of the value open innovation, technological marketing (IP landscape) using sites. The Nabtesco Group is also advanced particularly for a responsible supply chain to ensure the sustainability of our chain based on collaboration with suppliers will result in intellectual property information and strategic M&A projects climate change issues, which are global challenges. We are value creation. mutual growth and the expansion of trade opportunities. toward the creation of a new business foundation. speeding up measures by setting long-term CO2 emission Furthermore, our unique manufacturing innovations, reduction targets. Relations of trust with local communities including the enhancement of our production capability, Improvement of the brand image through community Contribution in the fields of the environment, production management ability and procurement ability, investment education and welfare are designed for the establishment of an overwhelmingly We can contribute to the solution of social challenges faced by local The Nabtesco Group implements its community competitive production system and for the provision of a communities through community investment, which in turn helps us investment initiative by using its resources and basis to prevail in global competition. improve our brand image. We also regard community investment knowledge in the three key fields of the environment, as an initiative that provides Group employees with opportunities to education and welfare, which are closely connected to Related SDGs take on the challenge of contributing to the solution of social issues its businesses. The specific activities conducted in the By enhancing its technology in fields related to the businesses in which they work and to change initiative are in line with the Group’s material CSR issues and manufacturing capital, the their way of thinking. These measures are important for winning the (materiality) and a range of targets set in the SDGs. As a Nabtesco Group can contribute trust of local communities in the regions where we operate and also global corporate citizen, the Group will contribute to the to the attainment of the SDGs for securing human resources in the future, and provide us with a solution of social challenges faced by local communities shown on the right. foundation to increase our corporate value on a long-term basis. and to their long-term prosperity. 21 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 22 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Human capital Value for the Nabtesco Group Value for external stakeholders Management Strategy and Performance By strategically promoting the value creation process, we will fulfill the commitments we have made in the medium-term management plan. Securing of human resources who implement The Provision of safe and comfortable workplaces Nabtesco Way Giving due consideration to human rights in all business The Nabtesco Group continues to conduct activities aimed operations is a basic social responsibility to be fulfilled by The Nabtesco Group has been implementing the mediumthe basis for business operations by revitalizing our at making all employees aware of The Nabtesco Way, companies. The Nabtesco Group is implementing measures term management plan targeting the period from the fiscal organizations and making more advanced use of human encouraging them to attain their own targets, and uniting to respect human rights based on the Nabtesco Group Code year ended December 31, 2017 to the fiscal year ending resources. We will proactively allocate resources to the the Group as one. In order to maintain and improve our of Ethics and the Nabtesco Group Human Rights Policy, while December 31, 2020. For the sustainable growth of the core strategies for the maximization of their effects. competitiveness on a long-term basis, it is essential for us to also promoting work style reforms and diversity to further Group, we focus on Market Creation, Technology Innovation In the medium-term management plan, we have secure human resources. The rate of employees who have revitalize its workplaces. Through these measures the Group and Operational Excellence as our core management made the following three management commitments to quit working for the Group for their own reasons has been is working to provide employees with safe and comfortable strategies, while appropriately identifying the growth stakeholders. as low as 1%, providing evidence that our workplaces are workplaces, which will in turn lead to the creation of sound opportunities for each business as well as the opportunities favorable for employees. and sustainable employment opportunities. for us to contribute to the solution of social challenges. For Market Creation, we are speeding up overseas Our commitments business expansion and the pioneering of new fields to find new markets. For Technology Innovation, we are Related SDGs ROE: 15% shifting from the manufacture of components (machine By enhancing its human components) to the creation of new solutions. For Consolidated payout ratio: 35% or over capital, the Nabtesco Group can Operational Excellence, we are improving profitability by contribute to the attainment of Focus on solving ESG issues production reforms and operational reforms and enhancing * ESG: Environmental, social and governance issues the SDGs shown on the right. Long-Term Vision The Nabtesco Group will strive to expand the scope of value creation and work to become the Global Partner with Organizational capital Best Solutions, as shown in the long-term vision formulated toward the final year of the medium-term management plan (FY2020). Highly ethical corporate culture based on a global Management transparency based on the autonomous -Status in FY2020compliance system improvement of its functions by the Board of Directors The Nabtesco Group conducts business globally, and The Nabtesco Group attributes importance to winning the Global Partner with Best Solutions compliance provides the basis for the Group to implement trust of stakeholders on a long-term basis. In order to improve our corporate philosophy through business operations. Each the functions of the Board of Directors, we annually evaluate and every employee supports the Group’s business activities by behaving in a highly ethical and transparent manner. the effectiveness of the Board. In FY2018, it was confirmed that the number of Board members and composition of the In order to respond flexibly to changes in the business environment after the collapse of Lehman Brothers and •(products, Continue to provide society with new innovative solutions services and business models) to achieve further growth, in 2012 the Nabtesco Group Compliance is one of the most important preconditions for the Group to be selected by customers as their business Board was appropriate and that the members were able to discuss issues in an open and constructive manner. The formulated a long-term vision for FY2020. •innovation, Pursue excellence through continuous technological thereby enhancing rapport and trust with partner. Toward building a highly ethical corporate culture, effectiveness was thus evaluated to be generally high. We formulated this vision based on the belief that we customers we are applying the Nabtesco Group Code of Ethics globally to Considering the judgment that the understanding of and could not achieve sustainable growth unless we enhanced all Group members and raising their compliance awareness insight into the company’s business has deepened especially our ability to make proposals to customers and continue providing society with new solutions (products, services •regardless Value open communication and creative thinking of language and cultural differences through training and by other means. among outside directors through the meeting of the Board of Directors held at factories, which started from FY2017, the effectiveness of the Board is considered to be well secured. and business models). In this long-term vision, we clearly state that we will create value for customers as their “Global •challenges Encourage each employee to proactively take on with the slogan, “Enjoy the Challenge.” However, with respect to the composition of the Board of Partner with Best Solutions.” Directors, issues including the following were identified as challenges to be met on a mediumto long-term basis: the need to increase the rate of independent outside directors to at least one-third of the total number of directors and to increase the number of female directors. Also, concerning discussions at the Board of Directors, it is still necessary to secure enough time for the deliberation of important management issues such as growth strategies. Nabtesco will further enhance its corporate governance system and increase its corporate value by continuously enhancing the functionality of the Board of Directors based on the effectiveness evaluation results. 23 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 24 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Message from the CEO I will further exercise consistent leadership toward the fulfillment of our commitments. Outlook for business performance: Aiming for recordand proﬁt, with net sales amounting to ¥313 billion demand in the Chinese high-speed railway sector. expanding local demand for these products. high sales and proﬁt (up 6.2% year on year) and operating income However, for aircraft equipment, commercial vehicle For “Technology Innovation,” we launched nextFirst, let me report on our business performance. amounting to ¥30 billion (up 37.1% year on year). equipment and marine vessel equipment, sales are anticgeneration products for precision reduction gears and In FY2018, we increased sales in all business segAs for the business outlook, while sales of precision ipated to expand, and proﬁt is also projected to increase automatic doors in FY2018. In the aircraft equipment ments, with net sales amounting to ¥294.6 billion, up reduction gears in the Component Solutions segment will because the impairment loss posted for FY2018 will exert business, we increased the shipment of FCASs* for 4.3% year on year. We thereby set an all-time high for be on par with FY2018, both sales and proﬁt will increase no inﬂuence over our business performance. new models, with new products thus accounting for a the second year in a row. As for proﬁt, operating income in the hydraulic equipment business thanks to brisk In the Accessibility Solutions segment, sales will greater portion of total sales annually. We have also been decreased to ¥21.9 billion, down 25.7% year on year, due demand for construction machinery in China, Southeast steadily increase in the building automatic door and platdeveloping new technologies for hydraulic equipment to factors including the impairment loss posted for the Asia and North America. form door business in Japan, and proﬁt will also increase and packaging machines. In FY2018 we established goodwill of OVALO, an overseas subsidiary. In the Transport Solutions segment, sales of railroad due to the temporary expenses not incurred in FY2018. a corporate venture capital (CVC) fund to collaborate For FY2019, we aim to achieve record sales vehicle equipment are expected to drop due to decreased with start-up companies, thereby speeding up our open Progress with management strategies: Successfully innovation measures. building a foundation for growth Furthermore, for “Operational Excellence,” we are We have steadily made progress and achievements in implementing measures including company-wide promeeting the targets of the management strategies outduction reforms and the improvement of inventory operlined in the medium-term management plan that got ations. As for work style reform, we established the underway in FY2017. Let’s take a look at key progress to Business Transformation Division in FY2017, which has date. been taking the main lead in the identiﬁcation and analFor “Market Creation,” we established a regional headysis of business processes. We also introduced systems quarters in Europe to optimize resource distribution to for employees to work at a satellite office and at home. local subsidiaries and improve their management effiFY2019 is a turning point for the four-year mediciency. We have thus improved the system to expand our um-term management plan and an important year in business in the European market. In China, we enhanced making certain that everything is in place toward the the local production system for precision reduction gears completion of the plan in FY2020. We will build a founand hydraulic equipment in order to meet the rapidly dation for making even greater strides to ensure that we ● Annual production of precision reduction gears (1,000 units) ■■ Annual production quantity at the Tsu Plant 1,000 ■■ Annual unit production volume at facilities in China Cumulative annual production volume 800 Cumulative production volume expected to 600 reach 10 million units in FY2020 400 200 0 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 (FY) 25 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 26 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Message from the CEO Commitments 1) ROE: 15% 2) Consolidated payout ratio: 35% or over 3) Focus on solving ESG issues *ESG: Environmental, Social and Governance issues will reap the beneﬁts in the ﬁnal year of the plan. while closely monitoring demand, along with launchand Governance (ESG) issues,” the Nabtesco Group KPI*2 for performance-linked compensation to be paid * FCAS: Flight control actuation systems ing new products on the market to remain competitive. has been highly evaluated by external evaluators for to inside directors. We will continue to promote “cost of Capital investment will cause an increase in depreciation its ESG measures. Recently, we have been included in capital conscious business management” at the Board of Growth drivers: As the world’s top supplier of precision and amortization costs, but we will be able to ensure the DJSI World Index for three consecutive years and Directors level. reduction gears sound proﬁtability and realize increased proﬁt by increashave received the highest rating for our environmenIn terms of achieving “ROE: 15%,” the actual ROE We have received many questions when holding diaing production volume. tal measures from CDP in the three ﬁelds of climate dropped to 12.1% for FY2018. For FY2019, although we logues with investors regarding the growth drivers of change, water and supplier engagement. Moreover, the expect it to improve to 12.3%, this is still below the comthe Nabtesco Group and outlook for precision reduction Red Queen’s hypothesis: Accelerating evolution Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF) has included mitment level. Accordingly, we will continue making effigears. In businesses other than the precision reduction gear Nabtesco in all the ESG indexes it adopted. We are thus cient use of our business assets by the expanded use of We have steadily increased the production volume of business, we can also achieve growth although the timing highly evaluated externally. the ROIC tree and will pursue an increase in proﬁt, while precision reduction gears. However, looking at the last and growth speed will differ by business and depend on For “E (Environmental)” aspects, we established a undertaking comprehensive management of our balance three years (see graph on page 26), the quantity did not market conditions for trends of ﬁnal products. In business response team in line with the recommendations made sheet to raise capital efficiency. By these measures we increase substantially in 2018 and 2019. Some might segments other than the Component Solutions segment, by the TCFD*1 and are working to identify the ﬁnancial aim to achieve an ROE of 15% by the end of FY2020. think, “Precision reduction gears might have levelled off we are operating the maintenance, repair and overhaul inﬂuences given by climate change related risks and We are in a growth phase. We will maintain the soundin terms of the growth of demand.” Nonetheless, precision (MRO) business, which we expect to expand. We have a opportunities. As for “S (Social),” we are fostering work ness of our balance sheet while making investments reduction gears are still a growth driver for us as indimedium-term competitive edge in our existing business style reforms and enhancing human rights management. steadily in projects that will help ensure the sustainability cated in the the graph from a long-term viewpoint, focusportfolio, but to ensure growth on a long-term basis, we We have also formulated the Nabtesco Group Community of our value creation. Moreover, in order to return proﬁt to ing on a cycle of about 10 years. need to devise new measures. Investment Policy and are implementing a range of meaour shareholders, we are constantly working to increase Demand for precision reduction gears is linked with I am engaged in the management of the company as sures to make more effective use of human resources. the amount of dividends paid in proportion to the level the needs for automated production equipment, such CEO and sometimes think about the Red Queen’s hypothFor “G (Governance)”, which drives E (Environmental) of our growth. For 2018, the annual dividend per share as industrial robots for labor saving. Sales of precision esis, which is discussed in biology and other ﬁelds. It speand S (Social) elements, we revised the Nabtesco totaled ¥73, up one yen year on year and the consolidated reduction gears have historically repeated a cycle of ciﬁcally means that only those that continue evolving can Corporate Governance Basic Policy in 2018 and made payout ratio came to 43%. Also for FY2019, we plan to pay “jumping up” years followed by twoto three-year “stagsurvive and those that stop evolving will become extinct. a clear statement about autonomous efforts being the same amount of dividends per share to continue fulnant growth” periods. For the period after 2009, when the In fact, our customers and competitors in emerging econundertaken. ﬁlling the third commitment, “Consolidated payout ratio: collapse of Lehman Brothers had a great impact on our omies are evolving on a daily basis. We also need to move One of the parts revised is the part on “cost of capital 35% or over.” business, the production volume increased substantially forward and accelerate our evolution, for which we must conscious business management.” In FY2017, we adopted *1 TCFD: Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures in 2011, 2014 and 2017. increase the speed of our business. return on invested capital (ROIC) as a performance indi*2 KPI: Key performance indicator In FY2018, although production volume dropped year To this end, it is essential to make effective use of cator with a focus on the cost of capital, along with the on year due to the U.S.-China trade friction and other external resources in addition to making organic progress launch of the current medium-term management plan. My own commitment: Passing on the baton factors, there are structural needs for automated producby using internal resources. M&A and CVC entail some We introduced the indicator to make efficient use of our In my opinion, members of an organization have their tion equipment for labor saving. We therefore expect that uncertainties, but we will continue to combine external business assets and advance appropriate ﬁnancial stratrespective roles to play for the organization, and by doing investment in automation, which has been restrained, will resources into various new forms based on due diligence, egies to build a system to continue recording ROIC that so in a sincere manner, they can help the organization recover in and after the latter half of 2019. thereby making innovations. In this process we need to exceeds the weighted average cost of capital (WACC). For create value. My role is to lead the Board of Directors as Nabtesco is the world’s top player in the precision disclose information to the public. In the CEO Dialogue, FY2018, ROIC was 8.0%, exceeding WACC, which is calcuits chairperson so that the Board can make optimal decireduction gear business and has made capital investment following this message, lessons learned from posting an lated to be around 6% under certain conditions. sions for stakeholders as a whole and continue to provide for the stable supply in anticipation of expanded demand. impairment loss for OVALO were discussed. I would like WACC is used to calculate the recovery of capital them with value. I must also demonstrate leadership as In 2017, when demand rapidly increased due to the colto engage in more dialogue with stakeholders, keeping in investment and serves as a hurdle rate. For ROIC, we the Chief Executive Officer of the company to help it fulﬁll laborative efforts of employees and suppliers, we raised mind the expression, “I know that I know nothing” basically evaluate the performance of each business its three commitments. the operating rate of our production facilities to 140% division in reference to the year-on-year ROIC improveFormer CEOs of the Nabtesco Group received the relative to annual production capacity, thereby delivering Commitments made in the medium-term management ment rate. We also use other indicators, such as R&D “baton” from their predecessors to help the Group achieve products to customers on time. In 2018, we made investplan: Promoting business with a focus on the cost of and environmental indicators to foster the creation of steady growth. As a “runner” who received the baton from ments in automation and the expansion of our production capital intellectual property and reduce CO2 emissions, and by the previous CEO, I will do my best to fulﬁll my role and capacity on a continual basis, and as a result, we did not Now let me report the situation about the three commitusing these in combination with the ROIC indicator, we meet the expectations of our stakeholders, for which I ask have to increase the operating rate beyond a reasonable ments made in the medium-term management plan. encourage each division to achieve growth in an autonfor your continued support. level. We will continue to enhance our production capacity Regarding “Focus on solving Environmental, Social omous manner. At the same time, we use ROIC as a 27 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 28 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile CEO Dialogue (Teramoto) Engaging in dialogue provides me with opportunities to recognize my own lack of knowledge and is indispensable to correct erroneous ideas and view myself and the company in an objective manner. uncertainties. Hyogo: I would never tell you, “Do not take any risks.” However, the lack of sufficient information forces us as external evaluators of your company to take downside risks into consideration. In your future M&A projects, I would like you to consider how to ensure a sufficient level of information disclosure while maintaining conﬁdentiality can publicly disclose at this moment, and I can understand for your customers. that investors are doubtful about its potential. However, we McDonald: The OVALO issue had a substantial impact on have high expectations for OVALO, which provides us with a your stock price because investors were doubtful about the means to foster our business in the European market. pricing process. The same thing applies to the corporate Fujiwara: Let me describe the background for the posting venture capital (CVC) that you established last year. of the impairment loss in my capacity as an outside direcInvestors tend to think that you have a higher growth tor. Initially, at the stage of due diligence for the acquisition, possibility in existing businesses. we were unable to fully understand the risk posed by the Teramoto: I would like to make satisfactory reports to postponement of the project, which has resulted in the investors for OVALO and the CVC as soon as possible. We delayed posting of sales for the company. There are speciflearned a lot of lessons. We will have more opportunities to Representative Director, Chief Analyst Director Outside Director President & CEO Asset Management Division Fundamental Analysis Citi Research Nabtesco Corporation ically two factors that have caused the impairment loss. engage in dialogue with investors to provide them with Nabtesco Corporation Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Citigroup Global Markets Japan Inc. Nabtesco checks for the impairment loss of its goodwill more information. In this integrated report, we will present assets at the end of each ﬁscal term in line with the a dialogue meeting with Emerald, with which we have Katsuhiro Shinichiro Graeme Yutaka International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), which concluded a strategic partnership agreement for the Teramoto Hyogo McDonald Fujiwara the Company adopted in ﬁscal 2017. In the process, we operation of the CVC. Accordingly, I would like to introduce Honoriﬁc titles omitted in the following dialogue. calculate return on investment based on the sales and how the Nabtesco Group will operate the CVC for creative proﬁt plan made for each investment. In the case of OVALO, “self-destruction.” we revised the plan following the postponement of the Fostering Dialogue to project and made calculations conservatively, without thinking that we might be able to make up for the delay Business portfolio with a focus on capital efficiency during the ﬁve-year calculation period. This is the ﬁrst Increase Corporate Value factor. Second, we set the pretax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) to be applied to the calculation of the return Teramoto: Of the four existing business segments, we expect that the Component Solutions (CMP) segment will on investment at as high as 17.7%. OVALO has increased provide us with the greatest growth driver. The precision FY2019 is a turnaround point for Nabtesco’s medium-term management plan for FY2020. CEO its creditworthiness by joining the Nabtesco Group, but reduction gear business, in which we are continuing to see Katsuhiro Teramoto and Outside Director Yutaka Fujiwara met with two representatives of institutional the WACC is still high because of its large “size risk.” I think high growth, will slow down in this term, but still has high investors to discuss the means to continuously enhance corporate value. we have set an appropriate rate for the WACC in the curpotential for mediumto long-term growth. Also, in the (Meeting held in a conference room of Nabtesco at the end of March 2019) rent situation in which auditing ﬁrms tend to be very hydraulic equipment business, we expect a continued conservative. increase in sales. Teramoto: If we can disclose a bit more detailed informaFujiwara: In other segments as well, we have products We must be even more accountable for September 4, I cannot evaluate the explanations positively. tion in our M&A process, we will be able to mitigate the with high capital efficiency, such as marine vessel equipnegative factors. Teramoto: As a representative of Nabtesco, I take your concerns of investors. However, it is very difficult for us to ment. In the Transport Solutions and Accessibility Solutions criticism very seriously. Moreover, I would like to give more disclose everything regarding M&A negotiations, which segments, the maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) Teramoto: In the ﬁscal year ended December 31, 2018, we detailed explanations about the background for the impairalways entail uncertainties. Some question the appropribusiness contributes to higher proﬁtability. posted record high sales, but unfortunately experienced a ment loss and about our future growth drivers. ateness of the price calculation, but the initial acquisition McDonald: You depend a great deal on the Chinese market decrease in proﬁt. In each business segment we achieved price proposed by OVALO was much higher than expected in the CMP segment, which provides you with a long-term our sales targets, while operating income came to ¥21.9 Lessons learned from posting the and the company really did make a tremendous comprogrowth driver according to President Teramoto. The billion, down ¥7.6 billion or 25.7% year on year. This is impairment loss for OVALO’s goodwill mise for us. Chinese construction machinery market is at its peak now. mainly because of the impairment loss posted for the Fujiwara: We could independently forge our own path to do goodwill of OVALO of Germany, which we have acquired, Hyogo: I think Nabtesco will continue to implement M&A business in Europe, which is an important market, but can and temporary expenses incurred in the automatic door projects from time to time in order to foster swift managewe really get fast results if we do it from scratch? OVALO business. ment on a long-term basis. To do this, you need to fulﬁll has been dealing directly with leading automakers such as Hyogo: I can understand the reason for the increase in your accountability obligations. As for the impairment loss, Audi and has a clear plan for future projects. We therefore sales and decrease in proﬁt, but I am unsatisﬁed with there is a gap between Nabtesco and investors in the decided to acquire the company despite some lingering Nabtesco’s level of accountability for this outcome. evaluation of OVALO’s growth potential. This gap is raising McDonald: I, too, was honestly surprised at the posting of concerns among investors, who think “Nabtesco would the impairment loss, which was revealed in the ﬁnancial invest in a company with impaired value.” (Fujiwara) I think it is important for us to results disclosed for the second quarter at the end of July McDonald: Can OVALO really achieve growth? Due to the patiently continue to engage in dialogue with 2018. Although the Company made supplementary explalack of sufficient information, we cannot envision a success our stakeholders in order to build mutual trust. nations about the loss at the brieﬁng on the ﬁnancial scenario for the company. results held in August and in the press release dated Teramoto: As for OVALO, we have little information that we 29 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 30 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile (Hyogo) We sometimes have to say harsh things, (McDonald) Foreign investors attribute special importance to but it is essential for investors to have a dialogue with engagement or commitment, which should be fulﬁlled. companies in order to understand their approach sincerely taken in terms of corporate value. Hyogo: Despite its large market shares and high proﬁtabilROIC in the criteria to identify the “challenging projects” ity, the stock price shows volatility, which might be because for which we should strengthen monitoring. of a temporary rise in the capital cost. If investors strongly Teramoto: We focus on ROIC while constantly working to recognize the feasibility and sustainability of the ROE increase the capital efficiency of our business portfolio as a target, I think that the stock valuation will further rise. matter of course. For example, in the mature market of McDonald: I would like you to clarify your policies about marine vessel equipment, we are aiming to achieve growth Harmonic Drive Systems, in which you have a roughly 20% Could this market really serve as a long-term growth in the ﬁelds with high capital efficiency and in the MRO stake. Many foreign investors pay a great deal attention to pany reduce risks and ﬁnd more opportunities, which I driver? business. such policies. hope will lead to business performance. Hyogo: Furthermore, the size of your precision reduction McDonald: How will you grow the MRO business? Fujiwara: With the company we established a joint venture Teramoto: In the future, ESG-related evaluation will be gear business is large enough to produce substantial proﬁt Teramoto: The MRO business has a cycle, which differs by in the United States, and I believe that continuing the reﬂected in the basic evaluation to be made for the deterbut might also be large enough to unbalance your business business segment. We need to make MRO-related propospartnership will help Nabtesco increase our corporate mination of business terms and conditions, and then we portfolio on a mediumto long-term basis. When making als to customers in a timely manner for the products that value. As for so-called cross-shareholdings, we have been will be able to link ESG issues more easily with our busilong-term investments, it is necessary to think about the we supplied to the customers in the past. We have proconﬁrming the beneﬁts and capital cost at a Board of ness performance. Toward this, we must make sufficient risk that growth potential and proﬁtability might be diminmoted the MRO business for marine vessel equipment Directors meeting annually. If we ﬁnd that this is not efforts now. ished by the maturing of the business and participation of ahead of other products and will expand the business reasonable, we will make appropriate responses, including Fujiwara: Nabtesco incorporates environmental contribumore competitors. You need to foster your “metabolism” by scope by fostering the “visualization” of the items that we selling the stock. tion (“E”) into set KPIs for remuneration of senior manageexpanding proﬁt in other businesses and creating new supplied to customers and proactively making proposals ment and directors. If we also incorporate the viewpoint of businesses. for preventive maintenance based on the use of the Solution of ESG issues and dialogue with “S” into the KPIs, what speciﬁc indicators are considered? Fujiwara: We are strongly aware of the need as directors of Internet of Things (IoT). We need to pursue organic growth investors Hyogo: How about using the results of employee satisfacthe company. I have been in the position for six years, in existing business ﬁelds while creating added value. It is, tion surveys as an indicator when making incentive plans during which the composition of the business portfolio has however, difficult to conﬁgure components into systems Teramoto: What is your evaluation of our environmental, for senior management and directors? greatly changed because the speed of growth differs by independently. We therefore pay attention to the acquisition social and governance (ESG) efforts? Teramoto: Well, we have already incorporated the viewbusiness. We do need to create new businesses and also of companies that have technologies and human resources Hyogo: Inside directors serve as the chairpersons of the point of ESG into the Action Guidelines, which comprise foster M&A to keep a well-balanced portfolio. that we do not have and to the establishment of CVC funds. nomination and remuneration committees of Nabtesco, “The Nabtesco Way” along with the Corporate Philosophy. McDonald: From the viewpoint of investors, you need to and I think it might be better for the sound management of We are now fostering work style reforms and introducing a consider selling any businesses that are not relatively Nabtesco’s ﬁnancial management the committees if you have a standard that outside direcsystem to pay “smart bonuses” to employees by using the proﬁtable. For example, the proﬁtability of the automatic tors should assume the positions. What do you think about money saved by increasing productivity and reducing door business is rather low. Fujiwara: What do you think about Nabtesco’s ﬁnancial the effectiveness of the committees? overtime work. We are aiming to launch a system that Teramoto: Let me talk about the issues one by one. First, in management? I am also interested in investor considerTeramoto: I can understand the importance of establishmakes all employees happy. the hydraulic equipment business we acquired Hyest ations in terms of the time frame. ing such a standard, but the majority of the members of Hyogo: You can implement new initiatives more effectively Corporation in 2015. Thanks to this, we were able to Hyogo: We often ask companies what they want to be in 10 each of the two committees are outside directors and so by fostering them while checking the level of employees’ expand the lineup of our products in the business and are years’ time regardless of the industry to which they belong, there are actually no issues. Structured as a “Company satisfaction. This will also help you understand the ideas of enhancing measures for hydraulic systems. Due to sucbecause 10 years is the longest possible period for formuwith Board of Auditors,” Nabtesco has six independent employees, which differ by generation. cessful product bundling and cross-selling, we are also lating their management vision in consideration of possible members including outside Audit & Supervisory Board Fujiwara: Now, ﬁnally, please share your ideas about expanding deals with new customers. On the other hand, in economic changes and innovations. With regard to ﬁnancial Member. What do you think about this? “engaging in dialogue.” I think it is important for us to the precision reduction gear business, we have some new management, 10 years is too long, and so we evaluate free Hyogo: The difference between a “Company with Audit and patiently continue to have a dialogue with our stakeholders competitors for smaller precision reduction gears, but we cash ﬂow and return to shareholders for a shorter period Supervisory Committee” and a “Company with Board of in order to build mutual trust. pay more attention to Chinese manufacturers of mediumof about three to ﬁve years. Auditors” lies in the granting/non-granting of voting rights McDonald: Foreign investors attribute special importance to large-sized precision reduction gears. The manufacturFujiwara: What should we focus on when talking about our to auditors at Board of Directors meetings. A “Company to engagement or commitment, which should be fulﬁlled, ers are striving to catch up with us, but there are still gaps company in 10 years’ time? with Board of Auditors” is unique to Japan and is more including commitment regarding the outlook for perforbetween us and these competitors in terms of the preciHyogo: You need to set key performance indicators (KPIs) “defense-oriented,” which might be a good point. mance. sion and durability of products, and we will widen the gaps according to the primary factors that will increase your Fujiwara: The CEO asked you the question also because Hyogo: It is essential for investors to engage in dialogue even further while steadily enhancing our productivity corporate value. Nabtesco could achieve sustainable both outside directors and outside auditors proactively with companies in order to understand their approach based on in-depth research on market demand. growth and justify the selection and consolidation of its express their opinions at Nabtesco’s Board of Directors sincerely taken in terms of corporate value. Because we As for the automatic door business, we experienced a businesses based on return on investment (ROE) of 15% or meetings. I believe this helps to increase the effectiveness are investing money on behalf of our clients, we somegreat change following the acquisition of Gilgen in 2011. I higher. In the funds I manage, many of the stocks are held of the Board, while it is also important to have a standard times have to say harsh things, but we would like to conbelieve we are going in the right direction by expanding for seven years or longer, and to do this with conﬁdence, to ensure transparency. tinue having a dialogue with your company so that we can and enhancing our sales networks in Japan and abroad. we need to understand the business philosophy of the Hyogo: Nabtesco really excels in the environmental ﬁeld as expect mutual growth based on respect for each other’s However, we have posted temporary expenses for the companies. I therefore want to continue to sincerely well as ﬁnancial structure. You have received the highest standpoint. integration of business operations for the recent two to engage in dialogue with companies to share future visions evaluation from CDP in three ﬁelds, which is no doubt Teramoto: I appreciate this, as engaging in dialogue prothree years. The expenses are only temporary, and I believe with them. owing to your concerted efforts. High evaluation in the ﬁeld vides me with opportunities to recognize my own lack of we will soon be able to improve our proﬁtability in the McDonald: In Japan’s machinery sector, we can easily spot of ESG could help you differentiate your company from knowledge and is indispensable to correct erroneous ideas automatic door business. conglomerates that are facing difficulties in terms of cash competitors and raise customer awareness, which will also and view myself and the company in an objective manner. Fujiwara: In order to create value that exceeds the capital ﬂow. In that sector, Nabtesco engages in many businesses bring more business opportunities to the company. To this By continuing dialogue, I believe we can deepen mutual cost, we have introduced “return on invested capital with short cycles and has a high cash turnover ratio. It thus end I would like you to incorporate the viewpoint of ESG understanding and I look forward to receiving your valued (ROIC)” as a new performance indicator under the current has a robust ﬁnancial system with a high ROE, and so into overall business management. advice on an ongoing basis. medium-term management plan. We have also included investors have great expectations for the company. McDonald: Incorporating ESG factors will help the com31 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 32 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Financial Information Operating Results Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) since the ﬁscal year Sales increased in the Transport Solutions (TRS) demand for civil aircraft to remain strong, and forecasts ◆ Operating Results for the Fiscal Year ended December 31, 2017 with the aim of improving segment, being driven by brisk sales in the major four net sales and operating income to reach ¥313.0 billion (up Ended December 31, 2018 international comparability of ﬁnancial information in sectors (railroad vehicle equipment, aircraft equipment, 6.2% year on year) and ¥30.0 billion (up 37.1% year on During the ﬁscal year ended December 31, 2018, the global capital markets and the precision of business management commercial vehicle equipment and marine vessel equipyear), respectively, for the consolidated ﬁscal year ending economy was on a mild recovery trend as in the previous by unifying the accounting standards and periods within ment), while operating income decreased due to an operatDecember 31, 2019. term. However, concerns about the future economy arose the Group. ing loss and impairment loss posted for OVALO. Also, sales toward the end of the term due to expanding trade frictions increased in the Accessibility Solutions (ACB) segment, ◆ Analysis for Factors behind Year-on-Year Changes in between the United States and China. Despite some ten◆ Analysis of Factors Behind Year-on-Year Changes in reﬂecting strong sales of platform doors, but operating Operating Income (Plan) for the Fiscal Year Ending dency toward stagnation, the Japanese economy witnessed Operating Income (Actual Results) for the Fiscal Year income decreased due to the delayed installation of buildDecember 31, 2019 a mild recovery as a whole, as personal consumption Ended December 31, 2018 ing doors in Japan and temporary expenses incurred for The Group expects operating income for the ﬁscal year recovered with steadily improving employment. Operating income for the ﬁscal year ended December 31, the improvement of sales bases. ending December 31, 2019 to reach ¥30.0 billion, an Accordingly, companies were making robust earnings and 2018 decreased ¥7.6 billion from the previous ﬁscal year to Higher proﬁts due to improvement of productivity, etc., increase of ¥8.1 billion year on year. The Group forecasts maintained a high level of capital expenditure. ¥21.9 billion. Key contributing positive factors included a were mainly the result of efforts by each plant to promote key contributing positive factors including a ¥6.2 billion Under these circumstances, the consolidated operating ¥2.2 billion increase due to an increase in sales and a ¥0.4 automation and shorten lead times. increase due to an increase in sales, a ¥1.0 billion increase results of the Group for the period under review recorded billion increase due to improvement of productivity, etc. Meanwhile, primary contributing negative factors due to improvement of productivity, etc., and a ¥5.2 billion net sales of ¥294.6 billion, up 4.3% year on year, reﬂecting However, operating income decreased as a whole due to behind a decrease in operating income include an increase increase resulting from the elimination of the inﬂuence the robust demand for construction machinery in China negative factors including a ¥1.0 billion increase in deprein depreciation and amortization and an increase in selling, caused by the impairment loss posted for OVALO. and emerging countries, strong demand for products for ciation and amortization, a ¥2.5 billion increase in selling, general and administrative expenses. These factors are In terms of drivers for higher proﬁts due to an increase the subway in China and the favorable automatic door general and administrative expenses,etc., and impairment caused by capital expenditure made in response to the in sales, the Group expects growth in each segment. In the business mainly in Japan. Operating income decreased loss,etc., of ¥6.7 billion posted for OVALO in the Transport expansion of demand. Component Solutions (CMP) segment, sales of hydraulic 25.7% year on year to ¥21.9 billion as a result of posting Solutions (TRS) segment. equipment are expected to increase, being backed by brisk impairment loss on goodwill related to a consolidated Higher proﬁts due to an increase in sales were primarily ◆ Projections for the Consolidated Fiscal Year Ending demand for construction machinery, while in the Transport subsidiary, OVALO GmbH. Income before tax was ¥30.0 attributable to expanded sales of hydraulic equipment in the December 31, 2019 Solutions (TRS) segment, sales will increase for aircraft billion, down 14.2% year on year, due to an increase in Component Solutions (CMP) segment, which was driven by With the world economy forecast to remain on a recovery equipment, commercial vehicle equipment and marine equity in earnings of affiliates. Net income attributable to the continued strong demand for construction machinery in trend during the ﬁscal year ending December 31, 2019 vessel equipment. In the Accessibility Solutions (ACB) owners of the parent amounted to ¥21.0 billion, down the Chinese and emerging markets, while sales of precision despite a range of concerns, the Group expects demand for segment, the automatic door market is expected to remain 16.4% year on year. reduction gears decreased in the segment due in part to the construction machinery and the automatic door business robust both in Japan and overseas. Furthermore, the Group The Group has applied voluntarily International postponement of capital investment for automobiles. to continue to be favorable. The Group also expects expects an increase in demand for packaging machines for ● Analysis of Factors behind Year-on-Year Changes in Operating Income for the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2018 ● Analysis of Factors behind Year-on-Year Changes in Operating Income (Plan) for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2019 Increase in Increase in Productivity Increase OVALOProductivity Increase OVALOIncrease of FOREX SG&A Increase of FOREX SG&A improvement, in related improvement, in related sales effect expenses, sales effect expenses, (¥ Billion) etc. D&A costs (¥ Billion) etc. D&A costs etc. etc. 35.0 35.0 +2.2 +0.4 29.5 -0.01 +5.2 30.0 30.0 -1.0 30.0 +1.0 +6.2 -2.5 -0.8 25.0 25.0 -1.5 -2.0 21.9 21.9 -6.7 20.0 20.0 FOREX effect* FOREX effect* 15.0 17/12 Result US$1=¥112.04 RMB1=¥16.60 EUR1=¥127.22 CHF1=¥114.03 15.0 18/12 Result US$1=¥110.36 RMB1=¥16.65 EUR1=¥130.01 CHF1=¥112.99 18/12 Result US$1=¥110.36 RMB1=¥16.65 EUR1=¥130.01 CHF1=¥112.99 19/12 Plan US$1=¥105.00 RMB1=¥16.00 EUR1=¥125.00 CHF1=¥105.00 10.0 10.0 5.0 5.0 0 0 2017/12 Result (IFRS) 2018/12 Result (IFRS) 2018/12 Result (IFRS) 2019/12 Plan (IFRS) * FOREX sensitivity in O.P. (This represents the effect to be expected on operating profit if the exchange rate fluctuates by one yen): (US$): ¥47 million, (RMB): ¥812 million, (EUR): minimal, (CHF): minimal * FOREX sensitivity in O.P. (This represents the effect to be expected on operating profit if the exchange rate fluctuates by one yen): (US$): ¥48 million, (RMB): ¥863 million, (EUR): minimal, (CHF): minimal 33 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 34 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Financial Information the food industry globally in the Manufacturing Solutions the parent per share was ¥1,438.64. gear business, the Group will maintain the introduction of investments in the future with the aim of moving forward (MFR) segment. new machinery and equipment with the aim of establishing to become a system manufacturer that provides system Meanwhile, primary contributing negative factors a manufacturing system that can respond to changes in products by shifting from a business model focused on the behind a decrease in operating income will be a ¥0.8 billion Status of Cash Flows demand while making aggressive investments aimed at provision of component products in light of changes in the decrease due to foreign exchange ﬂuctuations, a ¥1.5 (Fiscal year ended December 31, 2018) enhancing the productivity. Moreover, we will invest in market environment. billion decrease due to an increase in depreciation and production equipment for mass production at OVALO’s Depreciation and amortization for the ﬁscal year ended amortization and a ¥2.0 billion decrease due to an increase Cash and cash equivalents (hereinafter, “capital ) as of facilities. December 31, 2018 stood at ¥10.0 billion. Depreciation and in selling, general and administrative expenses, etc. December 31, 2018 stood at ¥54.0 billion, an increase of R&D costs for the ﬁscal year ended December 31, 2018 amortization increased by ¥1.0 billion from the ﬁscal year As for foreign exchange ﬂuctuations, the yen is ¥9.9 billion from December 31, 2017, reﬂecting ¥24.2 amounted to ¥10.2 billion. The Group mainly developed and ended December 31, 2017. expected to rise due to trade frictions between the United billion in capital generated from operating activities, which launched energy-saving and environment-related products States and China. was mainly used for capital expenditure and dividend in the Component Solutions (CMP) and Transport Solutions Depreciation and amortization is expected to increase payments. (TRS) segments. The Group will continue to focus on the as a result of growth investment such as capital expendidevelopment of system products and make necessary ture related to new programs for civil aircraft in the aircraft ◆ Cash ﬂows from operating activities equipment business in addition to the expenses related to Net cash generated from operating activities for the ﬁscal increased production in line with the growth of demand for year ended December 31, 2018 totaled ¥24.2 billion. industrial robots in the precision reduction gear business. Principal positive factors included increases in net income Selling, general and administrative expenses, etc., are and depreciation and amortization. Meanwhile, the main expected to increase, reﬂecting an increase in R&D costs negative factors included an increase in inventories and related to the development of system products, etc., as well the payment of income taxes. as increases in IT-related costs and advertising expenses. ◆ Cash ﬂows from investing activities ● Status of Capital Expenditure, R&D Costs and Depreciation and Amortization (¥ Billion) Net cash used in investing activities for the ﬁscal year Status of Assets, Liabilities and Net Assets ended December 31, 2018 amounted to ¥21.8 billion, 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12 Medium-term plan for (Fiscal year ended December 31, 2018) mainly due to the purchase of property, plant and Result Result Plan 2017 to 2020 equipment. ◆ Assets Capital Expenditure 15.2 20.3 30.6 77.0 Total assets as of December 31, 2018 were ¥328.6 billion, ◆ Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities an increase of ¥27.0 billion from December 31, 2017, Net cash provided by ﬁnancing activities for the ﬁscal year R&D Costs 8.7 10.2 10.6 40.0 consisting of ¥179.1 billion in current assets and ¥149.4 ended December 31, 2018 totaled ¥8.4 billion. The main Depreciation and billion in non-current assets. positive factor was proceeds from borrowings, while the 9.0 10.0 13.4* — Amortization Key contributing positive factors included increases of main negative factor was dividends paid. *Includes the right-of-use assets. (IFRS 16 Leases is applied.) ¥9.9 billion in cash and cash equivalents, ¥3.3 billion in inventories, ¥9.9 billion in property, plant and equipment and ¥9.5 billion in investments accounted for by the equity Status of Capital Expenditure, R&D and method. The key contributing negative factor was a Depreciation and Amortization ● Breakdown in Capital Expenditure (By Usage) decrease of ¥5.8 billion in goodwill. (Results for the ﬁscal year ended December 31, 2018 and plan for the ﬁscal year ending December 31, 2019) ● Environment-related investments ◆ Liabilities ● R&D-related investments ● Environment-related investments Total liabilities as of December 31, 2018 were ¥139.3 The Group is currently working on production reforms, billion, an increase of ¥14.8 billion from December 31, including the promotion of automation, renewal of producOthers New Products Others New Products 2017, reﬂecting ¥112.6 billion in current liabilities and tion management systems, procurement reforms and Environment, Environment, ¥26.8 billion in non-current liabilities. The main contributenvironmental initiatives, with the aim of promoting “proRenewal and Safety 10% Renewal and Safety 7% ing positive factors were a rise of ¥17.6 billion in bonds and duction innovation to generate a competitive advantage. 18% 18% borrowings. The main contributing negative factor was a These efforts are led by the Production Innovation Division, decrease of ¥1.1 billion in income taxes payable. which supports the initiatives by each in-house company 2018/12 Production 2019/12 Production across the Group. The Group will also make aggressive Result Increase Plan Increase ◆ Equity capital expenditure that will contribute to the moderniza¥20.3 Billion 46% ¥30.6 Billion 46% Total equity as of December 31, 2018 stood at ¥189.3 tion of outdated equipment, plants, etc., as well as innovaProductivity Productivity billion. Equity attributable to owners of the parent was tion of production technologies. Improvement Improvement ¥178.7 billion, an increase of ¥11.2 billion from December Capital expenditure for the ﬁscal year ended December 31, 2017. The key contributing positive factor was the 31, 2018 was ¥20.3 billion. The main purposes of capital 26% 29% increase in retained earnings due to net income attributexpenditure were for increased production in the precision able to owners of the parent of ¥21.0 billion, while the main reduction gear business, which is seeing continuous contributing negative factor was the decrease of ¥9.2 growth in demand, and for enhancing capacity of a new ● Precision reduction gears: ● Precision reduction gears: Increase production capacity Increase production capacity billion in retained earnings due to dividends paid. program for civil aircraft in the aircraft equipment business. ● Aircraft equipment: ● Enhancement of OVALO’s facilities As a result, the ratio of equity attributable to owners of Capital expenditure for the ﬁscal year ending December Capacity expansion at Gifu Plant the parent was 54.4%, and equity attributable to owners of 31, 2019 will be ¥30.6 billion. In the precision reduction 35 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 36 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Financial Information Operating Results by Business Segment ■ Manufacturing Solutions (MFR) ● Sales by Business Segment (IFRS) (Forecasts for operating results for the ﬁscal year ending Net sales and operating income in this segment for the December 31, 2019) fiscal year ending December 31, 2019 are expected to Component Solutions (CMP) Accessibility Solutions (ACB) reach ¥20.2 billion (up 15.3% year on year) and ¥2.7 (¥ Billion) (¥ Billion) ■ Component Solutions (CMP) billion (up 9.8% year on year), respectively. ■ Precision Reduction Gears ■ Automatic Doors Net sales and operating income in this segment for the Packaging machines are expected to see an increase ■ Hydraulic Equipment ﬁscal year ending December 31, 2019 are expected to in sales due to continued strong demand in Japan. 125.8 ■ Others 119.3 113.9 76.0 77.4 amount to ¥125.8 billion (up 5.5 % year on year) and ¥21.6 72.4 billion (up 6.9 % year on year), respectively. 64.6 Sales of precision reduction gears are expected to be 66.0 82.5 65.8 sluggish during the ﬁrst half of 2019 reﬂecting the down72.6 turn in the investment mindset for automobiles and semiconductors on the back of U.S.-China trade tensions. On the 52.9 other hand, in the second half of the year we expect, although there are many uncertainties, demand for prod53.4 59.8 41.3 ucts for robots and manufacturing equipment to recover as 27.4 2.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 automobiles and semiconductors pick up, and we expect 2016/12 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12 2016/12 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12 full-year sales to reach the same level as the previous year. Full-year Result Full-year Result Full-year Result Full-year Plan Full-year Result Full-year Result Full-year Result Full-year Plan We expect sales of hydraulic equipment to increase, driven by robust demand for construction machinery due to investment in infrastructure in different countries, Transport Solutions (TRS) Manufacturing Solutions (MFR) although there is uncertainty in the outlook of the global (¥ Billion) (¥ Billion) economy. ■ Railroad Vehicle Equipment ■ Marine Vessel Equipment ■ Packaging Machines ■ Aircraft Equipment ■ Others ■ Others ■ Transport Solutions (TRS) ■ Commercial Vehicle Equipment 20.2 Net sales and operating income in this segment for the 89.6 81.4 81.9 17.0 17.5 year ending December 31, 2019 are expected to reach 79.1 16.4 ¥89.6 billion (up 9.5% year on year) and ¥8.1 billion (up 29.8 31.1 27.9 31.2 303.5% year on year), respectively. 16.8 Sales of railroad vehicle equipment are expected to see 22.7 11.6 13.1 14.6 a slight decrease as the domestic market enters an 20.3 18.9 18.5 off-season in vehicle production, although sales of prod15.4 10.6 11.0 14.6 ucts for the subway in China are expected to increase. 9.4 8.5 12.0 Sales of aircraft equipment are expected to increase 9.8 4.8 3.8 2.9 3.4 9.7 12.6 7.8 9.7 following the start of mass production of B777X for civil 2016/12 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12 2016/12 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12 aircraft. Sales of commercial vehicle equipment are also Full-year Result Full-year Result Full-year Result Full-year Plan Full-year Result Full-year Result Full-year Result Full-year Plan expected to increase owing to robust demand in the Japanese market as well as strong sales in Southeast Asia. Marine vessel equipment is expected to see an increase in sales due to a mild recovery in the marine transport and ● Breakdown in Capital Expenditure (By Business Segment) shipbuilding markets. MFR HQ MFR HQ ■ Accessibility Solutions (ACB) 1% 3% 2% 6% Net sales and operating income in this segment for the ACB ACB ﬁscal year ending December 31, 2019 are expected to 5% 7% amount to ¥77.4 billion (up 1.9% year on year) and ¥6.5 2018/12 2019/12 billion (up 40.5% year on year), respectively. Result CMP Plan CMP Sales of automatic doors for buildings for the Japanese market and platform doors are expected to increase. ¥20.3 Billion 56% ¥30.6 Billion 55% TRS TRS 34% 30% ● Aircraft equipment: ● Precision reduction ● Enhancement of ● Precision reduction Capacity expansion at gears: Increase OVALO’s facilities gears: Increase Gifu Plant production capacity production capacity 37 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 38 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Financial Information Measures Taken under the Medium-Term Management Plan commitment to achieving a consolidated payout ratio at for R&D expenses, we aim to shift from a business model 35% or over in terms of shareholder returns. To fulﬁll this that focuses on the provision of components to a model Commitments: Results in FY2018 commitment, we have been working to maintain a sound that focuses on the provision of systems, thereby making balance sheet and continuously increase cash dividends in tremendous progress toward becoming a manufacturer of ● ROE 15% or over ➡12.1% ● Consolidated payout ratio: ● Focus on solving ESG issues accordance with proﬁt growth. The cash dividend for the systems. To this end, we will make necessary investments Bring ROE to 15% level in 2020 35% or over ➡43.0% •Sustainable enhancement of environmental management ﬁscal year ended December 31, 2018 came to ¥73 per in the development of systems. Continue to maintain the level of 35% •Acceleration of initiatives for human resources management share, a year-on-year increase of ¥1, and the consolidated For return of proﬁt to shareholders, we have gradually or over •Revision of the Nabtesco Corporate Governance Basic Policy payout ratio was 43.0%. Also for the ﬁscal year ending increased cash dividends in line with proﬁt growth. During December 31, 2019, we plan to pay a dividend of ¥73 per the ﬁscal year ended December 31, 2015, we repurchased share. treasury stock amounting to about ¥10.0 billion and subse◆ Improving capital efficiency to achieve ROE of 15% expand the MRO business by promoting cross-divisional Nabtesco has generated stable operating cash ﬂows quently cancelled all of the acquired shares. We will conWe have set the achievement of ROE of 15% as one of our efforts in other segments with MRO elements. (exceeding about ¥20 billion per year on average for the tinue to pursue the improvement of capital efficiency by commitments under the medium-term management plan. In order to improve total assets turnover, it is essential past ﬁve years), utilizing them for growth investment and promoting ﬁnancial management to realize aggressive For the ﬁscal year ended December 31, 2018, our ROE to utilize the assets of each business effectively. In FY2017, shareholder returns. As for the balance sheet, we will keep growth investment and stable and ﬂexible shareholder came to 12.1% and is still below the target of 15%. In order we introduced return on invested capital (ROIC) as an the equity ratio at around 50% to continue receiving a returns toward achieving sustainable proﬁt growth in the to achieve the 15% goal as early as possible, it is mandaintegral management indicator with broader awareness on credit rating of A while having enough ability to procure future. tory for us to further improve capital efficiency through cost of capital to improve proﬁtability and raise capital debt. As just described, our strong balance sheet and For the solution of ESG issues, we are likewise spendeffective use of our operating assets and disciplined efficiency across the Group. By adding the “ROIC improveability to generate stable cash ﬂows serve as a cornering steadily to implement necessary measures. For the balance sheet management. We will strive to enhance the ment ratio” as a performance evaluation incentive for each stone of our ﬁnancial capital, which underpins growth environment, we invested in environment-friendly equipproﬁt margin on sales and total assets turnover as elebusiness segment and combining it with other indicators investment and shareholder returns. ment as in the previous term. We will increase the FY2019 ments comprising ROE while considering how to utilize the such as the “sales growth ratio” and “operating proﬁt As for growth investments, we will steadily make budget for investments in environment-friendly equipment ﬁnancial leverage as necessary. improvement ratio,” we will further promote the effective investments with a focus on the themes that will to about 1.7 times that of the previous ﬁscal year to conIn terms of the proﬁt margin on sales, we will ﬁrstly use of our operating assets based on growth as an evaluastrengthen our value creation process so that we can be tinue introducing solar power generation systems. aim to achieve improvement of the operating income ratio tion indicator while reﬂecting our investors’ perspectives competitive on a long-term basis. In the precision reduction Moreover, we are working to identify the ﬁnancial inﬂuence as well as the growth of net sales. While the impact of on business operations. gear business, in which we can expect an increase in of climate change-related risks and opportunities based on changes in production and sales volume on proﬁtability is In the administrative departments, we will allocate demand on a medium-term basis, we will continue to the recommendations made by the TCFD*. For society, we relatively large for the Component Solutions (CMP) segcapital generated from the business departments to introduce new equipment to our manufacturing facilities in established the Nabtesco Group Community Investment ment, we will work to improve proﬁtability by making more growth investment and engage in ﬁnancial management China while also proactively investing for higher productivPolicy in addition to promoting work style reforms and efficient use of production equipment. In the precision including control of the balance of cash on hand, adequate ity at the Tsu Plant, which is a mother plant for the busienhancing the management of human rights. We are thus reduction gear business, demand for industrial robots and liability management and stable and ﬂexible shareholder ness. In the aircraft equipment business, we are implementing a range of measures for the empowerment automation facilities is expected to grow from a mediumreturns. continuously expanding our production capacity. of our workforce. For governance, we revised the Nabtesco to long-term perspective on the back of an expansion of * MRO: Maintenance, repair and overhaul (after-sales service) Speciﬁcally, in addition to the facilities built within the Gifu Corporate Governance Basic Policy for higher management needs for labor saving and automation. It is our policy to Plant in 2016 for surface treatment and precision compotransparency. steadily increase production capacity to ensure stable ◆ Promoting ROIC improvement in manufacturing bases nents, we launched new facilities for actuators in 2018. As * TCFD: Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures supply, thus offsetting an increase in depreciation by As a measure to improve ROIC, we will use the “ROIC tree” increased proﬁt in line with an increase in net sales. In the and foster the effective utilization of management For details about “solving ESG issues,” please see page 69 and subsequent pages. hydraulic equipment business, the effects of structural resources at each business site. For instance, while the reforms of the production system in China implemented improvement of operating assets turnover, one of the key during FY2015 have been enjoyed in the recovery of elements of ROIC improvement, can be divided into themes ● Measures for Improving Capital Efficiency demand in the Chinese machinery market. We aim to such as improvement of ﬁxed assets turnover, inventory Manufacturing innovation turnover, etc., individual themes are closely related to the Measures by business Improvement of Strengthening of production expand the scope of value creation for customers by departments cost of sales ratio capability promoting the modularization and systematization of improvement of the operating efficiency of each business. Improvement of Strengthening of procurement ability operating proﬁt our products. By using the ROIC tree as one of the management indicaratio Improvement of selling, general and administrative Strengthening of production In other business segments, we conduct the MRO* busitors, we will generate cash by implementing necessary expenses ratio management ability ness, which helps us mitigate the inﬂuence exerted by measures at our manufacturing bases. Improvement of ﬁxed assets Disciplined balance sheet changes in the business environment. In the Transport We are currently pushing forward cross-divisional Improvement of management ROIC turnover Solutions (TRS) segment, we are receiving new orders for activities toward fostering “manufacturing innovation” Cash and Improvement of railroad vehicle equipment to be used in subway cars, including the enhancement of our production capability, Improvement of inventory turnover deposits Other liabilities procurement ability and production management ability. operating assets Other assets while the risk of a shift to entirely domestic production is turnover Improvement of becoming obvious in the Chinese high-speed railway These activities constitute the practical implementation of days in receivAccounts payable market. We are also working to win orders from railway improvements described in the ROIC tree at manufacturing ables ratio Accounts receivImprovement of able operators in Southeast Asia, where the development of bases. We will seek to realize ROIC improvement while ROE Optimization of Interest-bearing Inventories pursuing the reinforcement of our competitiveness in payment terms debt railway infrastructure is expected to grow, via the MRO site that we established in Thailand. Meanwhile, the aircraft terms of manufacturing capabilities. equipment business is likely to beneﬁt from an increase in Measures by Management of Net assets administrative interest-bearing debt Fixed assets MRO demand for the B777X in the 2020s, in addition to ◆ Promoting ﬁnancial management to realize growth departments MRO demand for the B737 MAX, for which we are making investment and shareholder returns Financial strategies (realizing growth investment and shareholder returns) Financial management necessary preparations. We will endeavor to further In the medium-term management plan, we have made a Operating assets management 39 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 40 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Financial Information (¥ Million) 2009/3 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2015/12*5 2016/12*6 2017/12 2018/12 Major Financial Indicators Net sales 158,171 126,249 169,304 198,527 179,543 202,292 219,657 187,000 244,968 282,422 294,626 Cost of sales 124,041 97,817 127,712 148,184 134,859 148,321 158,693 136,576 175,508 201,982 215,043 Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) 22,118 20,467 21,380 27,484 29,670 33,877 37,347 35,129 44,294 51,285 53,184 Operating profit 12,012 7,965 20,212 22,859 15,013 20,092 23,615 15,294 25,982 29,468 21,889 Profit before tax 7,932 8,012 21,954 24,848 18,997 23,522 27,026 15,358 26,779 34,907 29,962 Income taxes expense 2,778 3,272 7,485 8,874 5,598 8,140 9,254 5,731 7,843 8,338 6,997 Non-controlling interests*1 728 723 1,081 1,217 129 404 25 (1,432) 330 1,423 1,935 Net income*2 4,426 4,017 13,388 14,757 13,269 14,978 17,746 11,059 18,606 25,146 21,029 At year-end Current assets 84,306 89,893 119,003 123,929 112,048 134,159 139,321 128,575 143,792 165,695 179,124 Property, plant and equipment 45,207 44,102 44,442 51,509 54,475 55,225 56,877 55,916 63,155 70,700 80,573 Total assets 144,685 149,481 180,729 208,093 203,056 233,984 245,992 233,381 256,973 301,557 328,568 Current liabilities 41,209 43,611 74,892 70,897 52,322 73,161 64,830 73,000 74,876 96,934 112,558 Interest-bearing debt 19,160 19,920 20,158 31,695 26,389 26,203 16,659 15,332 16,949 27,720 45,310 Equity 81,716 85,168 96,531 107,467 120,857 139,471 158,664 148,924 155,904 177,002 189,255 Equity capital*3 76,476 79,404 90,241 99,092 114,038 131,043 149,862 142,068 147,929 167,537 178,702 At year-end Cash flows from operating activities 14,055 14,892 27,997 15,104 12,952 27,597 19,949 8,746 27,730 23,071 24,165 Cash flows from investing activities (9,329) (6,156) (4,420) (27,464) (13,693) (8,064) (7,880) (4,886) (14,989) (20,186) (21,823) Cash flows from financing activities (6,189) (684) (1,850) 6,036 (10,090) (8,175) (15,888) (19,090) (4,808) (950) 8,396 Per share of common stock (¥) Net income per share*4 34.82 31.70 105.91 116.74 104.57 117.95 140.24 88.85 150.64 203.85 169.65 Net assets per share 601.75 628.29 713.77 784.12 894.86 1,035.68 1,184.17 1,150.41 1,193.79 1,355.72 1,438.68 Cash dividends per share 13.00 9.00 25.00 34.00 34.00 38.00 44.00 44.00 50.00 72.00 73.00 Major management indicators (%) Operating income margin 7.6 6.3 11.9 11.5 8.4 9.9 10.8 8.2 10.6 10.4 7.4 Return on assets (ROA) 2.9 2.7 8.1 7.6 6.5 6.9 7.4 4.6 7.6 9.0 6.7 Return on equity (ROE) 5.8 5.2 15.8 15.6 12.5 12.2 12.6 7.6 13.0 15.9 12.1 Payout ratio 37.3 28.4 23.6 29.1 32.5 32.2 31.4 49.5 35.1 35.3 43.0 Equity ratio 52.9 53.1 49.9 47.6 56.2 56.0 60.9 60.9 57.6 55.6 54.4 *1 Net income or net loss attributable to non-controlling interests *2 Net income attributable to shareholders of the parent company *3 Equity attributable to owners of the parent *4 Total basic earnings per share *5 Due to the change of the accounting closing date of fiscal year since FY2015/12, the results for FY2015/12 are calculated on a basis of 9 months for Nabtesco Corporation and the other consolidated subsidiaries in Japan, and 12 months for the overseas consolidated subsidiaries. *6 Adopted IFRS from the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. Figures for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 have been restated in IFRS terms. 41 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 42 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Financial Information (¥ Million) (¥ Million) As of December 31, As of December 31, FY2017 FY2018 Consolidated Balance Sheets 2017 2018 Consolidated Statements of Profit or Loss Assets Net sales 282,422 294,626 Current assets Cost of sales (201,982) (215,043) Cash and cash equivalents 44,121 54,039 Gross profit 80,440 79,583 Trade receivables 76,874 74,952 Other income 1,351 1,582 Contract assets — 1,650 Other receivables 1,216 1,643 Selling, general and administrative expenses (51,285) (53,184) Inventories 40,298 43,592 Other expenses (1,038) (6,093) Other financial assets 190 280 Operating profit 29,468 21,889 Other current assets 2,996 2,969 Finance income 632 366 Total current assets 165,695 179,124 Finance costs (109) (1,473) Non-current assets Share of profit of investments accounted for using the equity method 4,915 9,181 Property, plant and equipment 70,700 80,573 Intangible assets 5,850 5,076 Profit before tax 34,907 29,962 Goodwill 21,310 15,512 Income tax expense (8,338) (6,997) Investment property 5,404 5,382 Profit for the year 26,569 22,965 Investments accounted for using the equity method 20,184 29,641 Other financial assets 8,547 9,558 Profit for the year attributable to Deferred tax assets 1,633 2,012 Owners of the parent 25,146 21,029 Other non-current assets 2,236 1,690 Total non-current assets 135,863 149,443 Non-controlling interests 1,423 1,935 Total assets 301,557 328,568 Profit for the year 26,569 22,965 Liabilities and equity Earnings per share Liabilities Basic earnings per share (¥) 203.85 169.65 Current liabilities Trade payables 57,148 50,297 Diluted earnings per share (¥) 203.48 169.42 Contract liabilities — 5,232 * Adopted IFRS from the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 Bonds and borrowings 16,365 34,067 Other payables 12,492 11,809 Income taxes payable 4,550 3,479 Provisions 732 1,625 Other financial liabilities 7 — Other current liabilities 5,641 6,048 Total current liabilities 96,934 112,558 Non-current liabilities Bonds and borrowings 11,355 11,243 Net defined benefit liability 9,339 9,142 Deferred tax liabilities 4,801 4,881 Other non-current liabilities 2,127 1,490 Total non-current liabilities 27,621 26,755 Total liabilities 124,556 139,313 Equity Share capital 10,000 10,000 Share premium 14,956 15,096 Retained earnings 143,349 155,133 Treasury shares (3,600) (2,903) Other components of equity 2,831 1,377 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 167,537 178,702 Non-controlling interests 9,465 10,553 Total equity 177,002 189,255 Total liabilities and equity 301,557 328,568 * Adopted IFRS from the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 43 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 44 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Financial Information (¥ Million) (¥ Million) FY2017 FY2018 FY2017 FY2018 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Profit for the year 26,569 22,965 Cash flows from operating activities Other comprehensive income for the year Profit for the year 26,569 22,965 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Depreciation and amortization 8,974 10,011 Impairment losses 192 5,223 Remeasurement of net defined benefit liabilities (assets) 180 (18) Increase (decrease) in net defined benefit assets and liabilities 336 180 Net changes in financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 419 (16) Interest and dividends income (185) (259) Share of other comprehensive income of investments accounted for using the equity method 19 677 Interest expenses 109 124 Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 618 643 Share of (profit) loss of investments accounted for using the equity method (4,915) (9,181) Loss (gain) on sale and disposal of property, plant and equipment 294 185 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Income tax expense 8,338 6,997 Exchange differences on foreign operations 2,278 (2,628) Decrease (increase) in trade receivables (9,681) (1,496) Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 2,278 (2,628) Decrease (increase) in inventories (5,735) (4,454) Total other comprehensive income after taxes 2,896 (1,984) Increase (decrease) in trade payables 7,904 22 Total comprehensive income for the year 29,464 20,980 Others (60) 104 Sub-total 32,140 30,421 Interest and dividends received 888 1,190 Comprehensive income attributable to Interest paid (171) (112) Owners of the parent 27,761 19,552 Income tax paid (9,786) (7,335) Non-controlling interests 1,704 1,428 Net cash provided by operating activities 23,071 24,165 Total comprehensive income for the year 29,464 20,980 Cash flows from investing activities * Adopted IFRS from the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 Decrease (increase) in time deposits (0) (73) Purchase of property, plant and equipment (11,375) (20,650) Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 193 168 Purchase of intangible assets (818) (840) Purchase of investments in subsidiaries resulting in change in scope of consolidation (8,203) — Purchase of share options — (626) Others 17 198 Net cash used in investing activities (20,186) (21,823) Cash flows from financing activities Net increase (decrease) in short-term borrowings 7,474 18,023 Proceeds from long-term borrowings 471 130 Repayment of long-term borrowings (198) (249) Net decrease (increase) in treasury stock (987) 17 Dividends paid (7,447) (9,184) Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (264) (340) Net cash used in financing activities (950) 8,396 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 1,934 10,739 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 41,780 44,121 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 407 (821) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 44,121 54,039 * Adopted IFRS from the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 45 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 46 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Business Overview We will provide high value-added services through motion control technology. The Nabtesco Group continues to achieve proﬁtable growth with a portfolio of multiple mutually complementary businesses in different categories. Main business models Component Solutions (CMP) Customers End users Product Industrial robot manufacturers, Automobile industry, Maintain competitive advantage through product development FA equipment manufacturers, civil engineering and leveraging information-gathering abilities as the industry leader Compensation construction machinery construction, etc. manufacturers, etc. Transport Solutions (TRS) Customers End users Manufacturing Solutions (MFR) Customers End users Product Provide continuous and stable service including MRO Transport manufacturers Airlines, railroad MRO Compensation operators, ship (maintenance, repair and overhaul) for transport owners, etc. Compensation equipment with a long operating life MRO service Compensation Accessibility Solutions (ACB) Customers End users Product Compensation Provide a wide range of services by establishing an extensive sales MRO General contractors, etc. Hospitals, large commercial facilities, etc. network such as by acquiring sales companies through M&A Compensation MRO service Sales company Compensation ● Differentiation strategy by business segment ● Sales by business segment ● Operating income by business segment Adjustments: Minus ¥7.4 Billion Growth driven by Growth based on each market-oriented strategy market growth Business segment Characteristics Technological Expansion of regional Capturing shares in Expansion of sales ¥119.3 Billion ¥2.5 Billion ¥20.2 Billion advantage strategy market shares new markets products ¥17.5 Billion 40% 8% 69% Significant impact of Maintaining competitive 6% Component changes in production/ ● Precision advantage of products and ● Hydraulic Solutions technologies ¥4.6 Billion sales volume on reduction gears equipment (CMP) profitability Sales for 16% Operating income for ¥76.0 Billion FY2018: FY2018: ● Commercial Transport vehicle equipment 26% ¥2.0 Billion ● Aircraft ● Railroad vehicle Solutions (TRS) equipment equipment ● Marine vessel ¥294.6 Billion 7% ¥21.9 Billion equipment After-sales services Accessibility (MRO*1) that mitigate ¥81.9 Billion Capturing shares in ● Expansion of Solutions impacts from changes ● Automatic doors overseas market product lineup 28% (ACB) in OEM*2 production ■ Component Solutions (CMP) ● Systematization/ volume ■ Transport Solutions (TRS) modularization ● Acquisition of sales companies ● Enhancement of value chain model ■ Accessibility Solutions (ACB) Manufacturing ● Packaging Solutions ■ Manufacturing Solutions (MFR) machines (MFR) *1 MRO: Maintenance, Repair, Overhaul *2 OEM: Original Equipment Manufacturer 47 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 48 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Demand for automation is sure to expand across the PRECISION REDUCTION world. In this growth industry, we will unfailingly identify the needs of customers and continue technoREFERENCE P37 Web logical innovation and service enhancement with Operating Results by Precision Reduction Gears GEAR BUSINESS unbeatable productivity. We will thereby build an unshakeable position in the market to be the first choice Business Segment Component Solutions https://www.nabtesco. com/en/products/robot. of customers as a supplier of precision reduction gears. segment (CMP) html Managing Executive Officer, President, Precision Equipment Company Atsushi Habe S t re n g t h O p p o rt u n i t y Measures for Mediumto Long-Term Growth For the mediumto long-term growth of the company, we will further deepen • Product quality • Ability to develop technologies • Shortage of labor relations of trust with our existing customers by responding to any new needs • Growth of needs for labor saving and automation against they have. At the same time, we will strive to develop new products, work for MAIN PRODUCTS • Relations of trust with customers • Flexible supply system the backdrop of a rise in personnel expenses higher quality and faster delivery so that we will not miss any opportunities that come as a result of the increased demand for industrial robots. Moreover, we are Wea k n e s s T h re a t “Precision Reducenhancing our production capacity and increasing our productivity with automation Gear RV” • High level of dependence on demand for • Inability to maintain technological lead over existing industrial robots competitors and manufacturers in emerging markets tion and labor saving at our manufacturing facilities in Japan while enhancing the Component Type capacity of the new production facilities in China for the maintenance and improvement of our stable supply system to meet demand that is expected to Compact and lightweight with Sources of Strength expand on a mediumto long-term basis. Furthermore, in the ﬁelds other than outstanding rigidity and shock resistance. Provides excellent Motion Control Technology, Ability to Develop Applications and Technologies industrial robots, we are going to utilize our long-established technological experaccelerating capabilities, smooth The compact and lightweight “Precision Reduction Gear RV”, which boasts excel● Worldwide Annual Shipment of tise to promote the sales of new products and to develop new markets. motion, low backlash and high lent durability and high positioning accuracy, serves as the source of Nabtesco’s Industrial Robots positioning precision, thereby competitiveness. The high product performance is supported by the competencies helping enhance robot controlla■ Japan ■ Europe ■ North America ■ South Korea bility to a substantial degree. the company has accumulated in responding to customer needs. ■ China ■ APAC*1 ■ Other*2 Relations of Trust with Customers (Units) Worldwide Robot Market: Since Nabtesco launched its ﬁrst precision reduction gears on the market in 1986, 800,000 CAGR*3 14% (as of Sep.2018) its global market share of precision reduction gears for medium and large indusAGV* Chinese Market: CAGR more Driving Unit trial robots has grown to about 60%. than 20% (as of Sep.2018) 600,000 After the basic patents possessed by the company for the products expired in 2006, the high market share has been maintained as a result of conducting business with the greatest importance placed on customer satisfaction and building 400,000 FACT SHEET Integrated in-wheel design incorporating “Precision Reducrelations of trust with our customers. tion Gear RV” inside of a Meca200,000 Stable Supply System Major customers num Wheel. Compact but provides In anticipation of a high demand for precision reduction gears, Nabtesco has two high resistance to load, which is a FANUC, YASKAWA Electric, Kawasaki Heavy Industries, KUKA Roboter, ABB Robotics feature required for large AGVs. 0 production sites, one each in Japan and China, to ensure the stability of our supply 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 (CY) and others Also grease sealed. system. We have also been implementing measures for increasingly higher quality Note: Above IFR data includes the number of small and medium-large and large size robots Production bases (as of the end of December 2018) and faster delivery on a continual basis and are able to make ﬂexible responses to Source: International Federation of Robotics (IFR) 2018 changes in demand, which adds another competitive edge to Nabtesco. Tsu City, Mie Prefecture, Japan/Jiangsu Prefecture, China Gear Head Type *1 APAC=Asia /Australia (Total)-China-Japan-Korea (Table Type) *2 Other=Total-North America-Asia/Australia Market share “RS Series Business Environment (Opportunities and Risks) (Total)-Europe (Total) *3 2019−2021 According to the forecast made by the International Federation of Robotics, in the Precision reduction gears for the joints of mediumto large-sized industrial As a successor to the Precision medium term, the global market of industrial robots (including small-, medium-, robots: 60% share of the world market Reduction Gear RV, this new and large-sized robots) will grow at the annual rate of 14%. In light of the fact that History of business development product is flat and compact. The the growth rate of the market for small robots is relatively high, the annual growth low-profile product is used for ● Number of Multipurpose Industrial index tables. It adopts a hollow In 1976, Teijin Seiki began selling reduction gear-equipped hydraulic motors for rate of the market for medium and large robots is expected to be around 10%. By Robots per 10,000 Persons Employed structure for easy cabling and use in construction machinery. Subsequently, following the maturation of this region, the growth rate will exceed 20% in China, where the need for unmanned, in Manufacturing Industry piping. market, the company began to focus its attention on industrial robots, which automated operations has seen a remarkable increase. In ﬁelds other than induswould provide a new growth market where the company could make use of its Japan Germany North America trial robots, we are globally promoting sales of precision reduction gears for South Korea China unique reduction gear technology. The company then proceeded with the developgeneral industries, new-type actuators that integrate precision reduction gears (Units) The number in China is expected ment of reduction gears for robot joints and began selling precision reduction C Compact Actuator and servomotors, and AGV* driving units. 800 to increase as current penetration gears for industrial robots in 1986. The company now has a 60% share of the rate of industrial robot is still low. ““AF Series Meanwhile, demand for industrial robots is inﬂuenced by changes in capital 700 world market for precision reduction gears used in the joints of mediumto large-sized industrial robots. In 2015, the company commenced building a new expenditure. Therefore, the Group is subject to the risk that we might face drastic 600 production base for precision reduction gears in China, which now offers the This new product possesses the changes in demand depending on end customers' capital investment policies. We 500 world’s largest industrial robot market. features of high accuracy, rigidity also regard competitors' catch-up in technology as a potential risk. 400 and reliability, which have been *AGV: Automated guided vehicle 1986 Commenced launch of the “Precision Reduction Gear RV.” inherited from Precision Reduc300 tion Gear RV. Directly connected 200 1991 Built the Tsu Plant for the manufacture of precision reduction gears. to servomotors, it serves to 100 2015 Began the construction of a production base in China (start of production in early provide a compact drive part and 2016). usability by eliminating the need 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2018 Total cumulative production of precision reduction gears reached 8 million units. for embedding the servomotors into reduction gears. Source: International Federation of Robotics (IFR) 2018 *AGV: Automated guided vehicle 49 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 50 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile HYDRAULIC EQUIPMENT We supply hydraulic equipment that is compact but powerful. We will contribute to society by providing highly REFERENCE P37 Web Operating Results by Hydraulic Equipment BUSINESS efficient equipment for use in construction machinery, which supports the improvement of infrastructure. Business Segment Component Solutions https://www.nabtesco. com/en/products/ segment (CMP) powershovel.html Executive Officer, President, Power Control Company Shinji Juman ● Growth Matrix of Hydraulic Equipment Business of Nabtesco S t re n g t h O p p o rt u n i t y [Diversification] • Wide product lineup • More use of ICT in construction machinery New [Market Development] ● Challenge for one of the comprehensive hydraulic • Highly competitive products ● Develop new applications other than excavators for a wide range of product lines Market machinery manufacturer through further • Global production system →Cranes (traveling, swing and winch units, etc.) development of application and hydraulic systems [Market Penetration] Wea k n e s s T h re a t Existing ● Enhance flexible response to demand fluctuation [Product Development] ● Expand product lineups for package deal and →Lead-time reduction and automatic manufacturing • Ability to develop system products • Emergence of competitors in developing countries Market ● Improve cost competitiveness through maximizing utilization of overseas bases and hydraulic systems • Commoditization of products →Expansion of product lineups through M&A promoting “local production for local consumption” Existing Products New Products Sources of Strength FACT SHEET Nabtesco's traveling units “GM Series” for crawlers, which integrate a hydraulic motor, a reduction gear, a parking brake and other components in one unit, feature Major customers excellence in durability and reliability in addition to great power generation effiKomatsu, Kobelco Construction Machinery, Hitachi Construction Machinery, Sumitomo MAIN PRODUCTS ciently, while remaining compact. Since the start of mass production in 1977, the Construction Machinery, Kubota, YANMAR, Volvo, JCB, Sany, XCMG, Liu Gong and others “GM series”, one of the major products, has been highly appraised by customers, Production bases (as of the end of December 2018) Traveling Unit for helping us to enhance the Nabtesco brand. With the improvement of machine Tarui-cho, Fuwa-gun, Gifu Prefecture, Japan/Kobe city, Hyogo Prefecture, Japan/ Crawlers processing technologies, the Tarui Plant has achieved a high level of automation Shanghai, China/Chonburi, Thailand during the manufacturing process, which contributes to the continuous generation of competitiveness as a mother plant. Market share Traveling units for hydraulic excavators: Approx.25% global market share This series is used as a traveling Business Environment (Opportunities and Risks) unit for crawlers and the wheels History of business development of excavators, crawler drills, In China, which is the world’s largest construction machinery market, brisk ● Sales of Excavators in China Both Teijin Seiki and NABCO were engaged in the Hydraulic Equipment Business. NABCO began cranes, and aerial work platforms. demand for infrastructure investments has been driving the favorable sales of (10,000 units) conducting such business back in the 1930s, offering a range of products not only for construcproducts used in hydraulic excavators. In the construction machinery market, a 25 tion machines and special vehicles, but also for general industrial equipment. The company also new trend toward value creation, such as the spread of ICT, will also help us ﬁnd developed small, multiple-spool control valves for use in road sweepers produced in Japan, and new business growth opportunities. Nonetheless, if international demand for 20 these valves have been developed into our present control valve products. Teijin Seiki began conducting business by establishing the Tarui Plant in 1961. Its hydraulic Control Valve for construction machinery drops due to a global economic downturn caused by trade Mini Excavators motors were not highly competitive despite being core products, and the company worked to frictions between the United States and China, there might be a higher chance of 15 develop a new product independently. The traveling units “GM Series” that was thus developed failing to meet our targets on time. provided the four functions necessary for the driving unit of hydraulic excavators (i.e., hydraulic 10 This product is a sectional type motor, reduction gear, valve and parking brake functions) and was also compact enough relative multicontrol valve developed Measures for Mediumto Long-Term Growth to the width of an excavator crawler shoe. The company then successfully commenced mass specially for mini excavators and is In the Hydraulic Equipment Business, we completed the restructuring of our 5 production of this innovative product. Further, the reduction gear technology developed for ideal for various needs such as production bases in China in FY2015. To further enhance our global production hydraulic motors led to the development of Precision Reduction Gears RV to control the joints of action control of excavators. The industrial robots. series is popular for its compact system, we are optimizing production at our bases in Japan, China and Thailand to 0 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 size, versatility and wide-ranging Subsequently, we established a production base in China in 1996 and another in Thailand respond ﬂexibly to changes in demand in the construction machinery market. 2011 2013 2015 2017 (CY) in 2008, and have resulted in fostering overseas business expansion and increasing our global product lines. It has captured a Source: China Construction Machinery Association Further, we will develop new markets where we can fully utilize our strengths, market share in the business of traveling units for hydraulic excavators to 25%. In 2015, we large share in Japan. while advancing technological innovations in response to the incorporation of ICT acquired Hyest Corporation, the hydraulic equipment division of TOSHIBA MACHINE, with a view in construction machinery. Also, based on the product lines expanded through the to further expanding our product lines and developing new hydraulic systems. Swing Unit for acquisition of Hyest Corporation, we will foster a shift from selling components to Hydraulic cross-selling of hydraulic equipment and further proposals of optimal hydraulic 1937 Manufactured hydraulic pumps for airplanes in the national defense ﬁeld. Excavator systems and generate greater added value. 1949 Commenced manufacture and sales of hydraulic equipment. 1961 Opened the Tarui Plant for the manufacture of hydraulic equipment and start of the Hydraulic The swing unit used Equipment Business. in hydraulic excava1970 Opened the Nishi Kobe Plant (presently Seishin Plant) for the manufacture of hydraulic and tors consists of a ● Amplification of Product Lineups for Excavators through M&A pneumatic equipment. high-speed motor and planetary 1977 Commenced mass production of the “GM-series” traveling units. By using the reduction gears reduction gear unit. Its compact Traveling Units Swing Units Pumps Valves technology, developed the Precision Reduction Gears RV series for use in industrial robots. design allows the unit to have 1996 Established a joint venture named Shanghai Teijin Seiki Co., Ltd. (presently Shanghai Plant). fewer components and to excel in Mini Excavators ● ● ● ● 2008 Established Nabtesco Power Control Co., Ltd. in Thailand. quietness. In addition to units for 2015 Acquired Hyest Corporation, the Hydraulic Equipment Business division of TOSHIBA MACHINE hydraulic excavators, swing units Mediumto CO., LTD. ● ● ● are also used in small-sized cranes Large-Sized Excavators 2016 Fully Absorbed Hyest Corporation. and winch motors for aerial working platforms. ● Nabtesco ● Hyest 51 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 52 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Nabtesco supplies brake systems and automatic door RAILROAD VEHICLE systems to be used as core components in railroad vehicles, for which we must ensure a high level of safety REFERENCE P37 Web and stability. Capitalizing on the technologies developed Operating Results by Railroad Vehicle EQUIPMENT BUSINESS in the difficult Japanese market, we will proactively expand our business to overseas markets that have high Business Segment Transport Solutions Equipment https://www.nabtesco. growth potential. segment (TRS) com/en/products/railway. html Managing Executive Officer, President, Railroad Products Company Shigeru Naoki S t re n g t h O p p o rt u n i t y FACT SHEET • Ability to customize products to meet the needs of customers • Increase in the number of new railway line projects in emerging markets • High reliability proven by past achievements in the Japanese market • Demand driven by the updating of railroad vehicles in Europe • Expansion of business in the Chinese market • Overseas business expansion by Japanese vehicle manufacturers Major customers Japan Railway (JR) companies, private railway companies, Kawasaki Heavy Wea k n e s s T h re a t Industries, Hitachi, Ltd., railway related companies in China and others • Delayed overseas expansion • Shrinkage of the domestic market due to a decrease in the population • Progress of domestic production in China Production bases (as of the end of December 2018) • Increased requests for conformity to European standards in projects implemented in emerging markets Kobe City, Hyogo Prefecture, Japan/Jiangsu Prefecture, China/Piedmont, Italy Market share MAIN PRODUCTS Sources of Strength Brake systems: Approx. 50% domestic market share Since receiving the ﬁrst order for our air brake equipment from the former Door opening systems: Approx. 70% domestic market share Japanese Ministry of Railways in 1925, we have been accumulating technologies History of business development through the provision of highly reliable brake systems, and have contributed to, for Unit Brakes In 1925, we received an order for air brake systems from the Ministry of Railways, example, space-saving by developing brake units comprising multiple brake and this marked the beginning of our Railroad Vehicle Equipment Business in mechanisms. Railroad vehicle equipment, a foundational piece of social infra● Market Size of Railroad Industry Japan. structure, needs to be highly reliable and safe. We have been working to increase (by Region) In the 1960s, Shinkansen bullet trains began running in time for the Olympic The unit brake incorporates the customer satisfaction over many years and we have built solid relationships of €188.5 billion Games in Tokyo, and the urban railway networks were increasingly improved for integral functions of a conven€173.1 billion transportation at higher speeds and in greater quantity. In response, we developed tional foundation brake rigging trust with our customers. This is one of our strengths and it aids our ability to Other* highly reliable automatic train control systems to ensure safety even during and a built-in automatic slack provide customers with continuous maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) -9.0% adjusting mechanism. Compared Other* high-speed operations, as well as electric command air brake systems. We services. to existing foundation brake units, NAFTA continued to expand the business as subway systems were successively conthe product offers reduced size 15.0 % structed to mitigate traffic congestion in urban areas. and weight, simplified mainteBusiness Environment (Opportunities and Risks) NAFTA We also changed our business model from the development of hardware nance, greater noise protection In the Japanese market, we expect that demand will continue to be stable mainly Asia & Paciﬁc Asia & Paciﬁc €59.6 billion products to making proposals to individual customers in order to expand our and heightened consistency of due to the need to replace old railroad vehicles with newer models. In the Chinese €48.4 billion 23.3% （31.6％） business. braking efficiency. (27.9%) high-speed train market, the risk of a shift to domestic production is becoming In and after the 2000s, we expanded our market share in Chinese and West Europe West Europe Taiwanese high-speed train and subway businesses. Further, in 2013, we acquired obvious. In the Chinese subway market, however, demand for greater convenience €50.4 billion €46.6 billion 8.3% an Italian railroad vehicle door manufacturer (presently Nabtesco Oclap S.r.l) to in daily life and the solution of environmental problems such as pollution will (26.9%) （26.7％） Brake Operating spearhead business in Europe and around the globe. continue to expand. In Europe, we expect that demand will continue to grow 2017-2019 2021-2023 Units for Railroad steadily, while in the Southeast Asian market, Japanese railroad vehicle manufac(Average annual amount) (Average annual amount) Vehicles turers will bolster their activities to obtain more orders, which will provide us with * Other: East Europe, CIS, Africa & Middle East and Latin America other than NAFTA 1925 Received the ﬁrst order for air brake equipment from the former Japanese new business opportunities. Ministry of Railways. This system is configured as a unit with a brake operating device Commenced manufacturing and sales of air brake systems for railroad vehicles. Measures for Mediumto Long-Term Growth that plays the core role in the 1998 Relocated and opened the Kobe Plant for the manufacture of railroad vehicle electric commanding air brake In order to conduct business in an effective and efficient manner in highly promis● Market Size of Railroad Industry equipment. system and the air brake valves ing markets identiﬁed around the world, we will expand our business system in an (by Segment) 2011 Established Jiangsu Nabtesco KTK Railroad Products Co., Ltd. that provide the brake cylinder all-encompassing manner, fostering the optimization of our development, pro€188.5 billion 2012 Acquired International Railroad Industry Standard (IRIS) Certiﬁcation. pressure output for service and €173.1 billion emergency braking. curement and production activities in the three regions of Japan, China and 2013 Acquired Oclap, an Italian railroad equipment manufacturer, and established Europe. Particularly in the world's largest railroad market of Europe, we will work Other* Nabtesco Oclap S.r.l. to obtain new orders and certiﬁcations through our local bases, aiming to expand Other* 6.7% Received an order for pneumatic door systems for train cars under the Intercity Express Programme (IEP) implemented in the United Kingdom. Door Operators the business in the region during the period of the Medium-Term Management 2014 Became the ﬁrst Japanese company to be certiﬁed as a global supplier of doors for Railroad Plan. Service for train driving cabs and cars by Bombardier Transportation. Service €73.7 billion Vehicles We will also promote sales of products targeting subway trains in China by €67.7 billion 8.9% (39.1%) 2015 Received an order for passenger doors for the Rennes subway line in France making use of our local sales network as well as results and technologies accu(39.1%) from Siemens AG. Offering a tremendous variety of mulated in Japan. In addition we will continue focusing on increasing customer 2017 Established Nabtesco Service Southeast Asia Co., Ltd. in Thailand as a base for door operating units, our product Rolling Stock after-sales service to customers in Southeast Asia. lineup comprises door satisfaction and expand the MRO business both in Japan and China based on our Rolling Stock €54.7 billion 10.9% €60.7 billion 2018 Received an order for automatic doors for use by the crew of London & South operators that meet the demands relations of trust with our customers. Moreover, in the second-hand vehicle (31.6%) (32.2%) Eastern Railway and West Midlands Trains of the U.K. from Bombardier of a wide diversity of applications market in Southeast Asia, we will continue our efforts to secure more orders in Transportation. from high-speed trains 2017-2019 2021-2023 the MRO business, while extending technological support and supplying mainte2019 The Kobe Plant acquired the Resilience Certiﬁcation as an organization contributincluding the Shinkansen to (Average annual amount) (Average annual amount) nance parts to railroad companies through the after-sale service base in Thailand, ing to national resilience. commuter trains and ultra-low* Other: Infrastructure, railroad signals and control equipment Source: UNIE floor light rail vehicles (LRVs). thereby contributing to the local establishment of railroad infrastructures. 53 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 54 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile In the growth market of civil aircraft, we will foster innovations for production, technologies and after-sale AIRCRAFT EQUIPMENT service to provide customers with unique value for our sustainable growth. Moreover, we will make maximum REFERENCE P37 Web use of the expanded manufacturing facilities to increase BUSINESS the supply of highly reliable products that support the safety of aircraft with lower environmental impact. Operating Results by Business Segment Transport Solutions Aircraft Equipment https://www.nabtesco. com/en/products/aircraft. Through these measures we will also contribute to local segment (TRS) html communities. Executive Officer, President, Aerospace Company Norimasa Takagi S t re n g t h O p p o rt u n i t y FACT SHEET • Know-how and technologies accumulated over 40 years • Growing civil aircraft market • Ability to maintain close relationships with customers • Development of new aircraft by major customers Major customers Boeing, Mitsubishi Aircraft Corporation, Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Mitsubishi Wea k n e s s T h re a t Heavy Industries, IHI, the Japanese Ministry of Defense, airline companies and • Past track record regarding the manufacture of • Political changes and deceleration of worldwide economic others mechatronic products growth • Participation of new companies in the after-sale market Production bases (as of the end of December 2018) Tarui-cho, Fuwa-gun, Gifu Prefecture, Japan/State of Washington, the United States Sources of Strength Market share Motion Control Technology and Technological Development Ability We have long accumulated know-how and technologies by meeting the needs of FCAS: Approx.100% market share for domestically produced aircraft customers in both private and national defense sectors, which are sources of History of business development strength for Nabtesco. We have developed the world's highest-level production technologies and expertise in the aircraft market, which prioritizes safety, and The history of our Aircraft Equipment Business dates back to the period during the war, when we began manufacturing landing gear for airplanes. After the end of the using these technologies, we are developing a highly reliable ﬂight control actuawar, we introduced overseas technologies and adopted a range of element technolotion system (FCAS). gies. We also acquired the know-how necessary for the design, development and Relations of Trust with Customers production of aircraft equipment. We have been providing the world’s aircraft manufacturers with the best solutions We subsequently worked to enter the overseas civil aircraft market and began for nearly 40 years, always taking the viewpoint of customers and a proactive dealing with Boeing in 1976. In 1990 we secured a contract to supply ﬂight control actuators (FCAs) to Boeing for use in the B777, thereby receiving the world’s ﬁrst attitude. The close relations of trust we have built with customers provides us with MAIN PRODUCTS the strength to establish ourselves as the world’s ﬁrst-class supplier of FCAS. order for FCA systems for use in civil aircraft. This success helped us to improve our position in the global market and also promote growth afterward. Manufacturing System Since 2014, we were awarded Boeing Supplier of the Year Awards for the third We have been continuously taking measures to attain higher quality and productime in four years and we have also received the Boeing Performance Excellence Flight Control tivity at two plants—one in Japan and the other in the United States. Award for three straight years since 2015, being acclaimed for our performance Actuation improvement of QCDS (Quality, Cost, Delivery and Service). We have continued to the System Business Environment (Opportunities and Risks) steadily supply of FCAS and services for various airplanes and expand the business. Nabtesco is the leading Japanese In the private sector, the number of operating airplanes will double over the next manufacturer of this system, 20 years. The budget for national defense will be at a stable level, with no major 1944 Commenced production in Japan for airplanes in the national defense ﬁeld. which controls the aircraft's changes on a mediumto long-term basis. On the other hand, risks exist caused Latter half of the 1970s attitude. This system is used to Received orders for products including landing gear hydraulic actuators for the move the surface such as the by deceleration of worldwide economic growth and political changes. ailerons on the main wings and B737 Classic. ● Forecast for Jetliner Demand 1976 Established Teijin Seiki America, Inc. (presently Nabtesco Aerospace, Inc.) in the elevators on the tail surface. Measures for Mediumto Long-Term Growth ■ Existing instruments ■ Replacement demand ■ New demand State of Washington. Nabtesco has a solid reputation By communicating closely with customers based on our relations of trust, we will 1979 Received orders for spoiler actuators for the B767 and for aileron actuators for as a global leader in the com(Units) 39,867 the B757. mercial aircraft market. analyze their “needs and wants and propose highly competitive and high-quality 40,000 1990 Received an order for FCAS for the B777. solutions by concentrating our resources appropriately. We will also improve our 2006 Received an order for high-voltage electric power distribution unit for the B787. Received an order for aileron actuators/spoiler actuators for the B747-8. technological development ability to deliver more value to customers and expand High Voltage 2008 Received an order for FCAS for the MRJ (Mitsubishi Regional Jet). the capacity of our manufacturing facilities in Japan and the United States to 30,000 17,530 2012 Total cumulative delivery of FCAS for the B777 reached 1,000 units. Electric Power grasp the business opportunities provided by demand in the aircraft market, 52% 2013 Received an order for spoiler actuators for the 737MAX, Distribution Unit 22,337 Number of the latest model in the B737 family. which will rapidly expand following the start of new mass production programs by instruments 2014 Received 2013 Boeing Supplier of the Year Award. delivered aircraft manufacturers. 20,000 33,530 2015 Received an order for FCAS for the B777X, the B777 This product has been newly 16,000 next-generation model. Moreover, we will undertake actions while considering the provision of value 48% developed for Boeing 787 2016 Received 2015 Boeing Supplier of the Year Award. across the value chain, and enhance measures in the after-sale market, while aircraft requiring more electric Received the 2016 Boeing Performance Excellence keeping the importance of achieving “proﬁtable growth” in mind. Award. power than other existing 10,000 Expanded the Gifu Plant by adding the buildings for the aircraft and is equipped with an 6,337 manufacture of precision parts and for surface treatefficient liquid cooling system ment. for motor controllers and Named Boeing Supplier transformers. This product 0 2017 Received the 2016 Boeing Supplier of the Year Award. of the Year three times 2017 2037 (CY) Received the 2016 Boeing Performance Excellence contributes to not only aircraft since 2014. weight reduction but also Source: Japan Aircraft Development Corporation Award. 2018 Received the 2017 Boeing Performance Excellence Award. improvement of aircraft mainteBuilt a new manufacturing facility for actuators within nance by reducing electric wires the premises of the Gifu Plant. in the aircraft significantly. 55 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 56 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile As members of the company that supports truck transportation in Japan, we are working with a sense of COMMERCIAL VEHICLE responsibility and pride to contribute to higher road safety and environmental protection. We will also take REFERENCE P37 Web on challenges in new ﬁelds, including developing new Commercial Vehicle EQUIPMENT BUSINESS environmental technologies and systems. We will strive to make Nabtesco a truly global enterprise by enhancOperating Results by Business Segment Transport Solutions Equipment https://www.nabtesco. ing collaboration among our production bases in Japan, com/en/products/ segment (TRS) Germany, Thailand and India. automobile.html President, Nabtesco Automotive Corporation Ataru Inoue S t re n g t h O p p o rt u n i t y FACT SHEET • Ability to deal with technological changes, including • Increasing demand for advanced safety technologies electriﬁcation • Growth of emerging markets • Know-how and technologies accumulated over 80 years Major customers Hino Motors, Mitsubishi Fuso Truck and Bus, Isuzu Motors, UD Trucks, Nissan Motor Wea k n e s s T h re a t and others • Past track record regarding system products • Competition in the market with leading European manufacturers Production bases (as of the end of December 2018) Murayama City, Yamagata Prefecture, Japan/Samutprakarn, Thailand/Haryana, India/Saxony, Germany Sources of Strength Market share Nabtesco has long improved our quality and technologies hand in hand with Japanese truck and automobile manufacturers, and this is one of the sources of Wedge brake chambers for commercial vehicles chambers: Approx.70% domestic our strength. In order to further enhance the brand power based on this strength, market share Air dryers for commercial vehicles: Approx.75% domestic market share all employees are making a concerted effort. We will identify customer needs and meet more of their expectations. We will also make use of our bases outside ● Production of Large Trucks and Buses History of business development Japan (in Germany, Thailand and India) to make Nabtesco a truly global ■ For use in Japan ■ For export Nippon Air Brake became the ﬁrst company to manufacture and sell automobile oil enterprise. (1,000 units) brakes in Japan in 1933. Subsequently, it also succeeded in producing commercial 250 vehicle air brake systems in Japan and continued to develop safety-related technolMAIN PRODUCTS Business Environment (Opportunities and Risks) ogies and peripheral devices, further expanding its business in line with the develThe automobile industry is entering a period of transformation, as represented by 200 opment of the automobile industry. Air Dryers for the trend of Connected, Autonomous, Shared/Service and Electricity (CASE). In 1972, the company became the ﬁrst to succeed in the development of air Commercial Accordingly, we may face the risk of a shift from air brake control systems (one of dryers for commercial vehicles in Japan. The air dryers contributed to solving 150 Vehicles various problems, such as the rusting and freezing-up of valves, by removing water our main product items) to electronic brake control systems. However, we are contained in air brake systems. This product regarding this as an opportunity to develop and propose electronic brake systems 100 We established a new production base in Thailand in 2004 and spun off the removes any water optimal for buses and trucks. Moreover, in Japan, we are proactively participating growing Commercial Vehicle Equipment Business from Nabtesco Corporation, or oil in the in the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry’s project for truck platooning, founding Nabtesco Automotive Corporation in 2009. Then, in 2013, we established compressed air to 50 Minda Nabtesco Private Limited in India as a joint venture to conduct business in the increase the durability and which is implemented for the logistics industry to deal with the crisis caused by reliability of air control systems. the lack of truck drivers. local truck market. Moreover, we acquired a German air compressor maker and It is used by major Japanese 0 founded Nabtesco ITG GmbH in 2016 and are thus further expanding our target heavy-duty truck manufacturers. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (CY) market for this business. Measures for Mediumto Long-Term Growth (Actual results) (Actual results) (Actual results) (Actual (Forecast) results) We will aggressively make investments to meet market needs for electronic 1933 Became the ﬁrst company to manufacture and sell oil brakes for vehicles in Source: Estimated by Nabtesco based on materials provided by W Wedge Brake products and systems so that we can continue to achieve proﬁtable growth. As a customer companies Japan. 1937 Began manufacturing and selling air brake systems for commercial vehicles for Ch Chambers for priority measure to this end, we are working to improve the quality of air and the ﬁrst time in Japan. Com Commercial increase fuel efficiency in a comprehensive manner for air supply management 1972 Became the ﬁrst company to succeed in developing air dryers for commercial Veh Vehicles ● Meeting More Environmental and vehicles in Japan. (ASM) systems. Further, we will make use of the uniﬁed strength of the Nabtesco Safety Needs 1991 Opened the Yamagata Plant for the manufacture of commercial vehicle This product is mounted on the Group and foster collaboration with the Technology and R&D Division to make equipment. wheels of heavy-duty trucks. It Nabtesco a company that can respond to any shift to electronic brakes and 2004 Established a joint venture to manufacture and sell automobile components uses air pressure to push the (Nabtesco Automotive Products (Thailand) Co., Ltd). piston to apply the brakes. systems. 2009 Began operations as Nabtesco Automotive Corporation. 2013 Established a joint venture to manufacture and sell commercial vehicle equipment in India (Minda Nabtesco Automotive Private Limited). Hydraulic 2016 Acquired a German air compressor maker and founded Nabtesco ITG GmbH Development of Clutch Master 2019 The Yamagata Plant acquired the Resilience Certiﬁcation as an organization components Cylinders for contributing to national resilience. Passenger Environment Safety Vehicles Air supply Electronically management Two pillars controlled This product converts the clutch (ASM) brake system force from the clutch pedal of system supplier supplier manual transmission vehicles Reducing emissions into hydraulic pressure and Preparing for the age of substances of concern of total autonomous transmits the pressure to the Reducing CO2 emissions Clean air driving clutch system. It is supplied to automotive manufacturers nationwide. 57 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 58 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile We are globally contributing to the safe and efficient navigation of marine vessels and the reduction of their MARINE VESSEL EQUIPMENT environmental impact by providing marine engine control systems and products for electronic engines. REFERENCE P37 Web We will continue to develop vessel products and BUSINESS services that meet the needs of customers and society as a whole while expanding our local production and Operating Results by Business Segment Transport Solutions Marine Vessel Equipment https://www.nabtesco. local consumption system as well as our global segment (TRS) com/en/products/ship.html service system. Managing Executive Officer, President, Marine Control Systems Company Tadashige Eto S t re n g t h O p p o rt u n i t y FACT SHEET • Ability to make proposals on control systems • Environmental regulations and diversiﬁcation of fuels • Global production and service system • More use of ICT in marine vessel equipment Major customers Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Mitsui E&S, Japan Engine, Hitachi Zosen, The Hanshin Wea k n e s s T h re a t Diesel Works, Makita, DAIHATSU DIESEL, Hyundai Heavy Industries, HSD Engine, • Cost competition • Changes in demand for new ships due to economic changes Samsung Heavy Industries, Lv Dong Zhong Ji, CSSC-MES Diesel, Nantong COSCO • Commoditization of machinery KHI Ship Engineering, Shanghai Waigaoqiao Shipbuilding, MAN E&S and others MAIN PRODUCTS Production bases (as of the end of December 2018) Main Engine Sources of Strength Kobe City, Hyogo Prefecture, Japan/Shanghai, China/Busan, South Korea Remote Control We provide products that meet the needs of customers, including engine control System Market share (M-800-V) equipment as well as a range of products for electronic engines developed in anticipation of the future strengthening of environmental regulations on marine 2-stroke main engine control systems: Approx. 40% world market share This system enables the remote (Approx. 50% domestic market share) control of the diesel engine in a vessels. vessel from the ship’s bridge We are making use of our bases in Japan, Singapore, the Netherlands, China History of business development and/or control room, and has and South Korea to operate a global after-sales system in order to make proposfunctions for outputting After developing a pneumatic valve in 1943, we manufactured remote control commands to control the engine als promptly to customers and provide them with around-the-clock after-sale equipment and a range of valves, such as starting air pipe control valves, to be used speed (rpm) and for monitoring service. in diesel engines or power generators and marine vessels as well as gas compresthe engine status. Equipped sors for freezers. with advanced network funcBusiness Environment (Opportunities and Risks) In 1963, we developed a pneumatic remote control system for ship engines to tions and a liquid crystal touch meet the standards set by the Classiﬁcation Society of each country ahead of others panel display, the system As for engines for large marine vessels, higher fuel efficiency and more fuel in Japan. Also, in response to accelerated automation of devices of marine vessels, provides excellent operability diversiﬁcation will be pursued by customers in addition to a shift to electronic and expandability. we had dramatically boosted our market share for a pneumatic remote control engines. Accordingly, we will be able to achieve growth by developing and marketsystem used in large marine vessel engines in Japan. ing products that meet their needs. However, the building of new ships might be In 1983, we developed a microcomputer-based main engine remote control affected by economic changes and so we will expand the MRO business for existsystem, thereby meeting the needs for electronic control. In 1987, we launched a Electronically ing ships in order to stabilize our marine vessel business. ● Global Production of 2–stroke Diesel microcomputer-based electronic governor for marine vessel engines and estabControlled Engines for Marine Vessels lished our position as a top engine control system manufacturer. Furthermore, in Hydraulic 2008 we released a product for large electronic marine vessel engines. V Valves Measures for Mediumto Long-Term Growth ■ Estimates as of February 2018 ■ Estimates as of February 2019 In the MRO business, aiming to enhance service by making proposals to customFor new ships, we will foster joint development with external research organizaUsed in electronically controlled (Units) ers on preventive maintenance, we established bases outside Japan, speciﬁcally in engines, the hydraulic valves tions to create control systems that ﬂexibly meet market needs, devices to be 1,200 the Netherlands in 1995, in Singapore in 1997 and then in South Korea and China, to precisely control fuel injection used in electronic products, environment-friendly items and products for higher expand our service network. In addition, we established a manufacturing base in and the behavior of exhaust fuel efficiency and more fuel diversiﬁcation. We will thereby provide customers 1,000 South Korea in 2000 and another one in China in 2013 to supply localized products. valves. These products are with solutions that contribute to the safe navigation of their ships. Also, we will indispensable to increase fuel 1950 Delivered gas compressors for freezers of marine vessels. and driving efficiency and to foster a local production and local consumption system and further improve our 800 1963 Commenced manufacture and sales of marine vessel engine control equipment. implement environmental quality, cost and delivery (QCD) performance based on production at our three 1983 Developed and commenced sales of microcomputer controllers for marine measures including those to bases in Japan, China and South Korea. vessels. reduce NOx emissions. 600 1986 Commenced sales of M-800X, a mass production model of microcomputer For the MRO business, we will expand the service menu and global network to controllers for marine vessels. provide services of higher quality and meet social needs for safe navigation. In 1987 Developed and commenced sales of microcomputer-based electronic governors 400 for marine vessels. addition to proposing new services to check product conditions and the reduction Condition1995 Established Nabmic B.V. (presently Nabtesco Marine Europe B.V.) in the Netherlands. Based of maintenance lead time and cost, we will enhance our global 24-hour support 1997 Established Nabtesco Marine Service Pte., Ltd. in (presentry Nabtesco Marine Asis 200 Maintenance system for the safe navigation of customers’ vessels. Paciﬁc Pte., Ltd.) in Singapore. 2000 Established Nabtesco Marinetec Co., Ltd. in South Korea. 2006 Total cumulative shipment of marine vessel equipment reached 30,000 units. In this service we 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 (CY) 2008 Commenced manufacture and sales of hydraulic control valves for electronic check the condition of our Source: Nabtesco estimates controlled engines. products to decide whether they 2013 Established production facilities (Nabtesco Marine Machinery (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.) need special maintenance, based in China. not on the duration of use but 2014 Total cumulative delivery of marine vessel electronic governor systems reached on the condition, thereby 7,000 units. preventing sudden product 2016 Total cumulative shipment of marine vessel equipment reached 50,000 units. failures. The service contributes 2018 Total cumulative shipment of Electronically Controlled High-Speed Hydraulic to the efficient navigation of Valves reached 15,000 units. ships and environmental Participated in the Internet of Ships Open Platform Consortium established for protection by helping maintain the effective use of marine vessel navigation data. the level of fuel efficiency. 59 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 60 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile In order to provide all people with a higher level of AUTOMATIC DOOR safety, a sense of security and a comfortable transportation and living environment, under the brands of REFERENCE P37 Web “NABCO” and “GILGEN”, all Group members in Japan, Operating Results by Automatic Doors and BUSINESS Europe, North America and China are making a concerted effort to further advance our products and services Business Segment Accessibility Solutions Platform Doors https://www.nabtesco. and to expand our business in the global market. segment (ACB) com/en/products/ automaticdoor.html President, Accessibility Innovations Company Daisuke Hakoda S t re n g t h O p p o rt u n i t y advantage of our large market shares to provide a range of products including • Global expansion • Robust demand in the Japanese and Swiss automatic door general-purpose automatic and custom-made doors and offer a variety of • Wide lineup of high-quality automatic doors markets solutions from installation and maintenance to management services with an • Installation, maintenance and service abilities in the • Growth of the domestic and overseas platform door markets eye to enhancing proﬁtability and customer satisfaction. major markets • Market growth potential in North America and Southeast Asia FACT SHEET Wea k n e s s T h re a t Major customers • Lineup with too much focus on automatic doors • Intensiﬁcation of global competition • Branding in emerging markets • Long-term tendency for the market to shrink due to maturity Automatic doors for buildings: Leading construction companies, sash manufacturers, commercial facilities, hospitals, public utilities, industrial facilities (factories) and others Sources of Strength Platform doors: Tokyo Metoro and railway companies in each country Global Business Development Production bases (as of the end of December 2018) MAIN PRODUCTS Since the ﬁrst releasing Japan’s ﬁrst domestically produced automatic doors on Kobe City, Hyogo Prefecture, Japan/State of Wisconsin, the United States/Bern, the market in 1956, we have been engaged in the Automatic Door Business, and Switzerland/Beijing, China with roughly 50% and 20% shares in the domestic and global markets respective“NATRUS ly, are now among the top market players. “NABCO” and “GILGEN” are two of our Market share Nextbrands providing automatic door products in the four core markets of Japan, Generation Automatic doors for buildings: Approx. 50% domestic market share (Approx. 20% Automatic Europe, North America and China, and are the essential sources of our strength. world market share) Door System We provide customers with a range of products and solutions, including Platform screen doors: Approx. 95% domestic market share (cumulative) installation, maintenance and management services in an integrated manner, This automatic door system History of business development conforms to the JIS A 4722 and which is also a source of strength for us. We are the only company in the world thus meets the relevant internathat sells automatic doors and platform doors in all of the four aforementioned NABCO, which is one of the former companies of Nabtesco, worked to launch a new tional safety standards. Equipped markets, and thus occupy a unique position in the industry. business in addition to supplying transportation vehicle equipment, including brake with a function to test safety for systems for railroad vehicles and automobile oil brakes. In 1953, the company each opening/closing operation as Broad Product Lines with a Focus on Automatic Doors began manufacturing and selling automatic door systems for railroad vehicles and well as with increased sensor We offer a wide spectrum of products to meet our customer needs as one of the buildings. Then in 1956, it produced the ﬁrst automatic door in Japan ahead of all density, it boasts the industry's world’s top automatic door brands. We focus on automatic doors used for buildothers. The Olympic Games held in Tokyo caused an explosive increase in new highest level of safety. ings, but also supply automatic doors for special purposes and industrial use as building construction mainly in the city center, and skyscrapers were built one after well as platform doors. the other, which also boosted the use of automatic doors. By establishing a sales Automatic Doors Sales and Installation Network network across Japan as well as a careful service system, the company established a robust market position in the country by the early 1960s. Subsequently, beginning We provide high We have sales, installation and maintenance services supporting systems that with the export of products to Hong Kong in 1961, it proactively expanded its quality, reliable cover all regions across Japan and helps us to maintain high market share. business to overseas markets and gained a foothold in the U.S. market in the 1990s. automatic doors Similarly, we have world-class shares in major overseas markets sustained by In 2011, we acquired Gilgen Door Systems AG to enter the European market on Westside based on state-of-theour well-established network of sales, installation and maintenance. a full scale and have been operating the business globally. In Japan, we have Shopping and art technology. These ● Automatic Doors Markets achieved two million units of total cumulative production of NABCO automatic doors Leisure Centre doors are used at a in Switzerland wide range of Business Environment (Opportunities and Risks) ■ Europe ■ North America and our products are increasingly adopted in famed commercial and public facilifacilities, such as ■ Japan ■ Asia ties. Building the brand of “NABCO”and “GILGEN”, we are establishing the top-class In the Japanese market, demand is expanding driven by the upcoming Tokyo office buildings, public facilities (Million US dollars) position predominating the four largest markets (Japan, North America, Europe and and commercial facilities. We have Olympics and redevelopment projects being undertaken in the country. In the 3.1% CAGR 3,000 China) in terms of automatic door and platform door businesses. also many past track records in the European market, there are concerns over the risk of sluggish demand for field of industrial facilities such as automatic door products due to rising political and economic uncertainty. How1956 Became the ﬁrst company to manufacture automatic doors in Japan. waste treatment plants and other ever, demand in the Swiss market is forecast to remain steady. The global 1957 Established Osaka Door Engines (presently NABCO DOOR). Founded Tokyo Door plants. market for automatic door products is therefore expected to remain strong as a Engine (presently Nabco Systems). 2,000 1992 Acquired LANSON, an automatic door manufacturer in the United States (presently whole. In the long-term, the declining birth rate and aging of the Japanese NABCO Entrances). Wide-Opening population will increase the risk of domestic market shrinkage. In response, in 1995 Established CSCEC-NABCO Auto Door Co., Ltd. in China (presently NABCO Auto Platform Doors Door (Beijing) Co., Ltd. order to offset these risks and secure consistent proﬁtability, we will expand our 2011 Acquired the Automatic Door Business Division from Kaba Group of Switzerland We developed overseas business and market shares by enhancing our sales network in North and established Gilgen Door Systems AG. wide-opening platform 1,000 America, with its continuously growing population, and in Southeast Asia, where Building tetrapolar-system (Japan, North America, Europe and China) for doors that are usable Kudanshita automatic door and platform door businesses. for trains that have social infrastructure is gradually maturing. 2012 Acquired full ownership of NABCO DOOR as the result of stock swap. Station on different door posi2013 Total cumulative production of NABCO automatic doors reached two million units. the Tokyo tions and widths. This 2016 Converted NABCO SYSTEM into a consolidated subsidiary as the result of Metro Tozai Measures for Mediumto Long-Term Growth Line thin and well-designed 0 additional stock acquisition. door was first adopted We will expand the size of our business through organic growth and by imple2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 (FY) 2017 Celebrated the 60th anniversary of the market release of NABCO automatic doors. on the Tokyo Metro Tozai Line. menting M&A projects in a strategic manner. In the mature markets, we will take Source: HIS 61 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 62 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile We will promote the development of next-generation high-speed packaging machines, the enhancement of PACKAGING MACHINE our service system and the expansion of our business outside Japan, thereby meeting food processing compaREFERENCE P37 Web ny needs to save labor while ensuring food safety. We Operating Results by Packaging Machines BUSINESS will also provide customers with a wide range of retort pouch packaging machines. Retort pouches have high Business Segment Manufacturing Solutions https://www.nabtesco. com/en/products/packing. transportation efficiency, which contributes to the segment (MFR) html reduction of CO2 emissions in logistics. President, Toyo Jidoki Co., Ltd. Akiyoshi Kitamura S t re n g t h O p p o rt u n i t y FACT SHEET • Ability to customize products • Diversiﬁed needs for small-lot lightweight packaging • Needs for labor-saving and automation Major customers Sugar and salt manufacturers, food and beverage manufacturers, detergent manuWea k n e s s T h re a t facturers, hair-care and cosmetics manufacturers, pet food manufacturers, bever• Lack of global recognition • Emergence of competitors in developing countries age manufacturers in North America, food manufacturers in China and others • Changes in the conditions of competition due to changes in the foreign exchange market Production bases (as of the end of December 2018) Iwakuni City, Yamaguchi Prefecture, Japan/Dalian, China Sources of Strength Market share Advanced Technologies and Abilities of Onsite Employees Nabtesco’s strengths include technological capabilities, which enabled us to Packaging machines for retort pouch foods: Approx. 85% domestic market share become the world’s ﬁrst successful developer of a rotary packaging machine. History of business development The machine integrated a stream of involved steps in packaging into one line with a control technology that enabled high-speed, reliable, stable and airtight In line with Japan’s economic growth, requirements for automation and energy packaging. The ﬁnely tuned response abilities of onsite employees who support conservation began to increase. In 1964, we started developing an automatic packaging machine, and thus entering the packaging machine market. In the middle application of the technologies can also be considered as one of our competitive of the 1960s, automatic packaging machines were rapidly adopted by sugar and salt advantages. manufacturers as well as by confectionery companies. In the 1970s, requirements MAIN PRODUCTS Relations of Trust with Customers for automatic food processing machines increased among frozen food manufacturWe have earned trust from food manufacturers for our compact packaging ers due to the spread of so-called fast food and the growth of the restaurant indusmachines, which provide high performance, require only limited space and even try. In response, we began developing automatic food machines and became the Super ﬁrst company to develop a retort pouch curry packaging machine in Japan. We also High-Speed seal packages with high air tightness to ensure the safety of food products consucceeded in developing a vacuum packaging machine. Automatic tained therein. Filler/Sealer Further, in 1994 we began supplying packaging machines for spout bags, and in 2011, established a production base in Dalian, China. Additionally, in 2013 we A high-speed automatic continuBusiness Environment (Opportunities and Risks) established a local corporation for sales promotion and service provision in the ous motion filler/sealer that United States. We are thus favorably expanding the business. delivers high performance in a Japan has seen increased demand for prepared meals for consumption by individuals compact space. This equipment at home, and demand for food packaging in pouches from manufacturers of private 1964 Developed an automatic packaging machine and started the packaging machines is not only used for retort pouch brands has been robust. Also, in North America, foods packed in economic and convebusiness. foods but also for soups, sauces 1970 Delivered Japan’s ﬁrst retort pouch curry packaging machine. and other food products as well nient pouches are gradually being accepted in place of bottles and cans as the preferred 1976 Began delivering vacuum packaging machines. as for refills for liquid deterform of preserved foods. Moreover, in China and other emerging economies, people are 1994 Began delivering spout bag packaging machines. gents. It contributes to reducing 2011 Established a subsidiary, DALIAN TOKYO JIDOKI CO., LTD., in Dalian, China. the costs of mass production. increasingly focusing on the safety and hygienic quality of food products, and the 2013 Established a local distribution company, TOYO JIDOKI AMERICA CORP, for demand for our packaging machines that enable high-precision processing are on the packaging machines. 2018 Established a subsidiary, TOYO JIDOKI EUROPE GmbH, in Dusseldorf, Germany. rise. On the other hand, we are taking measures to deal with changes in world situaThe Iwakuni Plant acquired the Resilience Certiﬁcation as an organization High-Speed tions including those caused by the dispute between the United States and China and contributing to national resilience. Automatic Filler/Sealer are facing more risks associated with foreign exchange ● Market Size and Growth Forecast for Packaging rates due to an increase in the export of these machines. Automation needs This ten-process Machines • of brands rotary filler/sealer can be used to These factors could affect our business performance. • Increasing requests ● Expanded and More Advanced Use of Fillers and Sealers for a Wide pack a range of foods, including Packaging =5.1% Range of Items CAGR for traceability not only liquids but also prodmachines ¥1.3 Trillion market: ucts containing both liquid and Measures for Mediumto Long-Term 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2018 solid substances. Moreover, this ¥1.0 Trillion Growth Measuring equipment machine allows the filling and sealing of two bags at the same We will strengthen our bases and official distribuSalt and sugar time, which means that it has Retort/Prepared meals tors outside of Japan to promote sales mainly in the production capacity equiva• Expanded needs for Vacuum packing machine lent to that of two conventional Europe, the United States, China and Southeast % small-sized packaging =5.7 machines, while requiring the Asia. Also in line with the sophistication of cusCAGR • Shift from cans/bottles to Bags with spouts floor space and support equipNabtesco’s lighter packages General-purpose packaging ment for one machine. Further, tomer needs, we will maintain and increase a target • Reduction of food loss machines used for snacks/sweets Chemical products(Shampoos, a range of test equipment can competitive edge through the development of market conditioners, and cleaning detergents) be mounted on the machine. next-generation high-speed machinery and Packaging machines are used for a wide range of products to meet contemporary needs The filler/sealer also supports 2016 2020 deaeration using steam. enhancement of services in Japan and overseas. Source: Packaging machinery market: freedonia Nabtesco’s target market: Nabtesco’s assumption 63 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 64 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Dialogue on Governance (Matsuo) From a management perspective, it is necessary to prepare against so-called “black swan” risks, which are unexpected and shocking risks. outside Japan. We created an easy-to-understand handbook on the Code of Ethics in nine languages for employees and included detailed explanations about the prevention of cartels, bribery and other matters in reference to the laws and regulations enforced in each country. In addition, “unfunctional internal control” and “noneffective use of the internal whistleblowing system” are Organizational system designed for also said to be the causes of corporate scandals. compliance Nabtesco’s compliance Sasaki: In order to implement the Code, what kind of system did you design? Goro Hashimoto Matsuo: As a legal advisor to Nabtesco, I am asked daily for Hashimoto: In 2016, before the formulation of the Code of Makoto Matsuo Director, Managing Executive Zenzo Sasaki advice about legal risks. Mr. Sasaki, you are an independent Ethics, we established a Compliance Committee as an Partner Officer, General Administration, Audit & Supervisory Board MOMO-O, MATSUO & NAMBA Human Resources and Legal & Member (Independent) audit & supervisory board member of the company and an advisory board for the Board of Directors. The Compliance Compliance Nabtesco Corporation outside member of its Compliance Committee. Fortunately, Committee is chaired by the CEO and comprised of direcNabtesco Corporation Nabtesco has never had any scandals that posed a serious tors in charge of corporate departments, the head of the Honorific titles omitted in the following dialogue. legal risk to the company. What measures is the company Technology and R&D Division and other internal members. taking to ensure compliance? We also asked independent Audit & Supervisory Board Hashimoto: Let me take this opportunity to brief you on the Member Sasaki and Attorney Matsuo to participate in the Enhancing the Group’s Compliance measures. Nabtesco determined to “Focus on solving ESG issues” as one of the commitments that it has made in the Committee as those who take the viewpoint of “outsiders.” At the same time the Board of Directors set the regulation medium-term management plan. For “G (governance),” on the promotion system of the Group’s compliance and We are witnessing an increase in the number of companies that have suffered damage to their corpowhich is a material CSR issue based on the concept of designated the presidents of each in-house company and rate value due to scandals. What can we learn from the cases of these companies to enhance the materiality, we are upholding three targets: enhancement Group companies in Japan and abroad to oversee compliof corporate governance, proactive dialogue with stakeance of their respective organizations. We have thus Nabtesco Group’s compliance? Nabtesco Director Goro Hashimoto, who oversees compliance, and holders and ensuring risk management and compliance. established a compliance system for each Group entity and Zenzo Sasaki, who is an independent audit & supervisory board member of Nabtesco as well as an For “S (society),” we have included respect for human clariﬁed who is responsible for compliance. outside member of the Compliance Committee, spoke with Attorney Makoto Matsuo regarding this issue. rights and anti-corruption in our targets. Also, for procureSasaki: Isn’t it difficult to implement the compliance sys(Meeting held in a conference room of Nabtesco in April 2019) ment activities, we are committed to being fair, proper and tem outside Japan? transparent, which has much to do with compliance. Hashimoto: We are striving to make the presidents of our Matsuo: You thus regard compliance as a core means to overseas Group companies more aware of those responsiCommon causes of corporate scandals resulting deaths of employees, information leakage and solve ESG issues. ble for compliance. We hold regional compliance liaison that happen frequently insider trading, as well as issues concerning noncompliHashimoto: We have long been working to ensure complimeetings for participants to share information and receive ance with the laws on antimonopoly, unfair competition ance as a requirement for the company since before the compliance training. We have also introduced internal Hashimoto: We are witnessing a series of corporate scanand subcontractors and with the trade security control term “ESG” began to be used widely in society. In the Action whistleblowing systems to the companies. We are thus dals happen. What can Nabtesco learn from these scandals rules. In addition, harassment-related issues have also Guidelines included in “The Nabtesco Way” along with the promptly doing what we have done in Japan also outside and make use of the lessons in our daily operations? been reported widely, although they do not immediately Corporate Philosophy, we state, “Ensure Transparency: Be the country. I would like to discuss this frankly with you today. constitute legal noncompliance. open, fair and honest” as one of our important values. Moreover, we have newly added compliance functions to Matsuo: Corporate scandals can be classiﬁed into several Matsuo: From a management perspective, it is necessary As an instrument to support the implementation of The our regional headquarters in China and Europe and plan to types, of which falsiﬁcation of quality data has a serious to prepare against so-called “black swan” risks, which are Nabtesco Way, the Board of Directors also introduced the do this also in North America as soon as possible. impact on the management of a company. Moreover, unexpected and shocking risks. Nabtesco Group Code of Ethics in 2017. Nabtesco introfalsiﬁcation of ﬁnancial data as well as accounting fraud by Sasaki: For a range of problems that happened at other duced the Nabtesco Group Code of Conduct in 2005, two Making a truly effective system overseas subsidiaries constitute noncompliance with the companies, third-party committees and internal investigayears after the founding of the company in 2003. Since Financial Instruments and Exchange Act of Japan as a tion teams made reports to the public. These reports list then, the company has expanded its business scope globSasaki: As for the internal whistleblowing system, some “false statement,” and pose serious risks. You need to the “lack of normative consciousness” as the biggest cause ally and faced the need to revise the Code so that members other companies nominally have such a system but are not maintain the quality of audits and internal control at a high of the problems, which is followed by “neglecting inconveworking outside Japan could also understand the details using it effectively, as I have already mentioned. What does enough level to ensure the appropriateness of the ﬁnancial nient truths” and “ignoring the signs of scandals and failing easily. Nabtesco think about this issue? data disclosed to the public. There are also governanceto take the necessary measures.” As for the cause of Matsuo: Even from outside the company, it can be clearly Hashimoto: It is essential to maintain the credibility of the related issues in which top executives are involved, as harassment, these reports list the “lack of awareness of seen that Nabtesco expanding its business overseas as internal whistleblowing system. We ensure conﬁdentiality revealed in the automobile industry. human rights.” part of its growth process. for whistleblowers and will never treat them unfairly Sasaki: In fact, the falsiﬁcation of quality data and accountAs for the falsiﬁcation of quality data, it is said that the Hashimoto: That’s true. As of the end of last year, Nabtesco because that they have made reports through the system. ing frauds have been widely covered by the media. There immobility of human resources and strong dependence on had 46 overseas subsidiaries and about 7,700 employees We are making all employees aware of this so that they can are also issues related to illegal overtime work and the speciﬁc individuals tend to cause problems. on a consolidated basis, of whom about 40% are working use the system with ease of mind. 65 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 66 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile (Sasaki) I share information gained through the Compliance (Hashimoto) To maintain an open corporate culture, we Committee with the Audit & Supervisory Board. Also, through the must foster the mobility of human resources. It is also “auditor hotline,” we can share any problems and deal with important to promote diversity. Different viewpoints help us them appropriately. think outside the box. The number of reports made through the system was future. We therefore need to conduct such audits regularly necessary. Also through the “auditor hotline,” we can share culture and ensure compliance-oriented management. 50 in ﬁscal 2017 and 47 in ﬁscal 2018. Despite such variaand are working to build a system that automatically any problems and deal with them appropriately. tions, the number is generally on an upward trend. For prevents the falsiﬁcation of data. Toward the further advancement of about half of the reports, we took corrective actions based Hashimoto: There are three important elements of complicompliance on the results of surveys conducted in response to the Compliance to deal with black swan risks ance management. They are the prevention and early reports. The “hit rate” (rate of reports that have led to detection of problems along with risk management. Among Matsuo: Although scandals should be prevented, if a corrective actions) is nearly 50%, and so we think the Hashimoto: The aforementioned black swan risks or these, the prevention of problems largely depends on the scandal unfortunately happens, it is important to report reporting system is functioning effectively. irregular events that might cause scandals should be corporate culture and the attitude of top executives. and deal with it appropriately. In line with the so-called Sasaki: Our internal whistleblowing system has been recognized as something that could happen in our daily It is necessary for top executives to communicate the “two-hour rule,” employees must report the problem to steadily improved to be more effective. The number of corporate activities. It is important to identify any signs of importance of compliance in their messages and “visualtheir managers within two hours from the occurrence. To contacts, which used to include only the internal complisuch risks and deal with them at an early stage. ize” compliance. To this end, the Compliance Committee this end you need to improve the reporting line and create ance department and a law ﬁrm, has been increased to Sasaki: The Nabtesco Group has nearly 8,000 employees, should be headed by the CEO, unlike the cases of other a system under which problems are handled appropriately include more external contacts, and employees can now and it is difficult to prevent irregular events perfectly. in-house committees. Last October, all Group members by the responsible personnel. make a report in various languages as well. Because some Matsuo: It is therefore important for you to have an open listened to CEO Teramoto’s video message. Nabtesco has Hashimoto: That is deﬁnitely true. CEO Teramoto always employees might hesitate to report about an unfair act of a corporate culture. Trying to hide a problem when it is designated every October as Corporate Ethics Month and in says, “You must make reports promptly especially about director/executive officer through the whistleblowing discovered would be the most dangerous thing to do. the message given for the month, the CEO said that the bad news.” system implemented by the company, we also established Sasaki: It is rather difficult to deal with a minor issue Nabtesco Group would never make proﬁts at the cost of To maintain an open corporate culture, we must foster an “auditor hotline” in 2017 for employees to make reports appropriately. This is because for a major problem we have noncompliance. the mobility of human resources through human exchange to auditors. As Mr. Hashimoto said, the “hit rate” is high a limited number of options but for minor problems that and job rotation between our in-house companies. It is also because we conduct surveys with a strong commitment to happen on-site, there are multiple options. Raising compliance awareness important to promote diversity. Different viewpoints help us never accepting unfair acts. Matsuo: Paradoxically, it is also important not to be very think outside the box. Matsuo: We can compare compliance to preventive medistrict. From the viewpoint of legal compliance, we have to Matsuo: It is indeed important for top executives to show Sasaki: To this end, it is essential to foster “two-way comcine. In order to prevent scandals, we need to make rules say, “You should constantly obey the rules,” but it is not that their commitment to compliance. A monthly compliance munication between the workforce and management,” as ﬁrst and then establish the necessary system based on the simple. There is a gray zone in which you need to make newsletter also helps raise compliance awareness. stated in Principle 3 of the Principles for Preventing Corporules. You could prevent scandals by using an internal decisions within a limited time. It is therefore necessary to Hashimoto: For Nabtesco, last October was our eighth rate Scandals set for listed companies in Japan. Mid-level control system built by following this process; however, it assign human resources who can make well-balanced Corporate Ethics Month, during which we conduct a Commanagers, who listen to the opinions of on-site employees is not enough. As Mr. Sasaki pointed out, you must ensure decisions to the main positions. pliance Awareness Survey to check the compliance awareand report them to management, need to be aware of the effective use of the system, for which you need to make Hashimoto: You need to develop human resources and ness of employees. Last year we received responses from importance of this and act appropriately. Human resources daily checks and constantly try to improve the system in assign them from the viewpoint of compliance. At Nabtesco, 5,360 employees. According to the results, the awareness development is truly important. response to changes in society. under the top executives of the in-house companies and level seems to be improving, including the level of underHashimoto: While the focus of this integrated report is on Sasaki: I think Nabtesco is establishing the necessary Group companies who are serving as those responsible for standing of compliance and awareness of the internal “dialogue,” we need to enhance and entrench compliance rules in anticipation of various compliance risks. It is also compliance, departmental managers who are tasked with whistleblowing system. as part of Nabtesco’s Corporate DNA through two-way important to conduct “ﬁreﬁghting drills” so that we can corporate planning take charge of practical compliance Matsuo: In the survey, you received very positive responses dialogue between the workforce and management. We deal with a “ﬁre” promptly. issues. These managers, who receive much information concerning quality fraud. would like to ask for your continued advice as well. Matsuo: When a scandal happens, you will face a series of about on-site compliance issues, need to be highly aware Sasaki: Employees engaged in the technology and engiunexpected things. If a “ﬁre” happens, you need to prevent of compliance risks and consult with us if they ﬁnd any neering ﬁelds are working with pride and want to prevent it from spreading. It is of course essential to prevent it from compliance problems. To this end, we place importance on data falsiﬁcation and other types of fraud. happening in the ﬁrst place, but in the event that it occurs, the reporting and sharing of information. Hashimoto: While the two companies that are the predeyou should prevent it from spreading, for which you need Sasaki: I am a member of both the Audit & Supervisory cessors of Nabtesco have a long history, Nabtesco is only to conduct drills as a matter of course. Board and the Compliance Committee. As for information 16 years old. Maybe because it made a fresh start as a new Hashimoto: As for “ﬁreﬁghting drills” conducted as part of sharing, the Compliance Committee receives detailed company in the 21st century, it excels in transparency. The preventive measures, the Group’s Quality & PL Committee reports and its members, including the CEO, are sharing statement “Ensure Transparency: Be open, fair and honest” carried out a special “quality audit” over three months last enough information. I also share the information gained made in The Nabtesco Way is a concept truly ingrained year to check for cases of quality fraud, which we had through the Compliance Committee with members of the among employees as part of their corporate culture. The witnessed happen at many companies. The audit results Audit & Supervisory Board. Board of Directors is also managed with a very high level were reported to the Compliance Committee and the Board The Audit & Supervisory Board has detailed information of transparency. Nabtesco has had no serious scandals, of Directors. The results showed no issues, but there is no about the business audits carried out within the Group and which may be attributable to its corporate DNA. I would like guarantee that we will never have any problems in the shares this information with the Compliance Committee as to make steady efforts to maintain this good corporate 67 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 68 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Nabtesco Group’s Approach to ESG Issues The Nabtesco Group will systematically implement measures to solve ESG issues, which is one of the commitby systematically conducting activities for each of the (UNGC) in 2014 and is also a member of Global Compact ments made in the Medium-Term Management Plan, based on the concept of materiality (material CSR issues) issues. They are related to 13 of the Sustainable Network Japan (GCNJ). We have been proactively particiestablished to “ensure management transparency” and “provide safety, comfort and a sense of security.” Development Goals (SDGs). We will make contributions to pating in symposiums and study groups organized by the the attainment of the SDGs by inputting resources to deal GCNJ, including the study groups on ESG, reporting, the with a range of ESG-related issues in an efficient and SDGs, environmental management, supply chains, anti-corSystematically conducting activities to solve a CSR Basic Policy to summarize the selected material effective manner by recognizing the potential impact of ruption, disaster risk reduction (DRR), human rights due range of ESG issues issues as well as to ensure management transparency and each issue. diligence and the WEPs*. Through these events, we interact In order to implement measures for the solution of ESG provide safety, comfort and a sense of security. The chart with other participating companies and learn from issues in a systematic manner, our CSR Committee, which below summarizes the major impacts on our corporate Support the External Initiatives advanced examples how to better foster CSR-oriented directly reports to the CEO, identiﬁes the material CSR activities from the identiﬁed issues. We are working to ◆ Participation in the United Nations Global Compact management at our company. issues (materiality). The committee also formulated the reduce negative impacts while increasing positive impacts Nabtesco signed the United Nations Global Compact *WEPs: Women’s Empowerment Principles Materiality (Material CSR Issues) Measures Implemented in FY2018 to Solve ESG Issues Major Impacts on Our Corporate Activities Major General ESG SDGs of Major Initiatives and Related Pages Negative Impact: Trust of Stakeholders Declines Positive Impact: Trust of Stakeholders is Gained Relevance Category Category Strengthen corporate governance As a result of the enhancement of management supervision function, faster Dialogue on Governance  P.65 As a result of functional deficiency of corporate governance, decision-making and ensuring of management transparency, Corporate Governance  P.71 Revised the Corporate Governance Basic Policy • corporate value is damaged. Ensure management • corporate value can be maintained or improved. Stipulated the policy to reduce strategic shareholdings, management focusing on Governance (G) capital costs, participation of the Board of Directors in CEO succession planning, etc. As a result of appropriate risk management, As a result of the realization of risks and breaches of compliance, • competitiveness in the product market is maintained or improved; or Promote risk management and compliance behavior • business operations can be continued. Enhanced risk management • business operations are interrupted or suspended; or Promote Risk Management and Compliance Behavior  P.79 Carried out systematic risk assessment throughout the Group, identified and • financial cost increases. As a result of the reinforcement of the global compliance system, transparency implemented measures for serious company-wide risks through the Risk • corporate value can be maintained or improved. Management Committee As a result of cooperation with stakeholders and development of relationships of Strengthened compliance system trust, As a result of the decline in trust of stakeholders, Promoted educational activities by thoroughly communicating the Group Code of • business operations can be continued and business opportunities can be Ensure proactive dialogue with stakeholders • competitiveness decreases; or Ethics and the Global Anti-Bribery Policy generated; or • reputation is damaged. • talented people can be secured; or • reputation can be maintained or improved. Enhance customer satisfaction, Ensure quality and safety As a result of the pursuit of customer needs, Business Overview  P.47 As a result of the lack of meeting of customer and social needs, • in-house technologies are enhanced, or human resources are developed. Dialogue with a Strategic Partner  P.81 • competitiveness in the product market declines. As a result of the provision of products that provide safety, comfort and a sense of Producing Innovations  P.85 security, Intellectual Property Activities to Support Innovation  P.86 Fostered open innovation As a result of deficiencies, accidents, etc., involving products, Established a corporate venture capital (CVC) fund • business operations are interrupted/suspended or financial loss is incurred; or • trust of customers is gained. Manufacturing Innovation  P.87 Management of Quality  P.89 • financial cost increases. As a result of the contribution to solving social issues through business operations, Management of Occupational Safety  P.90 Nurtured a quality and safety culture • competitiveness in the product market is improved. Began four activities to nurture a safety culture in addition to conducting Develop human capital and promote workplace diversity, conventional activities As a result of the acquisition and development of capable and versatile human Provide safe and comfortable workplaces Due to the lack of ability to develop human resources and the lack of diversity, • organizational power and loyalty of employees decrease. resources, Work Style Reforms  P.91 Promotion of workstyle reforms • organizational capabilities and loyalty of employees improve. Provide safety, comfort and a sense of security Fostering Workplace Diversity  P.92 Improved the personnel system to cover diverse work styles and promoted As a result of labor issues or labor accidents, Society (S) Human Capital Development  P.93 increase in productivity through the use of IT • productivity declines. As a result of the realization of safe and pleasant working environments, Increasing Employees’ Awareness of The Nabtesco Way  P.93 • productivity is enhanced. Enhanced risk management Carried out systematic risk assessment throughout the Group, identified and As a result of the realization of human rights and corruption risks, implemented measures for serious company-wide risks through the Risk reputation is damaged. Respect human rights and prevent corruption As a result of preventing human rights and corruption risks, Human Rights Management  P.92 Management Committee As a result of the strengthening of relevant laws and regulations, • reputation is maintained and improved. • business operations are interrupted or suspended; or Built a CSR-oriented procurement system across the supply chain • financial cost increases. Asked suppliers to complete the revised SAQ and supported them in formulating BCPs As a result of the realization of procurement risks, As a result of controlling procurement risks, Fair, proper and transparent procurement activities • supply of raw materials and components is suspended. • raw materials and components are procured sustainably. Nabtesco Group’s Procurement Activities  P.88 Established the Nabtesco Group Community Investment Policy As a result of the interruption or suspension of business operations, As a result of securing high-quality suppliers, Clarified the purpose and priority areas for proactive community investment • financial cost increases. • competitiveness in the product market is improved. activities As a result of the development of trust with local communities and contribution to Local community development As a result of sluggish local economy/society, local communities, Nabtesco Group’s Community Investment  P.94 • the product market shrinks and employment opportunities are lost. • reputation is maintained and improved, or • the product market expands and employment opportunities are gained. As a result of the realization of natural disaster risks and energy risks, Accelerated PDCA cycle aimed at long-term targets for CO2 reduction As a result of preventing natural disaster risks and energy risks, • business operations are disrupted. Countermeasures for climate change Continued to conduct activities to achieve the long-term targets that were • business operations can be continued. Environmental Management  P.95 certified as SBTs As a result of the strengthening of climate change-related laws and As a result of contributing to mitigating climate change issues, regulations, • reputation is maintained and improved. • financial cost increases. Environment (E) Group’s long-term targets < Global targets > As a result of the realization of environmental risks (violation of environmental Environmentally friendly manufacturing Total CO2 emissions (per unit of sales) laws and regulations or environmental pollution caused by business As a result of the contribution to solving environmental issues, Environmental Management  P.95 FY2030 30% reduction operations), • reputation is maintained and improved. • financial cost due to damages, compensation, etc., increases. FY2050 80% reduction (Relative to FY2015) As a result of environmental pollution caused by the provision of products and As a result of the provision of products and services with high environmental Reduction of environmental impact through products and services services, performance, Environmental Management  P.95 Proactive implementation of environmental capital investment • competitiveness in the product market declines. • the product market expands and competitiveness is enhanced. Solar power generation facilities As a result of a shortage of resources, As a result of the recycling of raw materials and components, High-efficiency machining equipment • business activities become stagnant. • sustainability of business activities is improved. Recycling, reuse and remanufacture of products Early observance of the Act on Rational Use and Appropriate Management of Environmental Management  P.95 Fluorocarbons As a result of the lack of environmental performance for products, As a result of the contribution to developing a recycling-oriented society, • competitiveness in the product market declines. • competitiveness in the product market increases. 69 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 70 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Ensure Management Transparency Management transparency is one of the Nabtesco Group's material CSR issues and it is essential to maintain • Changes in the corporate governance system the trust of stakeholders. The Nabtesco Group will ensure management transparency by strengthening 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 corporate governance, promoting risk management and compliance behavior, and ensuring proactive Representation Shigeo dialogue with stakeholders. Chairman right Iwatare of the Board No Makoto Kazuaki representation Kazuyuki Matsumoto right Okitsu Kotani Representative Director, Makoto Kazuaki Katsuhiro Kazuyuki Matsumoto President & CEO Okitsu Kotani Teramoto Number of Board of 10 directors (incl. 2 10 directors (incl. 2 10 directors (incl. 3 10 directors (incl. 2 10 directors (incl. 3 outside directors) Strengthen Corporate Governance Directors Number of Audit & outside directors) 10 directors (incl. 1 outside director) 5 Audit & Supervisory Board Members outside directors) outside directors) outside directors) *Including a female outside director *1 *1 Supervisory Board Members (incl. 3 outside members)*1 Measures to Enhance Corporate In FY2018, for further enhancement of our corporate Committees Group ESH (Environment, Safety, and Health) Committee Governance governance, we revised the Corporate Governance Basic Group PL (Product Liability) Committee Nabtesco is committed to enhancing its corporate Policy to make clear statements stipulated the policy to Group Quality & PL (Product Liability) Committee governance based on the Corporate Governance Basic Policy, reduce strategic shareholdings, management focusing on Group Quality Committee which indicates the Company’s basic approach to, framework capital costs, participation of the Board of Directors in CEO Remuneration Committee of and measures for corporate governance. Nabtesco will succession planning. achieve sustainable growth, increase its corporate value on *For Nabtesco’s basic approach to and system for corporate governance, please Nomination Committee refer to our website. a mediumto long-term basis, and earn even more trust Compliance Committee from stakeholders by fulfilling this commitment through the Corporate Governance implementation of The Nabtesco Way. Web CSR Committee https://nabtesco.disclosure.site/en/themes/133 Risk Management Committee Remuneration for Monthly remuneration and retirement benefit Inside Directors*2 Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members Monthly remuneration (Fixed compensation and short-term performance-based fee) Stock-based compensation stock option (Long-term Stock-based compensation stock Board Benefit Trust*3 performance-based fee) option*3 • Proportion of outside Directors • Proportion of women Accounting Standard Settlement of account in March (JGAAP) Settlement of account Settlement of account in December in December (JGAAP) (IFRS) Outside members Outside members Female directorss Corporate Corporate Philosophy The Nabtesco Way 30% 60% 10% Philosophy, etc. Long-term Vision (Final year: FY2014) Long-term Vision (Final year: FY2020) Audit & Nabtesco Corporate Governance Basic Policy Directors Supervisory Directors Board members Basic Policies for the Construction of an Internal Control System Risk Management Rules Nabtesco Group Code of Corporate Ethics Nabtesco Group Code of Ethics Nabtesco Group Code of Conduct Nomination Committee and Remuneration Nabtesco Group Global Anti-Bribery Policy Committee Group ESH Rules Nabtesco is a “Company with Board of Auditors” under Group Quality Management Rules the Companies Act of Japan and has the Nomination Group Quality and PL Management Rules Committee and Remuneration Committee as advisory Group PL Management Rules organizations to the Board of Directors. The following Nabtesco Group Environmental Philosophy/Environmental Action Plan/Long-term target shows the composition of the committees. Nabtesco Group CSR-Oriented Procurement Policy • Nomination Committee 3 Members ● Remuneration Committee 3 Members Basic Policy on Human Capital Development Nabtesco Group Human Rights Policy Nabtesco Group CSR Basic Policy Nabtesco Group Community Investment Policy Anti-takeover Pre-warning Anti-takeover Measures*4 Measures Chairperson Outside directors Chairperson Outside Audit & *1. In FY2011 and FY2015, the number of Audit & Supervisory Board Members was temporarily four (including three outside members) due to the resignation of a members for personal reasons. (internal member) (internal member) director supervisory board *2. Outside Directors are paid on a monthly basis. member (Independent) *3. Remuneration is linked to medium-term and long-term business results. *4. The pre-warning anti-takeover measures were introduced with the resolution of the 4th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 26, 2007. However, they were abolished at the conclusion of the 7th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 24, 2010. 71 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 72 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Ensure Management Transparency Measures to Ensure Effectiveness of Board [Performance-linked compensation (Monthly compensation)] the creation of intellectual property and environmental these officers are in a position independent from business of Directors and Its Evaluation The amount of performance-linked compensation (monthly indicators showing how much CO2 emissions were reduced, execution. Nabtesco conducts a yearly analysis and evaluation of the compensation) to be paid is determined according to the in addition to management indicators such as the degree of effectiveness of the Board of Directors based on the selffollowing formula, based on the degree of achievement of ROIC improvement. Claw-back Clause evaluations of the Directors to improve its functions. annual results. Furthermore, net sales and operating income are As a result of having to revise the financial results In FY2018, the Company conducted an anonymous [Short-term performance-linked compensation] adopted as indicators for the degree of achievement of of past fiscal years due to inappropriate accounting, self-evaluation questionnaire survey of all directors and Short-term performance-linked compensation = the Medium-term Management Plan, as they reflect the etc., the Company has stipulated a claw-back clause Audit & Supervisory Board members. The survey results Standard payment amount by position × Performance business activities of all Directors and employees, with the in the internal compensation regulations so as to were tabulated and analyzed by external lawyers for the evaluation coefficient aim of aligning all business activities in one direction. demand the return of all or part of performance-linked evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board of Directors * Performance evaluation coefficient: Determined by a matrix table using ROIC and However, in case of impacts from events not triggered compensation in the event of material revisions in the profit (attributable to owners of the parent) for the previous fiscal year within a through discussions by members of the Board. certain threshold as indicators (coefficient: 0.00 – 3.00) by the Company’s management decisions, above indicators performance of past fiscal years which was the basis of According to the results, the Directors believe that the may be adjusted. the calculation of performance-linked compensation, or number of the Directors and the structure of the Board For Directors in charge of internal companies, shortin the event that the Company incurs material loss due of Directors are appropriate and that open, natural and term performance-linked compensation is adjusted based Composition of compensation to an officer’s wrongful or illegal act. constructive discussion is being held, among others. on factors including the net sales growth rate, degree •The composition of Directors’ Considering the judgment that the understanding of of improvement of operating income, degree of ROIC compensation emphasizes the link with Fixed compensation Performance-linked compensation and insight into the company's business has deepened improvement, R&D indicators and environmental indicators performance and shareholder value. Position Short-term Tenure grant-type Retirement grant-type of the relevant companies. Basic compensation performance-linked especially among outside directors through the meeting of •Compensation, etc., for Outside Directors stock compensation stock compensation compensation the Board of Directors held at factories, which started from and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Chairman of the [Stock Compensation] Board/President 30% 30% 20% 20% FY2017, the effectiveness of the Board is considered to be consists only of fixed compensation, with well secured. Stock compensation is paid using the Board Benefit no performance-linked compensation, as Director 35% 30% 20% 15% On the other hand, with respect to the composition of Trust (BBT) mechanism, and the amount of payment is the Board of Directors, the following issues were found determined according to the following formula, based as challenges to be met on a mediumto long-term on the degree of achievement of the Medium-term Amount of Compensation Paid to Directors (FY2018) basis: need to increase the proportion of independent Management Plan. outside directors to at least one-third of the total number [Tenure grant-type stock compensation] • Total amount of compensation by managerial position, total amount of compensation by type of compensation and number of recipients of directors and need to increase the number of female Tenure grant-type stock compensation = Types of compensation (¥ Million) directors. Share grant points by position × Directors/Audit & Total amount of Number of Directors Fixed compensation Performance-linked compensation As for discussions by the Board of Directors, it is still Performance evaluation coefficient × Supervisory Board compensation and Audit & Supervisory Medium-term Management Plan achievement coefficient Members (¥ Million) Board Benefit Trust (BBT) Board Members necessary to secure enough time to deliberate important Monthly compensation * Performance evaluation coefficient: Determined by a matrix table using ROIC Tenure grant Retirement grant issues in management, including growth strategies. and profit (attributable to owners of the parent) for the previous fiscal year within a certain threshold as indicators (coefficient: 0.00 – 3.00) Directors (Outside 424 195 106 35 87 12 Compensation System for Directors * Medium-term Management Plan achievement coefficient: Set based on the degree of achievement of the net sales and operating income stated in the Directors) （30） （30） – – – （3） Basic policy on the compensation system Medium-term Management Plan (0 – 0.5) Audit & Supervisory •By linking compensation more with performance and Board Members 78 78 – – – 5 Grant points will be vested on the day of the Annual (Audit & Supervisory stock value, ensure that shareholders and management Board Members （24） （24） – – – （3） General Meeting of Shareholders relating to the final fiscal can share profit and risk. (Independent)) year ending within three years from the awarding of points. •Make the system shall function as an incentive to improve Total 501 273 106 35 87 17 the mediumto long-term performance. [Retirement grant-type stock compensation] (Notes) Retirement grant-type stock compensation = 1. The “Number of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members” for Directors includes two Directors who retired during the fiscal year under review. Method for determining compensation 2. Monthly compensation consists of basic compensation and short-term performance-linked compensation paid out in total on a monthly fixed basis. Share grant points by position 3. The Board Benefit Trust (BBT) amount is the amount expensed during the fiscal year under review according to J-GAAP, based on the number of share grant points awarded or expected to be awarded For compensation for directors, the Remuneration Grant points will be vested on the day that the Director during the fiscal year under review. Committee deliberates on the upper limits approved at the 4. The upper limit on compensation as resolved at the 14th Annual General Meeting of Shareholders (March 28, 2017) is set at ¥400 million per year for Directors (of which ¥50 million is for Outside retires. Directors), and ¥90 million for Audit & Supervisory Board Members. general meeting of shareholders and reports the results to 5. In addition to the compensation amounts stated above, the Company has introduced a Board Benefit Trust (BBT) system for Directors (excluding Outside Directors) as resolved at the 14th Annual the Board of Directors for the final decision of the amount. Nabtesco’s approach to indicators for performanceGeneral Meeting of Shareholders (March 28, 2017). Based on the Regulations for Provision of Shares to Officers established under this system, the Company is making contributions to the Trust, with upper limits of ¥450 million (for three business years) for the tenure grant, and ¥420 million (for three business years) for the retirement grant, respectively. With regard to this system, upper limits for For compensation for Audit & Supervisory Board Members, linked compensation share grants were set at 56,000 points for the tenure grant (for a single fiscal year) and 51,000 points for the retirement grant (for a single fiscal year) separately from the upper limits on compensation stated in 4. above at the 14th Annual General Meeting of Shareholders (March 28, 2017). the amount is decided through discussions with Audit & The basic indicators for performance-linked compensation Supervisory Board Members. paid to Directors (excluding Outside Directors) are ROIC and profit (attributable to owners of the parent), which • FY2018 actual performance of principal indicators related to performance-linked compensation Structure of the compensation system reflect the fruits of all employee activity and are principal ROIC Net sales Operating income Profit Treatment/Reduction of Cross-shareholdings Compensation to Directors is composed of monthly indicators linked to the improvement of ROE. Every year the Board of Directors makes examinations compensation, comprising fixed basic compensation and In this way, the Company encourages all Directors ¥282,422 ¥29,468 ¥25,146 based on certain criteria about the purpose, benefit and 12.5% Million Million Million short-term performance-linked compensation, and stock to take note of capital costs and the payout ratio, and capital cost-based risk of cross-shareholdings to decide compensation based on the degree of achievement of the promotes management that is mindful of the sustainable whether to continue holding each of the stocks and on Performance-linked compensation for the fiscal year under review is calculated based on the Medium-term Management Plan as well as share value. growth of the Group. Furthermore, indicators for Directors figures in the financial results as of December 31, 2017. the number of shares to be kept. Stocks for which the However, in the fiscal year under review, Harmonic Drive Systems Inc., an equity-method [Basic compensation] in charge of businesses have the added functions of affiliate of the Group, acquired additional shares in its own equity-method affiliate, resulting in examination results indicate that it is not appropriate to Basic compensation is fixed compensation according incentivizing them to improve performance in the medium equity in earnings of affiliates. Therefore the relevant income was subtracted from the results figures stated above in the indicator adopted. keep holding them shall be sold in a timely manner in to the position of each Director and is paid as monthly to long term by including R&D indicators to encourage consideration of the stock price and market trends. compensation. 73 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 74 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Management Team Board of Directors (as of March 26, 2019) Katsuhiro Teramoto Shinji Juman Kazumasa Kimura Yutaka Fujiwara Representative Director, President & CEO Representative Director, Director Outside Director (Dec. 13, 1955, 63 years old) Managing Executive Officer Executive Officer, Corporate Planning, Accounting & Finance, (Apr. 20, 1951, 67 years old) Component Solutions Segment Information Systems and Corporate Communication President, Power Control Company, and in charge of Production Innovation (Aug. 17, 1961, 57 years old) (Aug. 28, 1957, 61 years old) Jun. 2007 General Manager, Sales Department No. 1, Precision Equipment Company of Nabtesco Jan. 2006 General Manager, Cost Control Department, Tsu Plant, Precision Equipment Company of Jun. 2011 General Manager, Manufacturing Department, Tsu Plant, Precision Equipment Company Apr. 1974 Joined MODEC, Inc. Corporation Nabtesco Corporation of Nabtesco Corporation Nov. 1987 Joined The Yasuda Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. (current Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd.) Jul. 2008 General Manager, Overseas Sales Department, Precision Equipment Company of Jun. 2006 General Manager, Manufacturing Department, Tsu Plant, Precision Equipment Company Jun. 2012 General Manager, Manufacturing Department, Tarui Plant, Power Control Company of Aug. 1994 Deputy General Manager, New York Branch of Yasuda Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. Nabtesco Corporation of Nabtesco Corporation Nabtesco Corporation Jun. 1996 General Manager, Chicago Branch of Yasuda Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. (retired in Jul. 1998) Jun. 2009 General Manager, Planning Department, Accessibility Innovations Company of Nabtesco Jun. 2009 Plant Manager, Tsu Plant, Precision Equipment Company of Nabtesco Corporation Apr. 2015 Representative Director and Vice President of Hyest Corporation (merged into Nabtesco Aug. 1998 Joined OMRON Corporation Corporation Jun. 2011 Executive Officer of Nabtesco Corporation and President, Nabtesco Automotive Corporation in Apr. 2016) Jul. 2001 General Manager, Corporate Planning Department, Corporate Strategic Planning Group, Jun. 2011 Executive Officer of Nabtesco Corporation Corporation Mar. 2016 General Manager, Production Management Department, Power Control Company of Kyoto Head Office of OMRON Corporation Oct. 2011 Vice President and General Manager, Planning Department, Accessibility Innovations Jun. 2014 President, Precision Equipment Company of Nabtesco Corporation Nabtesco Corporation Oct. 2002 General Manager, Corporate IR Department, Corporate Planning Division of OMRON Corporation Company of Nabtesco Corporation Jun. 2015 Managing Executive Officer of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Mar. 2017 Executive Officer (to present) and President, Power Control Company of Nabtesco Jun. 2005 Executive Officer and General Manager, Financial IR Department of OMRON Corporation Feb. 2013 Deputy Senior General Manager, Corporate Planning Division, and General Manager, Mar. 2017 Director of Nabtesco Corporation Corporation Mar. 2007 Executive Officer and General Manager, Group Strategy Department of OMRON Corporation Corporate Planning Department of Nabtesco Corporation Jan. 2018 In charge of Production Innovation of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Jan. 2019 Executive Officer, Corporate Planning, Accounting & Finance, Information Systems and Jun. 2008 Managing Officer and General Manager, Group Strategy Department of OMRON Corporation Jun. 2015 Representative Director (to present), Managing Executive Officer and Senior General Mar. 2018 Representative Director of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Corporate Communication of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Dec. 2008 Managing Officer and General Manager, IR & Corporate Information Department of Manager of Corporate Planning Division of Nabtesco Corporation Jan. 2019 Managing Executive Officer, Component Solutions Segment of Nabtesco Corporation (to Mar. 2019 Director of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) OMRON Corporation (retired in Jun. 2011) Mar. 2017 President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) present) Aug. 2011 President & CEO of Cross-Border Bridge Corporation Mar. 2018 President of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) President, Power Control Company of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Reasons for appointment Jun. 2013 Director of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) After serving as General Manager of Manufacturing Department, Precision Equipment Company, General Jun. 2017 Outside Director of KITZ Corporation (to present) Reasons for appointment Reasons for appointment Manager of Production Management Department, Power Control Company and President of Power Control Apr. 2018 Representative of Cross-Border Bridge Corporation (to present) Mr. Katsuhiro Teramoto has served as Representative Director since June 2015, and has appropriately led and Mr. Shinji Juman has engaged in management of the Company as Director from March 2017, and has effectively Company, Mr. Kazumasa Kimura is currently in charge of Corporate Planning, Accounting & Finance, Information supervised management. In addition, after serving as Vice President of Accessibility Innovations Company and fulfilled his roles and duties. After serving as President of Nabtesco Automotive Corporation and President of Systems as well as Corporate Communication, and has broad experience at the Company and extensive insight Reasons for appointment Senior General Manager of Corporate Planning Division, he currently serves as the President, a position bearing Precision Equipment Company, he currently serves as Managing Executive Officer, Component Solutions Segment, concerning production. Due to these factors, he has been determined to be an appropriate person to realize Mr. Yutaka Fujiwara has worked overseas for a number of years and has broad experience and extensive the highest responsibilities for business execution, and has broad experience at the Company and extensive and President of Power Control Company and is in charge of Production Innovation, and has broad experience sustainable improvement in corporate value, and thus appointed as Director. knowledge and insight on global business. He has expertise in advanced corporate strategies and financial affairs, insight concerning global business. Due to these factors, he has been determined to be an appropriate person to and extensive insight as a corporate manager. Due to these factors, he has been determined to be an appropriate Number of shares of the Company held: 1,479 shares having been in charge of the financial affairs and investor relations sectors of a listed company, and as an Outside realize sustainable improvement in corporate value, and thus appointed as Director. person to realize sustainable improvement in corporate value, and thus appointed as Director. Director of the Company from June 2013, he has appropriately supervised management. The Company, having Number of shares of the Company held: 9,400 shares Number of shares of the Company held: 7,300 shares high regard for his experience and insight, has appointed Mr. Yutaka Fujiwara as Outside Director, so that we may utilize knowledge to provide supervision and advise. Number of shares of the Company held: 100 shares Daisuke Hakoda Goro Hashimoto Norio Uchida Naoko Yamazaki Representative Director Director, Outside Director Outside Director President, Accessibility Innovations Company Managing Executive Officer, General Administration, (Oct. 22, 1950, 68 years old) (Dec. 27, 1970, 48 years old) (Oct. 25, 1957, 61 years old) Human Resources and Legal & Compliance (Feb. 7, 1957, 62 years old) Jun. 2007 President of Nabtesco Aerospace, Inc. Jan. 2009 General Manager, Legal Department of Nabtesco Corporation Apr. 1973 Joined Tokyo Optical Co., Ltd. (current TOPCON CORPORATION) Apr. 1996 Joined the National Space Development Agency of Japan (currently Japan Aerospace Jun. 2009 General Manager, Accounting & Finance Department of Nabtesco Corporation Jun. 2015 Director (to present), Executive Officer and Senior General Manager, Compliance Division Jun. 1980 General Manager of Topcon Singapore Pte. Ltd. Exploration Agency (JAXA)) (retired in Aug. 2011) Jun. 2010 General Manager, Corporate Planning Department of Nabtesco Corporation of Nabtesco Corporation Feb. 1989 President of Topcon Australia Pty Ltd. Sep. 2001 Certified as International Space Station (ISS) onboard astronaut May 2013 General Manager, Shanghai Nabtesco Hydraulic Co., Ltd. Jan. 2018 Executive Officer, General Administration, Legal & Compliance of Nabtesco Corporation Oct. 1994 Senior Vice President of Topcon Laser Systems, Inc. (current Topcon Positioning Systems, May 2004 Acquired certification for Flight Engineer, Soyuz Spacecraft Jun. 2013 Executive Officer of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Inc.) Feb. 2006 Acquired certification for Mission Specialist, Space Shuttle Jun. 2015 Director and Senior General Manager, General Administration & Human Resources Jan. 2019 Managing Executive Officer (to present), Human Resources (to present) of Nabtesco Jun. 2003 Executive Officer of TOPCON CORPORATION Apr. 2010 Crew Member of Space Shuttle Discovery as Mission Specialist, participated in Division of Nabtesco Corporation Corporation Jul. 2003 President and Director of Topcon Sales Co., Ltd. (current Topcon Sokkia Positioning Japan Construction and Supply for ISS Mar. 2017 Managing Executive Officer (to present), Senior General Manager, Corporate Planning Co., Ltd.) Sep. 2011 Honorary Chairperson of the National Soroban Education Association (to present) Division and Senior General Manager, General Administration & Human Resources Reasons for appointment Jun. 2005 Director and Executive Officer of TOPCON CORPORATION Apr. 2012 Visiting Professor of Ritsumeikan University (to present) Division of Nabtesco Corporation Mr. Goro Hashimoto has engaged in management of the Company as Director since June 2015, and has Jun. 2007 Director, Managing Executive Officer, Supervising Sales Promotion Group, and Chief of Jul. 2012 Member of Committee on National Space Policy, Cabinet Office (to present) Jan. 2018 Managing Executive Officer, Corporate Planning, Accounting & Finance, Information effectively fulfilled his roles and duties. After serving as General Manager of Legal Department, he is currently in Positioning Business Unit of TOPCON CORPORATION May 2013 Visiting Professor of Joshibi University of Art and Design (to present) Systems, Corporate Communication and Human Resources of Nabtesco Corporation charge of General Administration, Human Resources and Legal & Compliance, and has broad experience and Jun. 2010 Director, Senior Managing Executive Director and Supervising Corporate Planning Group Jul. 2015 President of Japanese Rocket Society (to present) and Chairperson of Sorajo Committee Mar. 2018 Representative Director of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) extensive insight concerning general administration, legal matters, compliance, and risk management. Due to of TOPCON CORPORATION (to present) Jan. 2019 these factors, he has been determined to be an appropriate person to realize sustainable improvement in Jun. 2011 President & Representative Director of TOPCON CORPORATION Dec. 2015 Advisory Board Member of International Robot Competition Executive Committee (to President, Accessibility Innovations Company of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) corporate value, and thus appointed as Director. Jun. 2013 Advisor of TOPCON CORPORATION (retired in June 2015) present) Number of shares of the Company held: 1,800 shares Jun. 2015 Director of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Jan. 2016 Specialist Member of Council on Science Technology and Academics (Marine Resource Reasons for appointment Mr. Daisuke Hakoda has engaged in management of the Company as Director since June 2015, and has Sep. 2015 External Director of ULVAC, Inc. (to present) Development Subcommittee) effectively fulfilled his roles and duties. After being engaged mainly in the areas of corporate planning as well as Mar. 2016 Director of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) accounting and finance for many years, he currently serves as President of Accessibility Innovations Company, Reasons for appointment Jul. 2016 Member of the Long-term Global Warming Countermeasures Platform, Ministry of and has broad experience and extensive insight as a corporate manager. Due to these factors, he has been Mr. Norio Uchida has served as Representative Director of TOPCON CORPORATION and has broad experience Economy, Trade and Industry (to present) determined to be an appropriate person to realize sustainable improvement in corporate value, and thus and extensive knowledge and insight as a corporate manager, and as an Outside Director of the Company from Nov. 2016 Ambassador of WINDS (Women’s Initiative in Developing STEM Career), Ministry of appointed as Director. June 2015, he has appropriately supervised management. The Company, having high regard for his experience Foreign Affairs of Japan Number of shares of the Company held: 16,921 shares and insight, has appointed Mr. Norio Uchida as Outside Director, so that we may benefit from his supervision and Sep. 2017 External Director of Optorun Co., Ltd. (to present) advice on technical development and global business overall. Jun. 2018 Outside Director of TOPCON CORPORATION (to present) Number of shares of the Company held: 0 shares Jul. 2018 Representative Director of Space Port Japan Association (to present) Toshiaki Akita Shigeru Naoki Reasons for appointment Director Director Ms. Naoko Yamazaki has broad insight as an engineer regarding the latest aerospace engineering and the field Senior General Manager, Technology and R&D President, Railroad Products Company of manned space machinery systems including robotic arms. As an astronaut, she has experience in conducting Division (Oct. 21, 1958, 60 years old) crisis management in the harsh, resource-limited environment of spacecraft, etc., has extensive skills in risk (Jun. 6, 1957, 61 years old) management and, as an Outside Director of the Company from March 2016, she has appropriately supervised management. The Company, having high regard for her experience and insight, requests the continued appointment of Ms. Naoko Yamazaki as Outside Director, so that we may seek her supervision and advice from decisions based on an objective and fair viewpoint. Jul. 2008 General Manager, Engineering Management Department, Railroad Products Company of Nabtesco Corporation Jul. 2013 Plant Manager, Tsu Plant, Precision Equipment Company of Nabtesco Corporation Number of shares of the Company held: 0 shares Oct. 2010 General Manager, Engineering Promotion Department, Railroad Products Company of Nabtesco Corporation Jun. 2014 Executive Officer of Nabtesco Corporation Jul. 2012 General Manager, Planning Department, and General Manager, Engineering Promotion Mar. 2017 Vice President, Railroad Products Company of Nabtesco Corporation Department, Railroad Products Company of Nabtesco Corporation Aug. 2017 President, Railroad Products Company of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Jun. 2014 Deputy Senior General Manager (Engineering), Technology and R&D Division of Nabtesco Corporation Mar. 2018 Managing Executive Officer of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Jun. 2015 Executive Officer of Nabtesco Corporation Mar. 2019 Director of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Mar. 2016 President, NABTEC Co., Ltd. Jan. 2018 Senior General Manager, Technology and R&D Division of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Reasons for appointment Mar. 2018 Director of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) After serving as Plant Manager of Tsu Plant of Precision Equipment Company, Mr. Shigeru Naoki currently serves Jan. 2019 Managing Executive Officer of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) as President of Railroad Products Company, and has experience and extensive insight as the manager of a broad range of business areas at the Company. Due to these factors, he has been determined to be an appropriate person to realize sustainable improvement in corporate value, and thus appointed as Director. Reasons for appointment Mr. Toshiaki Akita has engaged in management of the Company as Director since March 2018, and has Number of shares of the Company held: 3,400 sharess effectively fulfilled his roles and duties. After serving as General Manager of Engineering Promotion Department, Railroad Products Company and Deputy Senior General Manager of Technology and R&D Division, etc., he currently serves as Senior General Manager of Technology and R&D Division, and has broad experience and extensive insight concerning technology overall. Additionally, he has experience as a corporate manager, * The average term of office of outside directors was 2.7 years as of March 26, 2019. including his role as President of NABTEC Co., Ltd. Due to these factors, he has been determined to be an appropriate person to realize sustainable improvement in corporate value, and thus appointed as Director. * Number of shares held as of December 31, 2018 Number of shares of the Company held: 2,593 shares 75 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 76 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Management Team Audit & Supervisory Board Members (as of March 26, 2019) Executive Officers (as of May 1, 2019) President Katsuhiro Teramoto Chief Executive Officer Kensuke Ioku Kenichi Kikuchi Managing Executive Officer Shinji Juman Managing Executive Officer, Component Solutions Segment President, Power Control Company, and in charge of Production Innovation Audit & Supervisory Board Member Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Jan 30, 1954, 65 years old) (Dec. 18, 1959, 59 years old) Managing Executive Officer Daisuke Hakoda President, Accessibility Innovations Company Managing Executive Officer Yukihiro Imuta General Manager, Business Transformation Division Managing Executive Officer Shigeru Naoki President, Railroad Products Company Mar. 2006 General Manager, Product Development Department, Power Control Company of Nabtesco Apr. 2015 Senior Manager, Accounting & Finance Department of Nabtesco Corporation Corporation Jul. 2017 General Manager, Business Auditing Department of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Managing Executive Officer Goro Hashimoto Managing Executive Officer, General Administration, Human Resources and Legal & Compliance Nov. 2007 General Manager, Technology Department, Power Control Company of Nabtesco Mar. 2019 Audit & Supervisory Board Member of Nabtesco Corporation Corporation Managing Executive Officer Toshiaki Akita Senior General Manager, Technology and R&D Division Jun. 2010 General Manager, Manufacturing Department, Tarui Plant, Power Control Company of Number of shares of the Company held: 0 shares Nabtesco Corporation Executive Officer Kiyoshi Ando Deputy Senior General Manager, Technology and R&D Division, and in charge of Business Innovation Jun. 2012 General Manager, Production Management Department and General Manager, Tarui Plant, Power Control Company of Nabtesco Corporation Executive Officer Norimasa Takagi President, Aerospace Company Jun. 2013 Executive Officer of Nabtesco Corporation Jun. 2014 General Manager, Production Innovation Division and General Manager, Purchasing Executive Officer Shoji Ijuin Vice President, Railroad Products Company, sales management Planning Department of Nabtesco Corporation Mar. 2016 Audit & Supervisory Board Member of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Executive Officer Akiyoshi Kitamura President of Toyo Jidoki Co., Ltd Executive Officer Atsushi Habe President, Precision Equipment Company Number of shares of the Company held: 9,800 shares Executive Officer Kazumasa Kimura Executive Officer, Corporate Planning, Accounting & Finance, Information Systems and Corporate Communication Executive Officer Tadashige Eto President, Marine Control Systems Company Executive Officer Isao Shimizu General Manager, Production Innovation Division Zenzo Sasaki Takemi Nagasaka Executive Officer Koji Nakano President, Shanghai Nabtesco Hydraulic Co., Ltd. Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent) Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent) (Nov 1, 1952, 66 years old) (Jan 24, 1956, 63 years old) Executive Officer Ataru Inoue President, Nabtesco Automotive Co., Ltd. Executive Officer Yukihiro Mizutani Responsible for Domestic Businesses and General Manager of Product Management Department, Accessibility Innovations Company Executive Officer Seiji Takahashi General Manager, Human Resources Department, Business Transformation Division and President, Nabtesco Link Co., Ltd. Apr. 1979 Appointed Public Prosecutor Oct. 1978 Joined Musashi Audit Corporation (currently Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC) Executive Officer Toshiya Fujiwara Plant Manager, Tsu Plant and General Manager, General Administration Department, Precision Equipment Company Apr. 2000 Deputy General Manager, Special Investigation Department of Tokyo District Public (retired in Jul. 1981) Prosecutor’s Office Aug. 1981 Joined Sony Corporation Sep. 2002 Manager, Facilities Division, Minister’s Secretariat of Ministry of Justice Sep. 1986 Sony Corporation of America/Director, Tax Department Jan. 2004 General Manager, Public Safety Department and General Manager, Transportation Apr. 2004 Statutory Auditor of Sony Financial Holdings Inc. Department of Tokyo District Public Prosecutor’s Office Aug. 2006 Chief Public Prosecutor of Wakayama District Public Prosecutor’s Office Jun. 2004 General Manager, Accounting Department of Sony Corporation Jun. 2004 Statutory Auditor of Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. (currently Sony Interactive Management Structure Jan. 2008 Public Prosecutor of Supreme Public Prosecutor’s Office (retired in Nov. 2012) Entertainment Inc.) Business Auditing Department Oct. 2008 Chief Public Prosecutor of Mito District Public Prosecutor’s Office Jun. 2006 Auditor of Sony Music Entertainment (Japan) Inc. Corporate Planning Department Jul. 2010 Chief Public Prosecutor of Sendai District Public Prosecutor’s Office Apr. 2007 Senior General Manager, Accounting Division of Sony Corporation Aug. 2011 Chief Public Prosecutor of Kyoto District Public Prosecutor’s Office Jun. 2010 Senior Vice President, Corporate Executive, Senior General Manager, Accounting Division Accounting & Finance Department Feb. 2013 Registered with Tokyo Bar Association of Sony Corporation Joined Harumi-kyowa Law Offices (to present) Jun. 2013 Director of Sony Financial Holdings Inc. Information System Department Mar. 2016 Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent) of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Jun. 2015 Senior Advisor of Sony Corporation (to present) (retired in Jun. 2016) Board of Directors Corporate Communication Department Mar. 2016 Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent) of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Number of shares of the Company held: 0 shares Audit & Supervisory Board Member of Solize Corporation (to present) Compliance Committee General Administration Department Jun. 2016 Audit & Supervisory Board Member of DAIO Paper Corporation (to present) Human Resources Department Chairman Number of shares of the Company held: 100 shares Legal Compliance Department President & CEO Tetsuro Hirai Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent) Technology and R&D Division Department (Dec. 19, 1955, 63 years old) Quality Promotion Department Intellectual Property Department Nabtesco R&D Center Apr. 1980 Joined Toyota Motor Co., Ltd. (current Toyota Motor Corporation) Corporate Officers Committee Electronics & Engineering Department Jan. 2006 General Manager, Vehicle Planning Department, Global Strategic Production Planning Division and Project General Manager of China Division of Toyota Motor Corporation CAE Engineering Department Jan. 2008 General Manager, Machinery Division, Motomachi Plant of Toyota Motor Corporation CSR Committee AM Engineering Department (retired in Jun. 2010) Jun. 2010 Executive Officer of Toyota Tsusho Corporation Quality & PL Committee System Development Department Jun. 2011 Managing Executive Officer of Toyota Tsusho Corporation ESH Committee Apr. 2018 Technical Supervisor of Toyota Tsusho Corporation (to present) Mar. 2019 Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent) of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Risk Management Committee Manufacturing Engineering Department Number of shares of the Company held: 0 shares Production Innovation Division Procurement Planning Department Audit & Supervisory Board Environment & Safety Department Audit & Supervisory Board Members Business Transformation Division Component Solutions Segment Precision Equipment Company Power Control Company Accessibility Innovations Company Aerospace Company Railroad Products Company Marine Control Systems Company 77 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 78 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Ensure Management Transparency Promote Risk Management and Compliance Behavior Establishment of the Nabtesco Group Code • Nabtesco Group Code of Ethics Risk Management in General addition, in our compliance newsletter we publish risk of Ethics To strengthen the Group-wide and global compliance Implementation of the Nabtesco Group Code of Ethics The Nabtesco Group has a system in place to ensure management-related topics as part of our efforts to raise system, the Nabtesco Group has established the Nabtesco that profits and losses, capital efficiency, quality issues, employees’ awareness. (1) Behavioral Requirements for Directors, Officers and Employees Group Code of Ethics. extraordinary accidents and other matters concerning the (2) Behavioral Requirements for Executives and Managers The Legal & Compliance Department, which is in charge execution of business operations are reported to the Board of compliance issues, fulfills a central role by increasing (3) Reporting a Violation of this Code of Directors appropriately and in a timely manner, thereby • Compliance Promotion System compliance awareness among members of the Nabtesco (4) Discipline detecting risks at their early stages and minimizing losses. Advice/Recommendation Board of Directors Group in addition to fostering their compliance with laws In FY2018, to properly implement risk and crisis and regulations in order to enhance the Group’s corporate management at the Nabtesco Group and to maintain and 1. General Standards value over the medium to long term. The Nabtesco Group improve corporate value, we conducted risk assessment Compliance Committee 2. Relationships with Company (Chairperson: CEO) Code of Ethics shows, from the compliance viewpoint, the on Nabtesco and the Group companies in Japan and (Secretariat: Legal & Compliance basic approach to be taken by directors and employees (1) Respect for Human Rights overseas according to the risk management rules, which Department) of the Group for the implementation of the Corporate (2) Discrimination and Harassment were overhauled in FY2016, and the detailed rules on risk CEO Philosophy in their business activities. management. (3) Building Safe and Positive Workplace Environments Legal & Compliance In order to help directors and employees deepen their Also from FY2018, we have decided to conduct risk (4) Political and Religious Activities Department understanding of this Code of Ethics and take actions assessment annually for all Group companies across the that are in line with it, we have prepared a Compliance (5) Conflicts of Interest world, whereas previously risk assessments were carried Chief Compliance Officer (Every division, in-house companies Handbook, which is used for compliance education and 3. Fair and Honest Business Activities out every two years alternatively at domestic and overseas and Group companies) awareness-raising activities. The Code of Ethics and the (1) Fair Transactions Group companies. Compliance Liaison Meeting Compliance Handbook are available in nine languages Moreover, given that risks faced by corporations have (2) Anti-bribery, Gifts and Entertainment (Secretariat: Legal & Compliance (Japanese, English, Simplified Chinese, Traditional Chinese, been multiplying and becoming increasingly diversified, we (3) Trade Control Department) Korean, Thai, German, Italian and French) on Nabtesco’s identified serious Group-wide risks based on the results Compliance Officer (Every division, in-house companies website. (4) Relationship with Politics and Governments of risk assessment and discussed the countermeasures and Group companies) We also conducted education activities at all Nabtesco (5) Relationship with Anti-Social Forces to address them at a meeting of the Risk Management Group companies outside Japan to disseminate the Code of Committee, which was established in FY2016 as a forum 4. Management of Company Assets and Other Property Ethics from FY2017 to FY2018. for Group-wide risk management activities for prompt 1. Risks relevant to the economy and markets (1) Management of Company Assets We will continue to raise the awareness of the Code of actions. 2. Risks relevant to overseas operations Ethics through collective training to be provided locally in (2) Management of Confidential Information In FY2018, we managed the types of risks shown on the 3. Risks relevant to large-scale disasters Japan and overseas as well as through e-learning. (3) Management of Financial Information right and prevented losses. 4. Risks relevant to exchange rate fluctuations We also ensure the rationality, appropriateness and (4) Protection of Personal Information legality of decision-making and manage risks through 5. Risks relevant to procurement Fostering Compliance Awareness 6. Risks relevant to product quality Since FY2011, we have designated every October as the (5) Protection and Respect for Intellectual Property compliance with, and thoroughgoing implementation of, 7. Risks relevant to competition Nabtesco Group’s Corporate Ethics Month for all employees (6) Insider Trading the Group regulations for responsibility and authority. We 8. Risks relevant to information security to conduct activities to raise their compliance awareness 5. Relationships with Society have also established company regulations that set forth 9. Risks relevant to intellectual property under the leadership of the management team at their (1) Relationships with Society reporting procedures in the event of accidents, disasters, workplaces. critical quality problems and other incidents that may have 10. Risks relevant to laws, ordinances and regulations (2) Disclosure of Company Information In FY2018, we sent a video message from the CEO of a seriously negative impact on the Group’s business results, 11. Risks relevant to environment Nabtesco to all Group companies in Japan and overseas financial standing or credit. We thus have established 12. Risks relevant to corporate acquisition, etc. and conducted a Compliance Awareness Survey targeting a prompt and proper information communication and 13. Risks relevant to impairment loss of fixed assets employees of Nabtesco and our subsidiaries in Japan. (A emergency response system in case of a contingency. 14. Risks relevant to the securing of human resources total of 5,360 employees responded to the survey, up 990 With regard to monitoring, expert members at the Headquarters, such as the Business Auditing Department, relative to the previous survey.) •“Was Responses to the Compliance Awareness Survey your compliance awareness raised in recent years?” Also in FY2018, we decided to change the frequency of conduct cross-organizational audits of operational risk Risk Factors the Compliance Awareness Survey from every two years to management and offer necessary and appropriate advice Web https://www.nabtesco.com/en/ir/policy/risk_factors.html every year. No answer for operational improvement based on their expertise. In Increased 0.1% Not raised 31.3% • Established a global compliance system 2.6% Globalized the internal reporting system Initiatives on anti-corruption measures Measures implemented to prevent bid rigging Not much raised Total rate of respondents 11.0% who answered “increased” or “Rather increased” FY2017 FY2018— FY2016 FY2017–FY2018 FY2013 FY2015 FY2016— Rather Increased 86.2% Established a contact Introduced the system Established the Conducted awarenessPublished the Global Established the Code of Conducted awarenessfor Group companies in to Group companies in Nabtesco Group Antiraising activities Antitrust Compliance Conduct for Prevention raising activities (in54.9% China Europe, North America Bribery Policy across overseas Group Guidebook of Bid Rigging house seminars, training and Southeast/South companies, assessed of executive officers, Total number of respondents: 5,360 Asia their bribery risks and e-learning, etc.) introduced local bribery prevention rules 79 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 80 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Dialogue with a Strategic Partner (Akita) For Nabtesco to survive in the market, we have no choice but to continue fostering innovation for sustainable growth that sense, Nabtesco cannot fully handle these technologies with its past technological expertise. We have been working to catch up with competitors in the Industrie 4.0 ﬁeld, especially by using external human resources, but the speed of open innovation for new technologies, which is led by startups, is too fast for us to catch up easily. Akita: Nabtesco started selling precision reduction gears Startups have no time to spare when making decisions more than 30 years ago, and the business has become a on market entry and the introduction of new technologies. mainstay for the company. Since the products’ launch, They have no choice but to just do it. They have a clear however, the company has not developed any new understanding of what they need to do. technologies or businesses along these lines. We have a In contrast, large companies are not able to address concern about this and perhaps may be faced with the this problem. They have core businesses, large customers “Innovator’s Dilemma.” and experienced employees. Even if they want to launch a Director, Emerald Technology Nabtesco Technology Nerima: Speciﬁcally, Christensen points out the following: new business on a full scale, they are faced with a range of General Manager, Technology and Ventures Ventures R&D Division Managing Partner CEO (1) Large customers place bulk orders for existing constraints. Nabtesco Corporation products and services. Nerima: Christensen says that leading companies need to (2) As a result of using resources to meet the needs of engage in creative self-disruption in order to overcome the Toshiaki Akita Gina Domanig Hiroshi Nerima these customers, the development of nextInnovator’s Dilemma, without fearing “cannibalization” Honoriﬁc titles omitted in the following dialogue. generation technologies tends to be delayed at large between new and existing technologies. companies. Ms. Domanig, I think you have closely witnessed Toward the Global Acceleration of Open Innovation (3) Over the course of time, social trends will begin to change and practical use of next-generation companies being faced with the Innovator’s Dilemma over the years in your capacity as Managing Partner of a unique technologies will be expanded. technology-oriented venture capital company that bridges In June 2018, the Nabtesco Group founded Nabtesco Technology Ventures AG (NTV) in Zurich, (4) Then large customers will also want to use nextlarge companies and startups. Are there any “prescriptions” Switzerland, as a company to manage the Group’s corporate venture capital (CVC) fund. For the CVC generation products. for established companies to accelerate innovation? (5) However, large companies do not have any Domanig: I also think that leading companies need to activities, the Group also formed a strategic partnership with Emerald Technology Ventures AG (ETV). technologies or products to meet this new demand. engage in “creative self-disruption” to overcome the Toshiaki Akita, General Manager, Technology and R&D Division of Nabtesco Corporation, had a meeting (6) Finally, competitors and startups will dominate the difficulties caused by disruptive technology, but doing the with ETV Managing Partner Gina Domanig to talk about the partnership, which was designed to lead to market. right thing is truly the most difficult. Speciﬁcally, there are the global acceleration of open innovation. Christensen also points out that large companies have four challenges that have to be overcome: (1) development a tendency to protect their dominant position in the market, of a new company; (2) purchase of a new company; (3) being afraid that they might lose a great deal if they let discontinuance of an existing company; and (4) (Meeting held at the head office of NTV with CEO Hiroshi Nerima of NTV serving as moderator) new competitors, which have new technologies that they understanding the differences between what is optimal for do not possess, enter the market. Is this happening or will management and what is optimal for shareholders. soon happen to Nabtesco? Nerima: Could you explain those four points in a bit more Will Nabtesco fall into “The Innovator’s fund, we can make investments in two to three startups Akita: Maybe that is true. For precision reduction gears, detail? Dilemma” in the future? per year and a total of about 15 companies over the next Nabtesco captures a 60% share of the global market. We Domanig: First, Christensen proposed that a new company ﬁve years by using roughly EUR 75 million in total. have long been supplying our products to robotic be established as a spinoff and be operated under the Nerima: Mr. Akita, you taking responsibility as General Nerima: Speciﬁcally, in what startups do you plan to manufacturers in Japan and abroad while developing new direct control of the president, somewhere far away from Manager of the Technology and R&D Division. I would like invest? products to meet a wider range of customer needs. the head office and empowered with enough personnel, to ask you about Nabtesco’s technology strategies, the Akita: First of all, we are looking at startups that have However, we do not need “disruptive technology” for resources and money. However, it is challenging to do this progress with open innovation and the CVC activities that technologies such as those related to robotics, motor drives, progressive development. Conversely, in line with new due to the unavailability of highly motivated talented play a core role for open innovation. I would also ask ETV precision reduction gears and brakes, as well as those that social trends, Nabtesco’s large customers are turning their individuals. Executives in charge of the major businesses Managing Partner Gina Domanig ETV for her advice on have “disruptive technology” for these products. Second, we sights to the development of humanoid robots, as well as at the company will not let excellent human resources be successful CVC management. will consider startups with leading-edge production industrial robots, and are making investments and forming transferred to the new company, and employees heading Mr. Akita, for what purpose did Nabtesco establish the technologies for surface treatment and additive business partnerships with startups in the AI sector toward up the major businesses will be reluctant to work for a CVC fund? manufacturing. Third, we will examine startups with Industrie the development of next-generation technologies and new minor new business. It is also difficult to ﬁnd and recruit Akita: We established the fund to speed up the 4.0 technologies, such as those for sensors, IoT and AI. products. suitable human resources. implementation of Nabtesco’s technology strategies and Nerima: We associate “disruptive technology” with The Second, while purchasing a startup might be an easier accelerate open innovation through creative collaboration Innovator’s Dilemma written by Clayton Christensen. A Nabtesco’s creative “self-disruption” option, it is difficult to identify the appropriate startup to between Nabtesco and start-up companies. We want to large company cannot easily change itself after achieving purchase. Post-merger integration (PMI) is really promote creative collaboration, including joint success because it might lose a lot by doing something Nerima: The elemental technologies required for such challenging even between large companies, and its development, with startups with motion control related new. However, by undertaking newly developed technology, development include those for downsizing, electriﬁcation success rate is not that high. It would be even more difficult technologies, for which Nabtesco has core technologies, in that startups can make a proﬁt, they are highly and sensor technology as well as IoT, AI and other between a large company and a startup. There are and with those having “disruptive technology” that might motivated to make changes. hardware and software elements combining technologies. uncertainties about the startup’s technological uniqueness, pose a threat to Nabtesco in the future. Through the CVC Is Nabtesco in the “Innovator’s Dilemma”? Akita: These are so-called “Industrie 4.0” technologies. In business feasibility and proﬁtability. Moreover, if the 81 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 82 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile (Domanig) Investing through CVC thus entails a very careful process for a large company and a startup to understand each other toward the ﬁnal M&A. survive in the market, we have no choice but to continue technology cannot be implemented,” and “We should not organizations. Speciﬁcally, these are: (1) a function to fostering innovation for sustainable growth. In the current invest in a startup with no established systems.” They will identify the needs of your in-house companies and foster tendency toward open innovation led by startups, I think have many reasons why they are against making creative collaboration with startups; and (2) a function to CVC provides an effective method for Nabtesco to meet the investments in startups. While listening to these opinions, make investments in startups in line with the needs of the challenges pointed out by Ms. Domanig. management must make appropriate decisions for total in-house companies. To do this, you need to have deep Domanig: Based on my experience at Emerald, CVC optimization while considering matters on a long-term knowledge and insights regarding each business and management team is unexperienced, which is often the provides large companies with an important strategic tool basis. technology as well as human resources who have strong case, the possibility of successful integration will further for the solution of the Innovator’s Dilemma. Second, after making investments you might ﬁnd connections with engineers. decrease. A CVC fund helps a company to meet the challenge of yourself saying, “We have invested in the creative Moreover, in order to ﬁnd and adopt new technologies Further, it is truly challenging for a large company to implementing a project that is independent from the head collaboration between our in-house companies and the that might pose a threat to Nabtesco at an early stage, discontinue an existing business. Directors tend to continue office and is empowered with enough personnel, resources startup but still cannot gain support from employees,” and build a hypothesis for new technologies apart from your postponing doing so while in service, making excuses by and money, as proposed by Christensen. CVC also provides “Making investments to the monetary limit has become the internal needs and make investments in the technologies saying: “We are paying attention to future business trends,” a strategic tool for a company to meet the second very goal for the CVC fund and its secretariat.” These are by overcoming differences in opinions among members of “We are carefully measuring the potential of new challenge, which is to purchase a startup with promising typical causes of failure. your company. technologies,” “We refrain from making careless decisions technologies. Moreover, you might invest in a startup without enough Nerima: Hasn’t Nabtesco fallen into the traps yet? quickly,” “We are constantly communicating and consulting CVC-based minority investment provides the head knowledge of the investment conditions or without having Akita: Nabtesco has designed an ideal organization for the with all those concerned,” and “We are actively considering office with a means to build an M&A pipeline. The ﬁveto expertise in the management of investees. For example, CVC and will implement it fully toward the future. I will creative collaboration with other companies through 10-year investment period could be considered a long “due you might “purchase a startup at an unreasonably high monitor the CVC activities as General Manager of the strategic partnerships.” They can avoid incurring the diligence” period. Investing through CVC thus entails a very price because of the lack of the ability to evaluate the Technology and R&D Division to ensure truly effective use enmity of those above them, colleagues and junior staff by careful process for a large company and a startup to business value,” or “forget the fact that you are making an of the fund. postponing the discontinuance. understand each other toward the ﬁnal M&A. investment as a means to gain access to innovation.” These Nerima: Finally, what do you think is important in order to Even if a large company has met these challenges in its Akita: CVC cannot meet the third challenge of discontinuing are also frequent causes of failure. foster creative collaboration with startups? effort to get out of the Innovator’s Dilemma, it will be faced an existing business. However, CVC investments are made Nerima: How could we avoid falling into such traps? Domanig: You might need to think how to provide a startup with the fourth problem: objections from shareholders. It is outside the decision-making scope of the head office for Domanig: It is important to design an organization in line with the resources that it needs rather than what you can unfortunate, but could happen. prompt and ﬂexible investing within the range and amount with the business strategy and operate it as planned. take from the startup. In particular, for short-term shareholders it would be a decided by the Board of Directors and are free from the Speciﬁcally, you need to establish a decision-making Akita: To this end, it is critical for us to engage in dialogue waste of money if a company in which they have invested constraints found at the head office. process for CVC activities apart from the existing decisionwith startups from their viewpoints. We need to deal with in recognition of its existing business makes a bold As for the fourth challenge, if management and making system. The CEO, General Manager of the startups by respecting them as our business partners on decision to let “cannibalization” happen between existing shareholders can continue having a dialogue about Technology and R&D Division or other director in charge an equal footing. and new technologies. These shareholders will not care sustainable growth and the long-term increase of should directly supervise the process and have direct Domanig: I am glad that Emerald has been given an even if large companies become extinct along with their corporate value without being overly inﬂuenced by shortcommunication with the head of the CVC fund to make opportunity to help Nabtesco foster creative collaboration existing technologies and will choose to invest directly in term business performance, I think we can ﬁnd the best decisions appropriately. as a strategic partner of the company. I will make efforts to new-generation startups for more efficient use of their solution for all stakeholders, including shareholders, Next, you must understand that a CVC fund needs to support NTV in getting their CVC activities on track and capital. employees and customers. play two different functions, and to meet this requirement, help Nabtesco accelerate its movement toward open Nerima: Does Nabtesco need to engage in “creative selfDomanig: Emerald has no obligations in relation to you must have the necessary human resources and innovation. disruption”? Nabtesco. From a neutral position and based on our Akita: Nabtesco was launched as the merger of two experience and proven track record as well as on our companies 16 years ago and was in fact established unique abilities as a technology-oriented venture capital through creative self-disruption. Overcoming the four fund established in Switzerland, we can help Nabtesco problems pointed out by Ms. Domanig, Nabtesco was carefully follow a due diligence process and make quick founded and continued to achieve sustainable growth to responses to startups. expand its sales and market value. However, the selfdisruption process launched at the foundation of the Tips for success and traps leading to company has come to a stop and the excitement and failure regarding the CVC fund passion has gone. Therefore, I think we are beginning to face the challenges pointed out by Ms. Domanig. Nerima: However, there seem to be not many Japanese companies that have been successful in CVC activities. CVC is an important strategic tool for the Could you give us tips for success as a person who has solution of the dilemma. long been supporting Japanese companies in managing CVC funds? Nerima: You think Nabtesco needs to implement its second Domanig: Nabtesco has just established a CVC fund, and creative self-disruption, going back to the basics. What do for the company, let me introduce traps leading to failure you think the company speciﬁcally needs to do? rather than tips for success. Akita: Nabtesco is a technology-oriented company and has First, disruptive technology tends to cause resistance motion control technology as its mainstay. For Nabtesco to among your employees. They might say, “Such a 83 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 84 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Materiality Enhance Customer Satisfaction M at e r i al i t y Enhance Customer Satisfaction The Nabtesco Group is working to enhance our competitive edge in our existing businesses while also creating new products and services in order to meet the diversiﬁed and advanced needs of customers. In particular, we Intellectual Property Activities to Support Innovation endeavor to supply high value-added products and services that meet the quality, cost and delivery (QCD) needs of customers in pursuit of the enhancement of their QCD performance. Intellectual Property-Backed Management In addition, with the aim of nurturing a culture in which Strategies all engineers proactively develop ideas for new businesses In order to help all of its stakeholders including customers and technologies as well as design/manufacturing and partner companies to achieve sustainable growth and know-how, we encourage active creative activities as a Producing Innovations business expansion, the Nabtesco Group deems the core values that serve as a source of business competitiveness performance evaluation target for in-house companies. Moreover, we give commendations to excellent inas intellectual properties and makes Group-wide efforts house inventors who have contributed to our businesses Promoting Comprehensive Measures to development of metal additive manufacturing technology, to promote intellectual property-backed management under the Nabtesco Brilliant Inventor (NBI) system at the Produce Innovations including peripheral element technologies, and using these strategies that are designed to protect and increase the company’s founding anniversary ceremonies, thus praising Nabtesco has been achieving further growth by innovative technologies for manufacturing innovation in the competitive advantage of such intellectual properties, thus such contributions across the Group and increasing accumulating technologies and know-how. We have made aircraft equipment business. pursuing the enhancement of corporate value. employees’ motivation toward creative activities. this achievement with each of our business departments Furthermore, in response to the rapid advancement of Through these initiatives, we endeavor to enhance supporting customers in developing their products based IoT and AI, we are enhancing our sensing technologies. Analyzing Core Value and Implementing the creativity of each employees to speed up the rate of on our motion control technology for stopping and moving Combining the monitoring of products by sensors with Measures to Enhance That Value innovation, with the aim of developing comprehensive with precision. the analysis of big data makes the diagnosis of failures In its intellectual property strategies, the Nabtesco Group technologies and intellectual capital. Recently, in response to the diversification and possible. This helps us add the monitoring function to the focuses on finding and enhancing technological elements sophistication of customer needs, we have been focusing stopping and moving functions provided by our products, for the future development of the Group in addition to Central Management of Intellectual more on developing and proposing mechatronic products allowing us to provide high value-added products and protecting the existing businesses and profits. Property and Promotion of Business and systems with a view to increasing our growth expand the maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) afterThe business departments analyze the core value that Utilization opportunities, in addition to supplying single components sale services. serves as a source of competitiveness and are implementing The Intellectual Property Department centrally manages and services for which we have competitive advantages. measures to enhance that value for the future. This core information related to intellectual property, including Further, we are now expected to supply products and Increasing R&D Efficiency and Promoting value includes technologies and ideas for products, design original ideas and know-how, information on technological services that provide a preventive function through Human Capital Development through and manufacturing know-how, sales information and contracts and information about the intellectual property monitoring, in addition to the “stopping and moving” Proactive Open Innovation longstanding relationships of trust with customers, as of customers and competitors gathered and analyzed by functions. Nabtesco is fostering open innovation. well as various other tangible and intangible intellectual using technology marketing (IP landscaping), and utilizes To meet these needs, the Nabtesco Group is accelerating Our core open innovation base is the Nabtesco properties. We are identifying these sources of value, such information for businesses based on information measures to provide customers with a broader variety R&D Center (RDC), which was established within the sorting them into properties to be protected as confidential sharing within the Nabtesco Group and the generation of of value under the leadership of the Technology and R&D Kyoto Research Park (KRP) in 2017 by transferring the information and those to be protected in the form of patents synergies from the core value. Division, and is fostering comprehensive measures to departments of the Technology and R&D Division located and other rights, and are making strategic use of these The Nabtesco Group will continue to evolve its intellectual produce innovations. at the Kobe Plant. At the RDC we are making use of the properties based on their appropriate management. property activities in order to achieve sustainable and power of KRP as an innovation hub housing around 400 profitable growth with its customers in the future. Fostering the Sharing of Advanced companies, while proactively conducting R&D activities Newly Including the Creation of Intellectual Technologies and Know-how across the through industry-academia collaboration with both Property in the Performance Indicators • business Intellectual property that enhances the Nabtesco Group’s Business Departments domestic and overseas companies and universities. In FY2017, we included the creation of intellectual property value One of the missions of the Technology and R&D Division We are collaborating with ETHZ of Switzerland to build in the performance indicators for the in-house companies is to technically support each business department in a power electronics-related theory and develop a prototype and Group companies. It has been ensured that actions implementing measures for sustainable growth. To along with starting a joint research project to develop a related to intellectual property strategies are systematized, Nabtesco’s intellectual property this end, the Division is working to acquire advanced motion control system. formulated and implemented as one of the business plans development methodologies, element technologies and Furthermore, in June 2018, Nabtesco established in the medium-term management plans set for each of the Trust of customers Brand know-how ahead of competitors and to share them with Nabtesco Technology Ventures AG (NTV) in Zurich, in-house companies. Patents Design the business departments across a range of fields for Switzerland, which will lead our corporate venture capital product development progress. (CVC) activities. • Number of notifications on intellectual property creation Technologies Copyright Nabtesco has been making proactive use of computerIn addition, we have established a strategic partnership aided engineering (CAE) and additive manufacturing (AM) regarding the CVC activities with Emerald Technology 800 as IT-based development and design tools. Ventures. Through this strategic cooperation, NTV will 10% increase Know-how Data year on year In the CAE field, the Division is making fluid analysis acquire Emerald's two decades of experience in corporate More than tripled in ﬁve years to analyze the flows of air and oil, and is also making venturing, its global presence across the United States and Nabtesco’s 522 advanced analysis by combining structural analysis on Europe, and know-how on corporate value creation. 486 Information products Contracts strength and heat resistance with flow analysis. In addition, 400 349 371 the Division is simulating manufacturing processes and 298 sharing advanced analysis technologies widely with the business departments to make their development and 168 manufacturing processes more efficient. In the AM field, we are making use of the know-how of CMET Inc. This 0 Nabtesco Group company provides customers with 3D 2013 2014 2015* 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) printers that use resin-based high-speed stereolithography (target) technology. We are thus pressing forward with the * Because the fiscal year-end was changed from FY2015, the results for this fiscal year have been annualized. 85 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 86 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Mater i ali ty Enhance Customer Satisfaction Materiality Proper, Fair and Transparent Procurement Activities We at the Nabtesco Group have been pursuing collaboration with suppliers with the aim of strengthening our Manufacturing Innovation comprehensive procurement capabilities from the perspectives of sustainability, including QCD and technological development. In order to achieve mediumto long-term growth for the Group, it is essential to secure a Promoting Manufacturing Innovation the use of AI, thus developing cutting-edge systems to sustainable supply chain. We are promoting CSR-oriented procurement by recognizing proper, fair and transparwith the Aim of Developing Unrivalled realize production management suitable for each in-house ent procurement activities as one aspects of our materiality. Manufacturing Technology to Be Globally company in the future. Competitive Since FY2016, the Nabtesco Group has been committed Promoting Automation of Labor-intensive to promoting its manufacturing innovation in order to Work That Requires Advanced Skills Nabtesco Group’s Procurement Activities establish an overwhelming competitive edge and enhance As there are processes that require advanced skills, profitability and capital efficiency. including machining processes, assembly and inspection in Through manufacturing innovation, we endeavor to plant operations, the automation of processes that depend Fundamental Approach for Proper, Fair we have implemented SAQ* for primary suppliers, further enhance corporate value by pursuing even higher on the advanced skills of workers is indispensable looking and Transparent Procurement Activities including key suppliers in and outside Japan every year QCD performance to meet the needs of our customers ahead to the further decline of the working-age population. The Nabtesco Group conducts business with about 1,000 since FY2014. based on advanced automation, renewed production To this end, we promote the automation of highsuppliers of various types, centering around the purchase In FY2018, by expanding our scope to China, we management, logistics reforms and strengthening of level work processes by introducing and utilizing unique of metal parts, and electronic and electrical components, implemented SAQ, which is based on our CSR-Oriented supply chains, while improving profitability and capital production technologies in addition to advanced robot outsourced machining, assembly and processing. Our Procurement Policy using the questionnaire method, to 990 efficiency. and sensing technologies. In addition, we aim to develop business with suppliers is an important factor that affects suppliers (all primary suppliers including 862 suppliers in flexible, advanced automated lines in order to respond to the Nabtesco Group’s cost structure and QCD performance. Japan and 128 suppliers in China). Identifying Strengths and Weaknesses large variety and small quantity production and enable It is indispensable to secure the supply chain continuously The questions in the questionnaire comprise six large through Analysis of the Management KPIs agile changes in variety and quantity. in order to achieve mediumto long-term growth. categories and 41 middle categories based on the items of Each In-house Company Therefore, we develop collaboration systems through in the CSR-Oriented Procurement Policy. We performed an Based on multifaceted analysis of management Key Logistics Reforms for Overall Optimization proper, fair and transparent business transactions based evaluation according to the weight of each middle category Performance Indicators (KPIs), including the operating profit across Supply Chains on the proper cost structure and close partnerships with item. We revised questions related to the environment in ratio, value added per manufacturing worker, inventory While realizing a comprehensive production system without suppliers. line with our science based targets (SBT). turnover period, production lead time and on-time delivery excess inventories by expanding the use of automated Our goal is to obtain 80 points or more out of 100 points rate for customer services and procurement, we identify the strengths and weaknesses of each in-house company guided vehicles (AGVs) within the Group, we reinforce data linkage in supply chains. Moreover, we strive to enhance • Material Procurement in Japan in each large category item by FY2019. In FY2018, we achieved the goal of 80 points or more in two out of the six and implement measures based on such strengths across logistics efficiency through 3rd party logistics (3PL) and the items. Assembly work Metal parts the Group while promoting the further enhancement of milk-run system*. We analyzed and evaluated the questionnaire results strengths. * Collecting shipments in a preset route 18% 34% for each supplier and fed them back in a written document. In order to enhance our CSR activities, we visited 12 Building a Visualization (Status Monitoring) Acquiring Overwhelming Cost companies in Japan and five companies in China in FY2018 Breakdown of System with ICT Competitiveness While Maintaining WinMachining Material Procurement and worked on the extraction of improvement items and As a result of the analysis of management KPIs, it was Win Relationships with Suppliers 16% (FY2018) risks in the environment, safety and health and planning of revealed that there have been significant delays in We aim to attain cost competitiveness that overwhelms improvement measures. We will continue to refine the SAQ identifying issues and taking countermeasures due to a Other parts Electronic and by, for example, considering the questions and response competitors through the synergies of in-house companies electrical components failure to grasp on-site issues on a real-time basis. in purchasing activities such as centralized/joint 18% methods. To address this issue, we have taken measures to procurement from suppliers that continue to provide high 13% *SAQ: Self Assessment Questionnaire (self-check sheet) develop a system to promote the visualization and unified performance in terms of quality, cost and delivery (QCD). management of on-site information as well as the early While pushing forward with CRS-oriented procurement, Measures to Support Suppliers, detection of daily issues through the usage of ICT devices. we are currently promoting the development of business Establishment of Nabtesco Group CSRDevelopment of Business Continuity Plans We plan to automate decision-making and forecasting, continuity plans (BCPs) by our suppliers. Oriented Procurement Policy (BCPs) which are currently conducted by people, through the In 2014, aiming to further foster CSR activities across the We at the Nabtesco Group deem potential damage to introduction of manufacturing execution systems with supply chain, we established the Nabtesco Group CSRsuppliers in the event of a large-scale disaster as a Oriented Procurement Policy. In formulating this policy, significant risk to our business continuity and have been • ROIC Improvement by Building Manufacturing Innovation we referred to the ISO 26000 standard, the United Nations taking measures to mitigate procurement risk. ROIC improvement measures Aim Direction Key challenges Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the In collaboration with local communities of the areas electronic industry citizenship coalition (EICC) Code of where many of our suppliers are located, we have asked • More advanced automation Strengthening production • Standardization/on-site improvement (manufacturing Conduct and other international guidelines, and also many suppliers to attend the BCP awareness seminars Reduce internal costs held by the local communities. In addition, we provide capability support) incorporated into the policy the ideas expressed in the Increasing operating • Development of unique production technologies Nabtesco Group Code of Ethics. those suppliers that have attended such seminars with an income margin • Optimization of “Make & Buy” opportunity to participate in our lectures on formulating a Lower procurement costs Strengthening procurement ability • Cross-organizational procurement CSR Procurement in Collaboration with BCP, thus providing an opportunity to implement measures (strengthening of supply chains) Generating CR (Cost Reduction) synergies Centralized/joint procurement Suppliers toward formulating a BCP as a practical exercise. The Nabtesco Group identifies primary suppliers for our Shortening production business sustainability based on their trade volume, lead times Strengthening production • Renewal of production management with the use of ICT Increasing assets turnover • Logistics reform QCD performance, technical development capability, Shortening inventory management ability Realization of 3PL, milk-run system, etc. financial health and other factors and reflects them in our turnover period transactions. To enhance our CSR-oriented procurement, 87 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 88 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Materiality Ensure Quality and Safety In our long-term relationships of trust with customers, the Nabtesco Group has engaged in market creation, Attributing Importance to “Knowing Why” in Measures toward Enhancing the Basis for product development and product safety in collaboration with customers. By recognizing the realization of Business Operations Quality We started the “Know-why” Nabtesco activity in FY2015. In addition to the aforementioned activities, we are working safety, comfort and a sense of security for general people who use our customers’ products as a material issue, This activity is designed to encourage employees to ask to enhance the basis for our design and manufacturing we endeavor to collect and analyze data on actual usage conditions and usage environment while seeking the “Why?” when they do not understand some aspect of their quality through Group-wide training initiatives, including necessary safety, reliability and stability as well as comfort based on functionality and performance in order to business operations and to search for the reason, principle, giving intensive basic education on quality to new ensure quality and safety. purpose or objective. In the activity, employee questions employees and instructing employees at plants in Japan, about their own business operations are collected, and bases outside the country and at suppliers about 5S* those that appear repeatedly or are deemed important are improvements as well as providing technical training on picked up to be solved at meetings held in the respective product liability and safety, training on risk assessment, Management of Quality workplaces. The details of the meetings are shared by related employees to improve work quality and pass on manufacturers’ ethics training and training for mid-career hires. their knowledge, wisdom and technological know-how to * The 5Ss are seiri (sort), seiton (set in order), seiso (shine), seiketsu (standardize) and shitsuke (sustain). Promotion System Based on the Quality & Continuing to Cultivate a Quality-Oriented the next generation. PL Committee Workforce to Create an Advanced Quality In an effort to listen to the voices of its customers and Culture the users of its products and to respond to the changes, demands and requests of society, the Nabtesco Group The Nabtesco Group provides a variety of systems and product lineups and believes that we will not be able Management of Occupational Safety sets forth the Nabtesco Group Quality and PL* Policy and to increase the quality of all these products by drawing promotes manufacturing based on quality engineering, upon a limited stock of technologies and methods. Ensure Safety by a Three-Pronged Approach, well as investigating any remaining on-site safety risks. quality management and PL management (including We are therefore introducing IT and other advanced Giving First Priority to Protecting People The members also summarize the audit results and the product safety control) under the leadership of the Quality technologies to our quality management, while attributing For manufacturers, “safety” means: (1) manufacturing achievements made by the sites through the ESH activities and PL Committee. special importance to the creation of a culture of quality products in a safe manner, (2) making safe products, and for review by the Group’s management team at the end At the Quality and PL Committee, annual activity policies manufacturing for all our products. (3) ensuring the safety of products during use. These three of each fiscal year, and the review results are utilized to are determined by clarifying issues and challenges for Such a culture can be created as a result of longrequirements should be met together, as we cannot deliver improve the activities for the next fiscal year. We have thus the entire Group, and actual work is conducted by each term education, training and organizational management. safe products to customers without ensuring the safety been executing the Plan, Do, Check and Act (PDCA) cycle to in-house company by applying the policies to specific We believe that helping employees gain a meaningful of our manufacturing facilities and providing necessary steadily increase the safety of our manufacturing facilities. activities. However, since the types of products and target experience that allows them to think and act in line with core maintenance, service and safety functions. industries significantly vary among in-house companies, principles and rules to make really effective use of available Manufacturing safe products and ensuring the safety of Conducting Multifaceted and Steady Activities it has become increasingly difficult to carry out audits on technologies will, in turn, help the entire company improve products during use help our customers ensure the safety All incidents, including minor ones, are required to be the activities of all in-house companies in accordance with its manufacturing quality on a long-term basis. Based on of their products and their end users, while ensuring the reported across the Nabtesco Group for informationfixed rules and standards. To address such issues, we this belief, we have been providing employees with unique safety of our manufacturing facilities and providing even sharing purposes. In particular, for a serious incident, strive to grasp the situation of each in-house company, education, including via the “Quality University” courses. safer maintenance and service functions help protect the we conduct an on-site examination to analyze the cause, provide advice and identify what the head office can do in While the Quality University courses were initially health and well-being of our employees and their families decide on the items to be focused on and implement order to support improvement at our regular meetings, targeted at selected design engineers when they were and reduce social losses. Based on this recognition, the measures based on the results. In addition, we enhance thus implementing more effective, specific measures. introduced in 2007, a course for managers was added Nabtesco Group is taking a three-pronged approach to our safety patrols and risk detection training to increase *PL: Product Liability in 2009. Since FY2012, we have designated a mandatory safety, with first priority given to protecting people over employees’ sensitivity to risks, as well as promoting “near quality education course for Group employees in their cost reduction and profit-making. miss”*1 incident reporting and safety awareness-raising • Nabtesco Group Quality and PL Policy third year of employment. Every year about 30 to 40 activities. young employees participate in this six-month course to Centrally Fostering Environmental, Safety As a result of these efforts, the lost time injury To fulfill our corporate social responsibility (CSR) by delivering products with the highest levels of safety, learn about quality management to increase their quality and Health Management frequency rate*2 has been below the industry’s average awareness. The number of employees who have completed The Nabtesco Group has been implementing multifaceted for the most recent five years. However, in order to comfort, security and reliability, we will: the Quality University courses has been steadily increasing measures to increase the safety of its manufacturing achieve zero workplace accidents, which is the Group’s each year. The graduates have been acting as forerunners facilities toward achieving the goal of zero work-related overall target, we need to implement even more advanced 1. Give priority to safety over anything else, based on of the Nabtesco Group’s culture of quality manufacturing. accidents in the Group-wide ESH activities. measures. the principle of respect for people; *1 Near miss: An event that could have resulted in injury or other incidents ESH stands for “environment, safety and health”. Our *2 lost time injury frequency rate: Please see Financial/Non-Financial Highlights Group Environment, Safety & Health (ESH) Committee, on page 12. 2. Meet safety and other quality needs of products which reports directly to the president, centrally fosters through the integration of business activities and the management of ESH across the Group, including by Starting New Activities to Nurture a Safety quality and PL activities; and promoting the reduction of environmental impacts as well Culture as ensuring the safety and health of employees. In order to further improve workplace safety, we 3. Realize product quality, which satisfies market The Group ESH Committee centrally collects, analyzes commenced new activities aimed at nurturing a safety demand, by conducting safety and other quality and evaluates important ESH-related information culture and ensuring that the entire organization adopts evaluations prior to the release of products to the and discusses necessary measures. In addition, the a more safety-oriented attitude in 2017 in addition to market. committee members annually visit each of the Group’s implementing measures against individual risk factors. We sites to carry out ESH audits to check on-site activities will aim to achieve zero-workplace accidents by creating and give instructions as necessary. For safety, the an organization that nurtures a safety culture through members examine whether the accident and disaster our four activities including the STOP3 activity, stratified Group photo of past students of the Quality University courses (Jan. 2010) countermeasures implemented at the sites are appropriate safety education system, safety model workplaces and or not and how these measures are implemented, as environmental safety forums. 89 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 90 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Materiality Develop Human Capital and Promote Workplace Diversity, Provide Safe and Comfortable Workplaces The Nabtesco Group is implementing a wide range of initiatives on human capital management that makes use Fostering Workplace Diversity of the abilities of individual employees for the beneﬁt of the entire company. We are also continuing to raise employees’ awareness of The Nabtesco Way to enhance the unity of the entire Group. We will achieve Active Employment of Non-Japanese who majored in mechanical engineering and electrical/ Nationals Including Foreign Students electronic engineering, who are our primary recruitment Operational Excellence by increasing the Group’s ability to attract job seekers and expanding the possibilities of Studying in Japan targets. Going forward, we will continue to uphold this goal our human capital as the driving force for the growth of the Group. Non-Japanese employees have different ways of looking at and continue our efforts to recruit female workers. things and active attitudes toward work, and as such, they Work Style Reforms are expected to have positive effects on other personnel. Promoting Employment of Persons with As a result of implementing measures such as holding Disabilities job fairs to provide information on the Nabtesco Group The Nabtesco Group has endeavored to maintain the Securing Talented Workers and Increasing Becoming an Attractive Company targeted specifically at foreign students studying in Japan employment of persons with disabilities and has achieved Labor Productivity where Employees Can Work with More and conducting recruiting activities aimed at overseas the statutory employment rate every year since FY2015. The Japanese government has been fostering work style Satisfaction universities, as of December 31, 2018, foreign nationals In addition, we established Nabtesco Link Corporation, reforms nationwide to help companies secure workers by The Nabtesco Group has been fostering work style reforms from nine countries have joined Nabtesco’s workforce. a Group company intended to promote the employment of improving the work environment to enable a diverse range entitled “Stage-up 2.0.” This is comprised of (1) personnel persons with disabilities in Gifu Prefecture where one of of individuals to demonstrate their abilities. As part of the system reform to improve work-life balance and the Proactive Employment of Women our production site is located, in FY2015. In FY2016, the reforms, the government plans to tighten labor-related work environment; (2) operational reform to eliminate To promote employment of female employees, we hold company was approved by the Ministry of Health, Labour laws and regulations, including introducing a ceiling on wasteful work by making better use of IT, automation and job fairs specifically for female college students. While and Welfare as a Specialized Subsidiary Company that overtime hours. In response, companies urgently need to AI; (3) production reform to foster the development of our target had been to attain a ratio of females among meets the requirements under the Act on Promotion of the increase their labor productivity. production and automation technologies; and (4) cultural new graduates for managerial positions at no lower than Employment of Persons with Disabilities. In FY2017, Gifu For Nabtesco Corporation, 40 or more hours of overtime reform to provide the basis for other types of reform. 20% each year, the actual ratio for FY2017 and FY2018 Prefecture selected Nabtesco Link as one of the model work had been recorded monthly at around 25% of the By steadily securing talented employees and increasing fell below the goal due to the scarcity of female graduates employers for the employment of persons with disabilities. company prior to the implementation of the work style labor productivity in terms of “personnel,” “operational,” reforms. While overtime has been reduced to around 20% “production” and “cultural” aspects, we aim to make now as a result of rectification measures against long Nabtesco an attractive employer offering workplaces working hours, we believe it is necessary to continue our efforts to improve labor productivity. where workers can work with satisfaction. Work-Life Balance Furthermore, as the Japanese population is declining, Methods for Implementing Work Style the shrinking workforce is becoming a mediumto longReforms Realizing a Better Work-Life Balance Work-Life Balance Nabtesco believes that helping individual employees Web term social issue. Accordingly more businesses are eagerly For work style reforms, we will continuously make https://nabtesco.disclosure.site/en/themes/122 trying to secure talented human resources while more improvements by executing a PDCA cycle. First, we will maintain their physical and mental health and lead a and more people are quitting their companies for personal conduct a survey on employees to understand their fulfilling life in accordance with their personal preferences reasons. present situations. Then, under the leadership of the will foster the creation of new value and ideas, which will in As a result of these measures, Nabtesco has been Amid the rise in fluidity of human resources anticipated Business Transformation Division, we will plan and turn help the company to revitalize our organizations and certified as one of the Health and Productivity Management in the future, we believe that it will significantly boost our implement improvement initiatives, measure their effects, increase our productivity. Based on this recognition we have Organizations in the large enterprise category (White 500), competitiveness if we give consideration to the work styles and conduct follow-up activities by monitoring KPIs, such introduced a range of systems for a better work-life balance. receiving high recognition externally as well. of individual employees and increase our attractiveness to as per-hour labor productivity. In particular, for operational potential employees by helping employees work with vigor improvement, we will make use of robotic process while also leading fulfilling personal lives. automation (RPA) for the automation of operations. We are also considering making use of artificial intelligence (AI) and have begun research to this end. Human Rights Management By continuing to execute a PDCA cycle, we will make each employee more aware of the importance of operational Human Rights Policy verify the methods and effects of human rights due efficiency and provide an environment in which they can The Nabtesco Group is committed to the upholding of diligence to effectively respond to human rights impacts “Enjoy the Challenge,” as stated in our long-term vision. human rights and prevention of corruption as our material and risks. issues. In FY2016, we established the Nabtesco Group Code Following an analysis on country-specific human rights • Four Types of Reform for Work Style Reforms of Ethics. risks in 16 countries where our business locations were Further, Nabtesco committed to the Nabtesco Group situated, we performed human rights risk assessments at •Improve work-life balance Human Rights Policy in 2017 to promote the respect of 41 Group companies located in the countries with higher •Encourage employees to take holidays •Reduce working hours to an appropriate •Eliminate wasteful work human rights, based on the International Bill of Human Rights risks, as well as major subsidiaries and production/sales Personnel level system reform •Simplify operations established by the United Nations (UN), the ILO Declaration on bases in Japan (which cover 95% of Group employees). •Promote telework •Make better use of IT, automation and AI Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work established by the As a result, while none of the respondents were found •Return the benefits of higher productivity •Reduce work duplication by data linkage International Labour Organization (ILO), and the UN Guiding to be noncompliant with local laws and regulations or to employees Production Operational Principles on Business and Human Rights. international standards, we confirmed the facts with two reform reform companies for which concerns over the development of •Develop unique production technology (at administrative •Raise employees’ awareness of the (manufacturing) Human Rights Due Diligence internal regulations and occupational health and safety •Develop technology for automated departments) importance of improvements production •Promote communication Nabtesco identifies and assesses the impact on human management had been identified. We will urge corrective •Introduce AI to production management •Improve teamwork and collaboration rights and tries to mitigate human rights risks through a actions to these companies as required while conducting systems Cultural reform •Improve the workplace atmosphere human rights due diligence process. We also continuously follow-up assessments in the future. 91 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 92 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Mater i ali ty Develop Human Capital and Promote Workplace Diversity, Provide Materiality Local Community Development Safe and Comfortable Workplaces The Nabtesco Group established the Nabtesco Group Community Investment Policy in FY2018 to show its Human Capital Development approach to community investment activities. The Group will conduct the activities in a strategic manner across the board toward the development of local communities, which is one of the Group’s material CSR issues. The Development of Globally Competitive also introduced overseas job training for all employees in Nabtesco Group proactively promotes contributions to local economic development through the establishment Human Capital their fourth year of employment, in principle, with the aim of a production system for “locally produced and locally consumed,” solutions for social challenges through the We clearly state, “Employees are essential assets” in The of nurturing international business sense by experiencing Nabtesco Way. In order to share the company’s ideal image different cultures. provision of its products and services and community investment activities. of human capital in which it is the people who make the To proactively develop human resources at Group company, and to define the direction that all employees companies outside Japan, the Nabtesco Group has should follow, the Nabtesco Group established the Basic Policy on Human Capital Development and has been been implementing various training programs aimed at improving the skills of locally hired personnel. In Nabtesco Group’s Community Investment providing a range of educational opportunities in line with China, we provide business management training for this policy ever since. executive candidates at business locations to promote As overseas business is expected to continue to the appointment of locally employed staff to managerial Resources Invested and Impact expand, it is becoming increasingly important to develop positions. In addition, we offer an OJT-based training Charitable donations Management overheads globally competitive human capital. In addition to program designed for skill enhancement, in which 16% ¥2.2 Million/5.7% various training programs aimed at enhancing language employees of overseas Group companies are assigned, for capabilities including the intensive study camp for English a certain period of time, to factories in Japan belonging Local community investments Cash contributions conversation, we introduced an overseas trainee program to various business segments. We will continue these 33% ¥23.1 Million/61.3% that includes both study and work components in FY2012. efforts to reinforce our overseas operational bases and to Type of Community By the end of FY2018 we had sent a total of 27 employees contribute to the economic and social development of the Resources Invested Investment Activities Time: employee volunteering overseas under this program. Furthermore, in 2017, we countries in which we operate. (FY2018) (FY2018) during paid working hours ¥5.8 Million/15.5% Commercial initiatives In-kind giving Increasing Employees’ Awareness of The Nabtesco Way 51% (product donations) * Excluding commercial initiatives ¥6.6 Million/17.5% Activity to Increase Employees’ Awareness Sharing Values among All Group Members of The Nabtesco Way These awareness-raising activities have proved to be Environment Education The Nabtesco Way presents the values that employees of effective in creating a sense of unity across the Nabtesco the Nabtesco Group are expected to share to ensure that Group. For further improvements, however, since 2018 we Number of mangroves FY2018: 720 Number of persons who the Group will continue to be needed. have changed the content of the activities in consideration planted FY2018: 251,212 Accumulated total: 3,570 joined various programs In order to help employees understand and implement of the actual situation at each base and company. The (FY2013 to FY2018) our values prescribed in The Nabtesco Way through their facilitators, who better understand the local situation, daily operations, each Group base and company as well as make and implement the activity plans, a task previously the Group secretariat have “facilitators for The Nabtesco done by the Group secretariat, with a view to expanding the Welfare Number of persons who Way” to raise employees’ awareness of the values. We scope of activities. FY2018: 245 planted mangroves Number of welfare devices have also been holding the “Nabtesco Way Month” every in Accumulated total: 852 FY2018: 15 (FY2013 to FY2018) donated April since FY2013. These meetings are held at everyone’s own workplaces, allowing participants to discuss and • Satisfaction with communication within the organization (based on employee questionnaire) (FY2008 to FY2018) Accumulated total: 323 share about the Nabtesco Way as well as how they relate it (Unit: %) 2013 2015 2017 2017 (Target) with their own experiences and daily thoughts. In addition, the Group holds “Way briefings” to teach the values to Ratio of 67.1 68.6 69.3 78.5 employees who do not know about The Nabtesco Way, such satisfaction Establishment of the Nabtesco Group to further increase the Group’s brand value. Moreover, we as new employees; “Way meetings” to raise employees’ Community Investment Policy aim to foster the growth of both the Nabtesco Group and awareness of the values and encourage them to share (Male) 69.0 69.5 In the Nabtesco Group Community Investment Policy local communities and to build long-term relationships of the values at workplaces; and “workshops,” in which 67.1 established in FY2018, it is clearly stated that through mutual trust. participants in level-specific training seminars and other (Female) 68.1 69.2 our community investment activities, we will proactively We have set the environment, education, and welfare as employees selected based on certain themes deepen their engage in exchanges and cooperate with local communities priority areas. Those three areas are highly related to the understanding and implementation of The Nabtesco Way, in fields closely related to our business in each region sustainable business activities of the Group and correspond Coverage of and thus develop a greater affinity for the values. employee 100 100 100 100 where the Group conducts business as good practice of to the SDGs discussed in the section on materiality. These events are designed to make each employee a respondents The Nabtesco Way. The policy states the targets of the Through the proactive promotion of community investment driving force for the promotion of The Nabtesco Way. The activities as value creation for stakeholders to contribute activities, we will work to establish relationships of number of participants has been increasing both within * The calculation scope covers only Nabtesco Corporation. to solving global social challenges and social challenges trust with local communities while contributing to their * We use the indicators “Relations between senior and junior workers” and the and outside Japan. “State of the organization,” which represent a degree of communication within the faced by local communities in each region where the Group development. organization. (The surveys have been continually conducted in FY2013, FY2015 and FY2017.) conducts business. As the Group values, it also states that * We evaluate above two indicators according to seven grades: 1: Completely disagree, we encourage employees’ challenging spirit and innovative 2: Disagree, 3: Somewhat disagree, 4: Neither agree nor disagree, 5: Somewhat Consideration of Community and Society ways of thinking by contributing to solving social issues in Web agree, 6: Agree, 7: Completely agree, and rate the results (4 or more is defined as https://nabtesco.disclosure.site/en/themes/140 satisfied). fields related to the Group’s business and that we strive 93 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 94 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Materiality Environment The Nabtesco Group is implementing a range of environmental initiatives. In line with the enforcement of the These targets are in line with the 2 degrees Celsius target*1 set as an international benchmark for climate • Greenhouse Gas Emissions from the Entire Supply(Unit: Chain t-CO ) Paris Agreement in 2016, the Nabtesco Group has set our long-term CO2 emission reduction targets to be 2 change countermeasures to be implemented in and after Classfication FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 attained by FY2050 and is speeding up anti-climate change measures. We are also fostering multifaceted 2020 under the Paris Agreement*2, which came into effect measures for zero emissions and the protection of water resources as part of our efforts to fulﬁll our social in 2016. Our long-term target for Nabtesco Corporation’s Direct emissions 7,074 7,259 8,686 8,781 (Scope 1)*1, *2 responsibility through our manufacturing activities. CO2 emissions also qualifies as a Science Based Target (SBT)*3. Nabtesco is the eighth Japanese company to get Indirect emissions through the the SBT qualification. use of electricity and others 47,729 50,865 61,538 61,395 (Scope 2)*1, *2 Environmental Management In order to achieve the long-term target, we are promoting environmental conservation through the Emissions from the 826,842 885,494 871,463 979,097 provision of our products based on the energy-saving supply chain (Scope 3)*3 Environmental Management System Speeding Up the Execution of the PDCA product certification system introduced in FY2012. In [Note] The figure for the Nabtesco Group in FY2015 was calculated with the scope of Implemented by the Group ESH Committee Cycle for Saving Energy through the the same fiscal year, we introduced an energy-saving the survey being the 12 months from January to December 2015. *1 The calculation scope includes Nabtesco Corporation and Group companies both in Since its establishment in 2003, the Nabtesco Group Nabtesco Energy Management System activity commendation system to make more effective and outside Japan (25 companies and 41 sites). has positioned environmental measures as one of its (NEMS) use of energy resources across the Group. Moreover, we *2 The calculation policy and standards comply with the Act on the Regional Use of Energy and the Act on the Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures, and business strategic priorities and promoted environmental For energy conservation, we established the Nabtesco incorporated “environmental contribution achievement are aligned with the internal Guidelines on the Management of Environmental management. Energy Management System (NEMS) for the continuous level” in the performance indicators for each division Information. *3 The calculation scope includes Nabtesco Corporation only. The Nabtesco Group has set up the Group ESH execution of the PDCA cycle under the control of the Group in FY2017, with a view to improving environmental Committee as the promotional organization related to the ESH Committee and have been fully operating the system governance and making continuous improvements to our environment, safety and health. A series of discussions since 2015. environmental management. • Scope 3 Emissions has been held at meetings of the committee, in which the Specifically, we have introduced environmental Going forward, we will further foster energy Purchased goods and services heads of the in-house companies and Group companies information management tools and an energy monitoring conservation by updating our equipment and rebuilding 742,656t 75.9% have participated. Our environmental strategies, including system to collect environmental information from our our plants while promoting the use of renewable End-of-life treatment of sold products 952t 0.1% mediumto long-term targets, have thus been decided and sites, analyze the collected information and estimate the energy and introducing private hybrid power generation Use of sold products 19,881t 2.0% implemented in a top-down manner. amount of energy used by each device in real time. By equipment using hydrogen. We will thus gain speed in the Employee commuting 1,563t 0.2% By formulating our Environmental Philosophy and disseminating and sharing the obtained data at the monthly implementation of measures with an eye to promoting Business travel 3,569t 0.4% CO2 emissions Environmental Action Plan in 2005, we have been working meetings of our sites, we extract energy conservation ideas energy creation and to attaining our long-term target. Waste generated in operations 945t 0.1% 979,097 to raise awareness of these principles across Group and promote activities for saving energy by all employees. In addition to reducing our own emissions, we have Upstream transportation and distribution tons in total companies while making use of the ISO 14001 international Also, by sharing information on such activities at the Board begun to expand activities to our suppliers. Of the 170,787t 17.4% standard as an effective tool for environmental of Directors meeting each month, we will respond quickly Fueland energy-related activities greenhouse gas emissions from our entire supply chain, 3,559t 0.4% management, leveraging it in the building and operation when improvement is deemed necessary. the percentage of emissions from purchased goods and Capital goods 35,185t 3.6% of our environmental management system. All Nabtesco services is high, making it essential for us to work closely Corporation plants and seven major Group companies Reducing CO2 Emissions Based on a Longwith our suppliers to take initiatives to reduce their The Scope 3 calculations for FY2018 were made by the following method and for the (that account for over 70% of consolidated sales) are Term Target greenhouse gas emissions. In response, as of 2017 we following period and scope. already certified under ISO 14001, and we are fostering As the medium-term targets for FY2020, we are upholding began a survey of our main suppliers (top suppliers that • Calculation method: As shown in the basic guidelines on the calculation of greenhouse gas emissions from supply chains set by the Ministry of the Environment environmental measures across the Group. a reduction in our greenhouse gas emissions in Japan constitute 70% of the annual amount of purchases) to see and the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry In addition, we have established a team to respond relative to FY2015 levels, as well as a 9% or more whether they have set voluntary targets to reduce their to the recommendations by the Task Force on Climatereduction in our CO2 emissions per unit of sales (global) greenhouse gas emissions. According to the results of Striving for Harmony with Global related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), which were reported including our sites outside Japan (relative to FY2015 the FY2018 survey, 51.3% of our main suppliers have set Web Environment Combating Climate Change to the Financial Stability Board (FSB) in 2017, and have levels). Furthermore, we have set reduction targets for CO2 voluntary targets to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions https://nabtesco.disclosure.site/en/themes/126 been endeavoring to grasp the financial impact of risks and emissions per unit of sales (global) of 30% for FY2030 and and begun to take initiatives to achieve the targets. We will opportunities arising from climate change. 80% for FY2050. provide support so that all of our main suppliers will set voluntary reduction targets by 2025. *1 The 2 degrees Celsius target is an international target set in the Paris Agreement to Gaining Higher External Evaluation • Measures Addressing Climate Change Issues keep the average rise in global temperature to below 2 degrees Celsius. *2 The Paris Agreement is a multilateral international agreement to curb climate change Being internationally recognized for its environmental Category –2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016– in and after 2020 and was adopted on December 12, 2015 at the 21st Conference measures and information disclosure, Nabtesco was of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP21). Activity to increase 2005: *3 The SBTs are intended to urge companies to set their mediumto long-term included in CDP’s Climate Change A List 2018 and was Setting of environment-related incentive system Introduced in-house employees’ awareness Formulated the Environmental targets (for the period from five to 15 years from now) in a manner that allows the selected as Supplier Engagement Leader 2019, receiving company evaluation index Philosophy and Environmental international community to achieve the 2°C target. Companies are certified if they of environmental Achievement of positive Achievement of positive the highest-level rating from the organization. The CDP, philosophy Action Plan • Introduced the energy conservation activity commendation program environmental contribution environmental contribution pass the SBT Initiative’s examination. • Introduced the energy-saving product certification system through cooperation among institutional investors, NEMS(Nabtesco Energy Management) urges the world’s leading companies in terms of market 2003: Six plants operated NEMS Tools for managing environmental information Group’s medium-term capitalization to disclose information about their strategies Environmental Group’s long-term targets by major Group companies, target (To be achieved by to combat climate change and CO2 emissions. The CDP Management have become ISO 14001 Energy conservation guidelines 2015: Started reporting to the Corporate Total CO2 emissions FY2020) certified Officers Committee on a monthly basis Energy monitoring system <In Japan (total amount)> < Global target (per unit of sales)> < Global target > Total CO2 emissions (per unit of sales) Expansion of target 2004: Third-party verification of Calculation of 30% reduction 9 Third-party verification of calculation of Scope 3 emissions FY2030 scope Started calculation of Scope 1 and 2 Scope 1 and 2 emissions Scope 3 emissions Cooperation with • Improving logistics efficiency using Scope 3 data FY2050 80% reduction % reduction (Relative to FY2015) suppliers and customers • Started Environmental Self Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ ) (Relative to FY2015) 95 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 96 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Mater i ali ty Environment annually discloses evaluation scores to the public and Measures to Reduce Hazardous Waste Being internationally recognized for these measures selects companies that demonstrate excellence in the The Nabtesco Group was landfilling 0.1 ton per year and information disclosure, Nabtesco was included in the relevant measures as the A List companies. of waste alkalis, which are hazardous, until FY2014. In CDP’s Water Security A List 2018, receiving the highestIn addition, Nabtesco was placed first in the machinery FY2015, however, we began to detoxify alkalis, waterlevel rating from the organization. category in the Ranking of Japanese Corporations for soluble waste oil and other hazardous waste prior to their Effective Efforts to Address Climate and Energy Issues: disposal. Accordingly, we have not released any waste Water Use and Water Discharge Machinery and Precision Equipment published by the World containing hazardous substances. Management Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) Japan. We will continue to The Nabtesco Group Group in Japan uses groundwater make steady and strenuous efforts to achieve our mediumMeasures to Reduce Use of Raw Materials mainly to cool test stands and melt snow in snowy regions to long-term targets, thereby meeting the expectations of By reusing components and reducing the production of new (Yamagata and Gifu ). We discharge the used groundwater our customers and investors. ones, the Nabtesco Group is working to minimize the use to rivers under the strict water quality control criteria set of resources. In addition, we have been fostering the MRO by the Group. In FY2018, there were no cases wherein used Waste Reduction (maintenance, repair, and overhaul) business to optimize groundwater did not meet the water quality control criteria. The Nabtesco Group is fostering activities to reduce landfill the use of resources and expand sales in the service field. The total volume of water used by the Nabtesco Group waste to zero based on the approach of the 3Rs (reduce, in FY2018 amounted to 700,000m3, which was slightly reuse, recycle)—the basic practice for establishing a Conservation of Water Resources lower than the previous fiscal year. Due to heavy rain falls resource-circulating society—for all types of emissions The Nabtesco Group does not require a large amount caused by recent climate change, the risk of rainwater generated in the course of our business. of water nor water of a certain quality for its business flooding our plants is increasing. The Nabtesco Group uses In FY2018, the separation of waste bound for landfill operations. However, we deem it important to manage oil-based type and water-soluble type cutting fluids in our was delayed due to an increase in production load at some water resources, and accordingly, conduct waterbusiness operations and recognizes the risk of hazardous plants, which resulted in a temporary rise in the amount of related risk analyses, measure the amount of water used substances contained in these cutting fluids discharged waste. and discharged, monitor water quality and implement to rivers if rainwater floods the manufacturing facilities. The zero emissions rate was 0.1%, below the target measures to prevent the leakage of hazardous substances To prevent this, we have been making capital expenditure rate for FY2018. This year we will continue to promote the into water. to install oil-water separation tanks and oil recovery 3Rs in order to achieve the zero emissions goal of 0%* by The amounts of water used and discharged at each equipment. FY2020. base are measured every month, and the Group data In FY2018, we spent ¥2.86 million to enhance the The Nabtesco Group landfills metals, waste plastics and are accumulated through the environmental information rainwater discharging function, install drainage pipes and waste glass that do not contain hazardous substances. management tool. As for bases where the amount of make our facilities more water-resistant. *0.05% or below is set as 0 water per month fluctuates greatly, we conduct surveys to identify contributing factors for the increased water • Volume of Landfill Waste and Zero Emissions Rates usage, and implement measures to reduce the water use as necessary. As for water quality control, we continuously Volume of Landﬁll Waste (ton) Zero Emissions Rates (%) monitor through monthly voluntary tests and regular 40 0.8 inspections by external experts. In 2012 the Nabtesco Group started to manage our 30 31 0.6 water consumption on a global level, including the data for the overseas Group companies. The water consumption 0.46 at the overseas Group companies remains relatively 20 0.4 low, constituting a mere 10% of the Group consumption; 18 however, in order to respond to global water risks, we 0.29 continue managing the water consumption in our overseas 10 9 0.2 8 operations. 5 0.13 0 0.06 0.10 0.0 2014 2015* 2016 2017 2018 (FY) * The figure for the Nabtesco Group in FY2015 was calculated with the scope of the survey being the 12 months from January to December 2015. • Target of Water Use Activities and FY2018 Results Item Targets FY2018 results Status Year-on-year change rate at Global water use 0.756Mm3 Achieved 10%: 0.858Mm3 or less In-house management criteria* Global water quality control 0 Achieved Excessive number: zero * Set criteria that are stricter than local standards, and monitor and manage the discharge of water. 97 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 98 Dialogues with Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Business Market Dialogues with Society Corporate Profile Corporate Profile Disclosure Policy Corporate Profile (as of December 31, 2018) Breakdown of Shareholding by Investor Type Boundary of the Report Participation in External Initiatives and External (%) Nabtesco Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries Evaluation 0 20 40 60 80 100 The Nabtesco Group announced our support for and signed Company Name Nabtesco Corporation This report covers activities conducted by Nabtesco the United Nations Global Compact in April 2014, thereby Established September 29, 2003 Mar. 2004 29.37 41.68 21.80 Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. However, a further fostering our CSR-oriented management. Our Address 7-9, Hirakawa-cho 2-chome, 0.10 7.05 portion of the nonfinancial data pertains to only Nabtesco long-term greenhouse gas emission targets have been Chiyoda-ku,Tokyo 102-0093, Japan Mar. 2014 17.10 9.73 9.46 62.87 Corporation. officially approved by the Science Based Targets (SBT) TEL +81-3-5213-1133 Initiative. 0.84 FAX +81-3-5213-1171 Period Covered Capital ¥10 Billion Mar. 2015 20.23 10.49 8.87 59.59 January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018 Number of Issued 125,133,799 0.82 Shares In light of the importance of providing up-to-date Dec. 2015 20.07 11.09 12.02 56.04 Minimum Trading 100 information, some activities conducted after the period are Unit All of our issued shares are 0.78 also reported. common stock with a minimum Dec. 2016 22.81 12.62 9.80 54.01 The Nabtesco Group’s CSR initiatives are recognized on an trading unit of 100 shares. 0.76 Date of Publication international level, which is evident by the fact that Employees Non-consolidated 2,296 Published in July 2019 (Published annually) Nabtesco is included in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Consolidated 7,713 Dec. 2017 26.06 12.56 8.80 51.83 Index, FTSE4Good, STOXX Global ESG Leaders Index and all Consolidated 14 (excl. 4 equity method affiliates) 0.75 Performance Data ESG indices adopted by the GPIF. In addition, we have In Japan Dec. 2018 20.82 12.60 12.06 48.01 Nabtesco has changed the accounting closing date of the obtained the highest evaluations on environmental Companies Overseas 46 (excl. 5 equity method affiliates) 6.51 fiscal year from March 31 to December 31 since FY2015. In measures from the CDP in three different fields. Financial instruments business operators Financial institutions this report, the results for FY2015 are calculated on a basis Other corporations Individuals, etc. Overseas investors of 9 months for Nabtesco Corporation and the other consolidated subsidiaries in Japan, and 12 months for overseas consolidated subsidiaries. Total Shareholder Return (TSR) for the Past 10 Years Nabtesco has also applied the International Financial Nabtesco TOPIX TOPIX Machinery Reporting Standards (IFRS) to its accounting since FY2017. 1,000 For comparison with the results for FY2017, the results for FY2016 were also recalculated in line with the IFRS. 800 Note about the Forecasts Forecasts made in this report about numerical figures and 600 measures for the future are based on currently available information and on certain judgments and assumptions that Nabtesco considers reasonable. Actual results may 400 vary significantly from such forecasts due to a variety of important factors, including the economic situations of the company’s major markets in and outside Japan and 200 changes in the foreign exchange market. 0 ec ay ct ar Third-Party Assurance ug /Ja n ne ov pr ept eb /Ju ly ec ay ct ar ug n /Ja ne ov pr ep t eb /Ju ly ec 08 /D 09 /M 09 /O 10 /M 10 /A 11 11 /Ju 11 /N 12 /A 12 /S /F 13 13 13 /D /M 14 14 /O 15 /M 15 /A 16 16 /Ju 16 /N 17 /A 17 /S 18 /F 18 /D 18 Our environmental and social data is examined by Lloyd’s 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 Register Quality Assurance Limited with a view to ensuring the reliability of the calculated data. • Return On Investment (ROI ) as of December 31, 2018 Guidelines Referenced Past one year Annualized return Past three years Past five years Cumulative return Annualized return Cumulative return Annualized return Cumulative return Annualized return Past 10 years • International Integrated Reporting Framework published by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) Nabtesco -42.8% 4.6% 1.5% 11.3% 2.2% 374.3% 16.8% • WICI Intangible Reporting Framework published by the World Intellectual Capital/Assets Initiative (WICI) TOPIX TOPIX Machinery -16.0% -28.0% 3.0% 6.7% 1.0% 2.2% 27.3% 15.7% 4.9% 3.0% 114.3% 168.5% 7.9% 10.4% • G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines published by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) (Note 1) Total shareholder return (TSR) refers to total investment return for shareholders by combining capital gains and dividends. (Note 2) The above graphs show ROI as of December 31, 2018 in case where investments were made on December 31, 2018. As for the data on Nabtesco shares, investment results • ISO26000 (International standard on the social responsibilities of organizations) calculated based on the stock prices by adding dividends (on the assumption that dividends will not be reinvested) have been indexed by setting the amount of investments as of December 31, 2008 as 100. TOPIX and TOPIX Machinery have also been indexed in a similar manner by using data that included dividends. (Note 3) The above chart indicates ROI (dividend-included) as of December 31, 2018 based on the cumulative return and the annualized return in cases where investments were made at • Guidance for Integrated Corporate Disclosure and Company-Investor Dialogues for Collaborative Value respective timing during the period between one year ago (on December 31, 2017) and 10 years ago (on December 31, 2008). Creation, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan (Note 4) Figures of annualized return indicate annual average rates of return which are annualized using geometric average of ROI during the applicable period. (Source) Prepared by the Nabtesco Group based on the Tokyo Stock Exchange’s monthly closing stock prices and other data 99 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2018 100
