Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Report Annual Review Financial Review Governance HOW TO READ THIS REPORT CONTENTS Information about Konecranes’ Konecranes in brief 2 Maximizing our environmental handprint 20 sustainability work, its management, actions, goals and results Key highlights and development areas 2 Responsibility in our supply chain 20 Sustainability Report 2018 Creating sustainable value 3 Reporting principles and data collection 22 COMMITMENTS 6 GRI INDEX 23 OTHER REPORTS  anaging sustainability risks M An assessment of the year’s and opportunities 9 operations and a view of the upcoming year and future prospects Committed ar2018.konecranes.com/en to growth Annual Review 2018 ENABLING FACTORS 10 Diversity and inclusion 11 Human rights in our operations 11 Summary-level reports about Konecranes’ financial results,  anaging talent to gain M financial position and cash flows a competitive advantage 12 Financial ar2018.konecranes.com/en 13 Review 2018 At the forefront of safety This Sustainability Report includes information on all of Konecranes’ major economic, environmental and social impacts and how we ACTIONS 16 manage them. It aims to provide insight on the company’s ability Information regarding to continue to prosper over time by disclosing information on how Konecranes’ governing principles, Material topics in 2018 17 we mitigate risk and how we are making progress in meeting our group structure, salaries and targets. Furthermore, it explains how responsibility is embedded Governance 2018 compensation of the CEO and Targets and achievements 17 in our practices. In this report we strive to explain how ethical Board of Directors obligations influence our business and daily operations. We divide ar2018.konecranes.com/en R  educing our environmental footprint Konecranes’ corporate responsibility work into three elements: through innovation and efficiency 18 actions, commitments and enabling factors. Konecranes Sustainability Report 2018 1 Sustainability Report Konecranes in brief Annual Review Financial Review Governance Konecranes KEY HIGHLIGHTS AND in brief DEVELOPMENT AREAS  lobal Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) G tool successfully launched. The tool gathers and As a leading manufacturer of lifting equipment, manages environmental and safety observations Konecranes offers a wide range of advanced lifting and facilitates incident investigations and root solutions and services to different industries worldwide. Net sales Adjusted EBITA cause analyses. New Supplier Code of Conduct introduced. 3,156.1 8.1 Our business aims to improve our customers’ safety and productivity in material handling. The products and  ode of Conduct and Anti-Corruption Policy C services provided by our three Business Areas – Service, renewed, Whistleblowing channel launched, Industrial Equipment and Port Solutions – complement Head of Compliance & Ethics recruited, each other and enable our customers to meet the bulk and Group level Compliance and Ethics of their lifting needs through one supplier. In addition committee established. to offering a wide range of lifting solutions, we provide specialized maintenance services and spare parts for MEUR % J oined CIRCit, a Nordic research project on the circular economy. all types and makes of industrial cranes, hoists and I ntroduced the ECOLIFTING concept for ecoport equipment – from single units of equipment to efficient lift trucks at TOC Europe, the port entire operations. terminal operator exhibition in Rotterdam, the We strive to be the leading local crane maintenance Number of Number of Netherlands. H  SE improvement planning process rolled out. employees operation countries provider in all markets by offering the largest and most extensive service network in the industry. We believe Business units systematically identified key areas of improvement aiming to harmonize 16,100 50 that we can deliver the highest lifecycle value to our customers through Lifecycle Care – our comprehensive HSE planning activities annually and to identify and systematic approach to maintenance using worldcommon focus areas across the company. class tools and processes to maximize the productivity  nalyzed current state of diversity at Konecranes A of customers’ uptime and minimize the cost of their in collaboration with Aalto University, examining downtime. We make every effort to make our business current attitudes within the company and future-proof by engaging the best talent, developing topexploring opportunities for improvement. notch technology and maintaining a deep understanding of our customers’ needs. Konecranes Sustainability Report 2018 2 Sustainability Report How we create value Annual Review Financial Review Governance Creating Our products can be remanufactured and modernized to extend their lifecycles. They can also be reused and finally We see particular advantages for Konecranes in circulareconomy business models. Growing interest towards rental We contribute by using resources efficiently and sustainable recycled at the end of their lifespans. In addition, our services and product-as-a-service offerings as well as the product offering features innovative power sources such demand for low-carbon products indicate that markets as hybrid technology and other energy-saving solutions, are seeking new, cost-efficient and sustainable ways to taking climate action, value including regenerative braking. do business. Significant savings can be obtained through renting, repairing, modernizing, reusing and recycling delivering consistent performance to our Above all, we believe that we can deliver the highest our products. lifecycle value to our customers through Lifecycle Care – our customers, improving comprehensive and systematic approach to service that Modernizations and retrofits save a great deal of Through our three offers the right maintenance at the right time. By providing resources by reducing the environmental impact of complementary Business Areas, our customers with solutions that enable smooth, efficient and responsible material handling, we secure our position as products’ lifecycles, saving raw materials and enhancing equipment’s energy efficiency and performance. safety at all levels, we seek to respond to all of our a favored partner. Additionally, modernization increases safety, productivity, reliability and usability while decreasing the need for operating in a responsible customers’ lifting needs. We In examining the megatrends impacting our industry alongside our strategic focus areas, we can identify the repairs and unscheduled maintenance. and transparent manner, design our solutions to deliver areas where we bring value to our stakeholders and society The aforementioned circular economy business models and supporting an optimal productivity and offer at large. We contribute by using resources efficiently also help us raise our resource and energy efficiency while a wide range of eco-efficient and taking climate action, delivering consistent lifting reducing our customers’ environmental footprints. In order inclusive society. performance to our customers, improving safety at all to gain maximum circular value from our products, we products and service solutions levels, operating in a responsible and transparent manner focus on providing maintenance to keep our products in and supporting an inclusive society. Leveraging workforce service longer, extending product lifecycles, and utilizing that promote a circular economy. diversity heightens innovation, supports exceptional the Design for Environment concept (DfE), which, among organizational performance and, most importantly, fosters other aspects, considers the recyclability of products in outstanding customer service. In our view, diverse and product development. inclusive teams deliver better results. Boosting local economies To ensure that we deliver value for years to come, we need Konecranes aims to continue generating growth, to attract and develop the best talent, implement smart delivering profitability and remaining competitive in a technology in our product and service offering, innovate new constantly changing marketplace. By earning our place as business models, develop our products’ design and reliability, a preferred partner for our customers, we create financial and maintain a deep understanding of our customers’ stability not only for our company and employees, but for current and future needs. Naturally, achieving these our entire value chain. Comprehensive risk management objectives also requires that we engage closely and actively and sustainable business practices are crucial parts of our with all our stakeholders. economic responsibility. Konecranes Sustainability Report 2018 3 Sustainability Report How we create value Annual Review Financial Review Governance To remain a key player within local communities as well related issues at the Group level. The main principles Direct economic value generated and distributed as an attractive employer, we strive to make a positive according to which we operate are presented in our Group impact on societies by providing jobs and income for Tax Policy. employees, supporting local economies as an employer as well as a provider and buyer of services and goods, and Significant matters of principle are presented to the by being a significant taxpayer in many of the countries Board of Directors for decision making. The Group’s Chief where we operate. Financial Officer reports regularly on taxation-related 1,853.1 issues to the Group’s Audit Committee. The key task of Operating costs We maintain close and mutually beneficial relationships the management of tax-related issues is to safeguard with top universities in Finland and in other countries that all Group companies comply with the regulations 863.6 ED IN Employee wages and benefits TA where we operate, and have collaborated with of tax legislation in all countries of operation as well as educational institutions and endowed them with financial manage both financial and non-financial tax risks. Tax risk 23.7 MIC VA LU E R E support in recent years. management is conducted and monitored on a day-to-day Payments to providers of capital Tax footprint basis by the Global tax department in cooperation with respective business areas, units and supporting functions. 3,160 REVENUE 94.6 86 We support societies in the countries where we operate MEUR Dividend to shareholders MEUR by paying and remitting taxes and tax-like fees. In 2018, Konecranes does not practice tax planning that aims at ONO taxes paid and remitted by Konecranes were an important artificially decreasing the Group’s taxable income by, 238.6 source of income to public administrations. A total of for example, exploiting gaps in the architecture of the Payments to government EC EUR 514 million (594 million in 2017) in taxes and other international tax system to shift profits to places where compulsory tax-like payments were paid and collected in there is little or no economic activity or taxation. In tax0.1 countries where the Group operates, implying an effective related issues, the Group operates within the framework Donations and tax rate of 29.1% (18.4%). A total of EUR 239 million of legislation and legal practice in planning the taxable community investments (209 million) was paid (taxes borne) directly by the Group profit of Group companies. Our data on the payment of itself, while EUR 275 million (385 million) was collected taxes in 2018 has been compiled while taking materiality, (taxes collected) on behalf of governments. confidentiality, business reasons and cost-effectiveness into account. The data presented in this report is based Konecranes Group operates in 49 countries. We are on information collected from the Group’s reporting committed to pay all required taxes as stipulated by systems. Additional information on taxes can be found in applicable tax laws, rules and regulations, and to comply the financial reporting section of the Annual Report. Operating costs and employee wages and benefits exclude payments to government. with all reporting requirements, as well as to file all tax returns and fulfil all tax compliances within the time requirements of local regulations where we conduct our business activities. The management of tax-related matters is centralized in the Group’s Finance department, which is responsible for managing and monitoring taxKonecranes Sustainability Report 2018 4 Sustainability Report How we create value Annual Review Financial Review Governance Taxes paid Taxes collected Taxes paid per country, % Taxes collected per country, % Taxes paid Taxes collected 1% 1% Taxes 100 paid per country, % Taxes 100 collected per country, % 91 79 7% 80 7% 80 69 50 91 28% 100 60 100 59 79 33% 28% 29 26 60 40 80 33% 80 19 19 Corporate income taxes VAT/GST, remitted 69 60 20 50 10 9 7 8 Corporate income taxes VAT/GST, remitted 59 -47 1 0 0 MEUR 239MEUR 79 MEUR 79 MEUR 275MEUR 275 MEUR 76 MEUR 40 35 400 29 26 239 76 MEUR 60 26 19 19 22 21 23 20 10 9 7 8 Employer’s Employer’s charges charges Payroll taxestaxes Payroll collected collected 15 35 -20 -47 1 0 0 20 40 143 143 MEURMEUR 197 197 MEUR MEUR 4 9 269 7 -40 0 022 21 1 23 1 -20 60% 60% 72% 72% 15 Other Other operational operational taxes taxes Other taxestaxes Other collected collected 200 9 9 7 -60 -40 4 17 MEUR 17 MEUR 2 MEUR 2 MEUR Corporate 0 Employer’s 1 1 Other VAT/GST, Payroll taxes Other taxes 0 income tax charges operational -60 remitted collected collected Corporate Employer’s Othertaxes VAT/GST, Payroll taxes Other taxes income tax charges operational remitted collected collected Taxes paid include all tax and tax-like payments that Taxes collected include tax and tax-like payments that taxes Taxes paid include all tax and tax-like payments that Taxes collected include tax and tax-like payments that Konecranes has collected on behalf of the government Konecranes has paid as its own taxes. Tax-like payments Germany Germany Konecranes include, among hasother as itscompulsory paidthings, own taxes.payments Tax-like of payments Konecranes such as VAT andhassimilar collected turnover relatedof on behalf the paid, taxes government payroll such Germany Germany include, among social security other things, compulsory payments of contributions. andVAT taxes as otherand similar taxes. economicrelated The turnover taxes burden for suchpaid, payroll USA USA social security contributions. taxes andup taxes end other with taxes. Theoreconomic the buyer burden for such final consumer. USA USA taxes end up with the buyer or final consumer. Finland Finland Finland Finland France France France France Others Others Others Others In addition In additiontotocorporate corporate taxes taxes paidpaid for normal for the the normal Konecranesisisininrecovery Konecranes recovery position position of VAT of VAT in Finland due todue to in Finland operativebusiness, operative business, German German income income taxes relaterelate taxes to taxesto taxes significant abroad. salesabroad. significantsales paid inin2018 paid 2018for the forthe divestment divestment of Stahl of Stahl CraneSystems CraneSystems businessasaswell business wellasas transfer transfer of some of some participations participations and and assetswithin assets withinKonecranes Konecranes Group in 2017. Group in 2017. Konecranes Sustainability Report 2018 5 Sustainability Report Commitments Annual Review Financial Review Governance Commitments We acknowledge our responsibility and recognize our opportunity to improve sustainability in our operations and in the societies where we operate with public targets and commitments. We have determined our principles and policies towards corporate responsibility such as responsible supply chains, compliance, ethics and integrity and human rights as well as minimizing the negative environmental impacts of our operations. Konecranes Sustainability Report 2018 6 Sustainability Report Commitments Annual Review Financial Review Governance Commitments Our Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption policy Konecranes’ Code of Conduct and Corporate Governance without a fear of retaliation. To encourage our employees to address any issues, we offer multiple ways to raise concerns. Among these is a new Whistleblowing channel WE ARE COMMITTED TO Framework guide the everyday activities of the company implemented in 2018 to give our employees an additional  roviding eco-efficient solutions and services to P by clearly describing our internal standards and ethical way to raise concerns relating to compliance with laws and Our operations and ways values as well as our legal obligations. In 2018, we rolled ethical conduct. This process is managed by the Head of our customers out our updated Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption Compliance & Ethics.  reventing and minimizing harmful discharges P of working are guided by policy, making them more comprehensive and specific into the air, water and ground Konecranes’ Code of Conduct and than before. In conjunction with the launch of new Other policies R  especting and valuing our people by providing policies, more than 5,500 employees were trained on The Code of Conduct is complemented by Group-wide equal working opportunities the commitments we have made compliance and ethics during 2018. policies, including those on Quality, Environment, Health Increasing gender diversity regarding economic, social and and Safety; Respect in the Workplace, which focuses  eveloping a workplace that is free from D Our Anti-Corruption policy and Code of Conduct on equal opportunities, fair employment practices and environmental responsibility. The demonstrate our commitment to work against corruption anti-discrimination; our Diversity and Inclusion policy; discrimination and harassment W  orking against corruption in all its forms, same ethical standards also apply in all forms, including extortion and bribery. They define as well as internal guidance related to anti-corruption, including extortion and bribery the level of ethical conduct we seek to uphold and reporting ethical and compliance concerns, and sourcing to our suppliers, and are defined enhance our long-term competitiveness in global markets. and purchasing. Behaving safely always in our Supplier Code of Conduct. Our Anti-Corruption policy is supported by compliance protocols and guidelines which have been put in place to Konecranes is also a signatory of the UN Global Compact  aving zero tolerance towards unsafe acts and H safety violations Our commitments demonstrate detect risks regarding bribery and corruption. Our zeroand is thereby committed to its principles with respect  ontinually improving our safety culture and C our values and principles of tolerance approach towards corrupt practices is embedded in our monitoring and follow-up processes. Several actions to human rights, labor, the environment and anticorruption. We have also put in place globally a set of performance responsible business. and processes are in place to mitigate corruption and Konecranes Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Tools for fraud risks. environmental and safety management which define the minimum level for HSE practices. As a result of the renewal of our Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption policy we will also renew our Code In 2018 we began implementing our new Supplier Code of Conduct training, which will be rolled out in 2019. of Conduct, which includes more specific requirements We also established an executive level Compliance & for our suppliers. We expect our joint venture partners, Ethics Committee to oversee the implementation and suppliers and subcontractors to conduct their businesses in development of a company wide program, which is compliance with the same business ethics and commitment managed by the Head of Compliance & Ethics. to integrity as we do, applying our Supplier Code of Conduct or more stringent practices. We have established a Whistleblowing channel risk-based Know-Your-Counterparty process which identifies We aim to promote a healthy speak-up culture where the risks of doing business with third parties by studying people feel safe reporting compliance and ethical concerns their ownership, activity and role. It includes anti-bribery, Konecranes Sustainability Report 2018 7 Sustainability Report Commitments Annual Review Financial Review Governance sanctions and other due diligence checks according to the Frequency of Stakeholders Topics Channels level of risk identified. engagement Employees Safety culture and product safety We engage our employees through internal communications Weekly. Transparent communication Compliance, ethics and integrity (email, Konecranes’ intranet), employee engagement We place a great deal of importance on public disclosure surveys, e-learnings, Whistleblowing channel and compliance and communication on sustainability and different aspects Employee development and well-being email, internal team meetings and internal training and of corporate responsibility. As part of our efforts to fulfill Equal opportunities and diversity development. stakeholder expectations, we engage in active dialogue Customers Compliance, ethics and integrity Customers are mainly engaged through our sales Frequency is based on with our key stakeholders. Strategic dialogue helps us department, their key account managers and service customer’s size and Eco-efficiency of own production (footprint) ascertain that our corporate responsibility strategy is technicians. We also use surveys and the Voice of Customer needs. Contact made at Eco-efficiency of products (handprint) feedback tool after every delivery or installation. In addition, least annually. meeting market demands and that the information we provide is relevant and transparent. The feedback we Safety culture and product safety we annually reply to a significant number of data requests by Responsible supply chain our stakeholders. gather from our Voice of Customer surveys and continuous stakeholder dialogue is essential when reviewing our Sustainable innovations Corporate Responsibility Strategy. Human rights Shareholders, Compliance, ethics and integrity We engage with shareholders and investors through investor Regularly through public Engaging stakeholders in decision making strengthens investors briefings and meetings, Annual General Meetings, the reporting and meetings. Eco-efficiency of own production (footprint) relationships, helps us deliver on our commitments and Annual Report and sustainability reporting and by replying to gain a competitive advantage, and can also unravel investor questionnaires. possibilities to create value with them. To enable us to Business partners, Fair business practices Suppliers are engaged through procurement, supplier Engagement mainly fulfill stakeholder expectations and provide transparent suppliers, assessments and negotiations, and ongoing contract through correspondence Compliance, ethics and integrity communication, we have identified our key stakeholders as subcontractors management. by e-mail and by Eco-efficiency of own production (footprint) providing data in well as other important stakeholder groups. Safety culture and product safety questionnaires. Responsible supply chain Our key stakeholders include our employees, customers, business partners and investors. In addition to our key stakeholders, we have identified other relevant stakeholder groups that are increasingly important for Konecranes. These include local communities and authorities, associations, universities and research institutes, trade unions, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), rating agencies, analysts and media. We communicate with the We engage in continuous dialogue with different stakeholders. We use a number of ways to interact with broader community through content delivered through stakeholder groups, and therefore need to make sure external stakeholders. The effort to keep stakeholders from channels such as Konecranes.com, our online magazine that we have proper channels in use for each of them. different parts of the globe engaged entails communication Way Up, and through social media such as Facebook, We employ Konecranes’ intranet and several other in multiple languages, different channels and ongoing Twitter and Instagram. online tools as engagement platforms for our internal discussions. We have identified the tools and activities that Konecranes Sustainability Report 2018 8 Sustainability Report Commitments Annual Review Financial Review Governance are most appropriate in communicating key messages to To help mitigate risk in our supply chains, we have begun these audiences. implementing our Supplier Code of Conduct, which will emphasize the corporate responsibility requirements Managing sustainability risks we expect to be fulfilled down the chain. We assess and opportunities environmental risks in greater detail as part of our We assess corporate responsibility risks such as those environmental management system, where each of involving climate change, social aspects and human rights our units is responsible for evaluating, prioritizing and in the supply chain, and other matters, such as chemical mitigating their risks. The Group’s risk management risks. On a global scale the most significant environmental principles provide a basic framework for risk management risks to our business are related to climate change and the across Konecranes, and each Group company or operating sustainability of materials. In prioritizing risks, we use a unit is responsible for its own risk management. This scale of probability and the potential impacts of those risks approach guarantees the best possible knowledge of local on the business. conditions, experience and relevance. Extreme weather conditions impact the supply and Increasingly stringent environmental legislation and rising logistics chains. Extreme weather events are becoming demand for energy efficiency introduce cost risks to our more frequent, and the magnitude of these phenomena operations. However, we also view this as a business forces us to pay greater consideration to safeguarding opportunity because our products and solutions can help our own operations. Ways to address these risks include our customers fulfill stricter regulations and requirements. emphasizing construction safety, emergency preparedness We have energy efficient products available in all our and continuity planning. We also strive to reduce our product segments and continuously focus on improving climate impact by developing eco-efficient products and and developing our offering. Continuously increasing service solutions. Furthermore, we have signed voluntary fuel and energy taxes and regulations provide us with a agreements and set targets for energy efficiency and definite opportunity, especially in traditional diesel engineemissions. Regarding emerging regulation or transition powered product segments, as we have energy efficient risks, our methodology includes active participation and alternative power source products and solutions in relevant industry organizations and follow up of already available. Most of our solutions in different product international regulation. categories are designed to fit not only current but also upcoming efficiency standards. An example of a specific With regard to energy, the risks are mainly associated activity to manage this opportunity is our focus on battery with the possibility of new, unexpected regulatory technology, hybrid products and other energy efficient changes, taxes or product standards. Identified corporate features. Legislation, voluntary agreements and changes responsibility risks are managed by several different Group in the market will very likely create opportunities for us functions. We review key corporate responsibility risks to gain more revenue from our new products and from to our business on an annual basis to ensure that our servicing existing cranes. mitigation activities throughout the Group are effective. Konecranes Sustainability Report 2018 9 Sustainability Report Enabling factors Annual Review Financial Review Governance Enabling factors To be able to reach our sustainability goals we need to continuously develop our safety culture, invest in eco-efficient product design and maintain a creative, healthy and diverse workforce. Konecranes Sustainability Report 2018 10 Sustainability Report Enabling factors Annual Review Financial Review Governance Enabling We manage diversity by raising awareness, initiating projects and providing training, but also by implementing Business area gender structure Organization’s governance bodies, gender structure, % factors diversity and equal opportunity requirements in our 8,000 100 daily processes. Our basic people procedures such as 7,000 5 recruitment, career development, rewards, learning and 6,000 80 4 development take talent and diversity issues into account. 75 75 5,000 60 5,878 100 Our Diversity Policy is reinforced by our existing policy 4,000 Diversity and inclusion on Respect in the Workplace, which communicates our 3,000 4,323 1 40 0 We respect and embrace diverse ways of working, lifestyles principles on equal opportunities, anti-harassment and fair 2,000 2,241 20 1,036 25 25 and cultural differences. We see various benefits of having employment. Striving to embrace diversity creates value 1,000 748 306 813 715 a diverse workforce from having employees representing and is essential for Konecranes to remain competitive in a 0 0 Industrial Port Service HQ Group Board of Senior 92 different nationalities from different parts of the fast-changing world. Equipment Solutions Executive Directors Management world. Fostering diversity in terms of gender, age, cultural Board and educational backgrounds encourages innovation, Human rights in our operations Female exceptional organizational performance and, most We treat every one of our people and business partners with Female importantly, outstanding customer service. In our view, dignity and respect. Konecranes is committed to providing Male Male varied skill sets are a key driver of creativity and value equal working opportunities in employment. All employees are Does not want to specify creation, and diversity and inclusivity result in teams that entitled to – as well as responsible for – a workplace that is deliver better results. free of discrimination and harassment. We aim to create a diverse working environment and a Konecranes is a signatory of the United Nations (UN) Global Gender structure of employees Total workforce by region and gender culture that respects individuals. Konecranes aspires to be Compact and upholds the work-related rights defined by and supervised workers at the forefront of breaking down traditional barriers in the the International Labour Organization (ILO). We support 10,000 12,000 heavy manufacturing industry, and we seek to develop a the protection of human rights and promote the principles 8,187 8,000 10,000 diverse company for all generations, current and future. set in the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Our ambition is to achieve a balance between genders at UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the 8,000 6,000 5,291 all leadership levels, and in general, to build a much more UN Sustainable Development Goals and the Declaration on 6,000 8,514 diverse organization. Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work of the ILO. Our 4,000 2,157 4,000 corporate policy, Respect in the Workplace, which deals with 2,000 2,000 2,372 2,592 The current gender balance within Konecranes is 16% equal opportunities and fair employment practices, creates a 425 4 6 1,510 498 574 female to 84% male. The biggest opportunity created common framework for employee practices. 0 0 Male Female Does not EMEA APAC AME by employing a diverse workforce is that of having a want to variety of perspectives and approaches brought by people We have translated our commitment to human rights specify of different ages, ethnic backgrounds, genders and into internal policies that are to be used as the minimum Operatives Female cultural origins. Diversity in personnel also contributes to applicable standards. We have included the basic Staff Male talent retention. principles of human rights in our Code of Conduct, which Konecranes Sustainability Report 2018 11 Sustainability Report Enabling factors Annual Review Financial Review Governance is communicated to all our employees and suppliers. current, post-acquisition phase of our development, which Business area management Organization’s governance Furthermore, we have separate policies on Respect in the we call Konecranes 4.0, call for a new strategy to enable us gender structure, % bodies, age structure, % Workplace, Safety and Diversity, all of which also address to retain the best employees and attract top talent. We will 35 100 88 human rights. Moreover, we have elements on social begin implementing our new Lifting People strategy across 30 responsibility included in our supplier audits. the company, internally and externally, in 2019. 80 25 63 60 54 20 31 46 We have set up dedicated management processes and In 2018, we continued in our endeavor to provide equal 28 15 38 centralized compliance processes to secure employees’ rights, opportunities to all our employees, making sure that 13 40 10 14 such as their rights to freedom of association and collective integration activities were carried out effectively. From the 13 20 bargaining, and the right to freedom from harassment and beginning of the year, information on all our open positions 5 6 0 0 0 3 2 3 discrimination. Konecranes does not accept the use of forced were moved to one central recruitment system, enabling 0 0 Industrial Port Service HQ Group Board of Senior labor or child labor in any form. Human rights are part of our our current and future employees to see all our open Equipment Solutions Executive Directors Management Code of Conduct training material. We have established an positions in all our countries through one centralized tool. Board executive-level Compliance & Ethics Committee to oversee We continued to develop the skills of our employees, such Female the implementation and development of our Compliance and as the technical and customer service skills of our service <30 Ethics program and set up a new Whistleblowing channel to technicians, as well as skills in branch management, sales Male 30–50 give our employees an additional means to raise concerns management and leadership across the organization. To >50 relating to compliance with laws and ethical conduct. further develop their competences, employees are offered 92 a variety of training courses and development activities Managing talent to gain – from technology, leadership, health and safety, language Staff gender and age structure, % a competitive advantage and culture, to project management and the environment. 49 Our talented, inspired and engaged employees help our 50 customers enhance their safety and productivity every We see personal development as a key factor in employee day. We aim to create a diverse working environment and engagement; therefore, our employees participate in 40 a culture that respects individuals. Fair and responsible practices, equal career development opportunities and yearly performance and career development reviews. We also measure engagement levels by conducting a regular 30 23 nationalities embracing diversity are the key enablers in the race to attract employees with the potential to be the best in employee engagement survey. In January 2018, the results of our latest Employee Engagement Survey were published. With 20 10 13 10 employed at Konecranes 3 4 the industry. a global response rate of 73%, the results showed that our employees view their work as challenging and interesting, that 0 <30 30–50 >50 We renewed our Lifting People strategy in 2018. The they are involved in decision-making and that decisions are objective of Konecranes’ people management strategy is made effectively. The majority of our people enjoy their work to make certain that we have the needed resources and on a typical day, feel respected by their colleagues and believe Female skillsets for the future, and that our people are capable that their contribution is important. Male of meeting future business requirements while remaining motivated. The accelerating pace of change, growing Our teams worked vigorously in examining the results to complexity in the world and the workforce, as well as the find out which of the areas needed the most improvement Konecranes Sustainability Report 2018 12 Sustainability Report Enabling factors Annual Review Financial Review Governance and which were functioning well. Once those were efficiency and productivity of their business operations. Our Total number of employees Employees by employment identified, the teams created action plans to facilitate overall approach and commitment to safety are outlined in by employment contract contract and gender, % positive development in the future. The main risk related our Health and Safety Policy, and we have several safety 15,000 0.1 0.3 282 to low employee engagement is that of losing talent and management tools and global practices in place. 2 0.1 0.3 12,000 100 1 0.1 0.2 competencies. We strive to keep our talented employees 448 13 17 18 90 engaged, for instance by providing fair and competitive There are considerable occupational health and safety 9,000 6,414 80 compensation, culture and leadership development risks in the material handling industry. Our most significant 4,627 70 6,000 231 60 programs, succession planning, internal job rotation and safety risks are related to factory work, crane and 148 50 84 82 81 6,696 talent management, as well as various schemes to support equipment installation, and the service business, where 3,000 5,075 2,317 40 1,603 professional growth. our technicians’ working conditions vary from job to job. All 2,548 1,751 30 0 20 Konecranes employees are properly trained to perform their Industrial Port Service HQ 10 Based on feedback received from employees and managers tasks safely and correctly. Equipment Solutions 0 in a survey conducted in 2017, we renewed our Trust, EMEA APAC AME People, Performance (TPP) management process to The safety of products directly impacts the safety of meet the needs of our organization. In performance customers, employees and contractors. We follow product Number of personnel at the end of the year Number of full-time employees, Men management discussions in 2018, more emphasis was safety performance through our Product Compliance Undefined term Number of full-time employees, Women placed on talent development, behavioral competencies, Management process, reporting and investigating Fixed term Number of full-time employees, learning and development, and career aspirations. The occurrences such as load drops. This process helps us Does not want do specify TPP discussions were enabled through a new tool used ensure that the products and services we design and Number of part-time employees, Men for documenting the discussions. Our employees eagerly supply worldwide reliably meet all applicable safety Number of part-time employees, Women welcomed the renewed process and tool, resulting in the requirements throughout all phases of their lifecycles. best TPP completion rate in Konecranes’ history. We also Total number of permanent employees Number of part-time employees, Does not want do specify continued the work towards a harmonized salary review Safety performance by employment type and region process by extending the range of employees covered. The Konecranes has selected the lost-time incident rate, LTA1, 12,000 275 salary review process is supported by our central people as our Key Performance Indicator (KPI) for safety. LTA1 10,000 tool, thereby facilitating salary related decision making. refers to the number of lost-time incidents per million 8,000 working hours. The indicator as reported here covers all At the forefront of safety of our own employees, including those working in our 6,000 9,749 Safety is an integral part of our business and prioritizing premises as well as at our customer sites. We also report 4,000 6 19 it in all areas of our operations brings us a competitive and follow up on contractor incidents in our reporting 2,000 2,868 3,153 advantage. Our work in managing safety starts from system, but those incidents are not included in our lost0 our own employees but extends beyond the company’s time incident rate. Our target in safety is for everyone to be EMEA APAC AME borders. It deals with our product offering, our suppliers, able return home safe, every day. On our road towards this subcontractors and everyone we work with. By providing target we have set ourselves a milestone to reach an LTA1 safe products, solutions and services, we can protect our rate of below 3 by the end of 2020. We work to achieve Number of full-time employees customers’ safety while simultaneously improving the these objectives through strategic, Group-led programs and Number of part-time employees Konecranes Sustainability Report 2018 13 Sustainability Report Enabling factors Annual Review Financial Review Governance business-specific initiatives. The company follows incidents The reporting of near-misses and safety observations and hazards through management systems, the ARMOR also increased markedly in 2018. There was a significant reporting system and the product compliance management difference in the reporting levels between different system, as well as through customer feedback collected units, and in the future, efforts will be made to promote after each major delivery. the recording of near-misses and observations and to ascertain that relevant actions are taken based on them. Our safety performance in 2018 improved markedly in Further improving incident investigation and the quality of comparison to 2017. The lost-time incident rate for the corrective actions, promoting near-miss and observation year was 5.3 (7.6), an improvement of 30% compared to reporting, and following up on actual and potential SIF the previous year. More emphasis was placed on learning incidents will remain key activities in 2019. These will from the incidents through increased focus on incident entail better implementation of our new reporting system, investigation and corrective actions, supported in part both by developing the tool and by raising employee by the implementation of the new ARMOR reporting competence in utilizing it. system. The reporting system allows us to better track the quality of incident investigations and the completion of Key safety activities in 2018 corrective actions. Furthermore, several safety initiatives During 2018, we focused on integrating the safety activities carried out on the unit, regional and Business Area levels taking place throughout the company following the highlighted safety and tackled operation-specific safety acquisition of MHPS. Work was done to consolidate our risks. Examples include the Summer of Safety campaign in safety strategies and approaches. One key activity was the Americas region and the Stop the Drop initiative in our to work with the Life Saving Behaviors for the integrated Service operations. company, which were finalized and rolled out towards the end of the year. The Life Saving Behaviors program Serious Injury and Fatality (SIF) potential decreased continues, with one behavior featured each month through by nearly 70% compared to 2017. The total number of the issuing of campaign materials and promotion through reported incidents or near misses with SIF exposure was different communication channels. On the unit level, safety 86, compared to 284 in the previous year. There were no work focuses on the areas identified in the improvement fatalities in our operations or in those of our contractors. planning process and is followed up within the Business During 2018 we increased our focus on reporting and Areas to ensure progress and sufficient support. following up on potential SIF cases – in other words, less serious incidents or near-misses with the reasonable Our service operations continued to implement the Point potential to cause serious injury or fatal consequences. of Work Risk Assessment (PoWRA) tool, which is designed This involved reporting the potential SIF incidents in to systematically identify hazards and risks at the point ARMOR and organizing specific reviews to check the quality of work, prior to starting a task. Conducting a PoWRA of the investigations and the effectiveness of the identified is a requirement before beginning any service work. We corrective actions. The decrease in reported exposure continued the effort of having our operations certified is also partly due to improved reporting practices and according to OHSAS 18001 or ISO 45001 management SIF classification. system standards. A total of 24% of all manufacturing Konecranes Sustainability Report 2018 14 Sustainability Report Enabling factors Annual Review Financial Review Governance units were certified against the OHSAS 18001 or ISO 45001 units identified key areas for improvement in safety and standard at the end of 2018. Work towards the target of chose activities to target those areas. This was done to getting all manufacturing units certified against OHSAS harmonize the planning of safety activities annually and 18001 or ISO45001 continues according to plans defined to identify common focus areas across the company to within the Business Areas. enable better usage of resources and improve cooperation between units. At the end of 2018 we also implemented a systematic HSE improvement planning process, in which business Safety data Combined Combined Legacy Legacy Legacy company company Konecranes*) Konecranes*) Konecranes*) 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Lost Time Accident Konecranes Frequency (LTA11)) total 5.3 7.6 5.8 5.9 6.3 Konecranes Fatalities3) total 0 0 0 42) 1 *) MHPS business not included in the legacy Konecranes figures Success story: Award-winning magnetic guard rails The Konecranes team in Düsseldorf developed a new, flexible in-house safety solution to prevent workers 1) L TA1 = Number of work-related accident causing at least one day of lost time/ working from falling from heights. When constructing large cranes, welders and other operators need to work at hours performed over the reference period * 1,000,000 hours. heights of over four meters. There are rarely any good attachment points, and executing tasks normally 2) 2  traffic fatalities, which are not calculated as recordable occupational fatalities, 1 sudden complication resulting from a serious incident in the previous year, requires the worker to move around a lot. already considered recovered and back at work. 3) Own personnel. The local team analyzed different options and devices and eventually developed their own solution utilizing mobile handrails that are attached to crane structures with the use of magnets. The in-house quality organization took the task of checking that the solution met all relevant legal and safety requirements. This innovative solution was awarded the Schlauer Fuchs safety prize by Berufsgenossenschaft Holz und Metall (BGHM), the Professional Association for the Wood and Metal Industry in Germany. It recognizes special commitments to occupational safety and health, specifically for significant developments in the field of safety when working at height. Konecranes Sustainability Report 2018 15 Sustainability Report Actions Annual Review Financial Review Governance Actions We build trust and reinforce transparency by openly communicating about our progress and results on topics ranging from resource-efficiency to carbon reduction. We are committed to safe operations and creating value through our sustainable offering. We want to change the game with our sustainable and innovative offering and by harnessing the potential of the circular economy and digitalization. Konecranes Sustainability Report 2018 16 Sustainability Report Actions Annual Review Financial Review Governance Actions Topic Progress Target UN Sustainable Development Goals Code of Conduct A s a result of the renewal of our Code of Conduct, we will Keep all employees trained on Code of Conduct. 8, 12, 16 training renew our Code of Conduct training, which will be rolled out in 2019. We trained more than 5,500 employees in Material topics in 2018 connection with the Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption We have defined our key corporate responsibility themes by Policy launch as well as in other ethics and complianceconducting a materiality assessment. Through this process, related training events organized in 2018. we identified the most relevant sustainability topics for Assessing suppliers A ll new suppliers were pre-assessed. 84 process audits on By 2020, assess the sustainability of suppliers 3, 8, 12 Konecranes based on the expectations of our stakeholders. for sustainability HSEQ topics were carried out in 2018. who represent 80% of total spend as well as all We also reviewed the megatrends impacting our business A new Supplier Code of Conduct was introduced in Q2 and new suppliers. and identified ten UN Sustainable Development Goals implementation work has started. 36% of the top 300 in where we see that Konecranes can make an impact. terms of total spend had committed to our Supplier Code of Conduct by the end of 2018. Following interviews with our stakeholders, we have updated our materiality matrix. The overall themes have Certified ISO 14001 C ertified ISO 14001:2015 EMS in 65%*) in our Certified ISO 14001 EMS in all factories by 6, 13, 12 remained largely the same. The material aspects of our Environmental manufacturing facilities. the end of 2020. operations include ethics and compliance, the footprint Management Systems of our own operations, the safety of employees and our in all factories products, diversity, employee engagement, a responsible Reducing energy Energy intensity reduction of 25% MWh/sales in 7, 12, 13 E nergy intensity (MWh/sales) reduced by 8% compared to supply chain, human rights, and sustainable innovations. intensity base year 2017. own factories and service operations by the end of 2025 (vs. base year 2017). Targets and achievements Reducing emission Emission intensity reduction of 50% tCO2e/sales in 7, 12, 13  mission intensity (tCO2e/sales) reduced by 13% compared E In 2015 we set long-term targets that we aim to achieve intensity to base year 2017. own factories and service operations by the end of by 2020 and have been monitoring our performance 2025 (vs. base year 2017). since then. By the end 2016, we had achieved most Renewable energy 2 4% of electricity in factories is from renewable sources. By the end of 2025, power in all our factories 7, 12, 13 of our environmental targets ahead of time, and thus with 100% renewable electricity. reviewed them in 2018. The following table summarizes our progress. Decreasing Lost-Time L TA1 rate for whole company on level 5.3. Several LTA1 rate of less than 3 by the end of 2020. 3 Accident level group-wide initiatives launched to improve safety. The target is an incident-free workplace. *)  his differs slightly and non-materially from our 2018 financial statement release and statement of non-financial information T (68%), as the original figure was later revised. Konecranes Sustainability Report 2018 17 Sustainability Report Actions Annual Review Financial Review Governance Reducing our environmental footprint UN Sustainable Topic Progress Target through innovation and efficiency Development Goals We take our responsibility as well as our opportunity to Significantly reducing Significant reduction in serious injuries and 3 S  IF potential reduction of 70% from 2017. There were influence environmental matters seriously, especially with serious injuries and no fatalities in 2018. Reporting has improved on near zero fatalities. regard to resource use and mitigating the effects of climate zero fatalities misses with SIF Potential, assisting in preventing actual change. We are committed to providing our customers with SIF incidents. eco-efficient solutions and services while preventing and Certified Occupational C  ertified OHSAS 18001 management systems and ISO All factories certified according to OHSAS 18001/ 3, 12 minimizing harmful discharges into the air, water and ground. Health and Safety ISO 45001:2018 by the end of 2020. 45001:2018: 24%*) management systems Our commitments concerning environmental responsibility OHSAS 18001/ISO can be found in our Code of Conduct and in our 45001 in all factories Environmental Policy. Furthermore, we are a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact and its ten principles Tracking, monitoring I mproved safety onboarding and monitoring development Subcontractor safety tracking, monitoring and 3, 8, 12 that underline the need to adopt a precautionary and managing ongoing for suppliers locally, with subcontractors management improved, with all subcontractors approach to environmental challenges by examining the subcontractor safety receiving safety training about Konecranes’ premises and receiving adequate safety training about requirements before starting work. Different approaches Konecranes’ premises and requirements before whole scope of impacts that our operations might have. are used from classroom training to online tools. starting work. In our industry, the main environmental impacts arise from Increasing the Gender  diversity of Group management: At least 25% of Group management members 5, 8, 10 metal refinement. When assessing the whole lifecycle of our proportion of women male 73%, female 27%. are female. products, the most significant impacts come from energy in Group management consumption during the product use phase and from the Balance in Balance of nationalities in Group management, no 5, 8, 10 I n Group management: production of raw materials and components. Both our own nationalities in Finnish 63%, other 37%. single nationality should represent more than 50% operations and supply chain have environmental impacts Group management of group management by the end of 2020. that we aim to mitigate. Konecranes’ Environmental Policy to maintain a global sets principles for managing the environmental impacts of mindset Konecranes sites, products and services. We reduce our *)  his differs slightly and non-materially from our 2018 financial statement release and statement of non-financial information T carbon footprint through voluntary agreements and by (20%), as the original figure was later revised. setting targets for energy efficiency and emissions. Our target is to reduce our energy intensity (MWh/sales) by 25% and greenhouse gas emission intensity (tCO2e/sales) by 50% during 2017–2025. In addition, we are committed to the target of powering our factories with 100% renewable electricity by 2025. On a global scale our most significant environmental risks are related to climate change and the sustainability of Konecranes Sustainability Report 2018 18 Sustainability Report Actions Annual Review Financial Review Governance materials. We review key corporate responsibility risks Environmental data to our business on an annual basis to ensure that our *) MHPS business not included in the legacy Konecranes figures mitigation activities throughout the Group are effective. Combined company Combined company Legacy Konecranes*) Legacy Konecranes*) Legacy Konecranes*) We assess environmental risks in greater detail as part Energy 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 of the environmental management system, where each Total energy consumption (MWh) 310,000 334,500 11) 213,000 224,600 241,900 of our units is responsible for evaluating, prioritizing and mitigating their risks. Environmental risk assessments Fuel consumption1) (MWh) 151,000 164,60011) 141,500 151,800 169,600 and mitigation actions are done on a local level based Natural gas and LPG consumption (MWh) 74,100 75,60011) 14,700 16,700 18,100 on environmental aspects and impacts. After careful Electricity consumption (MWh) 70,100 79,80011) 40,300 42,100 40,300 assessment, we formulate risk mitigation plans. District heat consumption (MWh) 14,700 14,60011) 16,500 14,000 13,900 Total energy consumption per sales (MWh/MEUR) 98 10711) 101 106 120 Environmental incidents and near-miss cases are reported Renewable energy percentage (%) 2) 8% 7% through our global HSE reporting tool, and investigations Renewable electricity percentage (%)3) 24% 20% of root causes and corrective actions are conducted Emissions accordingly. We also use the Konecranes HSE Tools for Total emissions4) (tCO2e) 89,000 100,20011) 53,700 57,600 62,700 risk prevention, striving for continuous improvement and Scope 1, direct emissions (tCO2e) 5) 54,000 57,700 11) 39,200 45,500 46,900 the defined world-class level. To help mitigate risk in our Scope 2, Location-based method 31,300 38,00011) 16,400 17,200 18,100 supply chains, we have begun implementing our Supplier indirect emissions tCO2e6) Market-based method 35,000 42,500 11) 14,500 15,100 15,800 Code of Conduct, which will emphasize the corporate Scope 3, business travel (tCO2e)7) 10,700 10,000 7,700 8,300 9,600 responsibility standards we expect from third parties. Konecranes undertakes due diligence and background Total emissions per sales (tCO2e/MEUR) 4) 28 32 11) 25 27 31 checks of suppliers and subcontractors before entering Total emissions4) per energy unit (tCO2e/MWh) 0.29 0.30 0.25 0.26 0.26 into business relationships. Opportunities that arise from Waste the demand for low-carbon solutions are evaluated as Metal scrap8) (tons) 14,900 17,800 7,400 8,200 9,500 part of our corporate responsibility strategy review as well Cardboard, paper and wood (tons) 8) 2,700 3,900 3,100 2,900 4,200 as the feedback from our Voice of Customer surveys and Hazardous and electronic and electrical waste9) (tons) 1,600 2,000 700 800 600 continuous stakeholder dialogue. Other waste 10) (tons) 2,000 3,100 2,300 2,100 1,200 Water Konecranes’ HSE Tools for chemical handling and waste Water consumption (m3) 244,944 257,200 120,900 139,600 138,800 management are in use globally and set the minimum level for environmental management. To continuously Figures represent our manufacturing locations, except fuel consumption 5) Scope 1 includes emissions from fuel, natural gas and LPG consumption. 8) Waste streams are directed to recycling. improve our performance, we have a target set for having (includes also service vehicle fleet) and Scope 3 emission figure (represents 6) Scope 2 includes emissions from electricity and district heat consumption. 9) Waste stream handling split into recycling, incineration and other emissions from business traveling). 1 MWh = 3.6 GJ. MEUR = million euros. Scope 2 indirect emissions are calculated according to the GHG Protocol adequate treatments depending on location. full coverage of all our manufacturing sites according to 1) Fuel consumption consists of diesel and petrol. Scope 2 Guidance dual reporting requirement: location-based and market10) Other waste includes plastic, organic, mixed and energy waste. the ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management System 2) Amount of renewable energy divided by total energy consumption. based method. Konecranes Finland Oy acquired RES-GO guarantees of Waste stream handling split into recycling, incineration, composting, 3) Amount of renewable electricity divided by total electricity consumption. origin for electricity (Renewable Energy Sources Guarantee of Origin), and landfill depending on location. (EMS) at the end of 2020. Currently 65% of our factories 4) Total emissions include scope 1 and scope 2 (market-based method). which are subject to EECS (European Energy Certificate System). These 11) Historical figures revised due to improved data quality. have an ISO 14001 EMS in place requiring continuous CO2, CH4 and N2O included. GWP: 2014 IPCC Fifth Assessment Report. guarantees of origin covered 15 800 MWh electricity consumption for the Scope 3 is not included in the total emission figures, as collecting year 2018. Production method was Finnish bioenergy. comprehensive Scope 3 data is still in progress. 7) Scope 3 includes emissions only from business travel. Konecranes Sustainability Report 2018 19 Sustainability Report Actions Annual Review Financial Review Governance development and annual targets. In addition, we pay special attention to the use of efficient logistics and battery technology and other energy saving solutions such as regenerative braking. Our R&D efforts focus on impact of existing equipment can be reduced by applying improvements and retrofits. Modernizations and retrofits To achieve significant packaging, minimizing waste and reusing and recycling as much as possible. product design, developing and testing different materials, improving energy efficiency and smart features and save significant resources by reducing the environmental impact of products’ entire lifecycles, saving raw materials improvements Maximizing our environmental handprint applying remanufacturing processes into old product designs to decrease the environmental impact of our and improving the product’s energy efficiency and performance. Modernization increases safety, productivity in environmental In order to achieve significant improvements in environmental performance, we take environmental products’ lifecycles. We support a circular economy by developing our service business to enhance its ability to and reliability, and decreases the need for repairs and unscheduled maintenance. The use phases of our products performance, we review considerations into account for the entire lifecycle of our products. Usability, eco-efficiency and safety are maximize the lifecycle value of products. can extend for decades, so by investing in smart and connected, resourceand energy-efficient products, the entire lifecycle of our guiding principles in product design, along with Our products can be remanufactured and modernized customers can achieve significant reductions in their our products from a sustainability perspective. lifecycle thinking. In our conjoined product offering we to extend their lifespan, then be reused and finally environmental impacts. Enhancing our products and services can provide innovative power options such as hybrid and recycled at the end of their lifespans. The environmental even further by utilizing the possibilities offered by the Industrial Internet is one of our strategic initiatives. We offer advanced tools that take advantage of digitalization to improve the productivity, serviceability and lifetime OUR EFFORTS TO DELIVER MAXIMUM CIRCULAR VALUE of equipment. THROUGH OUR SOLUTIONS ARE FOCUSED ON FOUR KEY We see advantages for Konecranes especially in circular components, and related services. Steel is one of the key INITIATIVES: economy business models. Growing interest towards materials we use and it is 100% recyclable. rental services and product-as-a-service offerings as well  ore of Lifting: Our own key components, starting from the design and material selection phases. By constantly C as the demand for low-carbon products indicate that We offer a wide range of products and service solutions seeking new combinations of raw materials and components, developing smart features and finding ways to markets are seeking new ways to do business that are while maintaining a global presence, which brings challenges improve energy efficiency we can reduce the environmental impact of our products’ life cycles. cost-efficient and sustainable. Significant savings can be in terms of supplier management. Our Procurement L ifecycle Care: Our wide service and spare part offering and systematic approach to maintenance is supported obtained by renting, repairing, modernizing, reusing and organization has identified quality and financial risks by digital tools that allow real-time visibility. These help predict failures and maximize the productivity of the recycling our products. associated with some of our suppliers which may impact equipment’s uptime, thus also making it possible for our products to stay in use longer. our productivity and capability to provide on-time delivery. E  xtending products’ lifecycles: We further prolong the service life of equipment through retrofitting, Responsibility in our supply chain To mitigate these risks, our Procurement organization is remanufacturing and modernization. The Procurement organization is responsible for continuously monitoring the financial status and delivery R  eusability and recyclability: We select repairable and recyclable materials for our products and design compliance with the legal, ethical, environmental and other performance of our suppliers. our equipment to enable their reuse and recycling. In addition, we encourage the re-utilization of presustainability obligations of Konecranes’ supplier base and owned equipment. We also offer crane rental services, which include comprehensive service and preventive sets the requirements and processes for procurement. We also take the sustainability-related risks in our supply maintenance, allowing customers flexible production at a fixed monthly cost. We apply a category management procurement model to chain into consideration. To mitigate them, we conduct optimize our global supplier base, enhance relationships background checks and audits, drive the implementation and set requirements for all our suppliers. Konecranes of the requirements of our Supplier Code of Conduct and mainly procures steel, mechanical and electrical perform risk reviews. In accordance with our category Konecranes Sustainability Report 2018 20 Sustainability Report Actions Annual Review Financial Review Governance management strategy, we have conducted pre-emptive continue to implement it with all our key suppliers actions with critical suppliers and renewed our supplier base. and key subcontractors. We continuously develop Procurement-related guidelines and have conducted seven Requirements for suppliers and supplier onboarding trainings reaching 226 procurement subcontractors professionals in 2018. Standardization and harmonization are key drivers in managing our suppliers. Konecranes’ suppliers must comply Selecting our suppliers and subcontractors with basic requirements relating to quality, environmental Konecranes performs supplier evaluations which are divided management, occupational health and safety, social into two categories: pre-assessment and on-site auditing. responsibility and legal compliance, in addition to fulfilling During a pre-assessment, we carry out a background more general prerequisites. We encourage our suppliers check before the supplier or subcontractor relationship to optimize their packaging, make efficient use of begins, and evaluate whether the potential supplier or resources and reduce their environmental impact without subcontractor is in compliance with our Supplier Code of compromising product quality or safety. Conduct. Audits are conducted for new suppliers based on identified risks. In 2018, we updated our supplier selection, Our goal is to evaluate and set requirements that help to assessment and audit process, which also applies to ensure that environmental and social impacts are managed subcontractors. We conducted pre-assesments with 164 properly through responsible procurement. Our Supplier potential suppliers and performed 84 on-site audits with Code of Conduct sets out the minimum principles we current suppliers. Out of the findings, we have identified expect suppliers and subcontractors to uphold. Konecranes 363 actionable items that are under the scope of Global began implementing the Supplier Code of Conduct, which Procurement. These findings have been dealt with and contains the principles of the UN Global Compact and closed. Of the remaining findings, actions are ongoing. guidelines of the International Labour Organisation (ILO), in the spring of 2018. We expect our suppliers and subcontractors to conduct their businesses according to similar legal, ethical, environmental and employee-related principles as those we set out in our own Code of Conduct. In order to receive approved supplier or subcontractor status, our suppliers and subcontractors must commit to the requirements of our Supplier Code of Conduct and ensure their compliance. We have begun applying our Supplier Code of Conduct with our key suppliers as well as suppliers in countries identified as high-risk, and our target for 2019 is to Konecranes Sustainability Report 2018 21 Sustainability Report Reporting principles and data collection Annual Review Financial Review Governance Reporting principles and data collection This report has been prepared in accordance with Global Non-Financial Information (NFI) directive and communicate Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards along with the most information on diversity while using the GRI Standards recent versions of the following documents: GRI 101 framework. The reporting scope includes business over Foundation, GRI 102: General Disclosures, and GRI 103: which the Group has operational control, and reporting Management Approach. We have applied the Reporting is aligned with reporting on the financial year, or in other Principles for defining report content by identifying our words, the calendar year. material economic, environmental and social topics, and employed the topic-specific standards in reporting. Unless otherwise stated, the report covers all Konecranes operations in all the countries where we operate, focusing This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI on our core business and excluding joint ventures and Standards: Core option. The most material aspects for subsidiaries. We have commissioned a limited third-party Konecranes were determined by conducting a materiality assurance for safety (LTA1), energy and emission data. The assessment that involved key stakeholders and the external assurance statement by Ecobio Oy is available at company’s management. This report discloses significant www.konecranes.com. More information can be found on material aspects and describes our core impacts and www.konecranes.com. how we manage them. A list of key reported items can be found in the GRI Index Table. We believe that the reported disclosures provide appropriate information on our performance. More information about the calculation methodology can be found on www.konecranes.com. Disclosing information on how we manage our economic, environmental and social impacts is an integral part of Konecranes’ Annual Report and financial statements. The disclosures aim to fulfil the requirements of the EU’s Konecranes Sustainability Report 2018 22 Sustainability Report GRI Index 2018 Annual Review Financial Review Governance GRI Index General disclosures Page/link Additional information Organisational profile 102-1 Name of the organization p. 2 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and Annual Review services 102-3 Location of headquarters Hyvinkää, Finland 102-4 Location of operations Annual Review 102-5 Ownership and legal form Legal Form: Public Company Changes in ownership updated every quarter (www.konecranes.com) 102-6 Markets served www.konecranes.com/industries 102-7 Scale of the organization Annual Review 102-8 Information on employees and other p. 11–15 Data analytics have been compiled using QlikView (result of 31.12.18) enlarged with individual information workers from the People System. 102-9 Supply chain p. 20–21 102-10 Significant changes to the organization Our factories in Shanghai, Solon, Banbury and Lentigione were closed during 2018, and their operations were partly and its supply chain moved to other factories nearby. Offices for sales and service operations still remain in Solon, Banbury and Lentigione. 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach p. 18 102-12 External initiatives p. 7–8 102-13 Membership of associations Konecranes holds positions on the boards of the European Materials Handling Federation (FEM), Port Equipment Manufacturers Association (PEMA), East Office of Finnish Industries Ltd, The Federation of Finnish Technology Industries, Finnish Metals and Engineering Competence Cluster (FIMECC) and The Mechanical Engineering Industry Association (VDMA Materials Handling and Intra-logistics). In addition, Konecranes participates in committees of the European Committee for Standardization (CEN) and International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 102-14 Statement from senior decision maker Annual Review 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities p. 4, 9, 18 More information on risks available in the 2018 Konecranes CDP disclosure available at www.cdp.net. 2019 CDP disclosure will be published by the end of 2019. 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and p. 7, 11–12, 20–21 norms of behavior 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns p. 7 about ethics 102-18 Governance structure www.konecranes.com/investors/ The CR Steering Group is responsible for decision making on environmental and social topics. corporate-governance Konecranes Sustainability Report 2018 23 Sustainability Report GRI Index 2018 Annual Review Financial Review Governance General disclosures Page/link Additional information Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups p. 8 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements The amount of collective bargaining agreements is based on local legislation. The amount of collective bargaining agreements is 41.3 % and on Konecranes level 58.7 %. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders p. 8, 21 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement p. 8, 20–21 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised p. 8, 17 Material aspects and Boundaries 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for On a global level, the Director of Corporate Responsibility. In the Executive management team, these matters are the economic, environmental, and social responsibility of the EVP, Marketing and Corporate Affairs topics 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, p. 4, 7, 13–15, 18 environmental, and social impacts 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated Financial Review Please see Financial Statement financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic p. 17, 22 Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics p. 17 102-48 Restatements of information www.konecranes.com/press/releases/2018/correction-continued-solid-growth-in-service-orders-andstrong-improvement-in-groups-profitability Report profile 102-49 Changes in reporting p. 22 None 102-50 Reporting period The reporting period for this Corporate Responsibility Report is the financial reporting period of January 1 to December 31, 2018. 102-51 Date of most recent report The previous report was published in March 2017. This report is published in three languages: English, Finnish and Swedish. 102-52 Reporting cycle Konecranes publishes economic, social and environmental information annually as part of our Annual Report. 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding Please contact Konecranes’ Corporate Responsibility team at corporate-responsibility(at)konecranes.com the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with p. 22 This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index p. 23–26 102-56 External assurance p. 22 Assurance statement can be found at www.konecranes.com/about/corporate-responsibility/targets-and-progress Konecranes Sustainability Report 2018 24 Sustainability Report GRI Index 2018 Annual Review Financial Review Governance General disclosures Page/link Additional information Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and p. 15, 19, 22 its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its p. 3–21 We strive to maximize the positive impact we bring to society and reduce our negative impacts. components Omission: The reporting scope includes business over which the Group has operational control, excluding other entities in its value chain. 103-3 Evaluation of the management p. 3–9, 17 approach Specific standards disclosures Category: Economic Material aspect: economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and p. 4 distributed Category: Environmental Material aspect: Environmental performance 302-1 Energy consumption within the p. 19 Electricity, district heat, natural gas and LPG figures for service locations are not included organization as information is not available. 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) p. 19 Electricity, natural gas, LPG and district heat figures for service locations are not included GHG emissions as information is not available 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) p. 19 Electricity, natural gas, LPG and district heat figures for service locations are not included GHG emissions as information is not available 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) p. 19 Includes emissions only from business travel. Other Scope 3 emissions not included GHG emissions as information not available: collection of these is in progress. 305-4 GHG emissions intensity p. 19 Electricity, district heat, natural gas and LPG figures for service locations are not included as information is not available 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method p. 19 Waste from service locations is not included as information is not available. 306-3 Significant spills and complaints Reported disturbances cover incidents in which the company has been obliged to report to the authorities. The main environmental disturbance that occurred in 2018 was an oil leakage that required cleaning of soil. The disturbance was investigated and the appropriate corrective actions to minimize the impact on the environment were taken. Konecranes Sustainability Report 2018 25 Sustainability Report GRI Index 2018 Annual Review Financial Review Governance General disclosures Page/link Additional information Material aspect: Supply chain 308-1 New suppliers that were screened p. 17, 21 using environmental criteria Category: Social Material aspect: Fair labor practices 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and p. 11–13 employees Material aspect: Occupational health and safety 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, p. 13–15 Only lost-time rate and fatalities reported due to recent change in our safety reporting system. occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of workrelated fatalities Material aspect: Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about p. 7 anti-corruption policies and procedures Konecranes Sustainability Report 2018 26 Konecranes is a world-leading group of Lifting Businesses™, serving a broad range of customers, including manufacturing and process industries, shipyards, ports and terminals. Konecranes provides productivity-enhancing lifting solutions as well as services for lifting equipment of all makes. The Group has 16,100 employees at 600 locations in 50 countries. Konecranes is listed on the Nasdaq Helsinki (symbol: KCR). Corporate Headquarters Konecranes Plc P.O. Box 661 (Koneenkatu 8) FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland Tel. +358 20 427 11 Regional Headquarters Corporate responsibility Americas Europe, Middle East and Africa Asia-Pacific Nathalie Clément Konecranes, Inc. Konecranes Region EMEA Konecranes Pte. Ltd. Director, Corporate Responsibility 4401 Gateway Blvd. P.O. Box 662 (Koneenkatu 8) 8 Admiralty Street, #06-11 Admirax Tel. + 358 (0)50 5937587 Springfield, OH 45502, U.S.A. FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland Singapore 757438 nathalie.clement@konecranes.com Tel. +1 937 525 5533 Tel. +358 20 427 11 Tel. +65 6 861 2233
