74 th Annual Report (Integrated) 2018-19 TURNAROUND: SEIZING TODAY, EMBRACING TOMORROW Technological disruptions are defining and influencing mobility habits globally and today’s value-focused preferences are driving the business operations of tomorrow. With climate, demographics, urbanisation and rapid technological changes assuming centre-stage, the future increasingly seems to be moving towards being autonomous, connected, electric and shared. As next-generation technologies and automotive worlds merge, we, at Tata Motors Group, are well prepared to embrace the future with 'Charge' and 'Accelerate', our turnaround and transformation programmes for Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) and a stronger Turnaround 2.0 for Tata Motors Limited (TML). We believe that tomorrow belongs to those who prepare for it today. As responsible automakers, we are committed to transforming the future of mobility and more. 2 Contents INTEGRATED REPORT STATUTORY REPORTS Our approach to reporting 4 Board’s Report 78 What sets us apart 5 Management Discussion and Analysis 116 The strong fundamentals 6 Risk Factors 142 Introduction 8 Report on Corporate Governance 162 Product profile 14 Business Responsibility Report 184 Recognitions 18 Chairman’s message 20 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Leadership messages 22 Standalone Board of Directors 24 Independent Auditors’ Report 196 Corporate governance 26 Balance Sheet 206 Events FY 2018-19 28 Statement of Profit and Loss 207 Operating context 30 Cash Flow Statement 208 Risks and opportunities 34 Statement of Changes in Equity 210 Business model 38 Notes Forming Part of Financial 212 Key performance indicators 40 Statements Stakeholder inclusiveness 42 Consolidated Material issues 43 Independent Auditors’ Report 279 6 cylinders of our value 44 Balance Sheet 288 creation engine Statement of Profit and Loss 289 JLR and CJLR 46 Cash Flow Statement 290 TML CV and PV 50 Statement of Changes in Equity 292 Tata Motors Finance and 54 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated 294 Net Debt & Others Financial Statements Outlook 56 Summarised Statements 386 Holistic approach to value creation 58 JLR 60 Notice 396 TML (Standalone) 66 Tata Motors Finance 76 Approach to value creation We have a strong legacy that focuses on long-term value creation for all our stakeholders. As definition of value evolves, we, at Tata Motors Group, keep realigning our strategies. Our value-creation engine will require us to provide innovative mobility solutions for the new world by firing on all six cylinders, which are the key value drivers of our business. With planned efforts towards improving operational efficiency, reducing costs, enhancing cash flows, expanding commercial and marketing engagements, and managing net debt, we will continue to invest in products and technologies, that make us future ready. 3 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year Our approach to reporting Through this third Integrated Report for FY 2018-19, we, at the Tata MULTI-CAPITALS APPROACH Motors Group intend to provide a concise, transparent and balanced presentation of our value-creation process for all our stakeholders. The This Report provides an in-depth view of Report provides insights into our key strategies, operating environment, Tata Motors’ holistic approach towards creating value for customers, employees, risks and opportunities, governance structure and holistic approach shareholders and the environment. Tata Motors takes both financial and non-financial towards long-term sustainability. aspects of value creation into account. The Report covers extensive financial and non-financial information of TMLand its key Responsibility statement Materiality and scope subsidiaries, JLR and TMF Holdings Limited. In order to optimise governance oversight, of the Integrated Report The information presented covers the various capitals that are used or impacted– risk management and controls, the This Report includes information that Financial, Intellectual, Manufactured, contents of this Report have been is material to our stakeholders and it Human, Natural and Social and Relationship. reviewed by the Members of the Executive presents an overview of our businesses Committee of Tata Motors. and associated activities that help in short-, mediumand long-term value Reporting principle creation. We have also presented The financial and statutory data information around our strategic approach 6 CAPITALS presented in this Report is in line with towards the material issues. the requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder, Assurance statement Financial Manufactured the Indian Accounting Standards, the Assurance on financial statements Capital Capital Securities and Exchange Board of India has been provided by independent (Listing Obligations and Disclosure auditors BSR & Co. LLP and non-financial Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and statements of TML is assured by TUV Intellectual Social and Relationship the Secretarial Standards issued by the India Private Limited. The assurance Capital Capital Institute of Company Secretaries of India. has been given against the Report’s The non-financial section of the Report is adherence to the International <IR> guided by the Integrated Reporting <IR> Framework of the IIRC and the GRI's framework of the International Integrated Sustainability Reporting Standards. The Human Natural Capital Capital Reporting Council (IIRC). The information assurance report issued by TUV India on environmental, social and governance Private Limited is available on our website performance of TML follows the Global www.tatamotors.com Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and is reported in accordance with the 'Comprehensive’ criteria. 4 INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) What sets us apart Tata Motors Group is a leading manufacturer of some of the world’s most admired vehicles. Continuing its legacy, with a focus on engineering and tech-enabled automotive solutions, the Group is catering to the future of mobility. Addressing every challenge, there are key aspects that set us apart from the rest and on the basis of which, we build our competitive advantage. STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) • Leading brand, committed to meeting With increasing net promoter score in both Commercial Vehicle (CV) consumer aspirations globally and Passenger Vehicle (PV) businesses, TML was rated as the second most attractive overall brand and most attractive automotive brand in • Clear focus on new products the Economic Times survey in December 2018. and innovation, Research and 100+ Development (R&D), best-in-class technologies and operational Tata Harrier launched #BornofPedigree, excellence first from the Omega architecture NEW CV LAUNCHES IN FY 2018-19 • Clear focus on debt management FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) and improving cash flows, with Second consecutive year of positive a disciplined approach to capital cash flow allocation and risk management • Committed to safety and Tata Nexon becomes India’s first car to receive sustainability, as an integrated part Global New Car Assessment Programme (GNCAP) of the business model ‘5 stars’ for safety • Leading innovation for the next frontier Two iconic brands of JLR include Jaguar and Land Rover, spanning an technologies, with a focus on electrified, award winning, outstanding product portfolio connected and driverless vehicles Pursuing a clear vision and plans for a significant turnaround and transformation, leveraging the passion of teams • Project Charge is on track to achieve its GBP 2.5 BN target, with GBP 1.25 BN of All new Range Rover Evoque with hybrid options launched in FY 2018-19 benefits already delivered Launch of the new Defender announced • Continued focus on new product development, with award-winning I-PACE won the World Car, World Car Design and World Green Car, vehicles added to the existing and European Car of the Year illustrious line 5 THE STRONG FUNDAMENTALS 6 TATA MOTORS JAGUAR LAND ROVER Part of the Tata group, Tata Motors was established in Jaguar Land Rover brings together two iconic British 1945. A leading global automobile manufacturer, the brands with a long and illustrious legacy into a single Company remains committed to ‘Connecting Aspirations’ company. It became part of the Tata group in 2008. by offering innovative mobility solutions. Did you know? Land Rover, along with Jaguar, are the only two automotive brands Did you know? to hold all three Royal Warrants from Her Majesty The Queen, His Tata Motors has been exporting trucks for more Royal Highness The Duke of Edinburgh and His Royal Highness the than 50 years and today, Tata Motors' trucks Prince of Wales. are exported in 45 countries! Introduction 8 Product profile 14 Recognitions 18 Chairman’s message 20 Leadership messages 22 Board of directors 24 Corporate governance 26 Events FY 2018-19 28 Operating context 30 Risks and opportunities 34 Business model 38 Key performance indicators 40 Stakeholder inclusiveness 42 Material issues 43 7 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year Introduction TATA MOTORS GROUP Tata Motors is one of WHO WE ARE TATA MOTORS LIMITED the leading automobile TML is India’s largest Original manufacturers in 23% Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) the world, providing offering an extensive range of integrated, smart and e-mobility mobility solutions to solutions. over 175 countries. TML has established top-of-the-line Our portfolio includes manufacturing facilities, R&D and TML's contribution to the a wide range of cars, design centres at across nine Tata Motors Group revenue locations in India, the UK (TMETC), utility vehicles, trucks, Italy (Trilix) and South Korea (TDCV). and buses. We have a strong global network WHAT WE DO TML offers automotive products, ranging from sub-one-tonne of 134 subsidiaries, to 49-tonne Gross Vehicle Weight (GVW) trucks, small, medium, associate companies and large buses and coaches and passenger vehicles. TML is the leader in India’s CV market with a market share of 45.1% and joint ventures, and sales of 4,68,788 vehicles in FY 2018-19 and has gained including the Jaguar market share in the Medium and Heavy Commercial Vehicle (MHCV), Intermediate Light Commercial Vehicle (ILCV) and Small Land Rover in the UK Commercial Vehicle (SCV) segments. TML’s market share in the and the Tata Daewoo PV segment increased by 60bps to 6.3% in FY 2018-19. in South Korea. 20.3% REVENUE GROWTH IN FY 2018-19 (Y-O-Y ) OUR KEY BUSINESSES WHAT IS OUR VISION GUIDING By FY 2023-24, we will become the most aspirational Indian 1 PHILOSOPHY auto brand, consistently winning by 2 • Delivering superior financial returns Underlying • Driving sustainable mobility solutions Revenue Mix FY • Exceeding customer expectations, and 74 • Creating a highly engaged workforce 2018-19 (%) 23 MISSION We innovate mobility solutions with passion to enhance the quality of life. Tata Motors Limited (Standalone) VALUES Jaguar Land Rover • Integrity • Teamwork TMF Holdings Limited • Accountability • Customer centricity Others • Excellence • Speed 8 The strong fundamentals (6-43) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) JAGUAR LAND ROVER JLR is Britain’s largest automobile manufacturer, housing two iconic British brands under 74% the Tata group. STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Jaguar’s heritage of elegant design, innovative engineering and groundbreaking technology has excited and delighted the world for over 80 years. Land Rover is the world’s favourite Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV) brand. Its pioneering spirit and industry-leading expertise in all-terrain technologies put Land Rover at the forefront of JLR's contribution to the future mobility. Tata Motors Group revenue JLR has two major design and engineering sites, three vehicle manufacturing facilities, and an engine manufacturing centre in the UK. It also has plants in China, Slovakia, Austria, Brazil and India, with a new Battery Assembly Centre to be opened in the UK in 2020. JLR represents a compelling combination of British design S T R AT E G I C R E P O R T 11 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Strategy and engineering integrity. It designs, develops, manufactures and sells Jaguar premium sports saloons, sports cars, luxury performance SUVs and Land Rover premium all-terrain vehicles. PURPOSE 5,78,915 VEHICLES SOLD IN FY 2018-19, OUTPERFORMING THE INDUSTRY GROWTH IN THE UK AND THE US BUSINESS BLUEPRINT FOR SUCCESS Destination Zero JLR's vision is a world of sustainable, smart mobility – Destination PASSIONS Zero – enhancing the quality of everyone’s life with VALUES zero emissions, zero accidents and zero congestion through relentless innovation. 9 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year Introduction WHO WE ARE TATA MOTORS FINANCE TATA MOTORS GROUP OTHER SUBSIDIARIES Tata Motors Finance Limited (TMFL) and Tata Motors Finance Solutions Limited (TMFSL) are Non-Banking 1% Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Company Limited (TDCV) Financial Companies (NBFCs). They are TDCV is one of South Korea's most subsidiaries of TMF Holdings Limited reputed truck makers. Today, it (TMFHL). exports its vehicles to more than 40 TMFHL's countries. contribution to the TMFHL is a 100% subsidiary of TML Tata Motors Group and a core investment company (CIC). revenue Tata Technologies Limited (TTL) A leading company in engineering services outsourcing and product WHAT WE DO TMFL facilitates new vehicle financing. TMFSL undertakes development Information Technology the dealer/vendor financing business and the used (IT) services, TTL is a company of vehicle refinance/repurchase business. innovators and specialists in the design engineering space, who apply 37% STRONG GROWTH IN ASSETS UNDER cutting-edge technologies to provide competitive advantage to customers in the manufacturing sector. MANAGEMENT (Y-O-Y) The company is headquartered in Pune. WHAT IS OUR VISION GUIDING Enabling Economic Success, Fulfilling Aspirations PHILOSOPHY MISSION To provide relevant customer-centric financial products and solutions that support sustainable growth of the Tata Ecosystem CORE PURPOSE Reach out to customers to help them realise their dream of owning a Tata vehicle, easily CORE VALUES • Agility • Empathy • Synergy • Transparency • Integrity 10 The strong fundamentals (6-43) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) KEY JOINT VENTURES (JVS) AND PARTNERSHIPS Chery JT Special Vehicles A 50:50 JV between Chery Automobile Co Ltd. and JLR A 50:50 JV between Tata Motors and Coimbatore-based STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) to manufacture certain Jaguar and Land Rover models Jayem Automotives aims to bring back the ‘joy of motoring’ including powertrains. in daily commute. Waymo Marcopolo A long-term strategic partnership to develop the world’s A 51:49 JV between Tata Motors and Marcopolo S.A., Brazil, first premium self-driving Electric Vehicle (EV) for Waymo’s for manufacturing buses in India. driverless transportation service. Fiat BMW An industrial JV between Tata Motors and Fiat Group A collaboration between Jaguar Land Rover and BMW Automobiles to manufacture passenger cars, engines and Group to develop next generation Electric Drive Units transmissions for the Indian and overseas markets. (EDUs) in a move that will support the advancement of electrification technologies. Cummins FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) A 50:50 JV between Tata Motors and Cummins Inc., USA, for the design and manufacture of diesel engines. PIONEERING ELECTRIFICATION Group companies providing one Tata ecosystem Working together to bring ACES to life Charging infrastructure Data Insurance platform/ BMS EV Offering Financing Localisation Operations platform 11 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year Introduction OUR GEOGRAPHICAL PRESENCE KEY MANUFACTURING, DESIGN, R&D AND ENGINEERING FACILITIES # TATA MOTORS LIMITED 1 TML, Jamshedpur, Jharkhand 2 TML, Pantnagar, Uttarakhand 3 TML, Dharwad, Karnataka 4 TML, Pune, Maharashtra 5 TML, Sanand, Gujarat 6 TML, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 7 Tata Marcopolo, Dharwad, Karnataka TATA DAEWOO 1 TDVC, Gunsan, South Korea JLR 1 JLR, Halewood, UK 2 JLR, Solihull, UK 8 3 JLR, Castle Bromwich, UK 4 JLR, Wolverhampton, UK (Engine Manufacturing Centre) 5 JLR, Itatiaia, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil 6 JLR, Graz, Austria (Contract manufacturing) 7 JLR, Changshu, China 8 JLR, Nitra, Slovakia 9 JLR, Pune, India CENTRES FOR INNOVATION AND DESIGN 1 Whitley, Global Headquarters, Engineering 2 5 & Design, UK 2 Coventry, Special Vehicle Operations 6 Technical Centre, UK 5 3 Gaydon, UK National Sales Centre, Design 1 and Engineering Centre and Test Centre UK 6 5 4 National Automotive Innovation Centre, UK 5 Jamshedpur, India 4 6 Pune, India 7 Gunsan, South Korea 3 8 Portland, US 9 Trilix, Italy 7 # Engineering & Technical Centres are also mentioned in the list 12 INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) 13 1 2 3 4 2 4 3 1 1 7 7 9 The strong fundamentals (6-43) Map not to scale 8 6 9 * Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year Product profile OUR AUTOMOTIVE OFFERINGS Tata Motors Limited PV HATCHBACKS TIAGO BOLT SEDANS SUVs TIGOR NEXON HARRIER ZEST HEXA SAFARI STORME 14 The strong fundamentals (6-43) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) CV SCVs AND PICK-UPs (PUs) STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) ACE GOLD INTRA YODHA FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) ILCVs MHCVs PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION ULTRA NARROW SIGNA MAGNA ULTRA SLEEPER PRIMA WINGER 15 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year Product profile Jaguar Land Rover JAGUAR SPORTS LIFESTYLE LUXURY F-TYPE I-PACE XJ F-TYPE CONVERTIBLE F-PACE XF SPORTBRAKE E-PACE XF + XFL REFRESHED XE + XEL 16 The strong fundamentals (6-43) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) LAND ROVER REFINEMENT VERSATILITY DURABILITY STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) RANGE ROVER DISCOVERY NEW DEFENDER TO BE REVEALED IN 2020 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) RANGE ROVER SPORT DISCOVERY SPORT RANGE ROVER VELAR RANGE ROVER EVOQUE 17 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year Recognitions AWARDS WON BY US Tata Motors Limited CV 8 AWARDS won by Tata Motors at ET Now Awards 2019 5 AWARDS were bagged by Tata Motors at Flywheel awards 2019 for CV, including CV Manufacturer of the Year and CV of the Year Recognised as the CV MAKER OF THE YEAR at Apollo CV Awards Bestowed with five best in segment awards at Apollo CV Awards MCV Cargo Carrier, CV People Mover, Special Application, MCV Tipper and ICV Cargo Carrier Ultra 9m E-Bus won CV OF THE YEAR at Apollo CV Awards PV Autocar, TopGear and Cars India awarded Tata Motors Passenger Vehicle Business as MANUFACTURER OF THE YEAR Recognised by ET as Brand Equity recognised Tata Motors as the SECOND MOST MOST TRUSTED BRAND ATTRACTIVE BRAND in the automotive sector. 18 The strong fundamentals (6-43) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) Jaguar Land Rover 232 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) PRESTIGIOUS RANGE ROVER EVOQUE won the Best Compact SUV at GQ Car Awards AWARDS were won by Jaguar Land Rover during FY 2018-19 RANGE ROVER VELAR won the Best Design and Styling Award from Autocar India EUROPEAN CAR OF THE YEAR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) for I-PACE WORLD CAR, WORLD CAR 60+ DESIGN AND WORLD GREEN AWARDS CAR TITLES FOR I-PACE; THE FIRST CAR TO WIN ALL 3 WON BY I-PACE TOGETHER 19 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year Chairman’s message In the CV segment, which is the backbone of the domestic business, the Company has maintained its leadership position in the industry with a 45.1% market share in FY 2018-19. Mr N Chandrasekaran Chairman & Non-Executive Director Dear Shareholders, In this backdrop, I would like to share with you the performance, status and future direction of your Company. It is my privilege to write to you and present the Annual Report for FY 2018-19. Tata Motors Limited (TML India) The global automotive industry is witnessing disruptive At TML – India, we had announced a 'Turnaround' programme in innovations. The technological changes are leading to new July 2017. Since then, your Company has undertaken a series of products and business models including shared mobility, comprehensive steps to address different aspects of the business. autonomous and connected vehicles. Concerns about I am happy to share with you that the result of these initiatives has sustainability are leading the governments across the world been visible in your Company’s strong operational and financial to push for reduction in their carbon footprint, encouraging the performance. adoption of EVs. These changes, coupled with the geo-political In the CV segment, which is the backbone of the domestic trade situation, uncertainty around BREXIT and the slowdown business, the Company has maintained its leadership position in China have led to a period of uncertainty for the global auto in the industry with a 45.1% market share in FY 2018-19. industry. The business delivered a 17.2% volume growth compared to the previous year. This is a strong performance, in the background of In the Indian context, the automotive industry is expected to a weaker second half of the year, driven by increased axle load emerge as the world’s third largest PV market by 2021, driven by norms, liquidity crunch and lower demand. the underlying economic growth, increasing consumption demand and mass urbanisation. However, in the short to medium term, the In the PV segment, your Company delivered a credible sector faces some challenges due to the ongoing credit crunch, performance by growing its volumes at 13.9% compared to the low consumer spending and the transition from BS IV to BS VI industry growth rate of 2.8% in FY 2018-19 and achieved the emission norms by April 1, 2020. The growth in the CV market highest unit sales and market share over the past five years. is likely to pick up, driven by increased infrastructure spending, Your Company launched a portfolio of successful products growth of new-age industries like e-commerce and further including Nexon, which is the only car in India with a '5-star' safety progress in the hub-and-spoke model of distribution. rating from GNCAP and the second most selling SUV in India. 20 The strong fundamentals (6-43) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) We need to transform ourselves to be relevant in the world of future mobility. This will require us to form partnerships, develop STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) mobility solutions and optimise our investment in the process. Tata Harrier was launched in January 2019 to an overwhelmingly in the business reporting a revenue decline this year and an positive customer reaction. operating loss. JLR's sales from China declined by 34.1% this year compared to the previous year. It faced headwinds from external While your Company continues to make significant progress, by no factors including slowdown of sales in China and Europe, along means is the work done. In the CV segment, your Company needs with internal factors of high fixed cost structures, dealer network to grow and secure sustainable cash flows from the business profitability and high investment leading to cash outflows. and ensure smooth transition to BS VI emission norms. In the PV segment, your Company needs to enhance its sales and service JLR is taking steps to cut costs while taking a calibrated approach offering which is key to growth in volumes as well as execute its towards future investment in the product portfolio. It is actively FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) plan to achieve profitability at Profit Before Tax (PBT) level. looking at partnerships and prioritising its investments while ensuring that it is not compromising its future. These are critical In EVs, your Company’s strong belief is that this is a necessary interventions and JLR is committed to deliver cost and cash initiative for India. Your Company is committed to take the lead improvements. in this transition and work with other companies in the Tata ecosystem to help create a viable environment to drive the The next few years are going to be decisive for our Company. adoption of EVs. However, this transition has to be well planned. We have to focus on strong operational excellence to deliver The Government and the industry need to work together to ensure positive cashflows while making the right investments to be that a suitable ecosystem is developed, incentives are provided prepared for the future. We need to transform ourselves to be to stimulate demand and sustainability goals are achieved by relevant in the world of future mobility. This will require us to implementing emission norms across the value chain. form partnerships, develop mobility solutions and optimise our investment in the process. Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) I am aware that it has not been an easy journey and I would like JLR is making significant investments to develop next-generation to thank our employees, management team, dealers, customers, products. Over the past year, it has continued to develop suppliers and all other stakeholders for their hard work and award-winning products that combine outstanding performance, commitment at this important time of the Company’s journey. quality and technology. The all-electric Jaguar I-Pace has been awarded the 2019 World Car of the Year, 2019 World Car Design I would also like to thank you for your continued trust, confidence of the Year and the 2019 World Green Car, being the first car ever and support as we turn this business around and deliver the to win three World Car titles, along with being awarded the Car results that we all look forward to. of the Year at the European Car of the Year Awards 2019. This is a Best Regards, gratifying testament for the superior next-generation car portfolio of JLR. N Chandrasekaran Mumbai, May 20, 2019 From an operational performance perspective, the last twelve months have been challenging for JLR. These have resulted 21 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year TML CEO and Managing Director’s message network of after-sales support and best-in-class Turnaround time. • Leveraging digital to bring immersive experience to our Our spare parts and aggregate business in CV grew by 36% in customers and enhance our interface with channel partners revenue and added to the overall profitability. Our new vertical for e-mobility is uniquely positioned to capture We achieved some industry first recognitions this year. the EV opportunities in India. We are leading the ecosystem • CV launched the modular Ultra with a range of 14 trucks in the development by preparing a tailormade product strategy, leveraging the synergy between the Tata group companies and playing an ILCV segment, available with highly customised options and fully active role liasoning with the Government in developing the policy built applications. framework. • CV managed the transition of increased axle load regulations for We have demonstrated an innovation mindset in our product its MHCV range of trucks in record time. development process by receiving 104 patents last year, the second highest in India. We are currently working on a comprehensive • We unveiled four new products at the recent Geneva Motor strategy of mobility solutions to leverage Connected, Electric, Shared Show the Harrier, our entry in the mid-SUV premium segment and Safe (CESS) conditions of sustainable growth by enhancing the and its 7-seater sibling, the Altroz EV and our showstopper, the organisation’s skill, capabilities and talent pipeline. H2X Concept, a sub-compact SUV. Our approach on safety, health, environment and sustainability • Nexon became India’s safest car, achieving a first time ever 5 Star evolves out of a long-term, holistic view for the processes and systems that govern the organisation by Mr Guenter Butschek GNCAP safety rating. CEO and Managing Director, Tata Motors • Taking industry lead to shift focus from wholesale to retail, • Increasing the use of renewable energy and improving our where the benefits for the entire value chain will be far reaching operational efficiency and long lasting. • Supporting the climate change principles through Dear Shareholders, • PV won the Manufacturer of the Year Award and CV bagged the reduced carbon emissions I am delighted to present the Tata Motors Annual Report for the FY 2018-19. top awards across seven categories including the most coveted • Fostering a safe and ethical workplace, promoting gender honours, CV of the Year and CV Maker of the Year. diversity As the year has been challenging, it has been exciting. We faced external uncertainties throughout the year, starting with the • TML regarded as the Second Most Attractive brand by ET and • Contributing to the Sustainability Initiative, covering 233 critical increased axle load regulation, liquidity crisis, muted consumer the Most Trusted Automotive Brand by Brand Equity. suppliers and 237 dealerships sentiments and aggressive discounting – all leading to a subdued Although the second term of the incumbent Government is likely to • Rededicating to the cause of community development as growth in the H2FY19, after a successful H1FY19. Our continued augur well for the economy, the ongoing muted demand scenario focus on sales enhancement by market activation and new product our ‘Triple Bottom Line’ responsibility, spending `22.4 crore with the impending challenges of the BS VI transition in launches, rigorous cost reduction and more efficient alignment on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and touching over Q3/Q4FY20 make our business cycle volatile. The Turnaround of demand and supply helped us to deliver a comprehensive 7,23,000 lives in FY 2018-19. therefore continues, as we put in even more rigour in execution Turnaround across the board. to bring sustainability to our overall performance. Our immediate In order to lead your Company successfully into the future, we need The market performance improved across all segments in CV and priorities would be to generate better profitability and cash flows to be globally competitive, develop India centric customer solutions PV. In PV, as against the industry growth of 2.8%, TML outperformed through structural cost reductions and capex prioritisation, ensure a and be ahead of the curve. Our aspirations are high as we set the market with a growth of 13.9%. Market share for the year smooth transition into the BS VI regime with a portfolio refresh and ourselves towards a 5-year Vision horizon. was 6.3%, an improvement of 60bps from the last year. In CV, product enhancements, and maximise the sales opportunity with the after outgrowing the industry for H1FY19, we were impacted recent launches of Harrier, Intra and the upcoming Altroz. By FY 2023-24, we will become the most aspirational Indian auto by the reduced market demand, leading to a more competitive brand, consistently winning by As we commit to manage the present successfully, we need environment, affecting our cumulative market share and resulting • delivering superior financial returns to lead the future sustainably. To step up the game, we are in a flat performance for the fiscal. However, the favourable mix reprioritising our actions against five angles of attack – product, • driving sustainable mobility solutions of MHCVs and structural cost reductions led to a strong financial scale, cost, technology and digital – all centered on the customer. performance. CV delivered an industry-leading EBITDA of 11% and • exceeding customer expectations, and A comprehensive set of actions is underway to support our PV achieved an EBITDA breakeven. aspirations. • creating a highly engaged work force. Our financial backbone rests on the CV performance and therefore • Defining brands with the birth of our new modular architectures We remain committed to meet our aspirations and your expectation the CV business needs to keep firing consistently. We have intensified our sales efforts across the board by active engagement in CV and PV of further improved performance in FY 2019-20. with the dealer community, the fleet owners, the financiers, the • Accelerating cost reductions by re-energising the organisation Thanking you for your continued support and confidence in our customers and the drivers. 100+ new products got launched in CV, towards challenging targets passion for your Company. addressing customsed requirements. Specific interventions have been launched in target markets and regions to make a sustainable • Building scale through simplification in our supplier strategy Best Regards, impact on brand pull and sales acceleration. As a market leader, 'more buy from less partners', unleashing economies of scale we have always believed in value enhancement rather than value Guenter Butschek erosion. Therefore, we will continue to play the game responsibly, • Driving technology through a unified Connected Vehicle Platform Mumbai, May 20, 2019 but aggressively. Our service campaign ‘Sampoorna Seva’ promises (CVP) to bring enhanced value proposition to the customer to provide seamless customer experience through an extensive use cases 22 The strong fundamentals (6-43) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) JLR CEO’s message As we transform today for tomorrow, JLR is committed to STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) realising our Blueprint vision of future mobility. Prof Dr Ralf Speth CEO, Jaguar Land Rover Dear Shareholders, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) In the decade since Ratan Tata acquired JLR, we are proud And the technology revolution as we move from the Internal Development and innovation in ‘ACES’ require open to have created an outstanding, award-winning product Combustion Engine to Autonomous, Connected, Electrified collaboration so we work closely with high-tech global portfolio. Designed and developed with passion and spirit and Shared mobility – or ‘ICE’ to ‘ACES’ – means we are set to partners to spearhead advances in intelligent, connected and by our talented team of pioneers, JLR vehicles, today, offer experience a period of greater change in the next five years autonomous driving technologies. stunning, contemporary design and creative innovation for our than in the last 50. As we transform today for tomorrow, JLR is committed to customers. Our financials for FY 2018-19 reflect these external challenges: realising our Blueprint vision of future mobility. We call this We have formed one truly multinational company from our two lower turnover year on year, an operating loss and a one-time Destination Zero zero emissions, zero accidents and zero quintessentially British brands, nearly quadrupling our turnover accounting charge to write down the carrying value of congestion harnessing new technologies to enable smart and tripling the size of our workforce. capitalised assets. integrated mobility and improve lives in the communities we call home. Today, our internationalised operating footprint spans design, We have not stood still. We have initiated our Charge and engineering and manufacturing centres of excellence across Accelerate turnaround and transformation programmes, FY 2018-19 has been a tough year. I would like to thank all the globe with new technology hubs in Manchester, the UK, robustly and at pace. those who have contributed to the acclaim and recognition Ireland and Hungary and a state-of-the-art new plant in bestowed on our sensational vehicles. In a volatile world, our • Charge is targeting GBP 2.5 BN of rapid cost, cash and profit purpose remains constant: creating experiences that people Slovakia. Through our strategy of responsible growth, our UK improvements by March 2020. We have taken difficult, but manufacturing operations have achieved carbon neutral status love, for life. responsible decisions affecting our people. Today, we have a one year ahead of our 2020 sustainability targets. leaner organisation. The coming year promises to be an exciting one with the new Land Rover Defender making its world premiere. We look We are committed to lifelong learning, offering education and • Accelerate is simultaneously driving systemic and structural forward with a steadfast commitment to continue delighting our skills development through the Jaguar Land Rover Academy improvements through a root and branch review of all our customers with more of the most capable desirable vehicles that last year saw our people complete almost 17,00,000 hours processes and working practices. in the world. of training. Both programmes are on track to make JLR a business fit for Best Regards, Today, the automotive industry faces multiple regulatory, the future. geopolitical and economic disruptions and technological The next chapter in the story of JLR will be the most exciting – Prof Dr Ralf Speth challenges. and demanding – in our history. Mumbai, May 20, 2019 We have met stringent all new Worldwide Harmonised Light Vehicle Test Procedure (WLTP) emission norms, but extensive We lead the ‘ICE’ to ‘ACES’ revolution in many areas, offering public debate around emissions, stricter regulation, increasing our customers the choice of clean and efficient petrol and taxation and customer confusion have impacted diesel’s diesel engines, mild and plug-in hybrid and battery-electric popularity. propulsion systems. Our Jaguar I-Pace, the world’s first premium electric SUV, has won the most prestigious accolades An increasingly protectionist global trade agenda and the in the automotive industry: European Car of the Year and an ongoing BREXIT uncertainty threaten our competitiveness. unprecedented hat-trick at the World Car Awards in 2019. 23 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year Board of Directors LEADING US TO THE FUTURE Mr Ratan N. Tata Mr Natarajan Chandrasekaran Mr Nasser Munjee Chairman Emeritus Chairman & Non-Executive Director Non-Executive, Independent Director Mr Tata was the Chairman of Tata Sons Mr Chandrasekaran is the Chairman of the Mr Munjee is on the Boards of various Private Limited from 1991 till his retirement in Board of Tata Sons Private Limited, the holding multinational companies and trusts. December 2012. He also chaired the Boards company of the Tata group. His appointment as He is a Technical Advisor on the World Bank’s of major operating Tata companies and the Chairman followed a 30-year business career at Public-Private Partnership Infrastructure Tata Trusts. Under his stewardship, various Tata Consultancy Services, which he joined from and Advisory Fund, and the Chairman of group restructuring initiatives were undertaken university rising through the ranks to become Development Credit Bank (DCB). He has served to leverage global opportunities for the Tata the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Managing with HDFC Bank for over 20 years, across group, the salt-to-software conglomerate, Director. He was appointed as a Director on the various positions. He was the Managing Director growing revenues and profitability by over Board of the Reserve Bank of India in 2016 and on of Infrastructure Development Finance Co. 40 times. He was on the Company’s Board for the International Advisory Council of Singapore’s Ltd. (IDFC). more than three decades from 1981 till his Economic Development Board in 2018. He is also He holds graduate and post-graduate degrees retirement, and was Chairman during the last the Co-Chair of the India US-CEO Forum. from the London School of Economics. 24 years. He is the Chairman of the Tata Trusts, which are among India’s oldest, non-sectarian philanthropic organisations that work in several areas of community development. He also chairs the Council of Management of Tata Institute of Fundamental Research and is a trustee of Cornell University and University of Southern California. Mr O P Bhatt Ms Hanne Sorensen Non-Executive, Independent Director Non-Executive, Independent Director Mr Bhatt is on the Boards of several companies, Ms Sorensen, a Danish national, is on the including Standard Chartered Bank, Tata Boards and Committees of various international Consultancy Services, Tata Steel and Hindustan companies. She was engaged in various roles Unilever. He was the Chairman of the State within the A.P. Moller–Maersk A/S Group in Bank Group. Besides chairing the Indian Banks' Denmark between 1994 and 2016, serving as Association, he has served as the Indian diplomat the CEO of Damco, the CEO of Maersk Tankers, on the India-US CEO Forum, Indo-French CEO and Senior Vice-President and Chief Commercial Forum and Indo-Russia CEO Forum. Officer of Maersk Line. He was the National Science Talent Search She is a post-graduate in Economics and Scholar in Physics at DAV College, Dehradun, and Management from the University of Aarhus. holds a post-graduate degree in English Literature from Meerut University. 24 The strong fundamentals (6-43) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) Our Board of Directors guide our path to the future, while being supported by our Executive Management Committee. STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Mr Vinesh K Jairath Prof Dr Ralf Speth Ms Falguni S Nayar Non-Executive, Independent Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive, Independent Director Mr Jairath has served in several important Prof Dr Speth is on the Board of Jaguar Land Ms Nayar is, at present, the founder and CEO of positions with the Government of India and the Rover Automobile PLC, UK, and is its CEO. With an a promising e-commerce start-up, Nykaa.com. State Government of Maharashtra. He has over experience of 20 years at BMW, he served as She has spent over 19 years with Kotak Mahindra 25 years’ experience in public administration, rural the Director of Production, Quality and Product Bank, with the last six years as Managing Director development, infrastructure, finance, industry Planning at Ford Motor Company's Premier and CEO of Kotak Investment Bank. environmental management and the private Automotive Group. sector, as part of the Indian Administrative Service. She is an Indian Institute of Management, He holds a doctor degree in Mechanical Ahmedabad alumnus. He is a post-graduate in Economics from the Engineering and Business Administration from University of Manchester. Warwick University and an Engineering degree FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) from Rosenheim University, Germany. Ms Vedika Bhandarkar Mr Guenter Butschek Mr Satish Borwankar Non-Executive, Independent Director CEO and Managing Director COO & Executive Director Ms Bhandarkar brings more than 25 years of Mr Butschek has over 25 years’ global experience Mr Borwankar started his career with the experience with Indian and international financial in international automotive management. Company in 1974 as a Graduate Engineer Trainee institutions. At present, she is engaged with Besides Daimler AG, he has worked in the Airbus and has served in various operating functions like Waterorg, a not-for-profit organisation. She was group as its Chief Operating Officer and a member manufacturing, quality, vendor development and Vice Chairman and Managing Director at Credit of the Group Executive Committee. strategic sourcing, rising through the ranks to Suisse Securities (India) Private Limited from 2010 become its Executive Director and Chief Operating He is a graduate in Business Administration and to 2015. Officer. Economics with a Diploma from the University of She is an MBA scholar from the Indian Institute of Cooperative Education, Stuttgart. He is a graduate in Mechanical Engineering from Management, Ahmedabad and a Science graduate Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur. from the MS University, Udaipur. COMMITTEES Audit Nomination and Remuneration Stakeholders' Relationship Corporate Social Responsibility Risk Management Safety, Health and Sustainability 25 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year Corporate governance GOVERNANCE EMPOWERING SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATION Led by visionaries, Tata Motors Group upholds corporate governance standards that are best in class and that strengthen stakeholder trust in the Company. TATA MOTORS LIMITED Mr Guenter Butschek Mr N Chandrasekaran JAGUAR BOARD'S KEY AREAS OF FOCUS Mr Vinesh K Jairath Mr Nasser Munjee LAND ROVER The Board of Directors oversees several Ms Falguni S Nayar Dr Ralf Speth LIMITED areas of the Company's business, as well Mr O P Bhatt Ms Hanne Sorensen Mr Andrew M Robb as its value-creation process. Ms Vedika Bhandarkar Mr P B Balaji* Mr Satish Borwankar • Direct, supervise and control the performance of the Company • Provide leadership and guidance to the Company’s management • Review the Company’s strategic and business plan • Monitor the responsibilities delegated to the Board Committees, to ensure proper and effective * Group CFO Tata Motors and Director Jaguar Land Rover governance and control of the Company’s activities • Establish a framework for the risks to be assessed and managed BOARD EFFECTIVENESS EVALUATION Committee meetings, including preparation on the issues The Board of Directors carry out an annual evaluation of its to be discussed as well as meaningful and constructive performance, and the performance of its Committees as well contribution and inputs during meetings. In addition, the as individual Directors. This involves receiving inputs from all Chairperson is evaluated on the key aspects of their role. the Directors. A separate meeting of Independent Directors is held to review the performance of Non-Independent INTEGRATED GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Directors, the performance of the Board of Directors and the The governance structure of the Tata Motors Group companies performance of the Chairperson of TML. The Independent ensures that the key businesses although diverse in nature directors consider the views of Executive Directors and are led by the Board of Directors based on common principles Non-Executive Directors. and the Tata group ethos. As part of our ‘integrated thinking’ process, the Board Committees make key decisions on the The criteria for the performance evaluation of the Board Company’s holistic value-creation process across the six of Directors includes aspects such as its composition and capitals. structure, and the effectiveness of its processes, information flow and functioning. The criteria for the performance evaluation of individual Directors includes aspects, such Although there are two different Boards for TML and JLR, there as the Director’s contribution to the Board of Directors and are five common Board members, including the Chairman. 26 The strong fundamentals (6-43) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) BOARD COMMITTEES AND THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES Board Committee Role of the Committee Audit Reviewing quarterly/annual financial statements, adequacy of internal control systems, internal audit reports (ensuring independence of auditors) and statement of uses/ application of funds raised Nomination and Remuneration Providing various recommendations to the Board including set up and composition of the Board and its Committees, appointment or re-appointment of Directors; Key Managerial STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Personnel review Remuneration Policy and structures and support the Board in matters related to set up and review of the Committees Stakeholders' Relationship Reviewing statutory compliances and services relating to security holders, dividend payments, performance of Registrar and Transfer Agents Corporate Social Responsibility Formulating and recommending the CSR policy to the Board and monitoring the CSR activities and expenditure Risk Management Assisting the Board in overseeing the risk management process, controls, risk tolerance, capital liquidity and funding and reviewing the Company’s risk governance Safety, Health and Sustainability Reviewing the Company’s performance on Safety, Health, Environment and Sustainability aspects and overseeing the implementation of relevant policies and strategies FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Please refer to the Report on Corporate Governance, Page 162 for more details. BOARD DIVERSITY The overseers of governance in the Demographics Experience Company are the Board and the Committees – comprising 2 Executive, 2 Non-Executive Executive x2 Non-executive x2 and 6 Independent members, who are empowered to lead the Company. The Board also brings in diverse and wide experiences • Automobile engineering Independent x6 • Engineering to the table, in the areas of automobile • Business and economics engineering; business and economics; • Banking and finance banking and finance; and legal affairs; • Financial services Female x3 Male x7 • Legal affairs coupled with a global outlook. • Technology 11.4 10.7 TATA MOTORS 20.5 SHAREHOLDING PATTERNS 18.0 Promoters FII Ownership 30.9 Voting Rights ADR (%) (%) 12.9 14.9 Domestic institutions and Mutual Funds 35.8 Others 24.3 20.7 27 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year Events FY 2018-19 BREAKTHROUGHS OF THE YEAR Q1 Q2 Tata Motors Limited Tata Motors Limited Tata Motors created the electric mobility business vertical Tata Motors emerged as one of the eight Sustainability to capture opportunities arising out of new mobility trends. Leaders among the global automobile companies on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) 2018. • Tata Motors announced the launch of Nex-Gen ULTRA range of trucks to strengthen its leadership in the ILCV segment. • Tata Motors celebrates the roll-out of its 1,500th GS800 Safari Storme for the Indian Army. • Tata Motors announces the nationwide launch of Tata Nexon A.M.T. with HyprDrive Self-Shift Gears. • Tata Motors’ Sanand facility reaches 100% capacity utilisation to meet growing demand for Tiago and Tigor. Jaguar Land Rover • Tata Motors showcases the future of sustainable public • JLR announced plans to open a new software, IT and transportation in India, with solutions designed to offer engineering centre in Manchester to support its strategy convenience, safety, security, and efficiency to its customers. to introduce connected technologies in future vehicles. Jaguar Land Rover • JLR is making all-terrain autonomy a reality and developing autonomous cars capable of all-terrain, off-road driving in any JLR’s Range Rover Sport completed the first ever selfweather condition. driving lap of one of the UK’s most challenging road layouts, handling junctions, slip roads and lane changes, all autonomously at a 40 mph speed limit. • Plugsurfing puts JLR drivers on the road to easier charging, with the supply of a premium charging service for JLR's EVs in selected markets in Europe. • JLR celebrates past, present and future at Paris Motor Show, with two landmark anniversaries: 70 years of all-terrain superiority and 50 years of a flagship saloon. 28 The strong fundamentals (6-43) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) Q3 Q4 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Tata Motors Limited Tata Motors Limited Tata Motors PV business unit ranks 2nd in the JD Power Tata Motors launched its much-awaited SUV – Harrier. The 2018 India Customer Service Index (Mass Market) study. Harrier is the first vehicle to sport the Impact Design 2.0 This is a testimony to Tata Motors’ endeavour to offer design language of Tata Motors, with its stunning exteriors customers a seamless after-sales experience. and luxurious interiors. It was born out of the legendary pedigree of JLR’s D8 platform. • Tata Nexon became the first and only car in India to achieve a full ‘5 stars’ adult safety rating from GNCAP, • Tata Motors received the BS VI compliance certification FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) an internationally renowned safety accreditation body. for its 3.8L NA SGI CNG engine from the Automotive With this achievement, Nexon has put India on the global Research Association of India (ARAI). This is an important map. milestone towards preparation for BS VI and a first for any OEM in India. • Tata Motors launched a TV commercial celebrating #DeshKeTruck, encouraging the homegrown sports of • Tata Motors supplied electric buses across Indian states wrestling and kabaddi. and cities including West Bengal and Lucknow. • Tata Motors launched all new Tigor, a next-generation • Tata Motors showcased its next-gen passenger vehicles compact sedan with exclusively styled interiors and exteriors. including the Altroz, Premium Hatchback at the Geneva International Motor Show. Jaguar Land Rover Jaguar Land Rover JLR launched the new Range Rover Evoque, designed, engineered and made in Britain – the next-generation JLR installed 166 smart charging outlets for EVs at its compact SUV – following a GBP 1 bn investment to support Gaydon engineering centre, making it the UK’s largest its production. smart charging facility. • InMotion Ventures, JLR’s venture capital arm backed six • JLR was awarded the latest ISO14001 Environmental start-ups that could change the way we travel, focusing on Management Standard certification, after making its UK urban transportation and urban experiences. manufacturing and product development sites Carbon Neutral for FY 2017-18. • JLR introduced new Vehicle-to-Infrastructure (V2X) technology that connects cars to traffic lights, so drivers can • JLR expanded its Ingenium engine family with a new avoid getting stuck at red signals and help free up traffic flow six-cylinder petrol engine, designed and engineered in cities. in-house, and manufactured at its GBP 1 BN Engine Manufacturing Centre (EMC) in Wolverhampton, the UK. • JLR opened its state-of-the-art GBP 1.4 BN manufacturing facility in Nitra, Slovakia, marking the first time a UK automotive company has opened a plant in this country. 29 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year Operating context OPPORTUNITY LANDSCAPE TATA MOTORS LIMITED TECHNOLOGICAL ADVANCEMENTS Electric vehicles Shared mobility Connected environment With the Government’s incentives India is expected to be a leader in In India, the market for connected supporting EVs, the success of Faster shared mobility by 2030 as the rising vehicles and telematics is displaying Adoption and Manufacturing of share of electric and autonomous incredible promise. Due to various (Hybrid &) Electric vehicles in India vehicles improves shared mile factors like availability and – Phase 2 (FAME II), the burgeoning economics. By 2030, shared miles affordability of high-speed internet demand for cleaner fuel options, the will likely reach 35% of all miles connectivity and smartphone rising costs of internal combustion travelled in the country and are likely integration via apps, the adoption engines technologies and the wide to increase to 50% in 2040. India had of telematics is increasing. adoption of EVs in shared and public driven 257 billion miles in 2017, of Furthermore, OEMs are incorporating transport, India is on its way to which 10% were shared (including advanced telematics solutions in achieve a high EV penetration, with traditional taxis and app-based plays). the PV as well as the CV segments, an estimated three million vehicles which is expected to fuel growth of an by 2030. automotive telematics ecosystem. B10,000 35% 24%+ crore GOVERNMENT OUTLAY BY 2030 SHARED MILES CAGR EXPANSION FOR A GLOBAL FOR FAME II TRAVELLED IN INDIA CONNECTED CAR ECOSYSTEM Source: Government of India Source: Morgan Stanley Source: NASSCOM TML's response Tata Motors is already prepared Tata Motors created a separate In 2015, Tata Motors became the to leverage its existing EV-ready division — Mobility Innovations first OEM to adopt telematics — an architecture and is equipped with Hub — to explore ways to tap into efficient way of designing, driving and the engineering, sourcing and its entire range of PVs and CVs for managing automobiles. In 2019, it manufacturing resources that are offering shared mobility solutions. became the first vehicle manufacturer shared with its core business. It is in India to install 1,00,000 advanced also leveraging its wide distribution telematic systems on its CVs under network. It is playing a crucial role the Tata Fleetman brand. TMETC has under ‘One Tata’ ecosystem to drive successfully completed the connected electrification. and autonomous vehicle technology trials on the new-generation SUV, Tata Hexa. 30 The strong fundamentals (6-43) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) To remain 'Fit for Future', we constantly scan the external environment and adapt to the changes with agility. STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) REGULATORY DEVELOPMENTS New axle load norm BS VI preparedness Goods and Services Tax (GST) In 2018, the Government increased With rising concerns about air pollution With the implementation of a uniform the permissible GVW of over 16 levels in India, the Government in 2017 tax structure and the seamless flow tonne heavy trucks by about 20-25%. decided to leapfrog from BS IV to BS VI of input tax credit for both input goods The norm allows truck owners to emission standards to reduce vehicular and services, production costs have increase load on the vehicle up-to the pollution. BS VI is the most advanced come down. Falling production costs new prescribed limit. This change has emission standards for automobiles have impacted manufacturing sectors legalised overloading and has given and is equivalent to Euro VI, which positively. This has also benefitted fleet owners the opportunity to utilise has already been implemented across the logistics sector significantly, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) their existing assets more, instead of countries in Europe. BS VI will be thereby increasing the ease of doing purchasing new trucks, resulting in introduced in India on April 1, 2020. business. a sluggish demand for new trucks. Accordingly, the automobile industry This development has also impacted was asked to comply with the directive 92% of the MHCV cargo industry. before the deadline. 20-25%. 2020 POSITIVE IMPACT OF GST IMPLEMENTATION INCREASE IN PERMISSIBLE GVW INTRODUCTION OF BS VI Source: Government of India TML's response Capitalising on the axle load As part of Tata Motors' continued Tata Motors revised prices for its CVs regulations, Tata Motors launched pursuit in its turnaround journey, to pass on the benefit of GST rates to newly designed products with a state-of-the-art ‘Emission Test its customers. changes in many aggregates. Facility’ was installed at the Power Enhancing the value proposition Systems Engineering Division (PSE), for customers by calibrations in ERC, Pune. This facility serves as across products which improve the one of the crucial milestones for BS VI total cost of ownership. Besides implementation. Moreover, Tata Motors re-engineering the new BS VI is ready with BS VI compliant engines compliant models, it is reconfiguring across the board while the deployment the current prototypes as well. on vehicles and validation is on track as per timeliness. 31 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year Operating context JAGUAR LAND ROVER TECHNOLOGICAL ADVANCEMENTS ACES Autonomous driving, Self-driving vehicles are with other vehicles but driven by the subsidies, cost connectivity, electrification, expected to revolutionise also with their surrounding effectiveness and availability and smart mobility the way people and goods infrastructure is expected of charging infrastructure. will transform the move around, with major to bring a number of Platform-based mobility, way the industry and benefits expected in terms major benefits – in terms virtually unknown a consumers define of safety, accessibility and of safety, traffic flow, decade ago, continues to mobility. Developments in traffic flow. productivity and the gain traction. People are technology are changing environment. While self-driving cars have increasingly seeking new our world more quickly tended to hog the limelight The future is electric. ways to access vehicles than at any time in history, when it comes to future The industry is being outside of the traditional nowhere more so than vehicle technologies, many pushed towards EVs at ownership models. in the automotive sector. in the industry believe an accelerated pace. Some cities have started Autonomous, Connected, that connected cars could Regulators are demanding restricting private vehicles; Electric and Shared mobility have just as big an impact, increasing numbers of for example, Oslo in Norway (ACES) will transform not particularly in the nearto EVs. The EV penetration will ban all vehicles just how people travel but mid-term. Enabling cars depends on the customer from 2019. how they live. to communicate not only demand, which is mainly JLR's response Electrification technologies future battery electric and distance. JLR continues providing London residents Designed and developed plug-in hybrid vehicles. to introduce new driver access to JLR vehicles. in-house, the revolutionary assistance technologies Autonomous, connected and Collaboration is key electric Jaguar I-Pace has into its vehicles and are shared mobility JLR is working with pioneering given JLR an advanced developing more advanced JLR recognises that in-car organisations such as knowledge in electric motor self-driving technologies in experiences must keep Waymo and UK Autodrive to design and lithium-ion response to legal frameworks pace with the fast-moving develop and pilot self-driving battery technology. JLR has permitting higher degrees of technology industry, offering technologies. The National 200+ patents pending on automation. Through InMotion, customers products and Automotive Innovation this game-changing EV. JLR's venture capital arm, services that are simple, Centre (NAIC), at the Warwick From 2020, JLR will intuitive and convenient. it develops transport University, offers JLR a critical begin the manufacture of JRL’s InControl services and mobility solutions. mass of research capability next-generation EDUs at and applications, including InMotion has invested in Lyft, in an environment designed its EMC in Wolverhampton, 4G Wi-Fi hotspots and the the successful ride-hailing to encourage large-scale the UK. These EDUs will Remote smartphone app, Company, and Voyage, collaboration with academia, be powered by batteries link seamlessly and securely deploying self-driving cars in supply chain partners and assembled at a new facility with the outside world and private communities. THE OUT leading technology companies. near Birmingham, the UK. already connect customers is InMotion’s new on-demand Together, they will power JLR's to their vehicles from a premium car rental service, 32 The strong fundamentals (6-43) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) GEO-POLITICAL FACTORS STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) The multiple market, long-term outlook in China and Diesel uncertainty electric – is right for them and the geopolitical, technological and that it is taking the right actions to Diesel engines have reduced journeys they make. regulatory headwinds facing the realise these opportunities. CO2 emissions significantly over Emission norms automotive industry not only the past decade. New diesel BREXIT Changes to the European impact financial performance engines typically have similar In the year under review, the emissions tests of the WLTP but also require us to make levels of NOx and particulate European Union (EU) region in September 2018 made significant levels of investment. emissions to their equivalent represented a fifth of JLR's non-compliant models subject to petrol engines, while achieving China retail sales and was the source additional taxes. The changes also up-to 20% better fuel economy The Chinese economy has been of a significant proportion of increased manufacturing costs and up-to 15% lower CO2 slowing, exacerbated by trade key components. JLR relies and caused consumer uncertainty. emissions. However, consumer tensions between the US and on free and frictionless trade. confusion, tightening emissions JLR's response China, with weaker consumer Any barriers, including tariffs regulations and increasing JLR's latest Euro VI Ingenium FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) demand and the stock market and delays at borders, would taxation have impacted diesel’s diesel and petrol engines are down. Together, these headwinds adversely impact its business. popularity. As a result, JLR’s among the cleanest in the world. contributed to an 8.3% year-onGreater certainty is vital. sales of diesel vehicles in the JLR was one of the few car year decline in sales across the JLR's response UK and Europe fell by 10-15% manufacturers to meet the WLTP Chinese automotive industry. JLR's mitigations against the risks in the year. Growing concerns deadline for type approval of its JLR's retail sales have also been of a BREXIT no-deal outcome about air pollution levels in cities vehicles, reducing the operational impacted by high levels of have included factory downtime around the world are expected impact of the emissions test inventory, intensified competition and ensuring that buffer to lead to increasing restrictions changes. A range of JLR vehicles, and low dealer profitability. production stock is available. and bans, and several countries including the new Range JLR's response have committed to phase out Rover Evoque, the Land Rover US tariffs JLR launched a local turnaround the sale of vehicles with internal Discovery Sport and the refreshed During the year, over 20% of JLR's programme in 2018 to rejuvenate combustion engines altogether. Jaguar XE, have all achieved vehicle sales were made in the US. vehicle sales in China. JLR has Negative perceptions of diesel compliance with stringent Real The US Government is considering implemented a more demand-led have led consumers to favour Driving Emissions Step 2 (RDE2) a 25% tariff on imported vehicles. ‘pull’ strategy to reduce petrol engines, contributing to standards NOx emissions tests Given JLR vehicles sold in the US increased fleet CO2 emissions. well in advance of the 2020 discounting pressures, improve are imported, such a tariff would dealer profitability and protect introduction of RDE2 for all new severely impact its business JLR's response the premium nature of its brands. models. Investing in continued performance and competitiveness JLR remains on track to deliver a JLR continues to reduce in-market refinements and improvements in the US market. 45% reduction in European fleet inventory and explore ways to to JLR's internal combustion average tailpipe CO2 emissions by JLR's response engines remains key to JLR's improve the experiences of its 2020. JLR has introduced robust JLR will closely watch the forward-looking strategy, Chinese customers. JLR has also training to support its retailer situation and take appropriate particularly for future plug-in strengthened local procurement network as well as online support measures in case this risk hybrid vehicles. to enhance the competitiveness for its customers to help them fructifies. Meanwhile, JLR will of its Changshu manufacturing assess which fuel type – whether continue with its turnaround and facility. JLR is confident about the that be petrol, diesel, hybrid or transformation plan. 33 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year Risks and opportunities FUTURE PROOFING KEY RISK CATEGORIES WHAT ARE THE RISKS WHAT ARE WE DOING ABOUT IT Global Tata Motors Group's expanding global The Group continues to maintain its international economic and presence increases its exposure to global manufacturing footprint and a balanced retail sales geo-political economic, geopolitical and other external profile across its key regions. It also continues environment factors (BREXIT, China, political instability, to closely monitor and assess the risk of global rising protectionism, wars, terrorism and developments and implement mitigation plans natural disasters) that may negatively where appropriate. impact its business Competitive Delivering on operational efficiency With the launch of Turnaround 2.0, TML intends to business objectives is key to sustaining profitable drive its journey towards Competitive, Consistent efficiency growth. Uncertainty relating to the and Cash-accretive growth, successfully navigating achievement of the projected benefits needs the headwinds in the Indian automotive market. to be managed to a minimum. The broader objectives of the plan include: ‘Win Decisively’ in CV, ‘Win Sustainably’ in PV, ‘Win Proactively’ in EV and ‘Embed the turnaround culture’. JLR has launched Project Charge and Project Accelerate to conserve cash, reduce costs and increase operational efficiency. From 2020, JLR will be introducing its next-generation modular architecture, which will streamline engineering and manufacturing processes and reduce complexity with the aim to reduce costs and improve quality. Brand Brand positioning is becoming increasingly Recent successful model launches (like Harrier, positioning challenging, as the dynamics of the Nexon, Tiago, Tigor EV, Jaguar I-PACE, Jaguar automotive market (like automated driving, E-PACE, Range Rover Velar and Range Rover electrification and digital connectivity) and Evoque) have broadened the Group's product range the competitive pressures from existing to existing and new customers in established and automotive manufacturers and new emerging segments. In addition, the Group regularly disruptive entrants evolve. monitors the perception of its brands to quickly identify and address uncertainties that may arise to inform how it articulates brand values to its customers. 34 The strong fundamentals (6-43) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) 6 CAPITALS Financial Manufactured Intellectual Social and Human Natural Capital Capital Capital Relationship Capital Capital Capital WHERE DO WE SEE THE OPPORTUNITIES  CAPITALS IMPACTED Global economic growth in developed and emerging markets presents opportunities to increase sales. Global growth and rising incomes create STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) opportunities in both new and existing geographical markets as well as new and existing segments. Enhanced overall business efficiency will yield sustainable financial results and greater opportunities for growth and continued investment in the Group's product portfolio and new technologies. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) The Group continue to strengthen its brands by creating greater brand association imbibing innovation, technological advancement and customer trends and feedback into its expanding and evolving product portfolio and services. 35 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year Risks and opportunities KEY RISK CATEGORIES WHAT ARE THE RISKS WHAT ARE WE DOING ABOUT IT Environmental The Group is subject to a rapidly evolving The Group is committed to offering its customers regulations regulatory landscape with associated laws, a wide range of clean, sustainable propulsion and compliance regulations and policies that impact the technologies – whether petrol, diesel, plug-in and vehicles it produces and its manufacturing mild hybrids or EVs. TML has achieved the BS VI facilities (like CO2 emissions, fuel economy engine certification milestone with intense design and and noxious/air quality emissions). development focus, leveraging in-house capabilities Continued adverse public perception of and those of the technology partners. TML is also diesel-powered vehicles, largely driven by leveraging synergies across the media and government policy, could Tata group companies to drive electrification. sustain declining diesel sales and customer EVs have been strongly positioned to address uncertainty, primarily in the UK and Europe. tailpipe emission concerns. JLR has invested substantially in the development of its next-gen modular architecture, the in-house manufacture and continued refinement of its internal combustion engines and electrification technologies. JLR retains an EU derogation permitting alternative fleet average CO2 targets. The continued refinement of its internal combustion engines and production flexibility within its EMC remains a priority. Rapid The fast pace of technological development The Group continue to invest in R&D and also technology together with the scarcity of specialist continues its strategic focus on key technology change resources could result in a significant areas, including ACES, with the aim of launching change in the automotive industry and pioneering products ahead of its competition. increases the risk of delivering superior products demanded by current and future customers. Product liability Potential defects and quality deficiencies Enact swift management of recalls to minimise and recalls could increase the Group's exposure to risks customer impact and subsequent warranty costs. associated with product liability. Proactively issue technical updates to dealer network to efficiently manage potential defects. For details of all the risks, please refer to the Management Discussion and Analysis on Page 116. 36 The strong fundamentals (6-43) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) 6 CAPITALS Financial Manufactured Intellectual Social and Human Natural Capital Capital Capital Relationship Capital Capital Capital WHERE DO WE SEE THE OPPORTUNITIES  CAPITALS IMPACTED TML is the first OEM in India to achieve BS VI certification for a naturally aspirated Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) engine for CVs. TML is pioneering India's EV transition and driving the shift towards sustainable mobility solutions by leveraging subsidies STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) to drive the initial EV push, while building other ecosystem pillars. JLR was the first premium manufacturer to introduce a battery EV into mainstream production with the Jaguar I-Pace and has introduced the Range Rover and Range Rover Sport PHEV models as well. From 2020, JLR will offer an electrified option for each of its models. JLR's diesel engines are as clean as its petrol engines, with significantly reduced CO2 and NOx emissions in real-world usage and 20 to 30% better fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. JLR's new D150 engine meets RDE2 standards in advance of the 2021 requirement. This presents opportunity for tax incentives in the UK and a solid platform for further refinements. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Substantial changes to the market (like ACES) enables the Group to focus on launching industry-defining products and services ahead of its competition as well as strengthening partnerships with global technological organisations. Enhanced use of vehicle connectivity and digital capability to analyse potential failure modes and to implement corrections. 37 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year Business model OUR VALUE-CREATION PROCESS KEY RESOURCES AND RELATIONS KEY ACTIVITIES INVESTMENTS The funds and monetary resources needed to establish and operate the business. The business raises funds through a mix of debt and equity and optimises its debt based on market conditions. RESEARCH AND DESIGN, INNOVATION ENGINEERING AND INSIGHTS AND INNOVATION TECHNOLOGY R&D, innovation, design and engineering form the basis of our product development efforts. Understanding customer preferences and expertise in new-age technology help us create enhanced products, with features that delight customers. AFTER-SALES FINANCIAL MANUFACTURING CAPABILITIES CUSTOMER SERVICES Our production facilities and equipment for designing, SERVICES AND prototyping and manufacturing vehicles. EXPERIENCES RELATIONSHIPS WITH SUPPLIERS, DEALERS, CUSTOMERS AND COMMUNITIES KEY PRODUCTS & SERVICES We focus on maintaining a sustainable supply chain Tata Motors Limited where we operate, and we focus on maintaining See product portfolio on Page 14 long-term relations with all our partners and customers. Our relations with communities ensure our social licence 2,10,500 4,68,788 to operate. PVs SOLD* CVs SOLD* PEOPLE * This does not include exports. Our people’s collective skills and experience are key to our business and we provide them the opportunity for continuous development. NATURAL RESOURCES The automotive business is dependent on multiple natural resource based raw materials. At the same time, there are several impacts of our business activities on nature. 38 The strong fundamentals (6-43) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) Our value-creation model lays the foundation of our business. It ensures the optimal utilisation of our resources and management of relations through our value chain. The process is dynamic and responsive to developments in the external environment. We are guided by our governance framework and strategy while creating value for our stakeholders. STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) CREATING VALUE FOR ALL STAKEHOLDERS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING DEVELOPMENT OF VEHICLES • Connecting aspirations of customers and creating quality experiences • Sustainable growth for investors • Safe and healthy working FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) condition and equal opportunities for our employees • Reduced environmental impacts • Creating sustainable and SALES AND MARKETING SUPPLY AND stronger communities DEALERS AND BRANDING LOGISTICS NETWORK COMMUNICATION SEE HOW OUR KEY Jaguar Land Rover Tata Motors Finance BUSINESSES CREATE VALUE See product portfolio on Page 16 Tata Motors Page Limited 66 5,78,915 `21,993 crore RETAIL SALES WORTH OF VEHICLE Jaguar Land Page INCLUDING CJLR FINANCE DISBURSED Rover 60 Tata Motors Page Finance 76 39 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year Key performance indicators PERFORMANCE SNAPSHOT (Tata Motors Group in FY 2018-19) FINANCIAL Revenue (D in crore) Volume* (in units) 2018-19 3,04,904 2018-19 12,74,072 2017-18 2,96,298 2017-18 12,21,124 2016-17 2,75,247 2016-17 10,91,748 *excluding wholesales from CJLR Automotive free cash flow (D in '000 crore) Net auto debt/Shareholders' equity (x) (9.2) 2018-19 2018-19 0.47 (7.3) 2017-18 2017-18 0.15 (1.6) 2016-17 2016-17 0.13 Consolidated EBITDA margin (%) Consolidated EBIT margin (%) 2018-19 9.0 2018-19 1.2 2017-18 10.7 2017-18 4.1 2016-17 11.1 2016-17 5.0 40 The strong fundamentals (6-43) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) NON-FINANCIAL Tata Motors Limited (Standalone) Jaguar Land Rover STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Specific GHG emissions (in tCO2e/vehicle) 2018-19 0.69 50.7% REDUCTION IN GLOBAL 2017-18 0.71 OPERATING CO2 EMISSIONS PER VEHICLE BUILT VERSUS A 2016-17 0.74 2007 BASELINE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Number of patents granted 2018-19 104 23% REDUCTION IN OPERATING 2017-18 80 WATER USE PER VEHICLE BUILT IN THE UK VERSUS A 2016-17 22 2007 BASELINE Ratio of female employees to total employees (in %) CO2 emissions for UK operations (tonnes) 2018-19 5.16 2018-19 2,68, 909 2017-18 3.00 2017-18 3,37, 370 2016-17 3.08 2016-17 3,64,325 41 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year Stakeholder inclusiveness ENGAGING CLOSELY WITH STAKEHOLDERS Stakeholder engagement is critical to the Tata Motors Group’s long-term performance and sustainability. Engagement aimed at establishing and maintaining mutually beneficial relationships creates both opportunities to enhance performance and manages emerging risks to the business. We focus on creating long-term relations with a range of stakeholders to continuously improve the alignment of interests between the Group and its key stakeholders. We remain committed to maintaining the highest standards of integrity and ethical conduct in dealing with all our stakeholders. STAKEHOLDER GROUP ENGAGEMENT MECHANISM Employees Weekly/Monthly Reviews, HR Forum, Townhalls, Focused Group Discussions Communities Meetings Suppliers/ Sustainable Supply Chain Initiative, Technology Days, Supplier Meets, Vendor Council, Service Providers Audits Experts/Academic and Case Based Meetings Research Institutions Media Regular Interactions Dealers and Dealer Meets, Joint Programmes, Special Training Programmes, Dealers Council, Dealer Service Centres Visits, Audits, Dealers Sustainability Initiative Customer Meets, Key Account Process, Surveys, Feedback Calls, Training Forums, Customers Direct Visits Investors and Investor Meets, Investor Calls, Shareholder/Investors Grievance Forum, Stakeholders' Shareholders Grievance Committee, One-to-one Interactions Regulators/ One-on-one Meetings, Meetings in Industry Forums Government Authorities 42 The strong fundamentals (6-43) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) Material issues MOST SIGNIFICANT ISSUES FOR VALUE CREATION At Tata Motors Group, we take a holistic STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) approach to sustainable value creation. We have identified significant issues which may have impact on our value-creation capabilities in the short, medium and long term, through dialogues with different stakeholder groups. Although there are a wide range of issues on our radar, and every one of them matters, they are not all under our direct influence. In order to make a positive contribution to addressing the challenges while making the most of the opportunities, we have categorised the issues as per their priorities. These issues are further addressed through our strategy. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) CRITICAL HIGH MODERATE • Customer satisfaction • Environment, labour and human • Gender diversity • Regulatory compliance rights in supply chain • Public policy advocacy • Product innovation and • Training and education • Biodiversity competitiveness • Labour management relations • Local communities • Occupational Health and Safety • Effluent and waste management • Water • Raw material and recycled • Economic performance material usage • Emissions to air • Human rights • Energy and GHG emissions • Product labelling • Procurement practices • Social media Note: The material issues listed have been identified by Tata Motors Limited (Standalone) through a detailed assessment carried out in FY 2017-18. 43 6 CYLINDERS OF OUR VALUECREATION ENGINE 44 As part of our strategy, we have prioritised six areas for the Tata Motors Group, which form the six cylinders of our value-creation engine. The six cylinders represent our key value drivers. Identifying these drivers will help us take focused actions on areas that will have the greatest impact on value. 01 02 03 04 05 06 JLR CJLR TML CV TML PV Tata Motors Net Debt Finance & Others Did you know? Tata Motors was the first to introduce a unique indigenous Vehicle Tracking and Bay Scheduling (VTAB) system for customers to keep a track of the repair or maintenance work being performed on their vehicles while being ensconced in the customer lounge at a Tata Motors service centre! Jaguar was the creator of the world’s first disc brake in 1953, an industry leader in aluminium lightweighting and closed-loop recycling. Land Rover has 70 years of off-roading experience providing extensive know-how and patented technologies, such as Dynamic Stability Control and the industry-leading Terrain Response. JLR and CJLR 46 TML CV and PV 50 Tata Motors Finance and Net Debt & Others 54 Outlook 56 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year JLR and CJLR A PLAN TO TURNAROUND AND TRANSFORM 01 02 03 04 05 06 JLR CJLR JLR has created an outstanding, award-winning product portfolio, grown as a global player in the premium car segment and delivered a solid business and financial performance over the decade of Tata Group's ownership. JLR vehicles represents a compelling combination of British design and engineering integrity. Chery Jaguar Land Rover (CJLR) is a 50:50 JV formed between Chery Automobile Co Ltd. and JLR. CJLR manufactures world-class products, which include Range Rover Evoque, Discovery Sport, Jaguar XFL, Jaguar XEL and Jaguar E-Pace. The foundation is strong with two iconic premium brands. Jaguar is one of the world’s premier luxury sports saloon and sports car marques. Land Rover is the world’s leading manufacturer of premium SUVs. Recent successful model launches, including award winning I-Pace, Hybrid Range Rover, Range Rover Sports and the new Range Rover Evoque, have broadened the product range to existing and new customers in established and emerging segments. The excitement continues with the iconic Defender to be launched later this year. 46 6 cylinders of our value-creation engines (44-57) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) Jaguar Land Rover has delivered solid performance over the long term, through exciting products, strong profits and investing in its future. Between FY 2010-11 and FY 2018-19 JLR has: • Increased revenues to GBP 24 BN (12% CAGR) STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) • Generated PBT of over GBP 13 BN (before exceptional items) • Generated ~GBP 27 BN of operating cash flow before investment of ~GBP 25 BN in new products, technology, capacity and infrastructure JLR has witnessed unprecedented challenges in the last fiscal, which includes weak market conditions in China, muted industry conditions in other markets, geopolitical uncertainty with rising populism, and tariff and trade tensions, along with high fixed cost structure: all of which severely impacted the financial performance. Given the above challenges, JLR is gearing up for the next FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) phase of its turnaround and transformation through: Project Charge and Project Accelerate. PROJECT CHARGE These comprise the following: Paving the way to a sustainable, JLR has launched Project Charge • A GBP 700 MN reduction in investment profitable future in response to the unprecedented (of GBP 3.8 BN versus the GBP 4.5 BN Reducing the size of JLR's global market, technological and regulatory originally anticipated) following rigorous workforce by 6,000 is expected to deliver challenges that are impacting its current spend reviews to identify non-core and over GBP 400 MN of ongoing cost financial performance. The objective non-product investment savings without efficiencies, starting from FY 2019-20, of this programme is to identify and compromise to JLR's revenue-generating with further cost savings expected as implement at speed, short-term gains product plans; Project Charge continues its review of to improve cost, cash, revenue and • GBP 400 MN of working capital costs, including commercial, purchasing profitability. improvements, with inventory reduced and marketing activities. Project Charge Positively charged by GBP 800 MN since September will also maintain a focus on investment through actions including improved spend and working capital to identify, Through decisive actions, JLR will reduce production and demand management deliver and sustain the additional savings investment spending by GBP 1 BN, enabled by advanced forecasting and necessary to meet JLR's GBP 2.5 BN improve working capital by GBP 500 MN analytics; and target. and make GBP 1 BN of profit growth and cost efficiencies, all by the end of FY • GBP 150 MN of savings in costs The cost and cash improvements 2019-20. Project Charge is on track to including labour overhead savings achieved by Project Charge enable vital achieve its GBP 2.5 BN target, with GBP through a workforce reduction ongoing investment into next generation 1.25 BN of benefits already delivered programme. ACES products and services to deliver during FY 2018-19. experiences that people love, for life. 47 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year JLR and CJLR CHARGE ON TRACK JLR has already taken significant steps towards reducing investment spending and identifying various cost reduction opportunities. Out of the target GBP 2.5 BN, GBP 1.25 BN benefits have already been delivered in FY 2018-19. PROJECT ACCELERATE The focus of Project Accelerate is medium to long term. The key focus areas of the project are to enhance sales performance, deliver competitive variable cost, reduce delays and improve quality. JLR launched Project Accelerate to simultaneously drive large-scale systemic and structural change with root-and-branch reviews of all of its processes and working practices. It has planned a set of actions for each of these focus areas. Reducing delay and improving quality Delivering competitive material cost Enhancing sales performance As a mediumto long-term plan, To deliver competitive costs, JLR will JLR plans to work on the pricing, improving quality and reducing delays focus on purchase lifecycle planning positioning and launch approach of become crucial. In order to meet these and customer value-driven standards. At its products, while providing valueobjectives, JLR plans to optimise the same time, it would like to minimise added products and features to its resource planning. Improved quality per unit manufacturing costs by making customers. JLR is also focusing on is also related to the commonality a strategic choice between 'make' or customer marketing effectiveness, while between products and the drive 'buy'. This would require a change in expanding the network coverage. The consistency between them. Modularity the global material sourcing strategy. goal is to improve customer perception will help in consistent production JLR makes the 'should cost' and 'should of product quality and services. JLR planning and reducing delays. That design' analyses with a thorough seeks to 'fix right first time' with rapid said, these objectives cannot be met benchmarking process. diagnosis and prompt issue resolution. without bringing in a process discipline and vendor collaborations and stepping JLR is also reviewing its organisational up risk management and change design and business behaviours to management. Underpinning all these improve role and process clarity. By action areas is the way JLR brings in evaluating and improving its core process quality and brings about a systems, its culture and the ways it change in enterprise-wide systems. works, JLR will create greater efficiency and drive a relentless focus on quality and competitiveness throughout the organisation. 48 6 cylinders of our value-creation engines (44-57) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) PRIORITIES FOR THIS YEAR JLR has clearly laid down its focus areas to be implemented Steps towards safeguarding the future this year. JLR through its two iconic brands, future • Successful launch of the iconic Defender generation product portfolio, technical capabilities • Implementing the flexible Modular Longitudinal Architecture and turnaround and transformation programmes (MLA) will pave its way towards Consistent, Competitive STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) • Turn around the performance in China and Cash-accretive growth. • Drive sustained benefits through Project Charge • Deliver fundamental transformation through Project Accelerate Further JLR is also focusing on achieving the investment Key capital trade-offs and interlinkages efficiency through: of the Turnaround and Transformation plan • An emphasis on core portfolio, together with a rationalisation of A pragmatic interplay across Financial Capital, niche, non-product spend (like Evoque Convertible and Range Rover SV Coupe) Human Capital and Manufactured Capital will help drive long-term profitability and • A simplified offering by reducing powertrain complexity (like >50% certification reductions and no V6 in Jaguar XE/XF) efficiency. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) • Innovative collaborations (like Waymo and I-Pace, BMW and EDUs) Social and Relationship Capital has been enhanced through improved customer service quality, improved dealer management and collaborations with vendors for sourcing efficiency. This will also result in enhanced Financial Capital. 49 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year TML CV and PV THE TURNAROUND 2.0 STORY 03 04 01 02 05 06 TML CV TML PV With the launch of Turnaround 2.0, TML intends to drive its journey Strategic focus areas of towards Competitive, Consistent and Cash-accretive growth. TML has Turnaround 2.0 been successfully navigating the headwinds in the Indian automotive To continue the Turnaround 2.0 success, TML has identified six focus market with its Turnaround 2.0 plan. The broader objectives of areas: the plan are: ‘Win Decisively’ in CV, ‘Win Sustainably’ in PV, ‘Win Proactively’ in EV and ‘Embed the turnaround culture’. The roadmap • Volume growth ahead of industry to meeting these objectives is guided by the six identified strategic • Pricing ahead of net inflation; focus areas that underpin the Turnaround 2.0 plan. ensuring secure mix • Reduce business breakeven, 3.8% (+330bps) through aggressive savings • Drive efficiencies for best-in-class cash conversion cycles EBIT GROWTH (Y-O-Y) • Prudent and proactive capex to drive cash accretive growth +`1,539 crore POSITIVE FREE CASH FLOW IN SECOND • Stress test plan to deliver value even in downturns SUCCESSIVE YEAR +20.3% REVENUE GROWTH (Y-O-Y) 50 6 cylinders of our value-creation engines (44-57) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) WIN DECISIVELY IN CV +17.2% VOLUME GROWTH The success of the Turnaround 2.0 initiatives is evident in the CV space, where CV continued to deliver strong margins while upholding the EBITDA margins in challenging (WHOLESALE DOMESTIC) market conditions. All the four segments of TML’s CV business – MHCV, ILCV, SCV and PUs, and CV Passenger Vehicles – saw improved performance driven by all-round execution. Market share was gained across three of the four segments: MHCV at 55% +12% +23% (70bps growth year on year), ILCV at 45.4% (50bps growth year on year) and SCV and MHCV ILCV PUs at 40.1% (70bps growth year on year). +24% +4% SCV AND CV PASSENGER PUs VEHICLE STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) keting and after-ma s m ar rke S ale tin g 22.6% RETAIL EXPANSION +11% STABLE EBITDA MARGINS INTENSIFYING TURNAROUND +61 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) ion r tom rat NET PROMOTER SCORE (AS e COMPARED TO +57 IN FY 2016-17) Ope Cu s 88 SALES SATISFACTION INDEX (AS COMPARED TO 83 IN FY 2016-17) Intensifying turnaround The turnaround in the CV segment is intensifying with enhanced sales productivity and market activation. This is driven by TML's ‘Dealer Centre of Excellence’ in SCV and ‘Go to Market Excellence’ initiatives. A slew of focused marketing initiatives will further strengthen the brand. There is also an accelerated focus on dealer performance and profitability to become the most attractive franchise. In addition, TML is undertaking a multitude of actions to improve customer experience, like improving last-mile service networks. TML plans to improve the CV after-market share and drive sustainable and profitable growth, particularly in parts and aggregates. Leveraging digital at the front end and delivering impactful products for its customers are some of its other priorities, along with intensified cost reduction efforts and maintaining world-class quality. 51 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year TML CV and PV WIN SUSTAINABLY IN PV The PV business is on track to ‘Win Sustainably’ by getting the basics right. TML’s PV business continued to gain market share. In the year under review, market share improved, and volume growth was ahead of the industry average. This has been mainly driven by TML’s relentless focus on strengthening its business fundamentals. TML was able to overcome the seasonality of the PV market through new product launches. Within 51 days during the festival season, TML introduced Tiago NRG, Nexon KRAZ, Tigor Refresh and Tiago/Tigor JTP. These +13.9% VOLUME GROWTH 9 QUARTERS OF INDUSTRY +4.4% RETAIL EXPANSION interventions helped to attract additional set of customers and (WHOLESALE DOMESTIC) OUTPERFORMANCE sustain market buzz. Another significant development was the adoption of ‘Impact’ design, 5 EXCITING PRODUCTS NEXON BECOMES THE FIRST CAR EBITDA BREAKEVEN which supports best-in-class features and user experiences, which, in LAUNCHED IN 51 DAYS TO ACHIEVE 5-STAR ACHIEVED turn, improve brand perception. In GNCAP RATING the PV segment, TML's focus has 2ND RANK +20 been on adoption of best-in-class designs, safety features and closer engagement with dealers. JD POWER CUSTOMER NET PROMOTER SCORE Overall market share stood at 6.3%, SATISFACTION FOR THE (AS COMPARED TO a 60bps growth year on year and 2ND CONSECUTIVE YEAR -1 IN FY 2014-15) breakeven was achieved with regard to EBITDA. Intensifying turnaround MULTIPLE ANGLES OF ATTACK To intensify focus as well as counter • Aiming to be the most customer caring Ne ct tw the near-term headwinds in the company with a focus on quality o du o r industry, TML has launched ‘multiple of service, personnel training and P rk angles of attack’. These include: equipment • Leveraging new architecture (Alpha and • B  ringing about a paradigm shift in the Omega), gaining more from less mindset from wholesale to retail MINDSET vice • Improving brand resilience e r se r d • Driving rigorous cost reductions Bran tom Cu s Cost 52 6 cylinders of our value-creation engines (44-57) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) WIN PROACTIVELY IN KEY FOCUS AREAS E-MOBILITY TML's approach to ‘Win Proactively’ in e-mobility broadly encompasses four aspects: • Providing full ecosystem solutions; EV Products STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) • Building a comprehensive range in EV to create excitement among consumers; stem enable • Delivering a compelling value o markets Micr rs proposition that breaks barriers; and • Leveraging partnerships and new business models . o sy Ec ‘FUTUREADY’: STEPPING UP Ch argin ns THE GAME g solutio The Turnaround continues as TML is getting FutuReady with a roadmap for FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) sustainable growth. The new rule of the game – ‘Aspiring leadership’ by decoding the Indian growth story – will require being globally competitive, providing solutions for the Indian customer and Preparedness for BS VI emission norms staying ahead of the curve. In order to • Full portfolio migration commencing from January 2020 drive volume growth, improve market share and enrich branding, the TML's • In-house capability to build, test and accredit new strategy will include five key levers. homologations • Developing products of global design • Differentiated BS VI solutions standards with Impact 2.0 • Ready with BS VI compliant engines across the board • I ncreasing scale while focusing on • Unbeatable powertrains for multiple applications productivity through modularity, using common platforms for different products and driving volume growth • Focusing on cost competitiveness Key capital trade-offs and interlinkages of the Turnaround 2.0 through faster, better and cost-effective plan products manufactured leveraging new Enhanced Intellectual Capital in terms of introduction of new designs, architectures manufacturing platforms, and new products, led to an improvement in Social • L  eading on the technology front and and Relationship Capital with better-quality customer perception of the brand. remaining ahead of competitors This, in turn, augmented Financial Capital. At the same time, operational efficiency measures also improved Financial Capital • Encouraging ‘digital first’ thinking across the value chain 53 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year Tata Motors Finance Limited and Net Debt & Others FOCUS ON FINANCING AND MANAGING DEBT One of the key value-driving aspects of Tata Motors is Tata Motors Finance. Facilitating the financing process for customers and enabling the sales process, Tata Motors Finance plays a crucial role in supporting the sales of Tata Motors’ vehicles. 05 06 01 02 03 04 Tata Motors Finance Net Debt & Others TATA MOTORS FINANCE B38K crore TMF Holdings Limited (TMFHL) became the holding company for the financial services business under the TML umbrella. Tata Motors Finance Limited (TMFL) undertakes the new vehicle financing business and is the captive AUM (AS ON MARCH 31, 2019) financier for TML's vehicles. On the other hand, Tata Motors Finance Solutions 37% Y-O-Y GROWTH Limited (TMFSL) is engaged in used vehicle financing business that has strong operational linkages with TML's pre-owned vehicles. TMFSL is also actively engaged in corporate lending wherein it provides both short-term and long-term financing to dealers and suppliers of TML. Tata Motors Finance focuses on two major segments of vehicle financing: new vehicles and used vehicles. Leveraging the familiarity with the Tata Motors ecosystem, Tata Motors Finance is in a position to mitigate any risks effectively and enjoys 26% market share in Tata Motors’ volumes. 2.6% GNPA (REDUCED FROM By 2024, Tata Motors Finance targets to have Assets Under Management (AUM) 4.0% IN FY 2017-18) worth `75,000 crore and a Return On Equity (ROE) of 20%, while maintaining Gross Non-Performing Assets (GNPA) at 2.5%. Moving towards this target, it has identified a few action areas which include reducing collection delays and enhancing disbursals. 54 6 cylinders of our value-creation engines (44-57) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) Key action areas While focusing on enhancing disbursals, Tata Motors Finance is B21,993 crore DISBURSED IN FY 2018-19 (+43%) improving its collection strategy in light of the implementation of Ind-AS. It is also widening its liability franchise to manage its cost of borrowings. +38% +86% Tata Motors Finance is focused on growing its AUM, which NEW VEHICLES USED VEHICLES STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) recorded a sharp 37% increase in FY 2018-19 from FY 2017-18 DISBURSALS FINANCING levels. Meanwhile, GNPA fell from 4% in FY 2017-18 to 2.6% in FY 2018-19. NET DEBT & OTHERS The Tata Motors Group is focused on reducing net debt. The 2.3 JLR'S DEBT TO Group's focus is on bringing down the gross debt to EBITDA ratio, improving business performance and reducing the debt EBITDA RATIO through focused and identified divestments. Key capital trade-offs and interlinkages 3.3 TML'S DEBT TO for Tata Motors Finance FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Improved Social and Relationship capital, in terms EBITDA RATIO of customer relationships and reduced collection delays had a direct impact on financial capital. 55 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year Outlook GEARED FOR THE FUTURE As we move ahead with our turnaround plans, we will continue enhancing our value with the six cylinders— our key value drivers. Based on the challenges and opportunities globally, we have charted our mediumto long-term plans. OUTLOOK – MEDIUM TO LONG TERM We remain committed to Competitive, Consistent and Cash-accretive growth over the medium to long term. For our key businesses, TML and JLR, we have set targets around volume growth, EBIT and cash flow for FY 2020-21 and beyond. FY 2020-21 FY 2022-23 BEYOND 3-4% EBIT 4-6% EBIT 7-9% EBIT > PREMIUM SEGMENT > PREMIUM SEGMENT > PREMIUM SEGMENT VOLUME GROWTH VOLUME GROWTH VOLUME GROWTH NEGATIVE, IMPROVING POSITIVE POSITIVE FCF FCF FCF UP-TO GBP 4 BN UP-TO GBP 4 BN 11-13% OF REVENUE INVESTMENT SPENDING INVESTMENT SPENDING INVESTMENT SPENDING 56 6 cylinders of our value-creation engines (44-57) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) FY 2020-22 BEYOND 4-6% EBIT 5-7% EBIT COMMITTED TO COMPETITIVE, CONSISTENT AND > MARKET > MARKET VOLUME GROWTH VOLUME GROWTH CASH-ACCRETIVE GROWTH OVER POSITIVE POSITIVE FCF FCF THE MEDIUM TO LONG TERM 57 HOLISTIC APPROACH TO VALUE CREATION 58 At the Tata Motors Group, we are committed to creating value for all our stakeholders by adopting an ‘integrated thinking’ approach. We believe our financial performance is as important as our non-financial performance. Did you know? Tata Motors’ CSR interventions extend much beyond India. The Tata Motors SkillPro programme reached out to youth in Bangladesh, Mozambique, Sudan, Tanzania, Kenya, Nigeria, Ghana and Sri Lanka. JLR 60 TML (Standalone) 66 Tata Motors Finance 76 59 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year JLR APPROACH TO DESTINATION ZERO INPUTS Financial GBP 3.8 BN Investment spend Manufactured 8 Manufacturing facilities Intellectual 8 Number of technology hubs Human 41,710 340 Total employees Employees are currently being sponsored to achieve an academic degree or higher qualification at the Jaguar Land Rover Academy Natural 3,00,000 tonnes 2.79 m3/Vehicle 100% Scrap recycled back into vehicles over Water withdrawn per vehicle built Zero carbon electricity the last six years at core UK sites and Slovakia plant Social and Relationship 75,000 ~GBP 7 MN Number of employee hours volunteered Total CSR spend 60 Holistic approach to value creation (58-77) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) JLR is driven by its commitment of providing premium quality experience to customers, ensuring sustainable profitable growth for investors, creating a happy, healthy and future-ready workforce, building stronger communities and minimising the environmental footprint. JLR's vision for Destination Zero is to enhance the overall quality of life by achieving zero emissions, zero accidents and zero congestion. STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) BUSINESS PROCESSES OUTCOMES GBP 24.2 BN Revenue 01 02 RESEARCH AND DESIGN, INNOVATION ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY 5,78,915 Retail sales (in units) 09 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) AFTER-SALES PRODUCT CUSTOMER DEVELOPMENT SERVICES AND EXPERIENCES 87 17 Patents granted in India Patents granted internationally 08 FINANCIAL 04 SERVICES MANUFACTURING OF VEHICLES 1,306 18.5% Days lost due to injuries Increase of women in workforce 05 SUPPLY AND LOGISTICS 0.52 tCO2e/Vehicle Specific GHG emissions* 45,601 tonnes 07 06 Total waste generated and disposed # SALES AND MARKETING DEALERS NETWORK AND BRANDING COMMUNICATION 1.01 MN 75% Production suppliers CSR beneficiaries have registered and completed the Achillies sustainability index * excluding Pune, Nitra and SVO operations in the UK # excluding Pune and Nitra 61 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year Conserving natural capital JLR is committed to reducing DESTINATION ZERO its environmental footprint by JLR's responsible JLR is on a journey to Destination Zero – a world of zero emissions, zero accidents consuming natural resources business and zero congestion. Its ambition is to make societies safer and healthier responsibly. JLR is also focused on reducing emissions of its imperatives and the environment cleaner through relentless innovation, adapting our products. Globally, JLR has products and services to the rapidlydrive its towards changing world. doubled production while halving emissions from its Destination Zero emissions Through the introduction of more manufacturing sites. Zero. JLR's electrified products and the relentless innovation of its Ingenium petrol and commitment diesel powertrains, JLR's continually seek to reduce tailpipe CO2 emissions. DECARBONISING OPERATIONS towards JLR is on track to deliver a 45 % JLR’s UK manufacturing assembly and reduction in European fleet average production development sites were tailpipe CO2 emissions by 2020 versus responsible 2007. JLR’s concerted efforts towards creating modern, clean and efficient verified as Carbon Neutral, from April 2017 to March 2018. JLR continues to corporate combustion engines will continue to play a crucial role in its complete transition to purchase 100 % renewable, zero carbon electricity at its core UK sites, as well as its citizenship drives electric mobility from 2020. manufacturing plant in Slovakia. its continuous Zero accidents JLR, in collaboration with UK Autodrive, REDUCING VEHICLE EMISSIONS Through the introduction of electrified investments is conducting trials on next stage products and innovation of Ingenium petrol self-driving technologies, on test and diesel powertrains, JLR aims at reducing tracks as well as on complex, busy in people and routes in UK cities. Self-driving Range Rover prototypes are already capable tailpipe CO2 emissions. All Jaguar Land Rover models meet the standards required communities. of negotiating traffic lights, parking themselves and avoiding vehicle hazards by the RDE testing procedure. From January 2020, RDE2 will require vehicles to emit while avoiding pedestrians and other 80mg/km NOx or less. The Evoque is the road users. first luxury compact SUV to achieve this standard. Zero congestion JLR is testing the Green Light Optimal Speed Advisory (GLOSA) system, a new vehicle-to-everything (V2X) technology designed to communicate with traffic lights to find the optimal driving speed that minimises frequency of stops at traffic junctions. Reducing harsh acceleration and sudden braking comes with positive environmental benefits, in the form of improved air quality. Innovation at work 62 Holistic approach to value creation (58-77) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) Circular economy Understanding Managing and consumption and addressing supply chain of materials customer needs responsibly JLR takes a ‘whole systems JLR strives to meet the everJLR maintains a sustainable, thinking’ approach towards evolving needs of customers. resilient supply chain at all its design, sourcing, manufacturing, The emergence of connected manufacturing locations and and recycling of vehicles. While technologies has facilitated ensures all its tier-1 suppliers focusing on aesthetics, JLR large-scale customer data are ISO14001 certified. STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) tries to utilise materials that mining for analysing and are sustainable and capable of understanding the needs, delivering industry benchmarks routines and habits of in that direction. JLR's customers. JLR’s latest project, REALITY builds on its For example, the GO I-PACE app uses The tier-1 suppliers are also required to long-standing work – 2016’s REALCAR Artificial Intelligence to help customers uphold the highest standards of business initiative – and finds innovative ways understand how the Jaguar I-Pace would ethics, environment management, to recover aluminium from end-of-life fit their lifestyle. Safety of customer data human rights and working conditions, vehicles to build next-generation models. It is of utmost importance. as prescribed by JLR's Code of Conduct. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) uses natural fibres and premium recycled In addition, 75 % of JLR’s component materials to reduce environmental impact. suppliers submit their sustainability performance measures to the Achilles data Moreover, JLR’s employees took an management system. initiative to reduce the use of single-use plastics and managed to save more than 1,100,000 m2 of plastics going to the environment. Through this initiative, JLR also managed to save money and improve health and safety. CIRCULAR ECONOMY IN PRACTICE The new Range Rover Evoque interior features eucalyptus textile made from 30 per cent natural wool fibres, along with polyurethane fabric, creating a durable yet lightweight material. 63 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year Engaging in community development JLR engages with its communities worldwide to address their needs through innovative solutions, funding and technology. COUNTERING FOOD JAGUAR LAND ROVER CHINA HELPING IMPROVE NATURAL POVERTY IN UK CHILDREN – YOUTH DREAM ENVIRONMENT IN BRAZIL JLR’s Solihull manufacturing plant initiated FUND In Brazil, at the commencement of a large-scale community project on a From 2014, the Fund focused on helping manufacturing operations, JLR planted waste ground allotted for the programme. underprivileged children to realise their trees on one hectare (ha) of its land , as The scheme aims at providing fresh potential. In its second phase since 2018, part of recreating the natural forest. It produce to the people facing food poverty the Fund intends to provide exposure to is now embarking on planting trees on in and around Solihull and Birmingham. It creative education, social care and Chinaanother 1 ha of its land. builds on the plant’s existing relationship UK cultural changes to children and has with Gro Organic, an organisation reached out to more than 50,000 kids. TECHNOLOGY FOR GOOD dedicated to creating green spaces JLR’s engineers have developed a door while providing social and economic DELIVERING SHARED VALUE IN that opens automatically to improve opportunities for the most disadvantaged NITRA usability for people with limited mobility. people in the region. Now in its second During FY 2018-19, JLR employees donated year, the project brought together 30 of ~500 volunteering hours to complete a CRATES TO CLASSROOMS JLR’s volunteers who contributed 270 series of CSR projects in Nitra, Slovakia. Undertaken by the employees of JLR’s volunteering hours to clean and prepare Working with the city council, JLR helped Pune facility, the Company under this the land. The project has already provided renovate public spaces and building while initiative has donated 700 desks to seven 20 boxes of fresh food to the local addressing the needs of children with schools around the plant location. Now community and will continue to contribute disabilities. JLR also delivered educational in its fourth year, the programme with through food banks, schools and churches. programmes and created an endowment the help of a carpenter is upcycling fund that will provide long-term support to used pallets and crates into desks for the city and its people. disadvantaged children. Solihull Gro Organic community allotment Land Rover 4x4 in Schools – Technology Challenge 64 Holistic approach to value creation (58-77) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) Creating diverse and future-ready workforce JLR endeavours to provide the right platform for its employees to learn and grow, and has taken several initiatives in that direction. STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) JAGUAR LAND ROVER ACADEMY PROVIDING SAFE WORK The Academy is founded on the principle ENVIRONMENT of lifelong learning, from recruitment to JLR has a defined vision to shape retirement. All employees, irrespective future mobility – Destination Zero of age, background or career stage, can – zero emissions, zero accidents be part of the Academy. The training and zero congestion. JLR harnesses programmes at the Academy primarily new technologies to enable smart include Science, Technology, Engineering integrated mobility and improve lives and Maths (STEM); and last year provided in the communities it calls home. JLR is PARTNERSHIP WITH RED CROSS ~17 lakh hours of training adopting circular economy principles JLR's worldwide partnership throughout product creation processes, with the Red Cross has funded PROMOTING DIVERSITY IN with active reuse and recycling as well FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) ENGINEERING as application of innovative sustainable 20 humanitarian projects in 25 materials. JLR also focuses on employee JLR runs specific programmes for countries since 2013 reaching supporting ex-armed forces personnel, well-being, including mental health. over 1.1 million people. and for creating employee networks for With the launch of the ‘let’s have the gender equality, Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual conversation’ programme, it supports open and Transgender (LGBT) communities discussions on matters of mental health. and black professionals. It also Third party audits were conducted for facilitates training to help employees OHSAS 18001 during FY 2017-18 within all overcome unconscious biases. JLR runs the UK manufacturing locations, and JLR specific education, apprenticeship and maintained its accreditation to this standard undergraduate programmes to encourage through a series of external assessments. more women to study STEM subjects and It plans to migrate to the new International pursue engineering careers. Standard ISO 45001. Strength in diversity 65 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year TML (Standalone) APPROACH TO LONG-TERM VALUE CREATION INPUTS Financial `22,163 `4,753 `5,325 crore crore crore Net worth Capex Investment spend Manufactured 7 Manufacturing facilities Intellectual 86 113 Total patents filed Total design applications filed (India and international) (India and international) Human 1,95,083 17,735 4,001 4,71,842 Training hours Training hours on R&D Total training women team strength hours on safety Natural 20,17,690.86 Gj 5.04 Gj/Vehicle Absolute indirect energy consumed Specific total energy consumption (Total = Direct + Indirect) 15,75,788.8 Gj Absolute direct energy consumed Social and 60,000 15 `22.2 Relationship Number of employee hours volunteered Number of dealer workshops conducted crore Total CSR spend 66 Holistic approach to value creation (58-77) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) TML (Standalone) is well aligned with its vision of delivering financial growth, while providing sustainable mobility solutions, exceeding customer expectations and creating a highly engaged workforce. Its business processes and activities reflect its ‘integrated thinking’ towards deploying resources and their relationships. BUSINESS PROCESSES OUTCOMES STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) `2,021 crore `5,706 crore PAT EBITDA 01 02 RESEARCH AND DESIGN, INNOVATION ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY 7,55,534 13.2% Number of vehicles produced Increase in volumes in FY 2018-19 (both CV and PV) as compared to FY 2017-18 09 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) AFTER SALES CUSTOMER PRODUCT SERVICES AND DEVELOPMENT EXPERIENCES 104 37 Total patents granted Total design applications granted (India and international) (India and international) 08 FINANCIAL 04 SERVICES MANUFACTURING 0.08 1.833% OF VEHICLES Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Increased (per million person-hours) female participation in workforce 05 SUPPLY AND LOGISTICS 0.69tCO2e/Vehicle 16.22% Specific total GHG Emissions Energy consumed from RE sources 07 06 SALES AND MARKETING DEALERS AND BRANDING COMMUNICATION 7,23,632 2ND 233 NETWORK CSR beneficiaries JD Power 2018 Customer Suppliers covered Satisfaction Index under Supplier 237 27 Sustainability Initiative Dealers covered under Dealers assessed under dealers’ workshop the Dealers Sustainability Initiative 67 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year Enhancing Financial Capital TML generates direct economic value through its operations, products and services. TML also works towards nation building by We evaluate our contributing towards significant indirect economic impacts, which value-creation result in increased economic activity, reduced social disparity and an improved quality of life. abilities across multiple capitals While TML continues focusing on improving cash flows and cost competitiveness, it makes significant investments in product innovation, process improvement and and aim to technology development to leverage opportunities in the changing market scenario to stay ahead of the curve. continuously TML spent `2,965.25 crore in R&D for developing clean technology vehicles, enhance the transitioning from BS III to BS IV, and implementing mandatory safety features. We also made substantial investments in clean and sustainable mass transportation such as value it creates. hybrid buses and SCV for last mile connectivity. These investments focus on increasing profitability while creating far-reaching and positive economic impacts. Economic performance in FY 2018-19 Economic value generated ` in crore – TML (Standalone) Gross revenue 69,992.52 Economic value distributed Operating costs 62,775.55 Employee benefits and wages 4,054.14 Payments to providers of capital 1,743.64 Payments to government 749.97 Economic value retained 669.22 68 Holistic approach to value creation (58-77) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) Progressing on Innovation deeply embedded excellence in in the DNA manufacturing Efficiency in manufacturing Strong R&D teams – comprising recently also rolled out the Turbotronn 3L, 3.3L and 5L series diesel engines for CVs. is closely associated with leading scientists, engineers, These new generation engines offer an TML cost competitiveness. designers and technicians unrivalled combination of fuel efficiency, As part of its Turnaround 2.0 based out of multiple locations performance and refinement, coupled with plan, TML emphasises the globally – focus on worldthe latest technology available globally. STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) The Revotron and Revotorq engines sport use of efficient manufacturing class engineering and nextthe first-in-segment multi-drive modes; technologies, modular platforms generation technologies. eco, city and sport. and improving efficiency in its supply chains. DESIGN At Tata Motors, design is not just about developing new surfaces, blending The core of TML's business is its TML's ability to innovate is demonstrated colours, materials and finish, but is also manufacturing capability. Manufactured by its frugal engineering, path-breaking about creating compelling products that capital encompasses physical vehicles, new-age concept cars, and offer the latest technology-rich features infrastructure including plants, buildings, award-winning engines. and deliver high performance. machineries, equipment, tools and In continuation with our transformation technology as well as infrastructure TML's state-of-the-art R&D centres and journey, TML had introduced the IMPACT Design philosophy for its PVs in 2016. In FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) owned by third parties such as warehouse design studios are located in Pune (India), and logistics facilities. South Korea, Italy and the UK, and have January 2018, TML introduced the second many firsts to their credit. TML houses version – IMPACT Design 2.0 – during With the emergence of new-age Asia’s first anechoic chamber, India’s first the 150th anniversary of the Tata group. sustainable mobility solutions, TML is full vehicle crash test facility and the IMPACT Design 2.0 is a sharper and more preparing its manufacturing capabilities country's only full climate test facility. contemporary iteration of Tata Motors’ for the future. On one hand, TML has renowned design language. developed the OMEGA and ALFA modular POWERTRAINS architectures, which can also provide the With the launch of Nexon, TML added The design language extends to TML's platform for manufacturing EVs. On the two power-packed, performance-oriented CVs as well. Termed as the Premium other, it is transforming as an organisation engines to the powertrain family – the Tough Design philosophy, it combines by building in operational efficiency using 1.2L Revotron turbocharged petrol engine visual richness and sophistication with modular architecture, managing costs and the 1.5L Revotorq diesel engine. We robustness and reliability. and embedding a culture of innovation in businesses and processes. It is conducting a critical review of internal resources and rolling out productivity improvement and fixed cost reduction initiatives. All TML plants are ISO 14001:2015 and OHSAS 18001:2007 certified. REVOTRON Engine 69 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year Preparing future leaders TML invests in attracting and SAFETY channel partners. TML believes that what can be measured, retaining the best talent. It works Several initiatives were taken across TML can be improved. This is especially true for towards ensuring their holistic locations to enhance safety. These include its safety performance. implementation of Proactive Safety Index development by empowering (PSI), monitoring of driving safety behaviour them with resources that TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT (SDI), i-Care programme, senSHEtise The automotive sector is witnessing promote work-life balance. programme on women safety, second party transformational changes with the TML works towards enabling SHE audits, celebration of Road Safety emergence of electrified, shared and Month 2019 and National Safety Month professional development of 2019. The PSI and SDI are two effective autonomous vehicles. TML, thus, needs to high potential and managerial continuously update and upgrade, both measures of safety compliance within and technically and functionally, its learning staff through systematic career outside plants, respectively. and development programmes in line with management programmes. the changing needs. A learning governance During the year, 2,100 joined body called the Learning Advisory Council TML at various permanent (LAC) is entrusted with the responsibility of ensuring business relevance and positions and 44,061 at value. The LAC designs, implements and temporary positions while 1,681 periodically reviews the learning agenda. left the organisation. For senior executives and officers, TML associates itself with third parties such as EMPLOYEE COUNT the National Employment Enhancement Mission (NEEM) and designed programmes Permanent Safety training on vehicle integration in collaboration with the Government. Male 26,586 The i-Care initiative was directed towards developing behavioural safety. Apart from TML's Chief Learning Officer is responsible Female 986 internal and third-party audits, employees for managing skill development and from one plant carry out audits in another training needs of senior executives and plant to improve safety governance in the officers; the training and development Temporary system. initiatives are managed through the Male 23,449 Learning Management System (LMS) Our safety programmes include not only platform. our senior executives, but are also used Female 1,736 to sensitise our suppliers, vendors and Total Safety performance in FY 2018-19 Male 50,035 Male Female Lost time injuries (nos.) 11 1 Female 2,722 LTIFR including fatalities 0.09 0.16 (per million person-hours) Total recordable cases (nos.) 97 1 Total recordable cases frequency rate (per million person-hours) 0.78 0.16 Lost work day rate (%) 2.95 9.98 70 Holistic approach to value creation (58-77) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) Enhancing natural environment TML acknowledges and at the Board of Director level oversees undertaken at the paint booth, weld shop the environmental performance of TML and press shop of the Pune PV plant. understands the impact of its every quarter. The SH&S Councils at Such initiatives include the installation operations on the natural the business level, supported by the of LED lights, the optimisation of blower ecosystem where it operates. SH&S Apex Committee at plant level, are speeds, the installation of Variable responsible for reviewing the performance Frequency Drives (VFDs) and the use of STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) every month. All TML plants have a motion sensors. TML is also a signatory For the automotive industry, separate Environment department which is to RE 100 and is investing in renewable environmental impacts can be classified responsible for implementing Environment energy through rooftop solar, hybridinto two primary buckets – one, the Management Programmes. wind and solar installations. In addition, it impact of manufacturing processes, two, will continue to source renewable power the environmental impact throughout the ENERGY CONSERVATION AND from the grid in line with the regulatory operational life of vehicles. In addressing CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION policies/frameworks and tariffs in the the second, TML has undertaken several TML has implemented Energy States where it operates. initiatives and is proactively foraying into Conservation (EN-CON) initiatives at the non-conventional fuel and electric all seven plants to minimise energy vehicles space. consumption. Several process improvement initiatives have been In addressing the environmental impact of FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) its operations, it practises Reduce, Recycle, GHG emissions generated (FY 2018-19) Recover and Refurbish as recommended by the Tata Code of Conduct. It works Absolute Specific towards increasing energy efficiencies, emissions (tCO2) emissions (tCO2 /vehicle) minimising carbon emissions, reducing waste, enhancing biodiversity and Scope 1 105318.03 0.15 optimising water usage. The Safety, Health Scope 2 385002.00 0.54 and Sustainability (SH&S) Committee Scope 3 GHG emissions (FY 2018-19) SOLAR ROOFTOP INSTALLATION AT PUNE COMMERCIAL VEHICLES Categories tCO2 BUSINESS UNIT Purchased goods and services 1,36,127 To commemorate the National Energy Conservation Day (14 Fuel and energy related 1,07,678 December), the second phase Upstream transportation and distribution 8,481 of the 2MWp Rooftop Solar PV project was inaugurated Business travel 10,142 at the Commercial Vehicles Employee commuting 14,777 Business Unit (CVBU), Pune, in 2018-19. Use of sold products 41,75,425 Franchise* 3,912 *Tata Motors' downstream value chain 71 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year Nurturing long-term relationships WASTE REDUCTION AND REUSE Relations with suppliers, Guidelines, preparation of data templates, TML's plants are vertically integrated. conducting workshops for suppliers and vendors, dealers and training sessions for local TML’s purchase While it disposes of waste as per regulatory requirements, it adopts a threecustomers have a significant and supply chain team, data collection pronged approach to waste management impact on operations. TML from suppliers and on-site sustainability including minimisation, recovery and collaborates and creates value assessment of suppliers. TML embarked recycle, and development and adoption on this initiative by shortlisting its top 200 for them through engagement suppliers on the basis of share of revenue of eco-friendly waste disposal methods. In order to reduce the waste burden on programmes, knowledge and ESG criticality (80/20). As a part of this landfills, TML has taken steps such as the exchange programmes, sharing initiative, TML has covered a cumulative of conversion of paint sludge into secondary technical knowhow and 233 suppliers – 52 in FY 2016-17, 66 in FY paints, which can be used in-house or in 2017-18 and 115 in FY 2018-19. advocating global best practices. the supply chain for casting and frames. Taking a step further, TML has extended In addition to engaging with this initiative to its downstream channel CIRCULAR ECONOMY – business partners, interactions partners and authorised service with the communities residing stations in FY 2018-19. It has developed ProLife BUSINESS sustainability guidelines and conducted TML’s ProLife business is a near TML's plants and operations sensitisation sessions for dealers pioneering after-market product are of great significance for its across different locations in India. It also support strategy for customers. social license to operate. develops customised data templates and conducts detailed site assessments to The use of Tata Motors build capacities and motivate channel Prolife aggregate ensures partners and authorised service stations to original equipment-like vehicle ENGAGING WITH SUPPLY CHAIN integrate sustainability into their business performance even after the first PARTNERS practices. During the year, TML has TML relies on a large network of suppliers covered a total of 237 channel partners, lifecycle. The customer receives conducted 15 sensitisation workshops and and dealers. It engages with its supply reconditioned aggregates in chain on a range of issues through assessed 27 dealers. exchange for old aggregates. various departments such as Engineering ENCOURAGING SUSTAINABLE Research Centre, Strategic Sourcing and Purchase and Supply Chain. TML's PRACTICES AT SUPPLIER SITES In FY 2018-19, 32,092 engines were reused or recycled (up Supplier and Dealer Codes of Conduct TML encourages its supply chain ensure ethical and sustainable practices partners to fulfill their energy by 19% over the previous across the value chain. It has developed year) under the take-back vendor parks at its new manufacturing requirements from renewable programme, resulting in revenue locations to ensure emission reductions sources. Minda Stoneridge, of `240 crore. The ProLife linked to logistics as well as to increase a supplier covered under the local employment. In its endeavour to Sustainable Supply Chain Initiative, business has maintained the minimise the ecological and social impacts energy consumption level at of its supply chain, TML has taken up has installed a rooftop solar plant 74kWh per equivalent engine for the Sustainable Supply Chain Initiative. with a generation capacity of remanufacturing TML has been adopting a systematic 741 kW. As a result of this approach since FY 2016-17. This includes installation, they have achieved since FY 2011-12. sensitisation of its supply chain on Environmental, Social and Governance 12% reduction in their carbon (ESG) issues through formulation of emissions in FY 2018-19. 72 Holistic approach to value creation (58-77) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) Being partner of choice for communities At the Tata group, the spirit of giving reflects in every business decision. The group's core values and community-centric approach form the bedrock of TML's CSR STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) initiatives. TML continuously aligns our strategies to meet national and global development goals. Guided by the Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC), Trainees for motor mechanics TML plans its actions for meeting its stakeholders’ needs. Access to safe drinking water is another Educational programmes (Vidyadhanam) issue that TML's initiative Amrutdhara aims are engineered to bring holistic Programmes under the Aadhar initiatives to address. development in students at the secondary are focused on the marginalised school level. Scheduled Caste (SC)/Scheduled Tribe (ST) Impact of health initiatives communities. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) TML's health programme has benefitted TML has adopted a targeted approach 3,81,437 people. Over 90% of the by instituting need-based rolling Health initiatives (Aarogya) focus on malnourished children are now in the scholarships/financial support for addressing malnutrition in children healthy category and there has been a financially challenged students, organising between 0 and 6 years of age. Apart positive change in the knowledge, attitude support classes for difficult subjects, from providing nutritional and dietary and behaviour of the communities on value-based life skills, sports and other supplements to the affected children, TML health. co-curricular activities and plugging gaps focuses on inducing behavioural changes in infrastructure at schools. in communities, especially young mothers TML strengthened the institutional delivery and parents, through awareness sessions mechanism by enhancing capacities of Impact of education initiatives and by providing ante-natal and Government health personnel on one TML has touched the lives of 1,46,894 post-natal services. In addition, it carries hand, while mentoring communities to take students. These initiatives have led to an out curative healthcare services where the ownership of programmes on the other. improvement in the pass percentage of communities are served through diagnosis, government schools, from 55% in 2015 administration of generics medicines and to 80% in 2019. Average score of the consultations. students increased by 5% and 44% of the students secured more than 60% marks in their Class X board examinations in 2019. Employability or skills development programme (Kaushalya) focuses on training unemployed youth in three segments – auto trades, non-auto trades, and agriculture and allied activities. In Auto Trades, TML focuses mainly on skills in driving and motor mechanics, where Tata Motors as an organisation Health camp Girls' education 73 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year has domain expertise and business As part of its environmental stewardship Rural development programmes aim connect. On completion of their training (Vasundhara), TML is making concerted at improving the overall development programmes, most of which are National efforts to increase green cover through of a village through an integrated Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) sapling plantation on one hand, while village development approach. One certified, they find ready employment enhancing the environmental awareness key element of these programmes is either in the Tata Motors ecosystem or levels in the community on the other. to leverage the synergistically working in the open market. TML also engages Government schemes. In doing so, TML has with community-based groups of Impact of environmental collaborated with 'Sahabhag' – the CSR women and farmers and help them stewardship programme cell of the Government of Maharashtra earn supplementary income through its TML planted 11,17,186 saplings (of – to improve the quality of life of 3,000 agriculture and allied programmes. indigenous varieties) and ensured a tribal communities of the Pathardi significantly high (85%) survival rate. gram panchayat in the Palghar district, Impact of employability or skills At a few locations, these places have where 70% of the resources for village development programme turned into micro-habitats which host development came from the Government. During FY 2018-19, TML trained 1,06,038 varied species of flora and fauna. TML's youths and farmers, of whom over 56% environmental awareness programmes found employment (or are self-employed) aim to sensitise young children and TML resulting in an annual increase in family has been able to reach out to 89,263 income by `1 lakh. persons. Well construction Rural development project Sapling distribution for plantation activity 74 Holistic approach to value creation (58-77) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) Recognitions for corporate citizenship TML was the only Indian Selected in the Dow Jones Recognised as one of India’s top automobile manufacturer at the Sustainability Index (DJSI) 2018. companies for Sustainability Leadership level in the Global Recognised as one of the eight and CSR 2018, as per the CDP 2018 ranking. sustainability leaders among Responsible Business Rankings global automobile companies 2018, Indian Institute of STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Management, Udaipur This Integrated Report also addresses requirements of Reporting Frameworks such as GRI, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) UNGC and SDG. Won Asia’s Best Report Design for 2018 Won the Sustainable Supply Chain at the 4th Asia Sustainability Reporting Management 2019 Award at India Awards (ASRA) Sustainability Summit and Awards 2019 TML Jamshedpur Plant received the first prize for environment management in the Engineering Industry Category 75 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 | 74th year Tata Motors Finance APPROACH TOWARDS INCLUSIVE GROWTH INPUTS BUSINESS PROCESSES OUTCOMES Financial `21,993 crore 02 `84 crore Total funds disbursed 01 STRATEGIC Absolute reduction in GNPA FINANCING PARTNERSHIPS IN INNOVATION FINTECH, LEASING, Multiple market surveys CO-LENDING, Intellectual to measure customer E-LOGISTICS AND satisfaction, gauge their OTHERS Bespoke financing solutions that cater feedback and understand their requirements better 06 to the varying needs of dealers and transporters in the short and long term CUSTOMER CONVERSION Human 5,625 WITH CONTINUED 5% Employees trained LIFECYLE Women as of `2.20 crore ENGAGEMENT total workforce Total expenses related to learning and development 03 1,10,800 OFFERINGS FOR PRIMARY AND Total training hours WHOLESALE 6,824 SEGMENTS; RETAIL NEW VEHICLE Training hours for women OWNERS; AND RETAIL USED VEHICLE OWNERS Social and 13,322 Relationship Volunteering hours 5,940 girls enrolled in Bhandara and clocked in FY 2018-19 05 04 Joynagar sites of Project Uddan SALES AND MARKETING Close to Clocked `19.57 crore DEALERS AND BRANDING Total CSR spend NETWORK COMMUNICATION 2,882 13,079 participated in volunteering hours various volunteering in FY 2018-19 interventions 76 Holistic approach to value creation (58-77) INTEGRATED REPORT (1-77) TMFL and TMFSL are NBFCs, with each of them being a subsidiary of TMFHL. The vehicle financing business is undertaken by TMFL, while the dealer/vendor financing business and used vehicle refinance/repurchase is undertaken by TMFSL. Tata Motors Finance has a strong footprint across India and operates through its own 260+ branch networks, in addition to Tata Motors dealers’ sales outlets. Tata Motors Finance has prioritised the Capitals which it measures and manages. Apart from Financial Capital, Intellectual Capital, Human Capital and Social and Relationship Capitals are its priority Capitals. STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) People Community engagement Being a service organisation, Facilitating learning at the heart of its delivery and development Tata Motors Finance engages To keep employees abreast with the resides dedicated workforce. As market requirement and to facilitate their with communities by reaching an equal opportunity employer, continual growth, Tata Motors Finance has out through societal and Tata Motors Finance strives to developed several training programmes. environmental interventions or create a work environment for its Spin Selling Conversation is an intense, employee volunteering efforts. employees which would make it immersive and engaging programme FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) their employer of choice. There that incorporated real-world sales Tata Motors Finance's flagship programme, conversations. Project Uddan, is now active in three are a multitude of initiatives locations . This is an 'adolescence to Romancing the Balance Sheet was that it undertakes to encourage developed for senior leaders on basic livelihood' programme and comprises diversity and to provide learning concepts of finance management, holistic development, remedial education, and development opportunities managing profitability, understanding scholarships and livelihood programmes. cash flow, managing working capital and IMPACT, the employee volunteering to all employees. programme stands for #itisIMPortanttoACT. evaluation of financial performance. Master class on Mentoring was a KEY VALUE-ENHANCING workshop for identified senior mentors KEY VALUE-ENHANCING ACTIVITIES to guide and inspire select high-potential ACTIVITIES employees Encouraging diversity During FY 2018-19, Project Uddan was Tata Motors Finance launched – BRAID – All-in-One Mandatory launched at Bhandara, Joynagar and a diversity campaign and created a Gender eLearning Module (2018-19) Kurnool. At present, it is running in 65 Diversity Committee in the organisation. was a comprehensive module on villages in Bhandara, Maharashtra and Under the aegis of this programme, Tata guidelines and regulations. It included 15 schools in Joynagar, West Bengal. Motors Finance revised its Maternity TATA Code of Conduct (TCoC), Anti-Money Approximately 6000 girls are covered in Policy (child care leave, extended Laundering (AML), Prevention of Sexual this project. maternity leave, nursing breaks and so on) Harassment (POSH) and Information and Women Mentoring Programme. It has Security Awareness (ISA), IMPACT encourages employees, their also devised ways for additional incentives families, customers and dealers to for referral of women candidates for participate. In FY 2018-19, volunteering recruitment. It focuses on building a causes included promoting sustainable safe working environment for women in living; teaching; engaging with children the workforce by providing them safer from marginalised communities; and tree transport facilities. plantation; among others. 77 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Board’s Report TO THE MEMBERS OF TATA MOTORS LIMITED The Directors present their Seventy Fourth Annual Report along with the Audited Financial Statement of Accounts for the Financial Year 2018-19. FINANCIAL RESULTS (` in crores) Standalone* Consolidated PARTICULARS FY 2019 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2018 Revenue from operations 69,202.76 58,689.81 3,01,938.40 2,92,340.64 Total expenditure 63,476.23 55,824.11 2,72,143.59 2,58,536.37 Operating profit 5,726.53 2,865.70 29,794.81 33,804.27 Other Income 2,554.66 2,492.48 2,965.31 3,957.59 Profit before interest, foreign exchange, depreciation, amortization, 8,281.19 5,358.18 32,760.12 37,761.86 exceptional item and tax Finance cost 1,793.57 1,744.43 5,758.60 4,681.79 Profit before depreciation, amortization, exceptional item, foreign 6,487.62 3,613.75 27,001.52 33,080.07 exchange and tax Depreciation, amortization and product development/ engineering 3,670.40 3,576.87 27,815.20 25,085.46 expenses Foreign exchange (gain)/loss (net) 215.22 17.14 905.91 (1,185.28) Profit/(loss) before exceptional items and tax 2,602.00 19.74 (1,719.59) 9,179.89 Exceptional Items (gain) / loss (net) 203.07 966.66 29,651.56 (1,975.14) Profit/(loss) before tax 2,398.93 (946.92) (31,371.15) 11,155.03 Tax expenses (net) 378.33 87.93 (2,437.45) 4,341.93 Profit/(loss) after tax 2,020.60 (1,034.85) (28,933.70) 6,813.10 Share of profit of joint venture and associates (net) 209.50 2,278.26 Profit/(loss) for the year 2,020.60 (1,034.85) (28,724.20) 9,091.36 Other comprehensive income/(loss) (23.43) 43.22 (5,575.77) 29,562.51 Total Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year 1,997.17 (991.63) (34,299.97) 38,653.87 Attributable to: Shareholders of the Company (34,401.73) 38,524.52 Non-controlling interest 101.76 129.35 * These include the Company’s proportionate share of income and expenditure in its two joint operations, namely, Tata Cummins Pvt. Ltd. and Fiat India Automobiles Pvt. Ltd. DIVIDEND volatility, largely from financial volatility, normalized monetary policy in advanced economies, externalities from trade disputes, In view of inadequate profits for FY 2018-19, no dividend is and investment rerouting. Further, the Indian rupee depreciated permitted to be paid to the Members as per the provisions of the because of the crude price shock, and conditions exacerbated as Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the Rules framed thereunder. recovery in some advanced economies caused faster investment TRANSFER TO RESERVES outflows. The Board of Directors has decided to retain the entire amount of Global growth is moderating as the recovery in trade and profits for FY 2018-19 in the Profit and Loss Account. manufacturing activity is losing its steam. Despite ongoing negotiations, trade tensions among major economies remain FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND STATE OF THE elevated. Growth in the United States has remained solid, COMPANY'S AFFAIRS bolstered by fiscal stimulus. In contrast, activity in the Euro Area Operating Results and Profits has been somewhat weaker than previously expected, owing to The Indian economy in FY 2018-19 started with a healthy 8.2% slowing net exports. China registered growth of 6.5% in 2018. A growth in the first quarter on the back of domestic resilience. rebound in private fixed investment helped offset a decline in Growth eased to 7.3% in the subsequent quarter due to rising global public infrastructure and other state spending. However, industrial 78 production and export growth have decelerated, reflecting revaluation of hedges and foreign currency debt in FY 2018-19 INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) easing global manufacturing activity. Japan’s economy also compared to favourable revaluation in the prior year. Exceptional saw annualized growth of 0.8% due to bad weather and natural charges totalled £3.3 billion for FY 2018-19, including a £3.1 disasters. The GDP rate of Russia slowed down to 0.8% in 2018. At billion asset impairment in Q3 and a further £149 million for a growth rate of 1.2%, South Africa’s economic expansion would employee separation charges in Q4. still be above the 0.8% level at which the economy expanded in Free cash flow was negative £1.3 billion for FY19 (including £1.4 2018. The Middle East economy growth looks uncertain with billion positive free cash flow in Q4) after lower investment of £3.8 the cut in oil production in compliance with OPEC+ deal and billion and £403 million of working capital inflows. As at 31 March geopolitical risks will continue to cap the growth. 2019, JLR had £3.8 billion of cash and a £1.9 billion undrawn The Tata Motors Group registered a growth of 3.3% in income credit facility resulting in £5.7 billion of total liquidity. from operations to `3,01,938 crores in FY 2018-19 as compared TMF Holdings Limited (‘TMFHL’), the Company’s captive financing to `2,92,341 crores in FY 2017-18. This was due to better sales subsidiary, reported consolidated revenues of `3,975 crores volume in the business in India and due to favorable translation (FY 2017-18: `2,908 crores) and Profit After Tax of `164 crores in impact from Great Britain Pound (‘GB£’) to Indian Rupee (‘`’) of STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) FY 2018-19 (FY 2017-18: `76 crores). `14,517 crores. Earnings before other income, interest and tax, were `3,774 crores in FY 2018-19 compared to `11,788 crores in Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Company Limited, South Korea FY 2017-18. The decrease was primarily driven by the performance ('TDCV') (as per Korean GAAP), registered revenues of KRW of Jaguar Land Rover business, including higher depreciation and 651.36 billion, a drop of 25.0% over FY 2017-18. The Loss After amortization and fixed marketing expenses / selling costs. The Tax was KRW 28.02 billion as compared to Profit After Tax of KRW Company’s net loss (attributable to shareholders of the Company) 33.66 billion in FY 2017-18. Lower profitability was mainly due to was `28,826 crores in FY 2018-19 as compared to a profit of lower sales and lower absorption of fixed costs partially offset by `8,989 crores in FY 2017-18. In FY 2018-19, the Company has material cost reduction. taken an impairment charge of `27,838 crores for Jaguar Land Vehicle Sales and Market Shares Rover, due to weak sales and profitability change in the market conditions, especially in China and technology disruptions. The Tata Motors Group sales for the year stood at 12,74,072 vehicles, up by 4.3% as compared to FY 2017-18. Global sales of Tata Motors Limited recorded revenue from operations (including all Commercial Vehicles were 5,27,286 vehicles, while sales of FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395 joint operations) of `69,203 crores in FY 2018-19, 17.9% higher Passenger Vehicles were at 7,46,786 vehicles. from `58,690 crores in FY 2017-18. Growth in demand of Medium and Heavy Commercial Vehicle ('M&HCV') and Light Commercial Tata Motors Vehicle ('LCV'), new product offerings in passenger cars and Utility Tata Motors recorded sales of 6,79,288 vehicles, a growth of 16.2% Vehicles ('UV'), resulted in increase in EBITDA margins to 7.4% in over FY 2017-18, higher than the Indian Auto Industry grew by 5.9%. FY 2018-19 as against 4.1% in FY 2017-18. Profit Before and After The Company’s market share increased to 15.5% in FY 2018-19 Tax (including joint operations) for FY 2018-19 were at `2,399 from 14.1% in FY 2017-18. The Company’s exports on standalone crores and `2,021 crores, respectively as compared to Loss Before basis were marginally higher by 1.4% to 53,140 vehicles in and After Tax (including joint operations) of `947 crores and `1,035 FY 2018-19 as compared to 52,404 vehicles in FY 2017-18. crores respectively for FY 2017-18. Commercial Vehicles ('CV') Jaguar Land Rover (‘JLR’), (as per IFRS) recorded revenue of GB£24.2 billion in FY 2018-19 compared to GB£25.8 billion in The CV Industry started FY 2018-19 on a very strong note, FY 2017-18, down by 6.2% broadly in line with the decline in which continued through first half before being impacted by the wholesales (excluding CJLR) which were down 6.9% primarily as a implementation of the increased Axle load norm. This resultant result of the challenging conditions in China. drop in demand along with increase in parc capacity, the liquidity crunch triggered by the NBFC crisis, coupled with other factors Consolidated EBITDA for FY 2018-19 was GB£2.0 billion, lower dampened the demand largely in second half. However, overall compared GB£2.8 billion for FY 2017-18, as a result of the lower FY 2018-19 was a year of robust growth for the CV industry. Tata wholesales, higher incentive and warranty costs, partially offset Motors CV Business sales in the domestic market for FY 2018by Project Charge cost efficiencies and favourable realised foreign 19, witnessed a robust growth of 17.2% with 4,68,788 units sold. exchange movements. The Loss Before Interest and Tax ('EBIT') The market share of Tata Motors for FY 2018-19 was 45.1%. All was GB£(180) million in FY 2018-19 compared to EBIT of GB£971 the four segments showed strong growth with three out of four million in FY 2017-18, due to the lower EBITDA, higher depreciation segments inching up their market share. and amortisation and lower profits from the China joint venture. Some of the highlights for the year were: The Loss Before Tax excluding exceptional items in FY 2018-19 was GB£(358) million compared to Profit Before Tax excluding •  &HCV volumes grew by 12.3% in FY 2018-19. Several new M exceptional items of GB£1.1 billion in FY 2017-18, primarily products and variants across the Prima and Signa platforms reflecting the lower EBIT, higher interest costs and unfavourable were launched. These include LPT 1618 5L Turbotronn – the 79 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year first 4 cylinder engine offering in M&HCV range, SIGNA 4923.T Passenger Vehicles ('PV') and 4823.T – India’s first range of 16 wheeler trucks with 49T The domestic PV Industry grew by 2.8% during FY 2018-19 and 47.5T GVW, the entire range of Increased Axle Load range registering a volume of 3.35 million vehicles. Barring the first of products from 18.5T to 55T GVW across trucks, tractors and quarter, industry de-grew consecutively for three quarters. new range of Tippers: 1913.T and 1918.T, 2818.T, 3518.T, Overall, the Industry performance was affected by delay 4223.T, 4623.S, 5523.S, 2823.TK/K, 1918K, 1923K. Tata in availability of retail finance, higher interest rate, higher Motors inched up its market share by 0.7% in this segment, acquisition price because of requirement of buying three year with a growth for the first time after 10 years. insurance at the time of purchase, negative sentiment in market • I LCV volumes registered a strong growth of 23% in the FY and postponement of purchase decisions. As a result, the retail 2018-19. Tata Motors reinforced its position through the sales was far below expectations. This led to higher stock at introduction of the Ultra 1518.T, Ultra 1412, Ultra T.7 with dealerships and dealers faced the challenge of the working smaller cabin design suitable for intercity operations in capital rotation. domestic and international markets. In addition the launch of The festival seasons during the year did not give the expected LPT407/27 FE, LPT 1412SLP, LPT 1212CRX, LPT1512 CRX, impetus. The beginning of the festive season was washed out due SFC 909, LPT 909/49 CNG and India’s first 13.8T CNG vehicle to unprecedented floods in Kerala. During Navaratri and Diwali, LPT1412 CNG in the regular ICV range helped Tata Motors the market was expected to bounce back and infuse positive establish itself as No. 1 in ICVs sub-segment. Tata Motors energy into the system. But just before this festive season the also launched specialized e-commerce containers range with liquidity was severely impacted because of NBFC crisis. The festive advanced features like surveillance cameras, OTP based Lock, season reported a 14% de-growth, one of the worst festive sales Load sensors etc. in the year. Tata Motors market share in the performance in the recent past. segment was up by 0.5% compared to FY 2017-18. Whilst market situation remained challenging throughout the year, •  CV & Pickup Volumes grew by 23.9% in FY 2018-19. The S Tata Motors PV business outperformed the market. The Company launch of Tata Ace Gold with the legendary facia, popular registered a 13.9% overall growth in FY 2018-19 with a total among the target customer group added to the Company’s volume of 2,10,500 units. The market share for the year was 6.3%, strength in the Ace family. The market share was up by 0.7% an improvement of 60 basis points from FY 2017-18. The growth compared to FY 2017-18. rate 13.9% for the Company is ahead of the industry. This is the •  olumes in the CV passenger segment grew by 3.5% in V highest unit sales and market share over the last 5 years. FY 2018-19. The introduction of 15 seater and 12 seater Tiago registered a growth of 17% in its 3rd year of market presence Winger helped to cater to the ever increasing tour and travel with 2,00,000 + customers. Nexon was awarded with 5 star safety segment. The year also saw introduction of 1623, a 230 HP 12 rating by GNCAP, the only car in India with 5 star safety rating, meter bus, typically used for intercity coaches. In addition EGR and established itself as the second most selling SUV with annual vehicles on the 1515 range and 1212, a bus meant to cater to sales of over 55,000 units. the higher seating capacity rugged application, very prevalent in the country today were launched. On the other end of the To counter the market slowdown, the Company did four critical spectrum, 407 on the smaller wheel base (2900 WB) was product interventions within 51 days in festival season, namely, introduced as a perfect fit to intra-city congested roads for Tiago NRG, Nexon KRAZ, Tigor Refresh and Tiago/Tigor JTP range both school and staff applications. of products. These interventions helped to attract additional set of customers and continue the market buzz. On January 23, 2019, the •  eiterating its commitment to greener fuel options, the R Tata Harrier was launched and the initial response from customers Company started delivery of electric buses to various State is overwhelming. Transport Units. Customer satisfaction remained as the centre of business. The • The Company significantly improved the ability to provide Company ranked a clear 2nd in JD Power customer satisfaction customers with end-to-end support and comfort through survey. In FY 2017-18, the Company shared the 2nd rank with enhancing value added services under a umbrella brand of Maruti Suzuki. Non-vehicular business revenue improved 15% “Sampoorna Seva”. The key elements include 6 Year 6 lakh km over last financial year. The Net Promoter Score of PV business warranty on the entire range of M&HCVs, Tata Alert breakdown significantly improved from a negative score of 13 in FY 2014-15 assistance service available across 3 million kilometers of to a positive score of 18 in FY 2018-19 signifying improvement in Indian roads and Tata Delight Loyalty Program. brand perception. This helped the Company to gain pricing power •  on-vehicle business revenue for CVBU from spares, prolife N across models and exercise pricing leadership. and aggregates increased by 21.6% in FY 2018-19. Tata Motors Exports Genuine Oil ('TMGO') launched last year reached 17,000 KL of sale helping to bring down the Total Cost of Ownership for its The Company exported 53,140 vehicles (FY 2017-18: 52,404 customers. vehicles). 80 Export of CV marginally increased by 2% in FY 2018-19 with 51,119 • A  nnounced the reveal of the All New Land Rover Defender for INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) units compared to 50,106 units in FY 2017-18. New regulations later in 2019. and political uncertainty in Sri Lanka, and slump in Middle East, •  roject Charge announced to deliver £2.5 billion of cost, cash P impacted industry volumes in these markets. However, our market and profit improvements by the end of FY 2020; and Project share in both these markets improved for commercial vehicles. Accelerate announced to support long term sustainable Market share in most of the focused markets, either improved or profitable growth. have been strong and the Company successfully bagged several prestigious orders. •  anufacturing plant in the city of Nitra in Slovakia commenced M production of the Land Rover Discovery in October 2018. Export of PV stood at 2,021 units compared to 2,298 units in FY 2017-18. Two large markets remain non-operational Sri Lanka • Land Rover celebrated it’s 70 year anniversary. due to high import duties, tight retail financing and South Africa •  LR completed it’s first self-driving journey as part of J due to the closure of the distribution channel. Launch of new autonomous driving trials with the UK Autodrive project in Q2. models in Nepal and Bangladesh helped the Company to achieve rank No. 4 and No. 3 in the respective markets. • A  nnounced 6 cylinder Ingenium 3.0 litre petrol engine to STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) be manufactured at the Engine Manufacturing Centre in JLR Wolverhampton, UK to be introduced in Range Rover Sport. Retail sales were 5,78,915 vehicles in FY 2018-19, down 5.8% •  nnounced the production of next-generation Electric A year on year, primarily reflecting weaker market conditions in Drive Units ('EDU') at the Engine Manufacturing Centre in China which was partially offset by strong growth in the UK and Wolverhampton later this year. North America. • A  nnounced that the batteries to power the EDU’s will be The introduction of new and refreshed models led by the Jaguar assembled at a new Battery Assembly Centre located at North E-PACE, award winning I-PACE, Range Rover Velar and the Warwickshire in the UK. refreshed Range Rover and Range Rover Sport were offset by lower sales of more established models, mainly in China, and the run-out TDCV of the first generation Range Rover Evoque in the third quarter with sales of the new Evoque beginning to ramp up through the fourth During FY 2018-19 sold 6,672 commercial vehicles, lower by FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395 quarter. By region, sales were up strongly in the UK by 8.4% and 24.8% over FY 2017-18, mainly due to decrease in sales in domestic in North America by 8.1% and retails were also higher in Overseas sales. TDCV sold 4,371 commercial vehicles in the domestic market markets by 2.4%. Retails sales in Europe declined 4.5% year on lower by 36.3% as compared to sales in FY 2017-18, primarily year on account of continuing diesel uncertainty, Brexit and the due to lower industry volumes and aggressive discounting and change to more stringent World Harmonised Light Vehicle Testing marketing strategies primarily driven by the imported brands. Procedure ('WLTP') emissions testing regime. Retail sales in China The market share for both HCV and MCV segments put together (including sales from the joint venture) were down 34.1% year on was 21.1% as compared to 26.5% in FY 2017-18. However, year due to trade tensions with the US, slowing economic growth TDCV could increase its export sales to 2,301 commercial and uncertainty driven by import duty changes effective from July vehicles, 14.4% higher compared to 2,011 commercial vehicles in 2018, inventory reduction and corrective actions in China. FY 2017-18. The total wholesale volumes (excluding sales from the China Joint TMFHL Venture) at 5,07,895 units were down 6.9% as compared to the It is the vehicle financing arm under the brand “TMF Holdings 5,45,298 units in FY 2017-18, generally reflecting the trends seen Limited”. TMFHL’s disbursements (including refinance) increased in the retail sales above. by 42.8% at `21,993 crores in FY 2018-19 as compared to Some of the key highlights of FY 2018-19 were: `15,406 crores in FY 2017-18. New Vehicle disbursements are done through its subsidiary Tata Motors Finance Ltd ('TMFL'). TMFL •  LR’s first battery electric vehicle, the Jaguar I-PACE went on J financed 2,16,015 vehicles reflecting an increase of 23.3% over sale in June 2018 (2019 World Car of the Year, 2019 World Car 1,75,128 vehicles financed in FY 2017-18. Disbursements for CV Design of the Year, 2019 World Green Car, 2019 European Car increased by 39.6% and were at `15,978 crores (142,187 units) as of the Year). compared to `11,448 crores (115,689 units) in FY 2017-18 mainly •  -Pace launched and on sale from the China joint venture in E due to gain in market share (28.3% in FY 2018-19 vs. 26.1% in FY September 2018. 2017-18). Disbursements of PV increased by 28.5% to `3,013 crores (46,500 units) from a level of `2,345 crores (42,619 units). •  ll new Range Rover Evoque with hybrid options went on sale A Used Vehicle disbursements done through Tata Motors Finance in Q4. Solutions Limited ('TMFSL'), a 100% Subsidiary of TMFHL were •  efreshed Jaguar XE launched in Q4 with exterior updates and R at `3,002 crores (27,328 vehicles) as compared to `1,614 crores significantly improved infotainment. (16,820 vehicles) during FY 2017-18. 81 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Tata Motors (Thailand) Limited ('TMTL') crores) [as at March 31, 2018: GB£3,731 million (`34,238 crores)]. Cash and financial deposits stood at GB£3,775 million (`34,168 TMTL wholesales in FY 2018-19 was 633 units as compared crores) [as at March 31, 2018: GB£4,657 million (`42,977 crores)]. to 682 units in FY 2017-18. The Thai Commercial Automobile Additionally, JLR has undrawn committed long term bank lines of Industry has witnessed a growth of 22% in FY 2018-19 compared GB£1,935 million (JLR data as per IFRS). to 14% growth in the year before, however as part of ongoing review, TMTL have undertaken a reassessment of its business During FY 2018-19, JLR issued €500 million senior notes due in model in Thailand to ensure it is sustainable over the long term. 2026 at a coupon of 4.50% per annum. JLR also raised US$ 1,000 As a part of the restructuring, the Company has ceased the million through syndicated loan. The proceeds were for general current manufacturing operations in the financial year and are in corporate purposes, including support for JLR’s ongoing growth the process of scaling down the operations including reduction and capital spending requirements. of manpower. The Company shall address the Thailand market At TMFHL and its subsidiaries, the borrowings as on March 31, with a revamped product portfolio, suitable to local market needs, 2019 stood at `37,814 crores (as at March 31, 2018: `27,470 delivered through a CBU distribution model. TMTL bagged a crores). Cash and bank balances and investments in mutual funds prestigious order from Royal Thai Army to supply 614 units of the stood at `2,119 crores (as at March 31, 2018: `1,206 crores). 1.25 ton Tata Truck. TMFHL and its subsidiaries, raised `2,066 crores by issuing NCDs. FINANCE Bank borrowings through secured term loans continued to be a major source of funds for long-term borrowing and raised `6,306 During the year, the free cash flows for Tata Motors Group were crores during FY 2018-19. TMFL has also done securitization of negative `16,346 crores (FY 2017-18: negative `11,191 crores), `3,862 crores in FY 2018-19. post spend on capex, design and development of `35,236 crores. Tata Motors Group has undertaken and will continue to implement Tata Motors Group’s borrowing as at March 31, 2019 stood at suitable steps for raising long term resources to match fund `106,175 crores (as at March 31, 2018: `88,951 crores). Cash and requirements and to optimise its loan maturity profile. bank balances and investments in mutual funds stood at `42,086 crores (as at March 31, 2018: `48,974 crores). The consolidated Credit Rating : During FY 2018-19, the Company’s rating for net automotive debt to equity ratio stood at 0.47 as at March 31, foreign currency borrowings was downgraded to “Ba2” / Negative 2019, as compared to 0.15 as at March 31, 2018. by Moody’s and to “B+” / Watch Negative by Standard & Poor’s. For borrowings in the local currency, Non-Convertible debentures Free cash flows were `1,539 crores (FY 2017-18: `1,339 crores) and long term bank facilities i.e. (Buyers Credit and Revolving standalone basis with joint operations of the Company. Spend Credit Facility), the ratings were downgraded by CARE to “AA” / on capex, design and development were `4,753 crores (net). Stable and the ratings were retained with a change in outlook by The borrowings of the Company as on March 31, 2019 stood at CRISIL at “AA / Negative and by ICRA at “AA / Negative”. During the `18,640 crores (as at March 31, 2018: `18,464 crores). Cash and year, JLR’s rating was downgraded by Moody’s at “Ba3” / Negative bank balances including mutual funds stood at `2,981 crores (as and by Standard & Poor’s at “B+” / Watch Negative on account of at March 31, 2018: `2,312 crores). Additionally, the Company has weak performance and challenging external environment at JLR. undrawn committed lines of `1,500 crores. During FY 2018-19, for TMFHL and its subsidiaries, CRISIL and During FY 2018-19, the Company raised unsecured term loans ICRA has maintained its rating and changed its outlook on longamounting to `1,500 crores from Banks for general corporate term debt instruments and long term bank facilities to “AA / purpose. Negative”. Further CARE has changed the ratings on long term The Company successfully completed liability management debt and long term bank facilities to CARE AA / Stable. exercise by part refinancing of US$ 500 million notes due for Material Changes and Commitment Affecting the Financial repayment on April 30, 2020. The Company raised ECB of US$ Position 237.468 million maturing in June 2025 which was used to repay the bonds through the tendering process. There are no material changes affecting the financial position of the Company subsequent to the close of the FY 2018-19 till the Deposits: The Company has not accepted any public deposits date of this report. during FY 2018-19. There were no over dues on account of principal or interest on public deposits other than the unclaimed CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT deposits as at the end of FY 2018-19 which is `7.30 crores The consolidated financial statement of the Company and its (Previous year `10.80 crores). subsidiaries for FY 2018-19 are prepared in compliance with At JLR, post spend on capital expenditure, design and development the applicable provisions of the Act and as stipulated under of GB£3,373 million (`30,325 crores) [FY 2017-18: GB£4,186 Regulation 33 of the SEBI Listing Regulations as well as in million (`35,776 crores)] the free cash flows were negative accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards notified under GB£1,267 million (`9,962 crores) for FY 2018-19. The borrowings the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015. The of JLR as on March 31, 2019, stood at GB£4,511 million (`40,829 audited consolidated financial statement (condensed) together 82 with the Auditor’s Report thereon form part of this Annual Name of the companies which have ceased to be subsidiaries, INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Report. Pursuant to Section 129(3) of the Act, a statement associates or joint ventures during the year: containing the salient features of the Financial Statement of Subsidiaries the subsidiary companies is attached to the Financial Statement in Form AOC-1. Pursuant to the provisions of Section 136 of • TML Drivelines Limited merged with the Company with effect the Act, the Company will make available the said financial from April 30, 2018 and consequently Authorised Share statement of the subsidiary companies upon a request by Capital of the Company increased from `3,900 crores to any member of the Company or its subsidiary companies. `4,000 crores. These financial statements of the Company and the subsidiary •  he Jaguar Collection Limited (dormant) dissolved with effect T companies will also be kept open for inspection by any member from June 19, 2018. at the Registered Office of the Company and would be available on the Company’s website URL: https://www.tatamotors.com/ • Entire shareholding in TAL Manufacturing Solutions Limited investors/annual-reports/. ('TAL') sold to Tata Advanced Systems Limited with effect from March 29, 2019 after acquisition of the non-aerospace STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) SUBSIDIARY, JOINT ARRANGEMENTS AND business from TAL. ASSOCIATE COMPANIES Associates The Company has 99 subsidiaries (12 direct and 87 indirect), 10 • Serviplem S.A.U. liquidated with effect from February 6, 2019. associate companies, 3 joint ventures and 2 joint operations as at March 31, 2019, as disclosed in the accounts. Restructuring During FY 2018-19, the following changes have taken place in •  hareholding in Tata Technologies Limited ('TTL') decreased S subsidiary / associates / joint venture companies: from 72.29% to 72.28% on account of further allotment of 6,188 shares with effect from April 20, 2018. Name of the companies which have become subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures during the year: •  hareholding in Tata Motors (Thailand) Limited increased S from 95.49% to 95.81% on account of further allotment of Subsidiaries 2,500,000 shares to TML Holdings Pte. Ltd. with effect from FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395 • S  park44 Taiwan Limited (Taiwan) was incorporated with effect April 2, 2018 and from 95.81% to 95.87% on account of further from May 7, 2018. allotment of 548,000 shares to TML Holdings Pte. Ltd. with effect from November 22, 2018. • S  park44 Colombia S.A.S. (Colombia) was incorporated with effect from May 10, 2018. •  hareholding in Trilix S.r.l. increased from 80% to 100% with S effect from December 6, 2018. •  aguar Land Rover Classic USA LLC was incorporated with J effect from June 1, 2018 (dormant). Transfer of Defense Undertaking to Tata Advanced Systems Limited: The Company proposes to transfer the value added segment • J  aguar Land Rover Hungary KFT was incorporated with effect of Defence vehicles business and specialized Defence projects from July 30, 2018. (excluding FICV) ('Defense Undertaking') pursuant to a Scheme •  aguar Land Rover Classic Deutschland J GmbH was of Arrangement as a going concern on a slump sale basis to Tata incorporated with effect from August 10, 2018. Advanced Systems Limited ('TASL'), a wholly owned subsidiary of Tata Sons Private Limited, at an enterprise value of `209.27 crores • I nMotion Ventures 4 Limited was incorporated with effect from arrived at using the Net Asset Value Method. The total consideration January 4, 2019. receivable from the said transfer has been negotiated for an Associates upfront consideration of `100 crores (to be adjusted for design and development spent and changes in working capital) plus a • T  ata Toyo Radiator Limited was converted from a joint venture future consideration of 3% of the revenue generated from identified to subsidiary company with effect from July 1, 2018. Specialized Defence Projects for upto 15 years from the financial •  oginomic Tech Solutions Private Limited ('TruckEasy') stake L year ended FY 2020 subject to a maximum of `1,750 crores. Your acquired with effect from July 10, 2018. Company has received No Objection from the Stock Exchanges, SEBI and the Competition Commission of India for the said transfer • A  utomotive Skill Training Pvt. Ltd. converted into Private and requisite approvals from the Company’s shareholders, National Limited Company from Section 25 Company with effect from Company Law Tribunal ('NCLT'), the Ministry of Defence and other December 10, 2018 (formerly Automotive Skills Training statutory authorities are under process. Foundation) The Company has adopted a Policy for determining Material •  itanX Engine Cooling, Poland incorporated with effect from T Subsidiaries which has been amended during the year in line April 25, 2018. with Regulation 16 of the SEBI Listing Regulations. The Policy, 83 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year as approved by the Board, is available on the Company’s website 2 year Management Program ('EPGDBM') with curriculum around URL: https://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/material.pdf. operations, finance, people management, supply chain & marketing and 90 employees joined in the 1st batch. To enable comprehensive Other than the above, there has been no material change in the development of white collar workforce, the Company has created nature of the business of the subsidiary companies. 4 Learning Academies – Commercial Excellence, Management RISK MANAGEMENT Development, Operations Excellence, and Product Leadership. During FY 2018-19, 8443 permanent white collar employees The Board takes responsibility for the overall process of risk were trained under these academies on various functional management throughout the organization. Through an Enterprise and managerial aspects. To develop its blue collar workforce, Risk Management programme, the Company's business units and the Company trained 11,721 employees in technician’s skill corporate functions address risks through an institutionalized development, quality management and productivity improvement. approach aligned to the Company's objective. This is facilitated by internal audit. The Business risk is managed through crossInclusion and Diversity functional involvement and communication across businesses. The Company believes that with diversity and inclusion at The result of the risk assessment are presented to the senior workplace, it can leverage the multiplicity of skillsets in all management. The Risk Management Committee reviews business its operations. The Company has established policies and a risk areas covering the top operational, financial, strategic and supportive work environment, especially for its women employees regulatory risks. and for employees from different backgrounds, age-groups and INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROL SYSTEMS AND ethnicities as well. ADEQUACY The Company also endorses the initiative from Tata Group – The Board has adopted policies and procedures for governance of Second Career Initiative Program ('SCIP') to offer an opportunity orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to returning mothers who would like to restart their professional to the Company’s policies, safeguarding its assets, prevention careers. ‘GearUp’ initiative for mid-level women managers is and detection of frauds and errors, accuracy and completeness designed to provide management development inputs focussed on of the accounting records and timely preparation of reliable leadership skills to make them ready as future leaders. Company’s financial disclosures. The Company’s internal control systems Human Resource ('HR') policy framework, including maternity commensurate with the nature of its business, the size and leave policy, sabbatical and half-day-half-pay policy and flexible complexity of its operations. timings, helps employees to establish a work-life balance. The company employed 3.5% permanent women employees as of FY The Company has an independent in-house Internal Audit ('IA') 2018-19. (FY 2017-18: 3.3%). department that functionally reports to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, thereby maintaining its objectivity. Remediation of Prevention of Sexual Harassment deficiencies by the IA department has resulted in a robust framework The Company has zero tolerance for sexual harassment at for internal controls. These are detailed in the Management workplace and has adopted a Policy on Prevention, Prohibition Discussion and Analysis Report, which forms part of this Report. and Redressal of sexual harassment at workplace in line with HUMAN RESOURCES the provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 and the Rules The Tata Motors Group employed 82,797 permanent employees thereunder. Internal Complaints Committee ('ICC') is in place for all as of FY 2018-19 (FY 2017-18: 81,090 employees). The Company works and offices of the Company to redress complaints received employed 27,572 permanent employees as of FY 2018-19 (FY regarding sexual harassment. All women associates (permanent, 2017-18: 24,989 employees). temporary, contractual and trainees) as well as any women visiting The Company has labour unions for operative / worker grade the Company’s office premises or women service providers are employees at all its plants across India, except the Dharwad Plant. covered under this Policy. The Company has generally enjoyed cordial relations with its During FY 2018-19, the Company had received 11 complaints employees and unions at its factories and offices and have received on sexual harassments, 10 of which have been substantiated unions’ support in the Company’s implementation of reforms that and appropriate actions taken. The remaining 1 complaint was impact safety, quality, cost and productivity improvements across received during mid March and is being investigated. There were all locations. Employee wages are being paid in accordance with no complaints pending for more than 90 days. The Company wage agreements that have varying terms (typically three to four organized 103 workshops or awareness programs against sexual years) at different locations. harassment. In line with the Company’s philosophy of continuously harnessing Tata Motors Limited Employees Stock Option Scheme employee potential and developing them to become more capable professionals and future leaders, in FY 2018-19 we have partnered In order to ring fence and incentivize key talent, for driving long term with Symbiosis International (Deemed University) and launched a objectives of the Company and ensuring that employee payoffs 84 match the long gestation period of certain key initiatives whilst ('TRCFR') being 0.60 against the target of 0.89. Unfortunately 3 INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) simultaneously fostering ownership behavior and collaboration fatalities were recorded one each at a manufacturing location, amongst employees, the Tata Motors Limited Employees Stock workshop ('DTC') and a road incident. Robust incident investigation Option Scheme 2018 ('TML ESOP Scheme 2018' / 'the Scheme') has been carried out for all 3 incidents and horizontal deployment was implemented during the year. Based on the approval of the of recommendations has been completed. shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on August 3, As a part of our robust governance mechanism, the Company has 2018, aggregate 78,12,427 number of Options were granted to the dedicated committees and various functional teams to ensure Eligible Employees during the year under the Scheme. safety and implementation of our safety standards. Safety, During the financial year 2018-19, there has been no change in Health and Sustainability ('SHS') committee of Board reviews the Scheme. There were no ESOP that vested or any shares issued the Company’s safety performance every quarter. Plant level on vesting during the year. The Scheme is in compliance with the sub-committees for safety are formed, who functionally, report Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee to corporate level sub-committees. The reviews happen at multi Benefits) Regulations, 2014. Appropriate disclosures prescribed levels factory level by Factory Implementation committee, plant under the said Regulations with regard to the Scheme are available level Apex committee or sub-committee, the SHS council and STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) on the Company's website URL: https://www.tatamotors.com/ finally by the SHS committee. For non plant and services areas, investors/ESOP/ focussed monthly reviews happen at regional offices and with Customer Service teams. Similar mechanism is also in place at PARTICULARS OF EMPLOYEES workshop, warehouses and even at office locations. Disclosure pertaining to remuneration and other details as required under Section 197(12) of the Act read with Rule 5(1) of Training and awareness across organisation continues to be the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial considered as a key element of Safety Strategy. Aspects such Personnel) Rules, 2014 is annexed to the Report as Annexure 1. as Safety Management Fundamentals, Incident Investigations, Contractor Safety Management, Actions Employees Can Take Statement containing particulars of top 10 employees and the ('AECT') etc. are considered in training programmes for key leaders, employees drawing remuneration in excess of limits prescribed 500+ internal trainers, new joinees in induction progammes as under Section 197 (12) of the Act read with Rule 5(2) and (3) of also refreshers to existing employees. the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395 Personnel) Rules, 2014 is provided in the Annexure forming The Company continued Campaign ‘i-drive safe’ – an initiative part of this report. In terms of proviso to Section 136(1) of the on building a safe driving culture amongst its employee and Act, the Report and Accounts are being sent to the shareholders associates and have trained them in Defensive Driving. Road excluding the aforesaid Annexure. The said Statement is also Safety Month campaign was observed in February 2019 with the open for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company. Any theme ‘Road Safety is Life Safety’ which included Road Safety member interested in obtaining a copy of the same may write to Celebrations conducted in all location including all Plants, Offices, the Company Secretary. None of the employees listed in the said Dealerships, Warehouses and Vendors. Annexure are related to any Director of the Company. SUSTAINABILITY BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The manufacturing plants across the Country are certified to ISO Pursuant to Regulation 34(2)(f) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 14001:2015 Environment Management Systems and OHSAS the Business Responsibility Report (BRR) on initiatives taken 18001 – Occupational Health & Safety Management System. from an environmental, social and governance perspective, in the All 7 plants are certified for Food Safety Management System prescribed format is available as a separate section of the Annual ISO 22000:2005. The CV manufacturing plants of the Company Report and is also available on the Company’s website URL: https:// across India are certified to ISO 50001 Energy Management www.tatamotors.com/investors/business-responsibility-report/ System. Guided by its Environmental Policy, Climate Change Policy and Environmental Procurement Policy, the Company is SAFETY & HEALTH – PERFORMANCE & INITIATIVES focused on minimising the environmental impact of its products, Tata Motors has been in a Safety Excellence journey since 7 years. processes and services throughout the life-cycle. Manufacturing With very high level engagement in Safety, the Organization has Plants track energy and environmental performance in a periodic taken huge strides to improve Safety Organization Structure and and structured manner at Head-Operations level. The Company build strong safety systems with a vision of achieving 'Zero Injury actively benchmarks its energy and environmental performance at Workplace'. between our own Plants as well as peers and adopts best practices across Plant locations for maximum impact. All the Company’s sites For FY 2018-19 Tata Motors, including its subsidiaries, achieved have obtained CII-GreenCo Rating, and 2 Plants have achieved the Safety Performance Target with Total Recordable Case Platinum rating in FY 2018-19. Frequency Rate ('TRCFR') being 0.80 against the target of 1.01. For Indian Operations also, Tata Motors Safety Performance was The Company continued to drive a number of initiatives to reduce well within targets with Total Recordable Case Frequency Rate its environmental footprint in FY 2018-19. Our GreenHouse Gas 85 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year (GHG) mitigation approach includes driving Energy Conservation Circular economy, natural capital evaluation of key dependencies, in manufacturing operations and generation / procurement of design for environment, biodiversity assessment, life cycle renewable energy. The Company consumed 94.2 million units assessment of products, climate adaptation study were some of renewable electricity in its operations (16.1 % of total power of the other initiatives the Company has taken in sustaining its consumption), compared to 99.38 million units in FY 2017business and planet. 18 (20.76% of total power consumption). The proportion of renewable power in previous financial year was greater due to JLR continues to drive health and safety through Destination allocation of wind power arrears. RE capacity was enhanced by Zero – A Journey to Zero Harm. The ambition is reflected in the 2MWp Roof-top Solar PV Project at Lucknow and Pimpri Pune JLR commitment with the key statement being “Our most valuable Plants and 0.5MW at Chinchwad Pune in FY 2018-19, which will asset is our people, nothing is more important than their safety and help offset GHG emissions in the FY 2019-20. Taking this further, wellbeing. Our co-workers and families rely on this commitment. the Company has signed a Power Purchase Agreement ('PPA') There can be no compromise”. The concept of Destination Zero with Tata Power Renewable Energy Ltd. ('TPREL') for setting up Harm enables the consistent message on safety to continue to be an additional 7 MWp capacity of roof and ground mounted solar highly visible in the business. photovoltaic ('PV') installations across Jamshedpur, Pantnagar The development of focused plans has ensured that each and Dharwad Plants. functional area, aligned at Board level, has a specific ‘Destination The Company monitors water sourcing practices at its Zero’ Harm Plan. These have assisted each functional area to tailor manufacturing Plants and continued to work on lowering water their own plan of activities to lead improved safety and wellbeing consumption through water conservation in operations, re-cycling within their own area of responsibility, sponsored from the most treated effluent for re-use in process and harvesting rainwater. A senior level functionally. total of 9,77,656 m3 of water was conserved through these efforts To support the wider ambition of zero harm as well as focusing in FY 2018-19, which is 13.8% of total water consumption as on incidents, JLR also continued to mature the approach compared to 17.3% in FY 2017-18. to wellbeing activities with a focus on mental health and Hazardous wastes are disposed in accordance with authorizations the continuation of programmes designed to support open issued by the Authorities in the States we operate. These include discussions on matters of mental health, as well as other destruction of hazardous waste at cost by landfilling and support interventions to assist in improved wellbeing, both in incineration at Approved Common Treatment Storage and Disposal mental and physical health. Facilities; energy and material recovery from hazardous wastes Performance on Lost Time Injuries ('LTI') remained relatively through co-processing in cement plants; and material conversion stable, especially within manufacturing. Many locations within through approved re-cyclers for hazardous wastes such as spent the sites celebrated sustained zero lost time injuries. The thinner, paint sludge and sealant. performance on safety was assisted in part through various The Company commenced an initiative across Plants in FY 2018activities taken during the year, such as improving quality of 19 called “Value from Hazardous Waste”, aimed at diverting safety behavioural observations, introduction of revised internal hazardous waste from landfill / incineration at approved sites and audit programme called SHARP, effective implementation of instead derive value from the same. This initiative aims to ultimately existing safety management programs, safety and wellbeing achieve ‘Zero Waste to Landfill’ status from manufacturing weeks, robust safety training, leadership training and driving operations. The quantum of hazardous waste diverted from landfill assessments etc. / incineration was higher by 15.5% over FY 2017-18. However, The business has gone through OHSAS 18001 surveillance due to higher waste generation on the back of higher volumes, visits in 2018-19, within all the UK locations and maintained hazardous waste sent for disposal to Common Treatment Storage its accreditation to this standard through a series of external and Disposal Facilities also increased by 41.2%. assessments. It has now started the cycle of assessments to The Company has also initiated actions to minimise the migrate to the new International Standard ISO 45001 with consumption of flexible plastic packaging in its operations. While accreditation to ISO 45001 expected at the end of the assessment plastic packaging used for dispatch of auto parts between Plants period in 2019-20. and to Warehouses has been significantly reduced, work is onTDCV’s Safety Index continued to improve from 1.24 to 0.52 in going on plastic packaging used by our Suppliers. This is being done FY 2018-19. TDCV has implemented reinforced High-risk Control by elimination of plastic packaging where feasible and converting Program [LockOut Energy Control ('LOEC'), Pedestrian and Inexpendable (single-use) plastic packaging to returnable (multiplePlant Vehicle ('PIV') and Confined Space entry] and operated use) packaging. the standing committee (PIV Committees and LOEC Committee) On Sustainability, we continued implementation of sustainable from 2018. In addition, TDCV has assigned emergency medical supply chain initiatives during FY 2018-19. 115 suppliers have technicians ('EMTs') to designated places and conducted training been trained and provided handholding to improve sustainability sessions for all the employees to ensure a prompt response to any performance and assessed towards sustainability expectations. emergency situations within the company. 86 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY record its appreciation for their valuable contribution and guidance INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) during their tenure as Independent Director. The brief outline of the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy of the Company and the initiatives undertaken by the Company Key Managerial Personnel on CSR activities during the year in the format prescribed in the In terms of Section 203 of the Act, the Key Managerial Personnel Companies (CSR Policy) Rules, 2014 are set out in Annexure 2 of (KMPs) of the Company during FY 2018-19 are: this Report. The Policy is available on Company’s website at URL: https://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/csr-policy.pdf. • M  r Guenter Butschek, Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION & FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNING • M  r Satish Borwankar, Executive Director and Chief Operating AND OUTGO Officer The information on conservation of energy, technology absorption • M  r Pathamadai Balachandran Balaji, Group Chief Financial and foreign exchange earnings and outgo stipulated under Section Officer STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) 134(3)(m) of the Act, read along with Rule 8 of the Companies • Mr Hoshang Sethna, Company Secretary (Accounts) Rules, 2014, is annexed herewith as Annexure 3. The tenure of Mr Satish Borwankar Executive Director and EXTRACT OF ANNUAL RETURN Chief Operating Officer of the Company ends on July 15, 2019. Pursuant to Sections 92 & 134(3) of the Act and Rule 12 of the Mr Borwankar started his career with the Company in 1974 as a Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, the Graduate Engineer Trainee and has served in various operating extract of Annual Return in Form MGT-9 is provided in Annexure functions like manufacturing, quality, vendor development and -4 to this Report and is also available on the Company’s website strategic sourcing, rising through the ranks to become its Executive URL: https://www.tatamotors.com/investors/annual-return/. Director and Chief Operating Officer. The Board of Directors hereby places on record its appreciation for the invaluable contributions DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL made by Mr Borwankar during his tenure. Re-appointment CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In accordance with provisions of the Act and the Articles of At the Company, we ensure that we evolve and follow the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395 Association of the Company, Mr N Chandrasekaran, Non-Executive corporate governance guidelines and best practices sincerely, to Chairman (DIN:00121863) is liable to retire by rotation and is boost long-term shareholder value and to respect minority rights. eligible for re-appointment. The Company considers it an inherent responsibility to disclose The disclosures required pursuant to Regulation 36 of the SEBI timely and accurate information regarding its operations and Listing Regulations and Clause 1.2.5 of the Secretarial Standard performance, as well as the leadership and governance of the are given in the Notice of AGM, forming part of the Annual Report. Company. Independent Directors A separate section on Corporate Governance and the certificate from the Practicing Company Secretary confirming compliance In terms of Section 149 of the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations of Corporate Governance norms as stipulated in Regulation 34 Mr Nasser Munjee, Mr Vinesh Kumar Jairath, Ms Falguni read along with Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations, giving Nayar, Mr Om Prakash Bhatt and Ms Hanne Sorensen are the information pertaining to the Board and its Committees, transfers Independent Directors of the Company as on date. to IEPF authority etc. form part of this Report. All Independent Directors of the Company have given declarations MEETINGS OF THE BOARD under Section 149(7) of the Act, that they meet the criteria of independence as laid down under Section 149(6) of the Act and During the year, the Board of Directors met 7 times. For details, Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations. In terms of please refer to the Corporate Governance Report, which forms part Regulations 25(8) of the Listing Regulations, the Independent of this Annual Report. Directors have confirmed that they are not aware of any COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD circumstance or situation, which exists or may be reasonably anticipated, that could impair or impact their ability to discharge The Committees of the Board focus on certain specific areas and their duties with an objective independent judgement and without make informed decisions in line with the delegated authority. any external influence. The following Committees constituted by the Board function Mr Nasser Munjee, Mr Vinesh Kumar Jairath and Ms Falguni according to their respective roles and defined scope: Nayar were appointed as Independent Directors at the 69th AGM • Audit Committee of the Company held on July 31, 2014 for period of 5 years and • Nomination and Remuneration Committee are holding office till July 30, 2019. The Board hereby places on • Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 87 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year • Stakeholders, Relationship Committee The details of the Familiarisation Programme for Independent • Risk Management Committee Directors with the Company in respect of their roles, rights, • Safety Health and Sustainability Committee responsibilities in the Company, nature of the industry in which Company operates, business model of the Company and related Details of composition, terms of reference and number of meetings matters are available on the Company's website URL: https:// held for respective committees are given in the Corporate investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/familiarisation-programmeGovernance Report, which forms a part of this Report. Further, independent-directors.pdf. during the year under review, all recommendations made by the Audit Committee have been accepted by the Board. POLICY ON DIRECTORS’ APPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION BOARD EVALUATION The Company’s policy on directors’ appointment and remuneration The annual evaluation process of the Board of Directors, individual and other matters provided in Section 178(3) of the Act (salient Directors and Committees was conducted in accordance with the features) has been briefly disclosed hereunder and in the Corporate provision of the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations. Governance Report, which is a part of this Report. The Board evaluated its performance after seeking inputs from all Selection and procedure for nomination and appointment of the directors on the basis of criteria such as the Board composition Directors and structure, effectiveness of board processes, information and functioning, etc. The performance of the Committees was evaluated The Nomination and Remuneration Committee ('NRC') is by the Board after seeking inputs from the committee members responsible for developing competency requirements for the on the basis of criteria such as the composition of committees, Board based on the industry and strategy of the Company. The effectiveness of committee meetings, etc. The above criteria are as Board composition analysis reflects in-depth understanding of provided in the Guidance Note on Board Evaluation issued by the the Company, including its strategies, environment, operations, Securities and Exchange Board of India. financial condition and compliance requirements. The Chairman of the Board had one-on-one meetings with the The NRC conducts a gap analysis to refresh the Board on a Independent Directors and the Chairman of NRC had one-on-one periodic basis, including each time a Director’s appointment or remeetings with the Executive and Non-Executive, Non-Independent appointment is required. The NRC reviews and vets the profiles Directors. These meetings were intended to obtain Directors’ of potential candidates vis-à-vis the required competencies, inputs on effectiveness of the Board/Committee processes. undertakes due diligence and meeting potential candidates, prior to making recommendations of their nomination to the Board. The Board and the NRC reviewed the performance of individual directors on the basis of criteria such as the contribution of the Criteria for determining qualifications, positive attributes and individual director to the board and committee meetings like independence of a Director preparedness on the issues to be discussed, meaningful and In terms of the provisions of Section 178(3) of the Act, and constructive contribution and inputs in meetings, etc. Regulation 19 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the NRC has In a separate meeting of independent directors, performance of Nonformulated the criteria for determining qualifications, positive Independent Directors and the Board as a whole was evaluated. attributes and independence of Directors, the key features of Additionally, they also evaluated the Chairman of the Board, taking which are as follows: into account the views of Executive and Non-Executive Directors in • Qualifications – The Board nomination process encourages the aforesaid meeting. The above evaluations were then discussed diversity of thought, experience, knowledge, age and gender. in the Board meeting and performance evaluation of Independent It also ensures that the Board has an appropriate blend of Directors was done by the entire Board, excluding the Independent functional and industry expertise. Director being evaluated. • Positive Attributes Apart from the duties of Directors as FAMILIARISATION PROGRAMME FOR INDEPENDENT prescribed in the Act the Directors are expected to demonstrate DIRECTORS high standards of ethical behavior, communication skills and All Board members of the Company are afforded every opportunity independent judgment. The Directors are also expected to to familiarize themselves with the Company, its management, its abide by the respective Code of Conduct as applicable to them. operations and above all, the Industry perspective and issues. • Independence A Director will be considered independent if They are made to interact with senior management personnel he / she meets the criteria laid down in Section 149(6) of the and proactively provided with relevant news, views and updates Act, the Rules framed thereunder and Regulation 16(1)(b) of on the Company and sector. All the information/documents the SEBI Listing Regulations. sought by them is/are also shared with them for enabling a good understanding of the Company, its various operations and the The Directors affirm that the remuneration paid to Directors, KMPs industry of which it is a part. and employees is as per the Remuneration Policy of the Company. 88 The said policy is also available on the Company's website URL: Secretarial Audit INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) https://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/directors-appointmentPursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of the Act and the remuneration.pdf Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial VIGIL MECHANISM Personnel) Rules, 2014, the Board of Director appointed M/s Parikh & Associates, a firm of Company Secretaries in Practice The Company believes in the conduct of the affairs of its to conduct the Secretarial Audit of the Company for year ended constituents in a fair and transparent manner by adopting the March 31, 2019. The Report of the Secretarial Audit is annexed highest standards of professionalism, honesty, integrity and ethical herewith as Annexure 5. The said Secretarial Audit Report does behaviour. In line with the Tata Code of Conduct ('TCOC'), any actual not contain any qualification, reservations, adverse remarks and or potential violation, howsoever insignificant or perceived as such, disclaimer. would be a matter of serious concern for the Company. The role of the employees in pointing out such violations of the TCOC cannot Cost Audit be undermined. As per Section 148 of the Act, the Company is required to have the audit of its cost records conducted by a Cost Accountant. The STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Pursuant to Section 177(9) of the Act and Regulation 4(2)(d) (iv) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, a Whistleblower Policy and Board of Directors of the Company has on the recommendation of Vigil Mechanism was established for directors, employees and the Audit Committee, approved the appointment of M/s Mani & Co., stakeholders to report to the management instances of unethical a firm of Cost Accountants in Practice (Registration No.000004) behaviour, actual or suspected, fraud or violation of the Company’s as the Cost Auditors of the Company to conduct cost audits for code of conduct or ethics policy. The Vigil Mechanism provides relevant products prescribed under the Companies (Cost Records a mechanism for employees of the Company to approach the and Audit) Rules, 2014 for the year ending March 31, 2020. The Chief Ethics Counsellor ('CEC')/Chairman of the Audit Committee Board on recommendations of the Audit Committee have approved of the Company for redressal. The Company has revised the the remuneration payable to the Cost Auditor subject to ratification Whistleblower Policy in accordance with amendments made to of their remuneration by the Members at the forthcoming AGM. SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015. M/s Mani & Co. have, under Section 139(1) of the Act and the Rules It is affirmed that no personnel of the Company has been denied framed thereunder furnished a certificate of their eligibility and access to the Audit Committee. The policy of vigil mechanism is consent for appointment. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395 available on the Company’s website at URL: https://investors. The cost accounts and records of the Company are duly prepared tatamotors.com/pdf/whistle-blower-policy.pdf. and maintained as required under Section 148(1) of Act. AUDIT OTHER DISCLOSURES Statutory Audit PARTICULARS OF CONTRACTS OR ARRANGEMENTS WITH RELATED PARTIES M/s B S R & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants (ICAI Firm No. 101248W/W–100022), the Statutory Auditors of the Company, All contracts/ arrangements/ transactions entered by the hold office until the conclusion of Seventy Seventh AGM to be held Company during the FY 2018-19 with related parties were on an in the year 2022. Pursuant to Section 141 of the Act, the Auditors arm’s length basis and in the ordinary course of business. There have represented that they are not disqualified and continue to be were no material related party transactions (RPTs) undertaken by eligible to act as the Auditor of the Company. the Company during the year that require shareholders’ approval under Regulation 23(4) of the SEBI Listing Regulations or Section The Report of the Statutory Auditor forming part of the Annual 188 of the Act. The approval of the Audit Committee was sought Report, does not contain any qualification, reservation, adverse for all RPTs. All the transactions were in compliance with the remark or disclaimer. The observations made in the Auditor’s applicable provisions of the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations. Report are self-explanatory and therefore do not call for any further comments. Given that the Company does not have any RPTs to report pursuant to Section 134(3)(h) of the Act read with Rule 8(2) of the Companies The Statutory Auditor of the Company has not reported any fraud (Accounts) Rules, 2014 in Form AOC-2, the same is not provided. as specified under the second proviso to Section 143(12) of the The details of RPTs during FY 2018-19, including transaction with Act. person or entity belonging to the promoter/ promoter group which Branch Audit hold(s) 10% or more shareholding in the Company are provided in the accompanying financial statements. Members' approval is being sought vide item No. 5 of the Notice, for authorizing the Board of Directors to appoint Branch Auditors During the FY 2018-19, the Non-Executive Directors of the for the purpose of auditing the accounts maintained at the Branch Company had no pecuniary relationship or transactions with the Offices of the Company abroad. Company other than sitting fees, commission and reimbursement of expenses, as applicable. 89 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year The Policy on Related Party Transactions was amended during DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT the year in line with amendment to the Act and SEBI Listing Based on the framework of internal financial controls and Regulations. The Revised Policy is available on the Company's compliance systems established and maintained by the Company, website URL: https://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/rpt-policy.pdf work performed by the internal, statutory, cost, secretarial auditors PARTICULARS OF LOANS, GUARANTEES OR INVESTMENTS and external agencies, including audit of internal financial controls over financial reporting by the Statutory Auditors and the reviews The details of Loans and Investments made during FY 2018-19 are performed by Management and the relevant Board Committees, given below: including the Audit Committee, the Board is of the opinion that the (` in crores) Company’s internal financial controls were adequate and effective Nature of during FY 2018-19. Name of Companies Loans Investment Transactions Accordingly, pursuant to Section 134(5) of the Act, the Board of JT Special Vehicle Loan 3.75 Directors, to the best of their knowledge and ability, confirm that: Private Limited (a) in the preparation of the accounts for the financial year ended TAL Manufacturing Acquisition of Non0.1 March 31, 2019, the applicable accounting standards have Solutions Limited Aerospace Business been followed and that there are no material departures; TMF Holdings Call option exercised for 130 (b) we have selected such accounting policies and have applied Limited Compulsorily convertible them consistently and made judgments and estimates that are preference shares: Series A reasonable and prudent, so as to give a true and fair view of the TMF Holdings Limited Equity Infusion 600 state of affairs of the Company at the end of the financial year Tata Precision Loan 0.5 and of the profit of the Company for that period; Industries Singapore (c) proper and sufficient care for the maintenance of adequate Trilix S.R.L Acquisition of remaining 7.97 accounting records in accordance with the provisions of 20% stake the Act, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities; During FY 2018-19, the Company has not given guarantee to any (d) the annual accounts have been prepared on a going concern of its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associate companies. basis; SECRETARIAL STANDARDS (e) proper internal financial controls were laid down and that such The Company has devised proper systems to ensure compliance internal financial controls are adequate and were operating with the provisions of all applicable Secretarial Standards issued effectively*; and by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India and that such (f) proper systems were devised to ensure compliance with systems are adequate and operating effectively. the provisions of all applicable laws and such systems are adequate and operating effectively. DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION POLICY *please refer to the Section “Internal Control Systems and their Pursuant to Regulation 43A of SEBI Listing Regulations, the Adequacy in the Management Discussion and Analysis. Board of Directors of the Company have formulated a Dividend ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS Distribution Policy ('the policy'). The Policy was amended by the Board to make it more dynamic yet simple. The Directors wish to convey their appreciation to all of the Company’s The amended policy is annexed to this Report as Annexure 6 and employees for their contribution towards the Company’s performance. is also available on the Company's website URL: https://investors. The Directors would also like to thank the shareholders, employee tatamotors.com/pdf/dividend-distribution-policy.pdf unions, customers, dealers, suppliers, bankers, Governments and all other business associates for their continuous support to the SIGNIFICANT & MATERIAL ORDERS PASSED BY THE Company and their confidence in its management. REGULATORS OR COURTS OR TRIBUNALS On behalf of the Board of Directors There are no significant material orders passed by the Regulators or Courts or Tribunal, which would impact the going concern status of the Company and its future operation. However, N CHANDRASEKARAN Members attention is drawn to the Statement on Contingent Chairman Liabilities and Commitments in the Notes forming part of the (DIN: 00121863) Financial Statement. Mumbai, May 20, 2019 90 ANNEXURE-1 INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Details of Remuneration of Directors, Employees and comparatives [Pursuant to Section 197 and Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014] 1. a. The ratio of the remuneration of each Director to the median remuneration of the employees of the Company and the percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary in the FY 2019: Sr Names of Directors Designation Ratio of remuneration % increase in the No. to median remuneration remuneration I Non-Executive Directors 1 Mr N Chandrasekaran(1) ChairmanNED --2 Mr N Munjee Independent Director 12.77 --(3) 3 Mr V K Jairath Independent Director 12.59 --(3) 4 Ms Falguni Nayar Independent Director 10.58 --(3) STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) 5 Dr Ralf Speth(2) Non-Executive Director --6 Mr Om Prakash Bhatt Independent Director 12.85 --(3) 7 Ms Hanne Sorensen Independent Director 10.29 --(3) II Whole-time Directors 8 Mr Guenter Butschek CEO and Managing 351.22 1.57 9 Mr Satish Borwankar Executive Director and Chief Operating Officer 32.79 11.55 III Key Managerial Personnel 1 Mr P B Balaji Chief Financial Officer 108.49 --(4) 2 Mr Hoshang Sethna Company Secretary 19.82 17.50 Notes (1) As a policy, Mr N Chandrasekaran, Chairman has abstained from receiving Commission from the Company and hence not being stated. (2) Dr Ralf Speth is not paid any commission or sitting fees in view of his appointment as CEO and Director of Jaguar Land Rover Automotive PLC. (3) Not comparable as no commission was declared for the FY 2017-18. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) (4) Not comparable as remuneration for previous year was for part of the year. b. A break-up of median remuneration for employees is given below: Employee Group Median Remuneration Increase in the median (` in lakhs) remuneration (%) White Collar 11.70 13.04 Blue Collar 6.41 11.48 The Median Remuneration of employees for the FY 2019 is ` 7.64 lakhs 2. The number of permanent employees on the rolls of Company as at March 31, 2019: 27,572 3. Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial personnel in the last financial year and its comparison with the percentile increase in the managerial remuneration and justification thereof and point out if there are any exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial remuneration: Employee group Average percentage increase / (decrease) in salaries for FY 2019 (in %) All permanent (Blue Collar and White Collar permanent) 6.00 White Collar 10.00 Blue collar 4.48 Executive Directors/Managerial Remuneration Mr Guenter Butschek 1.57 Mr Satish Borwankar 11.55 Note : Salaries for blue collar includes only TFP (as they are not given any performance linked bonus but have plant-wise wage revision at a set frequency). The annual variable/performance pay and the salary increment of managers is linked to the Company’s performance in general and their individual performance for the relevant year is measured against major performance areas which are closely aligned to Company’s objectives. On behalf of the Board of Directors N CHANDRASEKARAN Chairman (DIN: 00121863) Mumbai, May 20, 2019 91 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year ANNEXURE-2 Annual Report on CSR Activities [Pursuant to Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility policy) Rules, 2014] 1.  A brief outline of the Company’s CSR policy, including 2. Composition of CSR Committee: The CSR Committee an overview of projects or programmes proposed to be of the Board of Tata Motors comprises of (i) Mr Om undertaking and a reference to the web-link to the CSR Policy Prakash Bhatt, Non-Executive, Independent Director and projects or programmes: [Chairman of the Committee]; (ii) Ms. Falguni S. Nayar, Non-Executive, Independent Director [Member of the 1. Overview: Committee] (iii) Mr Guenter Butschek, CEO & Managing (i)  Outline of CSR Policy As an integral part of our Director [Member of the Committee] and (iv) Mr. Satish B commitment to good corporate citizenship, we at Tata Borwankar, Executive Director and Chief Operating Office Motors believe in actively assisting in improvement [Member of the Committee]. of the quality of life of people in communities, giving 3. Average Net Profit of the Company for last three financial preference to local areas around our business years: Nil: Loss (`1496.61 crores) operations. Towards achieving long-term stakeholder value creation, we shall always continue to respect 4. Prescribed CSR Expenditure (two per cent of the amount the interests of and be responsive towards our key as in item 3 above): Not applicable in view of the losses. stakeholders the communities, especially those 5. Details of CSR Spend during the financial year: from socially and economically backward groups, the underprivileged and marginalized; focused on inter alia  ` 22.21 crores was spent towards various schemes of CSR the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, and the as prescribed under Section 135 of the Act. society at large. In order to leverage the demographic (a) Total amount to be spent for the financial year: Not dividend of our country, Company’s CSR efforts applicable shall focus on Health, Education, Environment and Employability interventions for relevant target groups, (b) Amount unspent, if any: Not applicable ensuring diversity and giving preference to needy and (c) Manner in which the amount spent during the financial deserving communities inhabiting urban India. CSR at year: For details, please refer Annexure A Tata Motors shall be underpinned by ‘More from Less for More People’ philosophy which implies striving to 6. In case the company has failed to spend the two per cent achieve greater impacts, outcomes and outputs of our of the average net profit of the last three financial years or CSR projects and programmes by judicious investment any part thereof, the company shall provide the reasons and utilization of financial and human resources, for not spending the amount: Not Applicable engaging in like-minded stakeholder partnerships for 7. Responsibility Statement of CSR Committee of Board: higher outreach benefitting more lives. The CSR Committee of the Company’s Board states that Weblink for Tata Motors India CSR Policy: http://www. the implementation and monitoring of the CSR Policy, tatamotors.com/about-us/policies.php is in compliance with the CSR objectives and Policy of the Company. The Company had engaged M/s KPMG (ii) CSR Projects: 1. Aarogya (Health): Addressing child India (Registered) for assurance on CSR spend by the malnutrition; health awareness for females; preventive Company under Section 135 of the Companies Act, & curative health services, drinking water projects; 2013, Schedule VII. 2. Vidyadhanam (Education): Scholarships; Special coaching classes for secondary school students; IITJEE & competitive exams coaching, school infrastructure Guenter Butschek Om Prakash Bhatt improvement; co-curricular activities; Financial aid to CEO & Managing Non-Executive, Independent Director engg. students, 3. Kaushalya (Employability): Divers training – novice and refresher; ITI partnership & alliedDirector (Chairman CSR Committee) auto trades; Motor Mechanic Vehicle (MMV); Training in (DIN 07427375) (DIN 00548091) retail, hospitality, white goods repair, agriculture & allied trades; 4. Vasundhara (Environment): Tree plantation, environmental awareness for school students; Mumbai, May 20, 2019 92 ANNEXURE – A Sr. CSR project/ Sector in which the Projects/Programmes Amount Amount spent on the Cumulative Amount spent: No.# activity Project is covered 1. Local area/ others outlay projects or programs spend Direct/ through INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) identified 2. Specify the state and district (budget) Direct Overheads* upto the implementing where projects or programs were project/ reporting agency* undertaken programs period wise (` in crores) 1 Skill Development Employability Karnataka Bangalore Karnataka 5.40 5.39 0.27 5.66 Direct = 0.17 and vocational Enhancing Skill Dharwad Maharashtra Mumbai Implementation skills in Development Maharashtra Mumbai, Thane Agency = 5.14 Automotive and MaharashtraNavi Mumbai Non-Automotive Maharashtra-Pune Gujarat Sector Ahmedabad JharkhandEast Singhbhum Uttar Pradesh Bara Banki, Lucknow Uttarakhand Udham Singh Nagar 2 Promoting Promoting Education Karnataka-Bangalore Karnataka8.54 8.27 0.41 8.68 Direct = 0.00 primary and Dharwad Maharashtra-Mumbai Implementation secondary Maharashtra-Mumbai, Thane Agency = 8.00 education in Rural Maharashtra-Navi Mumbai and Socially/ MaharashtraPune Gujarat-Ahmedabad Economically JharkhandEast Singhbhum Uttar STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Backward PradeshBaraBanki, Lucknow communities Uttarakhand-Udham Singh Nagar 3 Preventive and Eradicating Hunger, MaharashtraMumbaiMaharashtra3.22 3.99 0.20 4.19 Direct = 0.00 curative health Promoting preventive PalgharMaharashtraPuneGujaratImplementation services in healthcare, AhmedabadJharkhandEast Agency = 4.12 Communities Malnutrition, SinghbhumUttar PradeshBara Promoting Preventive Banki,LucknowUttarakhandUdham healthcare and Singh Nagar sanitation and safe drinking water 4 Ensuring Ensuring MaharashtraMumbaiMaharashtra1.32 1.18 0.06 1.24 Direct = 0.00 environmental environmental PalgharMaharashtraPuneGujaratImplementation sustainability sustainability AhmedabadJharkhandEast Agency = 1.25 through SinghbhumUttar Pradeshawareness and BaraBanki,LucknowUttarakhandprotection of Udham Singh Nagar natural habitats 5 Rural Rural development Maharashtra-Mumbai, Maharashtra1.65 1.51 0.15 1.66 Direct = 0.00 Development projects Palghar Implementation Agency = 1.14 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) 6 Drinking water Safe Drinking water KarnatakaBangalore, Dharwad; 0.00 0.65 0.00 0.65 project under MaharashtraMumbai,Thane, SMDF Palghar, PuneNavi Mumbai; GujaratAhmedabad; JharkhandEast SinghbhumUttar PradeshBara Banki,LucknowUttarakhandUdham Singh Nagar 7 Administrative Overheads And Capacity Building Cost 0.20 0.13 0.00 0.13 Total 20.33 21.12 1.09 22.21 Note: The CSR spends amount excludes ` 2.99 crore donated to Tata Community Initiative Trust (TCIT) for repair of infrastructure which was affected during the flood in Kerala (August 2018) *Details of implementing agency 1. Employability : AB FOUNDATION FOR SKILLS AND SUSTAINABILITY, Ador Welding Academy Pvt. Ltd., Ambika Motor Drving School, Avashya Foundation, BAIF Development Research Foundation, Balasore ITI, CBDRDSETI, Centum Foundation, DB Guwahati, DB Skills And Livelihood Pvt Ltd, Edujobs Academy Pvt Ltd, GANATAR, Gram Tarang Employability Training Services Pvt Ltd, Gram Vikas Kendra, GTET Balangir, GTET Parlakhimidi, Hubert Ebner India Pvt Ltd, IDTR, IIIM Bihar, IIIM Tripura, IIIM WB, Indian Academy for Self Employed Women (IASEW), Indus Integrated Information Management Limited, Institute of Driving Training and Research, Institute of Social Development, ITI Nandnagari, JSS Shri Manjunatheshwara Pvt ITI Vidyagiri Dharwad, LAURUS EDUTECH LIFE SKILLS PVT LTD, Laurus Selam, Manikbag Automobile Pvt Ltd, MITCON Foundation, Mukund Service station Pvt. Ltd., Navjyoti Education Society, PACE Center Chembur, Paryawaran Evam Jan Kalyan Samiti(PEJKS), Pipal Tree Rangareddy, Prasad Chikitsa, Pratham Education Foundation, Ramakrishna Mission Belur, Ramkrishna Mission Sakwar, Saath Charitable Trust, Samaj Vikas Kendra, Sambhav Foundation, SANAND EDUCATION TRUST, Shashwat, Skill For Progress, SUVIDHA, Swaroopwardhinee, Tangent Tech Solutions, Tata Strive, TTC Fudi, Vedanta Foundation, Vedanta Foundation (Motor Driving School), Vedanta Foundation Motor Driving School, Vedanta Jalna, Vedanta Patna, Vedanta Reengus, Vikas Samities, VRUKSHA, Yashaswi Academy For Skills 2. Education : Agastya International Foundation, Avanti Fellows, Children’s Movement for Civic Awareness CMCA , College of Engineering Pune, DGB Infosystem, Foundation for Academic Excellence and Access (FAEA), GANATAR, Global Education Trust, Gram Vikas Kendra, IIT Bombay Alumni Association IITBAA, Indian Institute of Management Bangalore, Indian Institute Of Science, Indian Institute of Technology Gandhinagar, IndiaNow Foundation, Institute of Driving Training and Research, Institute of Social Development, Jeevantirth, Moinee Foundation, Moinee Foundation_Pune, Nav Jagrat Manav Samaj, Navneet Foundation, Paryawaran Evam Jan Kalyan Samiti (PEJKS), Prayas Organisation for Sustainable Development, Samaj Vikas Kendra, Samata Shikshan Sanstha, Seva Sahyog Foundation, Shiksha Prasar Kendra, Society for Human Environmental Development (SHED), SRI SARADA MATH, Suprabhat Mahila Mandal, Swami Vivekananda Youth Movement, Swaroopwardhinee, Tangent Tech Solutions, Tata Institute of Social Sciences, The South Indian’s Organization, Urmee Charitable Trust, VASUNDHARA PUBLIC CHARITABLE TRUST, Vidya Poshak, Vikas Samities 3. Health : Family Planning Association of India Dharwad Branch, GANATAR, Gram Vikas Kendra, Impact India Foundation, Institute of Social Development, Jan Parivar Kalyan Sansthan, Lokmanya Medical Research Centre, LTH SILVER JUBILEE RESEARCH FOUNDATION, Manav Seva Education Trust , NAMASTE LIFE, Nav Jagrat Manav Samaj, Parivar Kalyan Sansthan, Prasad Chikitsa, Ramkrishna Mission Sakwar, Sneh Foundation, Snehdeep Jankalyan Foundation, Tangent Tech Solutions, Unik Medicare Solution, Vikas Samities 4. Environment : BAIF Institute for Sustainable Livelihood and Development, Bansilal Ramntath Agarwal Charitable Trust, BNHS ( Bombay Natural History Society), Gram Vikas Kendra, Green Thumb, Institute of Social Development, Manav Seva Education Trust, Prasad Chikitsa, Samaj Vikas Kendra, Shri Nityanand Education Trust, SUVIDHA, Terre Policy Center, Wildlife Research and Conservation Society Rural Development : BSILD 5.  93 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year ANNEXURE-3 Particulars of Conservation of Energy, Technology Absorption and Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo [Pursuant to Section 134 (3) (m) of the Act read with Rule 8 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014] A. CONSERVATION OF ENERGY 21.95 MW Captive Wind Power Plant (off-site) at Supa and  The Company has always been conscious of the need to Satara in Maharashtra; conserve energy in its Manufacturing Plants which leads - 3.8 MW Roof-top Solar PV installation at Pimpri & Chikhali (Pune); to optimized consumption of non-renewable fossil fuels, 2 MW Roof-top Solar PV installation at Sanand; energy productivity, climate change mitigation and reduction 2 MW Roof-top Solar PV installation at Lucknow; in operational costs. The Company is also signatory to RE100 18.5 kWp Solar PV installation at Pantnagar; & a collaborative, global initiative of influential businesses 7.2 kW hybrid-wind and solar installation at Dharwad committed to 100% renewable electricity, and is working ● In FY 2019, the in-house RE capacity was enhanced by 2MWp towards massively increasing the demand for RE deliverables. Roof-top Solar PV installations each at Lucknow and Pimpri (i) Steps taken or impact on conservation of energy: Plants and by 0.5 MW at Chinchwad, Pune, which will help offset Energy Conservation (ENCON) projects have been implemented at GHG emissions in the coming FY’19-20. The Company sources all Plants and Offices of the Company in a planned and budgeted off-site wind power at its Pune, Sanand and Dharwad Works manner. Some of the major ENCON Projects in FY 2019 include: through Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) with Third Party ●  Jamshedpur Plant: Use of Glow Plug device in place of LPG Wind Power Generators and will continue to source renewable in Heat Treatment, Optimising HT furnace operation for crown power from the grid in line with regulatory policies / frameworks wheel processing, Optimizing FDV (Forced Draft Ventilation) and tariffs in the States of operations. Taking this further, the unit operation running in VFD (variable frequency drive) modes, Company has signed a Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) with Reduction in propane consumption in Long Member PT-CED Ovens M/s Tata Power Renewable Energy Ltd. (TPREL) for setting up by installation of Flux Maxiox (fuel saving device) and optimizing an additional 7 MWp capacity of roof and ground mounted solar shell temperature of Ovens through regular energy audits. photovoltaic (PV) installations across Jamshedpur, Pantnagar ● Pimpri Plant: Converting 8500 Nos. of 36W fluorescent tubes and Dharwad Plants. to 18WLED tubes, Optimized equipment running by proper shift ●  In FY 2019 the Company generated / sourced 94.30 million management. kWh of renewable electricity for its manufacturing operations, ●  Chinchwad Plant: Replacement of 500 Nos. of 400W high contributing to avoidance of 77,333 tCO2e and financial saving bay lamps with 300 Nos. of 120W LED fixtures, Separation of of `39.12 Crores. compressed air supply to Grey Iron and Aluminium Foundry to (iii) Capital investment on energy conservation equipment: reduce energy consumed by Compressors. ● Maval Foundry: Yield Improvement projects on Moulding Line, In FY 2019, the Company has invested `333.22 lakhs in various Reduced heating time through integral heater core box design energy conservation projects. for all new core boxes. Awards / Recognition received during the year is as below, ● Lucknow Plant: Reduction in compressed air consumption and ●  Lucknow Plant won the “Uttar Pradesh State Energy AC power consumption at Plant level. Conservation Award 2018” (under Industries General Category ●  Pantnagar Plant: Reduction in compressed air consumption having connected load 1MW and above), a State level at Plant level, Installation of VFDs on 75KW exhaust blowers competition conducted by Uttar Pradesh New and Renewable of Paint Booths, Start-up time reduction in ASU Burners in Energy Development Agency (UPNEDA). Surfacer and Base Coat booth, Streamlined production planning for metallic color batch painting. ●  CV Pune won the “Renewable Energy Excellence End User ● Dharwad Plant: Fuel conservation by improvements in start-up Award 2018” at Renewable Energy India Awards 2018 Asia’s of ACC oven. largest Renewable Energy Expo organized by UBM India. ●  Chikhali Plant: Optimization of line running in Press & Weld ● CV Pantnagar Plant won the “Golden Peacock Award for Energy Shop as per production plan. Efficiency 2018” organized by Institute of Directors. ●  Sanand Plant: Optimising running hours of ASU Chillers, VFD ● CV Pune and Pantnagar Plants recognized as “Excellent Energy for ED circulation pumps, Magnetic Fuel Saver, Arresting heat Efficient Unit” at the CII National Award for Excellence in Energy leakages in all Paint Baking Ovens. Management 2018. CV Pune and CV Pantnagar Plants were These ENCON efforts in fiscal 2019 have resulted into energy also among only 3 units awarded “National Energy Leader” in savings of 1,07,415 GJ (76,185 GJ power + 31,230 GJ fuel), avoided the ‘Automobile & Engineering’ Sector. emission of 20,218 tCO2e and cost savings of INR 1,834 lakhs. ● Jamshedpur Plant recognized as “Energy Efficient Unit” at the (ii) Steps taken for utilizing alternate sources of energy: CII National Award for Excellence in Energy Management 2018. ● The Company has set up Renewable Energy generation capacity ● Jamshedpur Plant received 4.5/5 Star rating at the CII Energy (solar and wind) which includes: Conclave-2018 organized by CII –Eastern Region. 94 ● Pantnagar Plant was certified ‘PLATINUM’ under CII’s “GreenCo ● Advanced HMI technologies for improved user experience INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Rating” system in 2018. Pantnagar Plant was originally rated ● Advanced occupant safety and driving convenience adapted ‘GOLD’ in 2015. to Indian driving conditions ● Sanand Plant was certified ‘PLATINUM’ under CII’s “GreenCo ●  Advanced connectivity architecture to support future Rating” system in 2018. mobility driven features ● Advanced vehicle efficiency through light-weighting of body B. TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION, ADAPTATION AND INNOVATION and chassis structures, higher efficiency aggregates (i) Efforts made towards Technology Absorption, Adaptation and  Tata Motors is participating in the Govt of India initiated Innovation Ucchatar Avishkar Yojana (UAY) project with IIT Kharagpur and The Company used a three-horizon strategy for managing its Indian Institute of Science (IISC), Bangalore through which engineering and technology initiatives. The first-horizon involves indigenous technology for battery packs, traction motors and products that the Company is working on currently, to bring to engineering solutions for system integration is being developed. the market. The second-horizon involves researching known TML is also collaborating with academic institutions like IISc technologies that the Company may not be entirely familiar Bangalore and IIT Bombay for indigenous development of STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) with at present, but are needed for our future products. And the power electronics converters, fuel cell accessories, control third-horizon is for ‘blue sky’ research projects and there are a algorithm for battery management system and heat exchanger number of projects aimed at fostering a culture of innovation for fuel cell applications. in the Company. The main endeavor is to continuously keep Tata Motors believes in bringing academia and industry together scanning for innovative projects in the third and second horizon for advancements in automotive research. Recent research and to integrate the promising ones to main stream projects in conducted with Birla Institute of Technology & Science, Pilani, the first horizon. Vellore Institute of TechnologyChennai, Vishwakarma Institute Besides, its own ecosystem spanning across India, the UK and of Technology, Pune & other leading technical institutes include: Italy, the Company also has tie-ups with various Universities ● Digital validation development of full vehicle multi-body dynamic based out of India, University of Warwick in the UK, and joint model for engine mounting system to validate attributes in the efforts with institutions in the United States. In India, as part of lab its efforts in this area the Company has signed a Memorandum ● Development of full vehicle multi-body dynamic model for of Understanding with IIT Bombay and College of Engineering FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) simulation of PAT targets for engine mounting system Pune to undertake collaborative research on live projects and to ● Brake disc temperature rise simulation for multi-stop create a technological partnership. applications For example, some of the forward-looking technology programs ● Tire component target cascading simulation for vehicle ride and that the Company is concentrating on are: handling (ongoing) ●  Continuous & increased focus for fuel efficiency ● Engine vibration frequency calculation and simulation in ADAMS improvements across engine platforms through parasitic for improved NVH loss reduction, electrification of accessories, etc. ● A new approach for powertrain multi-attribute target ● Guided diagnostics coupled with connectivity solutions development & balancing for vehicle integration across identified engine/vehicle platforms ● Mathematical model of powertrain for the passenger vehicle ● Participation in a consortium led by a US research firm, for with Front Wheel Drive (FWD) is in development to address thermal efficiency improvement of diesel engines torsional vibrations  Sustainable mobility solutions are the focal point of the ● Model development and analysis of effect of various steering, global automotive industry. Strict emission norms, crash suspension and tire parameters on steering dynamic behavior safety requirements and congestion is resulting in mobility ● Effect of suspension bush stiffness on vehicle K&C Attributes transformation. The challenges faced by the Indian automotive ● Vehicle SPMM & Handling Attribute Simulation industry remain the same, pressure from regulation and ● Methodology Development for Brake Squeal Simulation using customer affordability. The Company aims to deliver well Abaqus FEA Software and Appropriate Squeal Reduction engineered, safe, advanced cars to the market. The company’s Strategy. future technology pipeline focuses on four key pillars namely ● Development of simulation methodology for predicting tire Smart Autonomous & Connected vehicle, Clean Vehicle, Capable durability. Vehicle and Desirable vehicle. To kindle innovation, Tata Motors ● Methodology development of engine mount target cascading is setting up lean and agile innovation hubs. These hubs which and design optimization to meet NVH PAT. will operate like startups with focus on testing of solutions (ii) Benefits derived as a result of the above efforts and go-to-market strategies. The first of these centers was The Company continues to strengthen its capabilities across established in Palo Alto, California. the technology domains to meet emerging and future market Key areas of technology engagement in line with global and needs. By careful selection of advanced engineering and Indian trends: future technology portfolio, the Company intends to capitalize 95 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year and bookshelf the developed technology for incorporation Sr. Technology for Status into future products for making them more exciting and more No. 15 Development of DC-DC converter for fuel cell Development in progress attractive to the end customers. vehicles and on board charges The Company also endeavors to mitigate all future risks related 16 Traction motor control algorithm development Testing is in progress to technology by timely having appropriate emerging technology for xEVs on Emissions, FE enhancement, Powertrain, Safety, connectivity, 17 Battery packs for electric and hybrid vehicles Development in progress 18 Fuel Cell/Battery EV controller for fuel cell / Development in progress Infotainment, telematics, green initiatives etc., to meet and exceed Battery Electric vehicles all future emissions and vehicular safety norms. 19 Automotive fuel cell Stack Development in progress In passenger vehicles, the Company’s continued efforts have 20 Traction motor controller hardware Testing is in progress translated into successful product launches and concept unveils. 21 Design and development Induction Traction Testing is in progress motors based Earlier launched Tata Nexon is already the winner of several 22 Demonstration of parallel PHEV technology Development in progress awards. It bagged the honor of becoming 1st engineered & made (Alternate Fuel) in India Car with 5-Star Global NCAP safety crash test rating 23 Advanced Driver Assistance Safety Systems Testing in Progress scoring 5 stars for Adult Occupant Protection and 3 stars for Child LDWS, AEBS Occupant Protection. This is a huge landmark in Indian car safety. 24 Automatic transmission on SUV platform Implemented 25 Reduced Cost of Ownership through Implemented With the recently launched Tata Harrier, the Company entered development of fuel filter with pressure switch the premium mid-size SUV segment. In a week of its launch, the on Nexon Tata Harrier bagged the award for ‘Most Awaited Car of the Year 26 Hill Assist system (Patent filed) for pick-up trucks Developed 2019’, at the Exhibit Auto Tech Awards. Tata Motors also added 27 Inching autonomous driving in passenger car Development in progress gasoline vehicles to its passenger vehicle family the Tata NRG with SUV inspired 28 Brake blending systems for improving PoC completed styling in the entry-level cross-hatch segment. regenerative brake energy capture in electric and hybrid vehicles  In commercial vehicles, an updated version of the original 29 Exhaust energy recovery through VapourProject Closed segment defining SCV Tata Ace was launched as Tata Ace ejector refrigeration systems Gold offering enhanced ergonomics, safety and comfort. In the 30 Electric Trolley Bus system Project On Hold Intermediate Light Commercial Vehicle Category, the Next Gen 31 Ultra capacitor based energy storage system Developed range of Ultra World trucks were launched early last fiscal. for hybrid vehicles 32 Induction motor with copper rotor Developed Continued efforts have ensured that Tata Motors bagged the 33 Moflex MMS Structural Technology Deploying to product prestigious Autocar “2019 Manufacturer of the year”, under challenging market circumstances. (iii) b) Major Technology Imports includes (preceding 3 financial (iii) a) Major technology absorption initiative undertaken: years): Sr. Technology for Status Sr. Year of No. Technology for Status No. Import 1 Focus on simulation capabilities through Development in progress various software, Hardware-in-Loop (HiL) to 1 Synthetic road shells on a chassis dynamometer 2015-16 Implemented reduce development timelines 2 A Noise Test Cell for engine and drivelines 2015-16 Implemented 2 Connected car Technology and Cyber Security Deploying to product 3 Combustion analyser and knock sensors 2015-16 Implemented 3 Advanced driver assistance with 360 degree Proof of Concept Ready 4 Miniature shakers [from USA]—needed for 2016-17 Implemented sense, blind spot detection, surround view Accurate Transfer Path Analysis of vibrations 4 Safety plus systems for collision detection, Development in progress of engine To vehicle-body mitigation, longitudinal drive ability control, 5 Master air flow calibration rig 2016-17 Implemented and driver monitoring 5 Domain controllers for cockpit electronics with Proof of Concept Ready 6 Climatic chamber with gasoline emission facility 2016-17 Implemented reconfigurable HMI 7 Upgrade of test facilities for BS-6 compliance 2017-18 Implemented 6 Low cost Electronic Parking Brake Deploying to product including particle number counter, ammonia 7 Light Weighting of BIW and Chassis Structures Proof of Concept Ready analyzer, urea measurement system 8 Express cooling systems in vehicle using Proof of Concept Ready 8 Diesel Particulate Filter oven and weighing balance 2017-18 Implemented coanda vents, electronically variable – 9 A single channel Digital Signal Processer 2017-18 Implemented displacement compressor and in-cabin heating from M/s Silentium, Israel as a low cost Active optimization Noise cancellation 9 Low cost LED lighting Development in progress 10 New Chassis Dynamometer & upgradation 2018-19 Implemented 10 Configurable seating offering enhanced safety Development in progress of existing chassis dynamometer for BS-6 & and comfort with light-weighting beyond regulatory requirement and first of its 11 Fuel cell vehicle based on small commercial Demonstration is in kind multi-storey vehicle soaking facility vehicle progress 11 Software features such as cruise control, vehicle 2018-19 Implemented 12 Hydrogen recirculation blower system for Fuel Deployed on vehicle and cell system testing is process acceleration management, load based speed control & gear down protection in M&HCV trucks 13 Battery management system for EV bus/car Development in progress and car hybrids 12 Capability & capacity enhancement in ERC Engines 2018-19 Development 14 In-house patented hybrid powertrain Development in progress for BS-6 Phase-1 and Phase-2 requirements in progress 96 (iv) Specific areas in which R & D is undertaken on technology front strengthening the Company’s position in INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77)  The Company is mainly focused on specific areas of R&D commercial vehicles and would contribute in repositioning and and Engineering by which it can strengthen its HorizoNext transforming passenger vehicles to compete at a global level. Philosophy. For passenger cars, the main focus areas are in The Company’s R&D spanning across over a decade of design the domain of creating stunning design, pleasurable driving effort in developing series hybrid bus, the Company has won experience and connectivity. Therefore, the R&D portfolio is the order to deliver 25 diesel series hybrid electric vehicles to aligned towards developing technologies, core competence the Mumbai Metropolitan Regional Development Authority and skill sets in these specific domains to secure impactful and (MMRDA), the largest order for hybrid buses in India till date. timely delivery of the envisaged future product products with Once the hybrid buses start running in Mumbai, the Company leading product attributes. For commercial vehicles, in addition expects further orders from other cities. to design, the main focus areas are total cost of ownership, to Through focused in-house development of technology, the be a market leader in application specific fuel efficiency and to Company is able to offer new technology products at more deliver high performance and reliable products. Focus areas affordable prices compared to global equivalent products. For of Company’s R&D also evolves around R&D infrastructure example, we won tenders for Electric buses and Electric cars STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) development and being timely future ready for future emissions from Govt of India on a global basis in which our products were and vehicular safety norms. offered at the lowest cost. The indigenously developed fuel As one of India’s largest R&D spenders, the Company focuses on cell buses would be far cheaper than the fuel cell buses connected, electric, shared and safe mobility and is aligned with available from a handful of global bus manufacturers, if put to local and global trends. To enhance in-cab experience, an in-built production. The strength of the Company's approach to R&D in air freshening system has been developed. A new generation of alternate powertrain is that the aggregates are globally sourced, infotainment products are being developed, that includes the but the overall system integration is done in-house to ensure next generation ConnectNext platform. It adapts Android Auto that the final product serves the customer needs optimally and and Apple Carplay following with Android automotive operating at lower price points. The Company is also putting efforts in systems that brings consumer world into the car infotainment indigenization of EV aggregates and fuel cell aggregates. system. We continually strive to offer our customers best – in Targeting the booming Indian e-commerce sector, the Company class experience and take feedback from JD power surveys. has developed trucking solutions, including vehicles with Tata Motors along with its subsidiary, TMETC has developed a FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) customised payloads and deck lengths and vehicles equipped with fully autonomous car as part of the UK Auto drive project. This advanced features such as OTP lock, CCTV cameras, load sensors, research initiative ensures that Tata Motors remains among the telematics system. The Company showcased 13 fully built, readyforefront of autonomous driving technology. To offer consumers to-use vehicles at ‘The e-Commerce Expo 2019’ in Mumbai. a safer, smarter and convenient future. Reiterating its commitment to the Swachh Bharat Mission, Tata Further to the above technologies, the Company is exploring Motors showcased its Integrated Waste Management Customised Emergency Call, a solution that will contact emergency services Solutions at the MUNICIPALIKA 2018 event from September 19in the event of an accident. The system will share GPS location to 21, 2018 at the Bombay Exhibition Center. ensure time critical assistance. Tata Motors constantly strives to During FY 2019, we filed 86 patent applications and 113 design renew customer experience, hence focusing on solutions such applications. In respect of applications filed in earlier years, 104 as innovative seating configurations, express cooling, electronic patents have been granted and 37 designs registered. Both filing parking brakes are few of the areas under focus. and grant details include national and international jurisdictions. Some of the forward-looking R&D programs that the Company is concentrating on are: Future Plan of Action ● Robust control system for hybrid and electric buses and  We plan to continue our endeavor in the research and electric cars development space to develop vehicles with reduced cost, ● Electrification of vehicle accessories for electric buses time to market and shorter product life cycles. One of the ● Development of indigenous Li-Ion battery packs for hybrid main initiatives in this direction would be a platform approach and electric buses and electric cars to create bills of material and bills of process that have a high ● Indigenous development of fuel cell systems and accessories degree of commonality to reduce complexity and enhance ● Development of high efficiency motors and inverters ability to scale. The Company aims for timely and successful ● Development of electrically driven thermostat, fan, oil pump, conclusion of technology projects so as to begin their induction turbocharger on various engine platforms which improve fuel into mainstream products, which will lead to a promising future. economy and overall performance of vehicle Our Focus is going to be building technology, capability, scale ● Increased drain intervals for oil for axle and gear box inline & capacities in R&D to able to ride the emerging trends. We with implemented for engines are now focusing more on accelerated testing and validation Benefits derived as a result of the above R&D and are using a lot of digital tools for the simulation process. Such efforts on R&D have secured a host of benefits for the The Company has charted a massive jump from 181st rank last Company in terms of being up-to-date with state of the art year to 2nd rank in India’s Most Attractive Brands 2018. Tata 97 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Motors has been able to stay ahead of the curve and create ● Enhancing user experience with natural voice recognition and superior offerings for the customer. Our keen eye for digitisation, smart access systems connectivity, automation and advanced regulations' compliance ● Improving vehicle efficiency and alternate propulsion systems is helping us deliver exciting innovations to our customers through light-weight structures ● Advanced driver assistance systems that increase occupant worldwide. On current product portfolio, the enhancements are safety and convenience offered through an approach of modular architecture strategy, enhanced Powertrain solutions, light weighting, system b. Digital Product Development Systems Initiatives efficiency improvement strategies etc.  Front loading of product creation, validation & testing and seamless information dissemination are major contributors to Innovation at the Engineering Research Center (ERC) ‘Time to Market’ and ‘World Class Quality’ initiatives to improve At Tata Motors while using different initiatives to strengthen the product development process. creative potential of our Business units and R&D team in ERC, we Significant improvements in key processes for product design also work with the external Eco-system of suppliers, technology and manufacturing planning domain through modification companies and startups to leverage their know how, creativity of existing processes identifying few manual processes and and out of the box thinking. Internally we have introduced converting into digital domain for better quality and agility. formats like Innoverse and Imagineering, where ideas are ● Connected Vehicle platform (CVP) core strategy has been crowdsourced and developed in proof of concepts through an finalized for standardizing and modularizing on-vehicle accelerated development and maturation process, to Ideathon, electronics, enhanced reuse to achieve economies of scale, on the lines of a hackathon. leveraging synergy at dealership and service network and IoT These focus both on the traditional technologies as well as the based technology development. emerging ones that allow us to deliver on the 4 disruption vectors ● Modular BOM approach initiated in design and manufacturing impacting the automotive industry namely CESS (Connected, domain to increase flexibility and minimize complexities. Electrified, Shared and Safe). These developments then find ● Implementation of online systems for improving tracking, their way into product programs in a structured manner, of signoffs, reporting and analysis by digitalization of 60 business moving from limited proof of concepts to a fully engineered and processes based on homegrown pFirst platform. Major systems deployable outcome. implemented in areas of VA/VE, WCQ, Program Management Externally we have launched the TACNet program – Tata Motors and budget tracking across functions. Automobility Collaboration Network https://tacnet.tatamotors. ● 40 new knowledge based engineering applications were com to connect and engage with technology companies and designed and implemented across various product design and start-up community. Through this platform we post business safety domains such as, Rear Parking Assist System Analysis challenges for which we are seeking solutions, as well as invite (RPAS), Digital Validation of initial CAS surface carried out for its companies with innovative futuristic solutions to reach out to us exterior projections to reduce bodily injury risk to a person in the for collaborative working. event of a collision. a. Mobility Services ● More than 150 new productivity enhancement tools were developed and implemented across various product design and Building on the work started over the last couple of years, Tata validation domains which assists our large number of engineers Motors is looking at addressing the emerging and evolving needs to increase productivity significantly through identified levers of the markets and customers it serves through augmented such as enhanced quality checks for design, drawing automation products, service model offerings and mobility solutions. This not and process automation. only allows us to serve our existing customers better, but also bring ● For reducing number of parts and to increase reuse of parts new customers to the Brand whose needs were not being catered across platforms, 3D feature based part search tool is integrated to with our current offerings. Inline with the Vision statement, into parts creation and release process. Process is enhanced by Mobility solutions across People and Goods movement will form providing information of other enterprise data and augmented a key part of our strategy and market offering. This will be done with analytics for speedy decision. selectively through both investments as well as collaborations as ● Critical manufacturing processes were validated digitally an engagement model and explore through multiple on ground during BS-VI development with simulation including ergonomic pilots before scaling the successful ones. analysis to detect potential problems in early stages of planning.  The Company will continue to invest in R&D as well as MOST time analysis is being done extensively for MOP (Measure collaborative projects which will enhance the competitiveness of Performance) improvement on the shop floor. of it's future products and will also start active research in ● Automotive Body Fastener design process is enriched by upcoming areas of automotive technology like autonomous implementing in-house developed body fastener authoring tool driving, connected cars, and others. for BIW designers. Tata Motors plans to focus in the following areas to meet future ● Next Generation Smart Assembly Management framework was product portfolio needs. designed and developed by using Smart User Defined Function/ ● Telematics and connected solutions entering into smart city era Feature (UDF) and Smart Constraints for CVBU UDF based powered by 5G assembly design methodology. 6 UDF based Smart Assembly 98 application were delivered for Air brake systems and fuel ● The 5th edition of the Company One World International CV INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) system design groups. Distributor meet was held in Dubai from 25th to 23rd February, ● Product design quality and manufacturing quality is enhanced 2019. This year’s event saw attendance by the Company Senior by implementing Dimensional Variation Analysis (DVA) by Management and over 200 guests from across 35 countries. simulating product design and manufacturing process. Passenger Vehicles ● To make information available to right stakeholders at right ● Launch of new models in Nepal and Bangladesh helped the time, latest technology of BOTs based apps are deployed for Company to the No. 4 and No. 3 rankings in the respective markets multiple functions helping them verify data and take informed ● In Nepal, the Tata Motors’ brand is at position ‘Four’ after decisions. competing with 26 Passenger Vehicle brands, with 11.8% ● Deep Learning artificial intelligence (AI) based algorithms and market share. Tigor remains the No. 1 Sedan in Nepal with apps are introduced into design process to reduce physical 22.2% Share, Sumo the No. 1 MUV with 47.1% Share. TML also testing cycles by building predictive models helping in closing has a No. 1 Share in Ambulance with 81.5% Share. Nexon is No. the gap between physical & digital simulations. 2 in CUV with share of 31% in Nepal. ● High Performance Computing (HPC) infrastructure is augmented by ● In Bangladesh, the Company secured ‘Market Leader Position’ in STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) adding 2 new HPC systems. CAE simulation using General Purpose cars segment with 23.7% Share. Tata Motors made the first ever Graphics Processing Unit (GPGPU) computation technology. supply to Bangladesh Army with 18 units of Hexa ● Deployment of satellite servers across all plant locations, ● The Company participated in the prestigious Geneva Motor architected with high redundancy with almost zero downtime Show in Switzerland for the 22nd successive year where the for applications deployed on a large number of virtual servers Tata Altroz electric hatch, H2X concept, Buzzard Geneva Edition, delivering high performance compliant to security standards Buzzard sport and Altroz premium urban car were displayed. of ISO27001. The Company also participated in Nepal Automobile Dealers’ ● Implemented SIEM (Security Information and Event Association (NADA) Auto Show and the Dhaka Automobile show Management) Application, which collects, stores and analyses where we achieved sales of 125 vehicles against 54 in FY2018. logs from different sources including servers, network devices ● The Company participated in Rainstorm Emergency Relief and security devices, centrally monitoring security threats in activity carried out by SIPRADI CSR wing in Support with Tata real time for quick attack detection and response with holistic Trust & Tata Motors. 65 families got relief package in this activity security reporting and compliance management. Development of export markets FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) C. FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS & OUTGO ASEAN and NW Africa are the Company’s focus regions for future Activities relating to exports growth. Indonesia, Vietnam, Philippines and Malaysia are steadily The Company exported 53,140 vehicles comprising 51,119 CVs and picking up with the Tata Motors’ brand becoming more visible in these 2,021 PVs. E xport initiatives and highlights include: markets. Our shipments to NW Africa increased by 31% in FY 2019 as compared to FY 2018, making it the fastest growing region. Vehicle Commercial Vehicles assembly, in Vietnam saw steady growth of numbers. We also started ● The Company participated in key Global motor shows and assembly for Super Ace and Ultra in Malaysia in FY 2019. conclaves such as the Bhutan Construction Expo, Fexpocruz (Bolivia), Bangkok Motor Show, Dhaka Automotive Show, The Company has been expanding its relevance in markets it is Malaysia, Philippines, Thailand Defence Expo. present in, with the introduction of new products such as Tata ● Ultra was launched in Malaysia, LPT 1212 in Bangladesh, CR Prima, Ultra, Signa trucks and Buses in key markets to further grow range of intermediate and light commercial vehicles were volumes. The Company re-established its presence in the markets launched in Bhutan. Signa series was launched in Bangladesh of Tanzania and Bhutan & Mozambique, Prima 3338 range of tippers in Indonesia, Super Export Plans Ace mint E4 in Philippines and Vietnam, Ace Mega XL in SAARC The Company plans to focus on growing its exports aggressively in and SE African markets, Magna in Bangladesh & Tanzania, identified geographies by offering customer centric products and Elanza in Oman and E4 models in Sri Lanka. strong after sales support. ● CVIB conducted ‘Global Service Campaign’ in more than Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo in FY 2019 (` in crores) 40 countries in 3rd week of November, 2018 as a part of the Earning in foreign currency 6,508.00 enhancing the Customer Connect. The service campaign saw more than 50,000 vehicles serviced during the campaign. Expenditure in foreign currency (including dividend remittance) 3,958.66 ● Bagged several prestigious orders, including order for 200 units On behalf of the Board of Directors from Myanmar Armed Forces, 400 units from AFTU Senegal, 450 Buses from ILOC Ivory Coast, etc. N CHANDRASEKARAN ● TATA Motors successfully delivered 200 units of LPTA 715 4x4 Chairman Troop Carrier to Myanmar Armed Forces. (DIN: 00121863) Mumbai, May 20, 2019 99 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year ANNEXURE–4 Form No. MGT – 9 Extract of Annual Return as on the financial year ended on 31st March, 2019 [Pursuant to Section 92(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and Rule 12(1) of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014] I. REGISTRATION AND OTHER DETAILS: i) CIN:L28920MH1945PLC004520 vii) Name, Address and contact details of Registrar and Transfer Agent, if any:ii) Registration Date:1st September, 1945 TSR Darashaw Consultants Pvt. Limited iii) Name of the Company:Tata Motors Limited 6-10 Haji Moosa Patrawala Industrial Estate, Near Famous Studio, iv) Category / Sub-Category of the Company: 20, E Moses Road, Mahalaxmi (W), Mumbai 400 001 Public Company / Limited by shares Tel: 022-6656 8484; Fax: 022-66568494 Email: csg-unit@tsrdarashaw.com; v) Address of the Registered office and contact details:Website: www.tsrdarashaw.com Address: Bombay House, 24 Homi Mody Street, Mumbai 400 001 For Rights Issue 2015: Tel: 022-6665 8282 Link Intime India Private Limited Email: inv_rel@tatamotors.com No.C-13, Pannalal Silk Mill Compound, Website: www.tatamotors.com Lal Bahadur Sharstri Road, Bhanpud (W), Mumbai 400 078 Email: tatamotors.rights@linkintime.co.in; vi) Whether listed company:Yes Website: www.linkintime.com II. PRINCIPAL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES OF THE COMPANY: All the business activities contributing 10% or more of the total turnover of the company shall be stated:Sr. NIC Code of the Product / Name and Description of main product/services % to total turnover of the company No service 1 Manufacturing of Motor Vehicles 2910 89.58% III. PARTICULARS OF HOLDING, SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATE COMPANIES (INCLUDING JOINT VENTURES) Sr. Percentage of Name and address of Company CIN/GNL No shares held Subsidiaries [pursuant to Section 2(87) of the Act] 1 Concorde Motors (India) Limited U24110MH1972PLC015561 100 3rd Floor, Nanavati Mahalaya, 18 Homi Mody Street, Hutatma Chowk, Mumbai 400 001 2 Tata Motors European Technical Centre PLC 05551225 100 18, Grosvenor Place, London, SW1X7HS 3 Tata Motors Insurance Broking and Advisory Services Limited U50300MH1997PLC149349 100 3rd Floor, Nanavati Mahalaya, 18 Homi Mody Street, Hutatma Chowk, Mumbai 400 001 4 TML Holdings Pte Ltd 200802595C 100 9 Battery Road, #15-01, Straits Trading Building, Singapore 049910 5 TML Distribution Company Limited U63000MH2008PLC180593 100 3rd Floor, Nanavati Mahalaya, 18 Homi Mody Street, Hutatma Chowk, Mumbai 400 001 6 Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera S.A. A50089119 100 Carretera de Castellon, Km.230,5 (poligono Empresarium) Zaragoza, Spain 7 Tata Hispano Motors Carrocerries Maghreb SA 1004723 100 Zone Industrial Berrechid, Rue Al Adrisa, Berrechid -26100, Morocco 8 TMF Holdings Limited U65923MH2006PLC162503 100 10th floor, 106 A and B, Maker Chambers III, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 9 Trilix S.r.l 1044707 100 Via Teano 3, 10042 Nichelino, Torino, Italy 10 Tata Precision Industries Pte Ltd 197100574C 78.39 1 Robinson Road, #19-01, AIA Towers, Singapore 048 542 11 Tata Technologies Limited U72200PN1994PLC013313 72.28 Plot No. 25, Pune Infotechpark, MIDC Taluka Mulshi Hinjawadi, Pune 27 12 Tata Marcopolo Motors Limited U34101MH2006PLC164771 51 Bombay House, 24, Homi Mody Street, Mumbai-400001 100 Sr. Percentage of INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Name and address of Company CIN/GNL No shares held 13 Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Company Limited 401-81-22865 100 172 Dongjangsan-ro, Gunsan-si, Joellabuk-do, 54006, Korea 14 Tata Motors (Thailand) Ltd 0105550023406 95.87 199 Column Tower 20th Floor, Ratchadapisek Road, Klongtoey, Bangkok 10110 Thailand 15 Tata Motors (SA)(Proprietary) Ltd 2007/034689/07 60 39 Ferguson Road, Illova 2196 16 PT Tata Motors Indonesia Tax Reg no. 03.188.148.5100 Pondok Indah Office Tower 3 Suite 801-A, Jl Sultan Iskandar Muda Kav V-TA Pondok Pinang Kebayoran 013.000 Lama, Jakarta 12130, Republic of Indonesia 17 Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc 6477691 100 Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF England UK 18 TMNL Motor Services Nigeria Limited 1284940 100 C/o Tata Africa Services (Nigeria) Limited, Plot C89, Amuwo Odofin Industrial Layout, Lagos, Nigeria 19 Tata Technologies Pte Limited 198100504W 72.28 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) 8 Shenton Way, #19-05 AXA Tower, Singapore 068811 20 Tata Motors Finance Solutions Limited U65910MH1992PLC187184 100 C/o Tata Motors Finance Ltd., 10th floor, 106 A & B, Maker Chambers III, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 21 Tata Motors Finance Limited U45200MH1989PLC050444 100 C/o Tata Motors Finance Limited, 10th F 106 A & B, Makers Chambers III, Nariman Point Mumbai 400 021 22 Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Sales and Distribution Company Limited 104-86-27436 100 4th floor, 272 Yeongdeung-ro, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul 150 033, Korea 23 PT Tata Motors Distribusi Indonesia Tax Reg no. 03.286.323.5100 Pondok Indah Office Tower 3, Floor 8, Suite 801-B, Jl. Sultan Iskandar Muda Kav. V-TA, Pondok Pinang, 013.000 Kebayoran Lama, Jakarta Selatan 12310, the Republic of Indonesia 24 Jaguar Land Rover Holdings Limited 4019301 100 Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF, England, UK 25 Tata Technologies (Thailand) Limited 10554812171 72.28 889 Thai CC Tower, Room 108-9, 10th Floor, South Sathorn Road, Kwhaeng Yannawa, Khet Sathorn, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Bangkok Metropolis 10120 26 Tata Manufacturing Technologies (Shanghai) Co. Ltd 310000400732137 72.28 11F,Aurora plaza,99 Fucheng Rd,Room 1131, Shangai 200120, China 27 INCAT International Plc 02377350 72.28 2 Temple Back East, Temple Quay, Bristol BS1 6EG 28 Jaguar Land Rover Limited 1672070 100 Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF England UK 29 Jaguar Land Rover (China) Investment Company Limited 310115400245293 100 Room 713, 7F No. 6 Jirong Road (Area C1, Plot 001), Shanghai, China Free Trade Zone 30 Limited Liability Company “Jaguar Land Rover” (Russia) 1085047006549 100 28B, Building 2, Mezhdunarodnoe Shosse 141411, Moscow, Russian Federation 31 INCAT GmbH HRB 18622 72.28 Breitwiesenstrasse 19, 70565 Stuttgart, Germany 32 Tata Technologies Europe Limited 02016440 72.28 2 Temple Back East, Temple Quay, Bristol BS1 6EG 33 JLR Nominee Company Limited 1672065 100 Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF England UK 34 Jaguar Cars South Africa (Pty) Limited 2000/026853/07 100 Simon Vermooten Road, Silverton, Pretoria 0184, South Africa 35 Jaguar Cars Limited 1672067 100 Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF England UK 36 Land Rover Exports Limited 1596703 100 Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF England UK 37 Land Rover Ireland Limited 318198 100 C/o LK Shields Solicitors, 39/40 Upper Mount Street Dublin 2, Ireland 38 The Diamler Motor Company Limited 112569 100 Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF England UK 39 Diamler Transport Vehicles Limited 322903 100 Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF England UK 40 S.S Cars Limited 333482 100 Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF England UK 101 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Sr. Percentage of Name and address of Company CIN/GNL No shares held 41 The Lanchester Motor Company Limited 551579 100 Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF England UK 42 Jaguar Land Rover Pension Trustees Limited 4102133 100 Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF England UK 43 Spark 44 (JV) Limited 07535151 50.5 Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF England UK 44 Jaguar Land Rover Austria GmbH FN84604v 100 Fuerbergstrasse 51, Salzburg, A5020, Austria 45 Jaguar Land Rover Japan Limited 0104-01-075166 100 3-13 Toranomon 4-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan45 46 Jaguar Land Rover Deutschland GmbH HRB2408 100 Am Kronberger Hang 2a, 65824 Schwalbach/Ts, Germany 47 Jaguar Land Rover Classic Deutschland GmbH (Incoporated w.e.f. August 10, 2018) HRB 29323 100 Geschaftsanschrift: Ringstrabe 38, 45219, Essen, Germany 48 Jaguar Land Rover North America LLC 2075961 100 555 MacArthur Blvd., Mahwah, New Jersey 07430, USA 49 Jaguar Land Rover Nederland BV 23074977 100 PO Box 40, 4153 ZG Bessd Stationsweg 8, Netherlands 50 Jaguar Land Rover Portugal Veiculose Pecas, Lda 504998803 100 Edificio Escritorios do Tejo, Rua do Polo Sul, Lote 1.10.1.1 – 3. B-3, Parish of Santa Maria dos Olivais, Municipality of Lisboa, Portugal 51 Jaguar Land Rover Australia Pty Ltd 4352238 100 65 Epping Road, North Ryde, New South Wales, 2113, Australia 52 Jaguar Land Rover Italia SpA 6070621005 100 Via Alessandro Marchetti, 105 00148, Roma, Italy 53 Jaguar Land Rover Korea Company Limited 110111-3977373 100 25F West Mirae Asset Center 1, Building, 67 Suha-dong, Jung-gu, Seoul 100-210, Korea 54 Jaguar Land Rover Canada ULC 2013828088 100 75 Courtneypark Drive West, Unit 3, Mississauga, ON L5W 0E3, Canada 55 Jaguar Land Rover France, SAS 509016804 100 34 Rue de la Croix de Fer 78105 Saint Germain en Laye Cedex, France 56 Jaguar Land Rover India Limited U34200MH2012FLC237194 100 Nanavati Mahalaya, 18 Homi Mody Street, Hutatma Chowk, Mumbai 400 001 57 Jaguar e Land Rover Brasil Industria e Comercio de Veiculos LTDA 35.222.373.953 100 Avenida Ibirapuera 2.332, Torre I -10º andarMoema 04028-002, São Paulo-SP-Brazil 58 Jaguar Land Rover (South Africa) Holdings Limited 7760130 100 Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF England UK 59 Jaguar Land Rover Espana SL B-82526757 100 Torre Picasso, Plaza Pablo Ruiz Picasso, 1 – Planta 42, 23020 Madrid, SPAIN 60 Jaguar Land Rover Belux N.V. 0456.612.553 100 Generaal Lemanstraat 47, 2018 Antwerpen, Belgium 61 Jaguar Land Rover Slovakia s.r.o 48302392 99.99 Vysoka 2B, 811 06, Bratislava, Slovakia 62 Jaguar Land Rover Singapore Pte Ltd 201541482M 100 Level 30, Singapore Land Rover, Raffles Place, 048623, Singapore 63 Jaguar Racing Limited 9983877 100 Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF England UK 64 InMotion Ventures Limited 10070632 100 Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF England UK 65 Jaguar Land Rover Colombia S.A.S Tax Id no. 901.000.833-7 100 CL 677735 OFE 1204 BOGOTAN CUDNDINAMARKA 13192900 66 Jaguar Land Rover Ireland (Services) Limited 608696 100 C/o LK Sheilds Solicitors 39/40 Upper Mount Street Dublin 2 Ireland 67 Jaguar Land Rover Taiwan Company Limited 55768890 100 12F, No. 40, Sec.1, Chengde Road, Datong Dist., Taipei City 103, Taiwan (R.O.C) 68 Jaguar Land Rover Servicios Mexcio S.A. de C.V. SGM101223SU6 100 Javier Barros, Sierra, 540 Piso 7 703 Santa Fe Alvaro Obregon Distrito Federal 01210 69 Jaguar Land Rover Mexico S.A.P.I de CV JLR080418T9A 100 Javier Barros, Sierra, 540 Piso 7 703 Santa Fe Alvaro Obregon Distrito Federal 01211 102 Sr. Percentage of INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Name and address of Company CIN/GNL No shares held 70 Jaguar Land Rover Hungary KFT (Incorporated w.e.f. July 30, 2018) 01-09-327763 100 Regus Capital Square, Vaci ut 76, 1133, Budapest 71 Jaguar Land Rover Classic USA LLC (Incorporated w.e.f. June 1, 2018) US11 100 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, Delaware, 19808 72 Shanghai Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Services Company Limited 310115400006268 100 Room E16, Floor 2, 477, Fute West 1st Road, Shanghai Free Trade Zone, PRC 73 Tata Technologies Inc 476-730+C9 72.34 41050, W Eleven Mile Road, Novi, Michigan 48375, USA 74 Escenda Engineering AB 556798-1286 72.28 C/o S Wedin, Helenedalsvagen 14, 431 36 Molndal 75 Spark 44 (Pty) Ltd (Sydney, Australia) 56602084346 50.5 Level 5, 65 Berry Street, North Sydney , NSW 2060 76 Spark 44 GmbH (Frankfurt, Germany) HRB90999 50.5 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Querstr. 7, 60322 Frankfurt am Main 77 Spark 44 LLC (LA & NYC, USA) 27-4287883 50.5 5870 W. Jefferson Blvd, Studio H,Los Angeles, CA 90016, USA 78 Spark 44 Limited (Shanghai, China) 91310000088514160B 50.5 Units 6401,6402,6501,6502, No.436 Ju Men Road, Huangpu District, Shanghai 200023, China 79 Spark 44 DMCC (Dubai, UAE) DMCC34726 50.5 Unit No: 1401 & 1404, Swiss Tower, Plot No: JLT-PH2-Y3A Jumeirah Lakes Towers, Dubai, UAE 80 Spark 44 Demand Creation Partners Private Limited (Mumbai, India) U74999MH2015FTC269125 50.5 Block A, Level 1, Shiv Sagar Estate, Dr. Annie Besent Road, Worli,Mumbai – 400018 81 Spark 44 Limited (London & Birmingham, UK) 7535381 50.5 White Collar Factory, 1 Old Street Yard, London, England, EC1Y 8AF 82 Spark 44 Pte Ltd (Singapore) 201523182E 50.5 138 Market Street #36-01/02 CapitaGreen, Singapore 048946 83 Spark 44 Communications SL (Madrid, Spain) ESB8730486 50.5 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Prim 19, 4th floor, 28004 Madrid 84 Spark 44 S.r.l (Rome, Italy) 11353340018 50.5 via Marcella, 4/600153 Rome 85 Spark 44 Limited (Seoul, South Korea) 110114-0162252 50.5 F12, 11 Cheonggyecheon-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul 03187, Korea 86 Spark 44 K.K. (Tokyo, Japan) 5011101074299 50.5 2-23-1-806, Akasaka, Minato-ku, Tokyo, 153-0042 87 Spark 44 Canada Inc (Toronto) 2467809 50.5 1059 Spadina Road, Toronto, ON M5N 2M7, Canada 88 Spark 44 Pty. Limtied (South Africa) 2015/300314/07 50.5 21 Forssman Close, Barbeque Downs, Kyalami 89 Spark 44 Colombia S.A.S (Colombia) (Incorporated w.e.f. May 10, 2018) 901.179.478-4 50.5 Cl 72 # 10 07 oficina 401, Bogota , Colombia 90 Spark 44 Taiwan Limited (Taiwan) (Incorporated w.e.f. May 7, 2018) 50768370 50.5 18F., No.460, Sec. 4, Xinyi Rd., Xinyi Dist., Taipei City 110, Taiwan (R.O.C.) 91 Jaguar Land Rover (South Africa) (Pty) Limited 2001/027269/07 100 Simon Vermooten Road, Silverton, Pretoria 0184, South Africa 92 InMotion Ventures 1 Limited 10442527 100 Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF England UK 93 InMotion Ventures 2 Limited 10444740 100 Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF England UK 94 InMotion Ventures 3 Limited 10445040 100 Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF England UK 95 InMotion Venrures 4 Limited (Incorporated w.e.f. January 4, 2019) 11749648 100 Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF England UK 96 Tata Technologies SRL Romania B1766921 72.31 Brasov Office: Str Branduselor, No 84 Brasov, 500397, Romania 97 Tata Technologies de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Tax Regn No: TTM72.34 Blvd. Independencia #1600 Ote., Local C-46 C.P. 27100 Torreon, Coahuila, Mexico 990127-V84990127 103 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Sr. Percentage of Name and address of Company CIN/GNL No shares held 98 Cambric GmbH HRB 14269 72.34 Service Kontor, Universitat Geb A1 1, D-66123 Saarbrucken, Stuhlsatzenhausweg 69, Raum 130, 66123 Saarbrücken 99 Cambric Limited 57500 72.31 H & J Corporate Services, Ltd., Ocean Centre, Montagu Foreshore, East Bay Street, P.O. Box SS-19084, Nassau, Bahamas 100 TAL Manufacturing Solutions Limited U29100PN2000PLC130290 100 (Ceased to be a subsidiary w.e.f. March 29, 2019) PDO Building, Tata Motors Campus, Chinchwad, Pune 411033 101 TML Drivelines Limited (Mergered with the Company w.e.f. April 30, 2018) U34100MH2000PLC124874 100 C/o Tata Motors Limited, 3rd Floor, Nanavati Mahalaya, 18 Homi Mody Street, Hutatma Chowk, Mumbai – 400001 102 The Jaguar Collection Limited 2018432 100 (Dissolved w.e.f. June 19, 2018) Abbey Road, Whitley, Coventry, CV3 4LF England UK Associates Subsidiaries [pursuant to Section 2(6) of the Act] 103 Automobile Corporation of Goa Limited L35911GA1980PLC000400 47.19% Plant I, Honda Sattari, Goa 403530 104 Nita Company Limited NA 40.00% 1703, Sky Bhaban, 195, Motljheel C/A, Dhaka 1000, Bangladesh 105 Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery Company Private Limited U85110KA1998PTC024588 39.99% Jubilee Building, 45, Museum Road, Bangalore, Karnataka 560025 106 Tata Precision Industries (India) Limited U29120MP1995PLC009773 39.19% Industrial Area No. 2, A B Road, Dewas, Madhya Pradesh 455001 107 Tata AutoComp Systems Limited U34100PN1995PLC158999 26.00% TACO House, Plot No20/B FPN085, V.G. Damle Path Off Law College Road, Erandwane Pune 411004 108 Jaguar Cars Finance Limited 1731924 49.90% Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3UR 109 Cloud Car Inc 5052102 26.30% 2771, Centervilla Road, Suite-400, Wilmington, Country of New Castle, Delaware, 19808, USA 110 Synaptiv Limited 10592914 37.50% Kirakland Avenue, Ilford, Essex, England, IG50th 111 DriveClubService Pte Ltd 201707581H 25.07% 22 Sin Ming Lane, #06-76, Midview City, Singapore 573969 112 Loginomic Tech Solutions Private Limited (Acquired w.e.f. July 10, 2018) U74900KA2015 PTC080558 26% # 39, Sai Prema, Krishnanagar Industrial Layout, Hosur Road, Bangalore 560029 Joint Operations Subsidiaries [pursuant to Section 2(6) of the Act] 113 Tata Cummins Private Limited U34101JH1993PTC005546 50.00% Telco Township, Jamshedpur 831004 114 Fiat India Automobiles Private Limited U28900PN1997PTC130940 50.00% Plot No B-19, M. I. D. C. Ranjangaon Industrial Area, Ranjangaon, Taluka Shirur, Pune 412210 Joint Ventures Subsidiaries [pursuant to Section 2(6) of the Act] 115 Chery Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Company Limited 91320581717885280B 50.00% No. 1, Lu Hu Road, Changshu Economic and Technical Development Zone, Suzhou City, Jiangsu Provice, China 116 Chery Jaguar Land Rover Auto Sales Company Limited 7535151 50.00% 6F, Binjiang International Plaza, No.88, Tonggang Road, Changshu Economic and Technical Development Zone, Suzhou City, Jiangsu Provice, China 117 JT Special Vehicles Private Limited U34102TZ2016PTC027770 50.00% Post Box No. 1840, No. 2, Ondipudur Road Singanallur, Coimbatore 641005 118 Tata HAL Technologies Limited U93000KA2008PLC046588 36.14% Unit 901-902, A Block, 8th Floor Laurel Building, Bagmane Tech Park, CV Raman Nagar, Bangalore 560093 104 IV) Shareholding Pattern (Equity Share Capital Breakup as percentage of Total Equity) INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) i) Category-wise shareholding Category of Shareholders No. of Shares held at the beginning of the year No. of Shares held at the end of the year % Change i.e. 01.04.2018 i.e. 31.03.2019 during the Demat Physical Total % of Total Demat Physical Total % of Total year Shares Shares (A) Promoters (including Promoter Group (1) Indian (a) Individuals / Hindu 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 Undivided Family (b) Central Government / 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 State Governments(s) ( c) Bodies Corporate 1,05,06,44,727 0 1,05,06,44,727 30.94 1,10,84,19,398 0 1,10,84,19,398 32.64 1.70 (d) Financial Institutions 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) / Banks (e) Any Other (Trust) 1,06,720 0 1,06,720 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 Sub-Total (A) (1) 1,05,07,51,447 0 1,05,07,51,447 30.94 1,10,84,19,398 0 1,10,84,19,398 32.64 1.70 (2) Foreign (a) Individuals (Non0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 Resident Individuals / Foreign Individuals) (b) Bodies Corporate 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 ( c) Institutions 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 (d) Qualified Foreign 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 Investor (e) Any Other (specify) 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 Sub-Total (A) (2) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Total Shareholding of Pro1,05,07,51,447 0 1,05,07,51,447 30.94 1,10,84,19,398 0 1,10,84,19,398 32.64 1.70 moter and Promoter Group (A) (B) Public Shareholding (1) Institutions (a) Mutual Funds / UTI 37,91,05,423 72,340 37,91,77,763 11.17 43,33,51,746 71,340 43,34,23,086 12.76 1.60 (b) Financial Institutions 1,03,38,275 2,48,930 1,05,87,205 0.31 1,20,41,015 2,48,530 1,22,89,545 0.36 0.05 / Banks ( c) Central Government / 67,42,762 20,13,905 87,56,667 0.26 81,19,445 20,13,905 1,01,33,350 0.30 0.04 State Governments(s) (d) Venture Capital Funds 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 (e) Alternate Investment 37,72,751 0 37,72,751 0.11 20,92,257 0 20,92,257 0.06 -0.05 Funds (f) Insurance Companies 29,32,35,196 800 29,32,35,996 8.64 22,83,10,927 800 22,83,11,727 6.72 -1.91 (g) Foreign Institutional 33,44,136 23,940 33,68,076 0.10 6,96,956 23,940 7,20,896 0.02 -0.08 Investors (h) Foreign Venture Capital 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 Investors (i) Qualified Foreign 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 Investor (j) Any Other (specify) (j-i) Foreign Portfolio 82,06,46,479 0 82,06,46,479 24.17 72,39,04,343 0 72,39,04,343 21.32 -2.85 Investors (Corporate) (j-ii) Foreign Bodies DR 62,15,251 0 62,15,251 0.18 76,13,577 0 76,13,577 0.22 0.04 (j-iii) Foreign Nationals DR 2,86,661 0 2,86,661 0.01 991 0 991 0.00 -0.01 (j-iv) Foreign Institutional 73,015 0 73,015 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 Investors DR (j-v) LLP -DR 750 0 750 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 Sub-Total (B) (1) 1,52,37,60,699 23,59,915 1,52,61,20,614 44.94 1,41,61,31,257 23,58,515 1,41,84,89,772 41.77 -3.17 105 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Category of Shareholders No. of Shares held at the beginning of the year No. of Shares held at the end of the year % Change i.e. 01.04.2018 i.e. 31.03.2019 during the Demat Physical Total % of Total Demat Physical Total % of Total year Shares Shares (2) Non-Institutions (a) Bodies Corporate 3,74,17,129 4,77,150 3,78,94,279 1.12 3,68,90,458 4,34,860 3,73,25,318 1.10 -0.02 (b) Individuals 0.00 0.00 i Individual shareholders 24,43,39,196 2,01,51,115 26,44,90,311 7.79 37,29,40,148 1,71,84,477 39,01,24,625 11.49 3.70 holding nominal share capital upto ` 1 lakh ii Individual shareholders 1,73,82,047 4,10,975 1,77,93,022 0.52 2,76,07,018 3,34,975 2,79,41,993 0.82 0.30 holding nominal share capital in excess of ` 1 lakh ( c) Qualified Foreign 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 Investor (d) Any Other (d-i) NBFCs registered with 1,26,674 0 1,26,674 0.00 1,99,577 0 1,99,577 0.01 0.00 RBI (d-ii) Non Resident Indians 1,73,39,947 23,78,480 1,97,18,427 0.58 2,66,42,642 22,18,425 2,88,61,067 0.85 0.27 (d-iii) Clearing Member 1,25,24,514 0 1,25,24,514 0.37 3,08,26,693 0 3,08,26,693 0.91 0.54 (d-iv) Trust 2,56,93,501 1,750 2,56,95,251 0.76 2,58,64,121 1,750 2,58,65,871 0.76 0.01 (d-v) OCBs/Foreign Cos 1,52,061 0 1,52,061 0.00 1,24,495 0 1,24,495 0.00 -0.00 (d-vi) Foreign Corporate 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 Bodies (including FDI) (d-vii) IEPF Suspense A/C 35,59,715 0 35,59,715 0.10 39,75,896 0 39,75,896 0.12 0.01 Sub-total (B) (2) 35,85,34,784 2,34,19,470 38,19,54,254 11.25 52,50,71,048 2,01,74,487 54,52,45,535 16.06 4.81 Total Public Shareholding (B) 1,88,22,95,483 2,57,79,385 1,90,80,74,868 56.19 1,94,12,02,305 2,25,33,002 1,96,37,35,307 57.83 1.64 = (B)(1)+(B)(2) TOTAL (A)+(B) 2,93,30,46,930 2,57,79,385 2,95,88,26,315 87.13 3,04,96,21,703 2,25,33,002 3,07,21,54,705 90.47 3.34 ( C) Shares held by Custodians and against which Depository Receipts have been issued (1) Promoter and Promoter 0 0 0 0.00 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 Group (2) Public 43,70,04,000 20,750 43,70,24,750 12.87 32,36,76,110 20,250 32,36,96,360 9.53 -3.34 GRAND TOTAL (A)+(B)+( C) 3,37,00,50,930 2,58,00,135 3,39,58,51,065 100.00 3,37,32,97,813 2,25,53,252 3,39,58,51,065 100.00 0.00 ii) Shareholding of Promoters (including Promoter Group) Sr. Shareholder’s Name Shareholding at the beginning of Shareholding at the end % change in No. the year 01.04.2018 of the year 31.03.2019 shareholding No. of % of total % of Shares No. of % of total % of Shares during the year Shares Shares of the pledged/ Shares Shares of the pledged/ company encumbered to company encumbered to total shares total shares 1 Tata Sons Private Limited 96,13,81,852 28.31 1.63 1,01,91,56,523 30.01 1.52 1.70 2 Tata Industries Limited 7,22,03,630 2.13 0.00 7,22,03,630 2.13 0.00 0.00 3 Tata Investment Corporation Ltd 1,10,00,000 0.32 0.00 1,10,00,000 0.32 0.00 0.00 4 Ewart Investments Limited 35,25,187 0.10 0.00 35,25,187 0.10 0.00 0.00 5 Tata Chemicals Limited 19,66,294 0.06 0.00 19,66,294 0.06 0.00 0.00 6 Af-Taab Investment Company Ltd 4,08,181 0.01 0.00 4,08,181 0.01 0.00 0.00 7 Tata Steel Limited 1,00,000 0.00 0.00 1,00,000 0.00 0.00 0.00 8 Simto Investment Company Ltd 59,583 0.00 0.00 59,583 0.00 0.00 0.00 9 J R D Tata Trust 1,05,280 0.00 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 -0.00 10 Lady Tata Memorial Trust 1,440 0.00 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 -0.00 11 Sir Ratan Tata Trust 0 0.00 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 12 Sir Dorabji Tata Trust 0 0.00 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 1,05,07,51,447 30.94 1.63 1,10,84,19,398 32.64 1.52 1.70 Note : Entities listed from Sr. No. 2 to 12 above form part of the Promoter Group 106 iii) Change in Promoter’s Shareholding (please specify, if there is no change) INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Sr. Name of the Shareholding at the Date Reason Increase/Decrease in Cumulative Shareholding No. Shareholder beginning of the year as Shareholding during the year on 01.04.2018 No. of Shares % of total No. of Shares % of total No. of Shares % of total shares shares shares of the of the of the company company company 1 Tata Sons Private 96,13,81,852 28.31 96,13,81,852 28.31 Limited 17.08.2018 Purchase of Shares 35,00,000 0.10 96,48,81,852 28.41 24.08.2018 Purchase of Shares 2,26,00,000 0.67 98,74,81,852 29.08 15.02.2019 Purchase of Shares 76,07,022 0.22 99,50,88,874 29.30 22.02.2019 Purchase of Shares 98,77,753 0.29 1,00,49,66,627 29.59 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) 01.03.2019 Purchase of Shares 1,41,89,896 0.42 10,191,56,523 30.01 31.03.2019 At the end of the year 1,01,91,56,523 30.01 2 J R D Tata Trust 1,05,280 0.00 1,05,280 0.00 01.06.2018 Sale of Shares -1,05,280 0.00 0 0.00 31.03.2019 At the end of the year 0 0.00 3 Lady Tata Memorial 1,440 0.00 1,440 0.00 Trust 01.06.2018 Sale of Shares -1,440 0.00 0 0.00 31.03.2019 At the end of the year 0 0.00 Notes : Entities listed at Sr. No. 2 and 3 above form part of the Promoter Group Except for the above there is no change in the holding of Tata Industries Limited, Tata Investment Corporation Limited, Ewart Investment Limited, Tata FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Chemicals Limited, Af-Taab Investment Company Limited, Tata Steel Limited, Simto Investment Company Limited, Sir Ratan Tata Trust and Sir Dorabji Tata Trust during this FY 2018-19 iv) Shareholding Pattern of Top 10 Shareholders (Other than Directors, Promoters and Holders of GDRs and ADRs) Sr. Name of the Shareholder Shareholding Cumulative Shareholding No. during the year No of Shares % of total Shares No of Shares % of total Shares of the Company of the Company 1 Life Insurance Corporation of India At the beginning of the year 14,92,95,627 4.40 14,92,95,627 4.40 Bought during the year 14,92,95,627 4.40 Sold during the year 19,22,134 (0.06) 14,73,73,493 4.34 At the end of the year 14,73,73,493 4.40 14,73,73,493 4.40 2 Government of Singapore At the beginning of the year 8,49,97,140 2.50 8,49,97,140 2.50 Bought during the year 3,09,81,117 0.91 11,59,78,257 3.41 Sold during the year 79,21,118 (0.23) 10,80,57,139 3.18 At the end of the year 10,80,57,139 3.18 10,80,57,139 3.18 3 Reliance Capital Trustee Co. Ltd A/C Reliance Equity Opportunities Fund At the beginning of the year 4,86,03,527 1.43 4,86,03,527 1.43 Bought during the year 9,13,54,253 2.69 13,99,57,780 4.12 Sold during the year 3,68,49,216 (1.09) 10,31,08,564 3.04 At the end of the year 10,31,08,564 3.04 10,31,08,564 3.04 107 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Sr. Name of the Shareholder Shareholding Cumulative Shareholding No. during the year No of Shares % of total Shares No of Shares % of total Shares of the Company of the Company 4 ICICI Prudential Value Discovery Fund At the beginning of the year 7,39,21,224 2.18 7,39,21,224 2.18 Bought during the year 5,77,66,853 1.70 13,16,88,077 3.88 Sold during the year 4,24,20,208 (1.25) 8,92,67,869 2.63 At the end of the year 8,92,67,869 2.63 8,92,67,869 2.63 5 Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund A/C Franklin India Prima Plus At the beginning of the year 5,99,59,475 1.77 5,99,59,475 1.77 Bought during the year 2,79,52,407 0.82 8,79,11,882 2.59 Sold during the year 11,99,260 (0.04) 8,67,12,622 2.55 At the end of the year 8,67,12,622 2.55 8,67,12,622 2.55 6 SBI-ETF Nifty 50 At the beginning of the year 3,40,94,397 1.00 3,40,94,397 1.00 Bought during the year 2,72,31,524 0.80 6,13,25,921 1.8 Sold during the year 87,92,834 (0.26) 5,25,33,087 1.55 At the end of the year 5,25,33,087 1.55 5,25,33,087 1.55 7 Franklin Templeton Investment Funds At the beginning of the year 4,29,30,633 1.26 4,29,30,633 1.26 Bought during the year 46,42,053 0.14 4,75,72,686 1.50 Sold during the year 1,99,436 (0.01) 4,73,73,250 1.40 At the end of the year 4,73,73,250 1.4 4,73,73,250 1.40 8 UTI Nifty Index Fund At the beginning of the year 3,21,46,194 0.95 3,21,46,194 0.95 Bought during the year 97,78,415 0.29 4,19,24,609 1.24 Sold during the year 59,71,175 (0.18) 3,59,53,434 1.06 At the end of the year 3,59,53,434 1.06 3,59,53,434 1.06 9 Government Pension Fund Global# At the beginning of the year 3,16,64,529 0.93 3,16,64,529 0.93 Bought during the year 1,48,86,466 0.44 4,65,50,995 1.37 Sold during the year 1,34,28,193 (0.40) 3,31,22,802 0.98 At the end of the year 3,31,22,802 0.98 3,31,22,802 0.98 10 HDFC Trustee Company Limited HDFC Prudence Fund At the beginning of the year 4,99,26,659 1.47 4,99,26,659 1.47 Bought during the year 1,36,48,985 0.40 6,35,75,644 1.87 Sold during the year 3,17,21,623 (0.93) 3,18,54,021 0.94 At the end of the year 3,18,54,021 0.94 3,18,54,021 0.94 11 ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Ltd* At the beginning of the year 5,22,06,965 1.54 5,22,06,965 1.54 Bought during the year 1,58,31,229 0.47 6,80,38,194 2.01 Sold during the year 5,53,22,541 (1.63) 1,27,15,653 0.37 At the end of the year 1,27,15,653 0.37 1,27,15,653 0.37 *  eased to be in the list of Top 10 as on 31.03.2019. The same is reflected above since the shareholder was one of the Top 10 shareholder as on C 01.04.2018 # Not in th list of Top 10 shareholders as on 01.04.2018. The same is reflected above since it is one of the Top 10 shareholder as on 31.03.2019 Note : Shareholding of Top 10 is consolidated based on Permanent Account Number of the shareholder. The date wise increase or decrease in shareholding of the Top 10 shareholders giving break-up of Ordinary and 'A' Ordinary shares bought and sold is available on the website of the Company www.tatamotors.com 108 v) Shareholding of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel : INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Sr. Name of the Shareholder Shareholding at the Date Reason Increase / Decrease in Cumulative No beginning of the year as Shareholding Shareholding on 01.04.2018 during the year No. of % of total No. of % of total No. of % of total Shares^ shares Shares^ shares Shares^ shares of the of the of the company company company 1 Mr Satish Bowankar, 500 500 Executive Director & COO No change 500 31.03.2019 At end of the year 500 2 Mr P B Balaji, Group CFO 20,000 20,000 No change 20,000 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) 31.03.2019 At end of the year 20,000 3 Mr Hoshang Sethna, 2,953 2,953 Company Secretary (AOS) 813 (AOS) 813 No change 2,953 (AOS) 813 31.03.2019 At end of the year 2,953 (AOS) 813 ^Ordinary shares unless explicitly stated as AOS for ‘A’ Ordinary Shares Notes : Other than the above, none of the Directors and KMPs hold any shares. There has been no change in the holdings of Directors and KMPs. Mr Balaji and Mr Sethna have been granted 2,28,600 and 28,500 options, respectively during the year which would vest at the end of 3rd, 4th & 5th year with an option to exercise at a price of `345 per share as per the terms of its issue. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) V INDEBTEDNESS Indebtedness of the Company including interest outstanding /accrued but not due for payment (` in crores) Secured loan Unsecured Deposits Total excluding deposits Loan Indebtedness Indebtedness at the beginning of the financial year i) Principal Amount 2,253.61 15,240.12 17,493.73 ii) Interest due but not paid iii) Interest accrued but not due 51.96 442.67 494.63 Total (i+ii+iii) 2,305.57 15,682.79 17,988.36 Change in Indebtedness during the financial year • Addition 9,747.76 18,634.39 28,382.15 • Reduction (9,568.66) (18,434.32) (28,002.98) Net Change 179.10 200.08 379.18 Indebtedness at the end of the financial year i) Principal Amount 2,432.70 15,440.20 17,872.90 ii) Interest due but not paid iii) Interest accrued but not due 1.63 369.93 371.56 Total (i+ii+iii) 2,434.33 15,810.13 18,244.46 109 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year VI. REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL A. Remuneration to Managing Directors, Whole-time Directors and/or Manager Sr. Particulars of Remuneration Mr Guenter Mr Satish Amount in (`) No Butschek Borwankar (MD & CEO) (ED & COO) 1 Gross Salary a) Salary u/s 17(1) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (IT Act)# 15,53,00,264 1,56,16,221 17,09,16,485 b) Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) of the IT Act# 1,20,97,371 15,35,158 1,36,32,529 c) Profits in lieu of salary u/s 173(3) of the IT Act 2 Stock Options 3 Sweat Equity 4 Commission^ a) as % of profit b) others, specify (Performance based) 66,60,000 66,60,000 5 Other, please specify *Performance bonus + longterm incentive plan 9,22,71,960 9,22,71,960 Retirement benefits 32,02,494 17,98,200 50,00,694 Total (A) 26,28,72,089 2,56,09,579 28,84,81,668 Ceiling as per the Act, 39,61,18,938 *Performance Bonus of €5,94,000 (conversion rate : ` 77.67 as on March 31, 2019) will be paid during FY 2019-20. The above also includes Long Term Incentives as per plan of €5,94,000 which would accrue based on company performance as decided by NRC. # The above remuneration is as per Income Tax Act, 1961. Further, these amounts are paid to the Managing Director and Whole-time Director during the year. ^Commission relates to FY2018-19, it will be paid during FY2019-2020 B. Remuneration to other directors Sr. Particulars of Remuneration Name of Directors Amount No in (`) 1 Independent Directors N Munjee V K Jairath F Nayar O P Bhatt H Sorensen a) Fee for attending board/ 12,60,000 11,20,000 10,80,000 13,20,000 8,60,000 56,40,000 committee meetings b) Commission* 85,00,000 85,00,000 70,00,000 85,00,000 70,00,000 3,95,00,000 c) Others, please specify Total (1) 97,60,000 96,20,000 80,80,000 98,20,000 78,60,000 4,51,40,000 2 Other Non-Executive Directors # N Chandrasekaran R Speth a) Fee for attending board/ 6,00,000 6,00,000 committee meetings b) Commission c) Others, please specify Total (2) 6,00,000 6,00,000 Total B = (1+2) 4,57,40,000 Total Managerial Remuneration 3,95,00,000 Ceiling as per the Act 3,96,11,893 *Commission relates to FY2018-19, it will be paid during FY2019-20 #As a policy, Mr N Chandrasekaran, Chairman has abstained from receiving Commission from the Company and hence not being stated. Dr Ralf Speth is not paid any commission or sitting fees in view of his appointment as CEO and Director of Jaguar Land Rover Automotive PLC. 110 C. Remuneration to Key Managerial Personnel other than MD / Manager / WTD INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Sr. Particulars of Remuneration Key Managerial Personnel Amount in (`) No P B Balaji Hoshang Sethna Group Chief Company Financial Officer Secretary 1 Gross Salary a) Salary as per provisions contained in Section 17(1) of the Income tax Act, 7,99,85,153 1,49,61,531 9,49,46,684 1961 (IT Act)# b) Value of perquisites u/s 17(2) of the IT Act# 45,850 92,870 1,38,720 c) Profits in lieu of salary u/s 173(3) of the IT Act 2 Stock Options* 3 Sweat Equity STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) 4 Commission a) as % of profit b) others, specify 5 Other, please specify (Retirement benefits) 26,13,656 6,38,997 32,52,653 Total 8,26,44,659 1,56,93,398 9,83,38,057 # The above remuneration is as per Income Tax Act, 1961 includes performance pay for FY18 paid in FY19 *Mr Balaji and Mr Sethna have been granted 2,28,600 and 28,500 options, respectively during the year which would vest at the end of 3rd, 4th & 5th year with an option to exercise at a price of `345 per share as per the terms of its issue. VII. PENALTIES/PUNISHMENT/COMPOUNDING OF OFFENCES: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) There were no penalties/punishment/compounding of offences for the breach of any sections of the Companies Act against the Company or its Directors or other Officers in default, if any, during the year. On behalf of the Board of Directors N CHANDRASEKARAN Chairman DIN 00121863 Mumbai, May 20, 2019 111 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year ANNEXURE–5 SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH, 2019 (Pursuant to section 204 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014) To, (d) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based The Members, Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014; Tata Motors Limited (e) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008; applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good corporate (f) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars practices by Tata Motors Limited (hereinafter called the Company). to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents)Regulations, Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that provided us a 1993 regarding the Companies Act and dealing with reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory client;(Not applicable to the Company during the audit compliances and expressing our opinion thereon. period) Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, minute (g) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009; (Not applicable to the Company, the information provided by the Company, its officers, Company during the audit period) and agents and authorised representatives during the conduct of (h) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of secretarial audit, the explanations and clarifications given to us Securities) Regulations, 1998; The Securities and Exchange and the representations made by the Management, we hereby Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018 report that in our opinion, the Company has, during the audit period (Not applicable to the Company during the audit period) covering the financial year ended on 31st March, 2019, generally (vi) Other laws applicable specifically to the Company namely: complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company has proper Board processes and compliance 1. The Motor Vehicle Act, 1988 and the Rules made thereunder. mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the  We have also examined compliance with the applicable reporting made hereinafter: clauses of the following: We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and (i) Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company returns filed and other records made available to us and maintained Secretaries of India with respect to board and general by the Company for the financial year ended on 31st March, 2019 meetings. according to the provisions of: (ii)  The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company (i)  The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made with BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India thereunder; Limited read with the Securities and Exchange Board of (ii) The Securities Contract (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) rules made thereunder; Regulations, 2015. (iii) The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws D  uring the period under review, the Company has complied with framed thereunder; the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, standards (iv)  Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules etc. mentioned above. The Securities and Exchange Board of and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign India have vide Order dated March 6, 2018 issued directions for Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External the Company to conduct an internal inquiry within 3 months into Commercial Borrowings; the leakage of information relating to its financial results for the quarter ended December 2015, take appropriate actions against (v) The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the those responsible and to submit its report within 7 days thereafter. Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’) Accordingly, the Company has on June 12, 2018 submitted its final (a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial response to SEBI. Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; We further report that: (b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015; The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with (c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 and Independent Directors subject to what is stated above. The and The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that took place Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 during the period under review were carried out in compliance with and amendments from time to time; the provisions of the Act. 112 Adequate notice was given to all directors to schedule the Board options, for vesting into not exceeding 1,38,00,000 (One Crore INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent at Thirty Eight Lakh) Ordinary Shares of the nominal face value least seven days in advance for meetings other than those held at of ` 2 (Rupees Two Only) per Ordinary Share to the Eligible shorter notice for which necessary consents have been sought at Employees of the Company on the terms and conditions stated the meeting, and a system exists for seeking and obtaining further in the Scheme In terms of the said scheme, the Nomination and information and clarifications on the agenda items before the Remuneration Committee at its meetings held on September 6, meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting. 2018 and March 28, 2019, approved the grant of 49,95,690 Decisions at the Board Meetings were taken unanimously. and 28,16,737 stock options respectively. We further report that there are adequate systems and processes e. The Company has filed a scheme of arrangement for sale of its in the Company commensurate with the size and operations of the Defense business to Tata Advanced Systems Limited with NCLT, Company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, Mumbai on January 22, 2019 after receipt of necessary stock rules, regulations and guidelines. exchange approvals. NCLT vide its order dated May 6, 2019 have directed the company to convene a shareholders’ meeting. We further report that during the audit period the Company had f.  The Company in March 2019 acquired the Non STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) following events which had bearing on the Company’s affairs in pursuance of the above referred laws, rules, regulations, guidelines, aerospace business from TAL Manufacturing Solutions Limited standards etc. (TAL) its wholly owned subsidiary and divested its entire holding in TAL to Tata Advanced Systems Limited. a.  TML Drivelines Limited, wholly owned subsidiary of the Company merged with the Company vide NCLT Order dated For Parikh & Associates April 5, 2018, the appointed date being April 1, 2017. Company Secretaries b. The Company redeemed unsecured listed Non-Convertible Debentures aggregating Rs 1090 crores and Secured listed P. N. Parikh Non-Convertible Debentures aggregating Rs 500 Crores Partner during the year and has complied with the applicable laws. FCS No: 327 CP No: 1228 c.  The Company vide tender offer redeemed senior notes Place: Mumbai aggregating US$ 237,468,000 out of notes aggregating US$ Date : May 17, 2019 500,000,000 due in 2020. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) d. The Company at the 73rd Annual General Meeting held on This Report is to be read with our letter of even date which is August 3, 2018 approved a scheme for grant of employee stock annexed as Annexure A and Forms an integral part of this report. ‘ANNEXURE-A’ To, The Members Tata Motors Limited Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter. 1. Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit. 2. We have followed the audit practices and process as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in secretarial records. We believe that the process and practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 3. We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company. 4. Where ever required, we have obtained the Management Representation about the Compliance of laws, rules and regulations and happening of events etc. 5. The Compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility of management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedure on test basis. 6. The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company. For Parikh & Associates Company Secretaries P. N. Parikh Partner FCS No: 327 CP No: 1228 Place: Mumbai Date : May 17, 2019 113 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year ANNEXURE-6 DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION POLICY [Pursuant to Regulation 43A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015] 1. Scope and Objective • Earning Stability • Future Capital Expenditure requirement of the Company This Policy seeks to lay down a broad framework for the • Growth plans, both organic and inorganic distribution of dividend by the Company whilst appropriately • Capital restructuring, debt reduction, capitalisation of balancing the need of the Company to retain resources for shares the Company’s growth & sustainability. Through this policy, • Crystallization of contingent liabilities of the Company the Company also endeavors to maintain fairness and • Profit earned under the Consolidated Financial Statement consistency while considering distributing dividend to the • Cash Flows shareholders. • Current and projected Cash Balance and Company’s The Policy sets out the circumstances and different factors for working capital requirements. consideration by the Board at the time of taking a decision on • Covenants in loan agreements, Debt servicing obligations distribution or retention of profits, in the interest of providing and Debt maturity profile. transparency to the shareholders. External Factors: The Policy is not an alternative to the decision of the Board for • Economic environment, both domestic and global. recommending dividend, which is made every year after taking • Unfavorable market conditions into consideration all the relevant circumstances enumerated • Changes in Government policies and regulatory provisions hereunder or other factors as may be considered relevant by • Cost of raising funds from alternate sources the Board. • Inflation rates • Sense of shareholders’ expectations The Policy is being recommended for adoption by the Board of • Cost of external financing Directors of all the companies in the Tata Motors Group i.e. by all its subsidiaries and to the extent possible, the joint ventures 4. Circumstances under which shareholders of the Company after discussions with its partners. may or may not expect dividend 2. Statutory Requirements The decision regarding dividend payout is a crucial decision as it determines the amount of profit to be distributed among The declaration and distribution of dividend shall, at all times, shareholders and amount of profit to be retained in business. be in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, Hence, the shareholders of the Company may expect dividend 2013, read with applicable rules framed thereunder, as may be only if the Company is having surplus funds after providing for in force for the time being (“Act”) in particular Sections 2(35), all the expenses, depreciation, etc., and after complying with 24, 51, 134(3)(k), 123, 124, 125, 126 and 127 of the Act and the statutory requirements under the Applicable Laws. the Companies (Declaration and Payment of Dividend) Rules, 2014, SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) The shareholders of the Company may not expect dividend in Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”), such other the following circumstances, subject to the discretion of the applicable provisions of law and the Articles of Association of Board of Directors: the Company as amended. • the Company has inadequacy of profits or incurs losses for 3. Parameters to be considered while recommending/declaring the Financial Year; dividend • the Company undertakes /proposes to undertake a significant The Board while declaring or recommending dividend to the expansion project requiring higher allocation of capital; shareholders, will consider following financial/ internal and • the Company undertakes /proposes to undertake any external factors: acquisitions or joint arrangements requiring significant Financial/Internal Factors: allocation of capital. • Profits earned and available for distribution during the • the Company has significantly higher working capital financial year requirement affecting free cash flow. • Accumulated reserves, including retained earnings • the Company proposes to utilize surplus cash for buy• Mandatory transfer of Profits earned to specific reserves, back of securities; such as Debenture Redemption Reserve, etc. • Past dividend trends – rate of dividend, EPS and payout • the Company is prohibited to recommend/declare dividend ratio, etc. by any regulatory body. 114 INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) The Board may also not recommend a dividend on considering The Board of Directors may also declare interim dividend any compelling factors/parameters mentioned in point 3 during the financial year, between two Annual General above. Meetings as and when they consider it fit. 5. Policy as to how the retained earnings will be utilized 7.  Specific clause with regard to dividend on shares with The Board may retain its earnings in order to make better use of differential voting rights the available funds and increase the value of the stakeholders in The payment of dividend shall be based on the respective the long run. The decision of utilization of the retained earnings rights attached to each class of shares as per their terms of of the Company shall be based on the following factors: issue. • Long term strategic plans The Company has two classes of shares Ordinary shares • Augmentation/ Increase in production capacity STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) and ‘A’ Ordinary shares (shares with differential rights as • Market expansion plan to voting and dividend). As per the Company’s Articles of • Product expansion plan Association and terms of issue of ‘A’ Ordinary Shares, the • Modernization plan holders of ‘A’ Ordinary shares shall be entitled to receive • Diversification of business dividend for each financial year at five percentage points • Replacement of capital assets more than the aggregate rate of dividend, declared if any, on • Balancing the Capital Structure by de-leveraging the Ordinary shares for that financial year. Company • Payment of Dividend or issue of Bonus Shares 8. Disclosures • Other such criteria as the Board may deem fit from time to time. The Policy shall be disclosed in the Annual report and on the website of the Company i.e. at www.tatamotors.com. 6. Quantum and manner of dividend payout 9. Policy review and amendments Subject to the circumstances and scenarios mentioned above, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) the Company shall endeavor to maintain a total dividend payThe Policy will be reviewed periodically by the Board. This out ratio in the range of 25% to 40% of the annual standalone revised policy has been adopted by the Board of Directors of profits after tax (PAT) of the Company. Under the applicable the Company at its meeting held on May 20, 2019, being the provisions of the Act, the Company’s ability to declare and pay effective date of this Policy. dividends is based on the standalone Financial Statements 10. Disclaimer only. In future should the regulations be amended permitting the Company to pay dividend based on its Consolidated a)  The Policy does not constitute a commitment regarding Profits, the Board would consider such a payout ratio on its the future dividends of the Company, but only represents Consolidated Profits. Till such time, The Company will endeavor a general guidance regarding dividend policy. The to have a policy on dividend distribution with a similar payout statement of the Policy does not in any way restrict ratio across its subsidiaries and to the extent possible, in its the right of the Board to use its discretion in the joint ventures after discussions with its partners. recommendation of the Dividend to be distributed in the year and the Board reserves the right to depart from the  The Company may declare dividends for a year, usually policy as and when circumstances so warrant. payable for a financial year at the time when the Board considers and recommends the Annual Financial Statements, b)  Given the aforementioned uncertainties, prospective which is called final dividend. The Board of Directors shall have or present investors are cautioned not to place undue the power to recommend final dividend to the shareholders for reliance on any of the forwardlooking statements in their approval in the Annual General Meeting of the Company. the Policy. 115 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Management Discussion and Analysis ECONOMY OVERVIEW to 2.2% last year, it is still above potential and in line with previous forecasts. U.S. growth in 2018 has picked up to 2.9%, up 0.2% INDIA point from previous projections, mostly reflecting stronger-thanThe Indian economy started the FY 2018-19 with a healthy 8.2% expected domestic demand. growth in the first quarter on the back of domestic resilience. During 2018, commodities continued to remain volatile and have Growth eased to 7.3% in the subsequent quarter due to rising global rebounded in the first quarter of 2019 due to rising trade tensions volatility, largely from financial volatility, normalized monetary and geo-political risks. Having fallen or having remained subdued policy in advanced economies, externalities from trade disputes, in the last quarter of 2018, most non-energy prices had recovered and investment rerouting. Further, the Indian rupee suffered their losses by first quarter of 2019, with particularly strong because of the crude price shock, and conditions exacerbated as rebounds in metal and minerals. This recovery in metal prices recovery in some advanced economies caused faster investment reflected improving growth prospects for China, which accounts outflows. for half of the global consumption, as well as a series of supply Real GDP growth of India is 7.2% in FY 2018-19 compared to bottlenecks and concerns: the Vale dam accident in Brasil (iron 6.7% in FY 2017-18. However, Q3 of FY 2018-19 saw a growth of ore, nickel); heavy floods in Chile (copper); smelter restrictions 6.6%, slowest in five quarters. With the Indian economy projected in response to environmental concerns in China (lead zinc); and to slow further in the fourth quarter, the Reserve Bank of India export restrictions in Indonesia (tin) focus shifted from inflationary concerns to sustaining the growth The Euro Area growth slowed notably in 2018 to an estimated 1.9%. momentum. Data released by the Society of Indian Automobile In particular, exports have softened, reflecting the appreciation of manufacturers signaled a slowdown in urban demand as car the Euro and slowing external demand. While unemployment has sales grew 2.7% in FY 2018-19, signaling near term softness due declined, inflation remains stubbornly low. Core inflation remained to some liquidity stress and slowing rural growth. Despite these at around 1%, while long-term inflation expectations continue to challenges, the Indian economy remains one of the fastest growing hover around 1.6%, as in the past three years. and possibly the least affected by global turmoil supported in part by India’s strong macroeconomic fundamentals and policy China registered a growth of 6.5% in 2018. A rebound in private changes (including amendments to the policy/code related to fixed investment helped offset a decline in public infrastructure insolvency and bankruptcy, bank recapitalization, and foreign and other state spending. However, industrial production direct investment). and export growth have decelerated, reflecting easing global manufacturing activity. Import growth continued to outpace export Currently, India is the fastest-growing trillion-dollar economy in the growth, contributing to a shrinking current account surplus. Net world and is expected to reach US$ 6 trillion by Fiscal 2027 and capital outflows have resumed, and international reserves have achieve upper-middle income status on the back of digitization, been edging down. Stock prices and the RMB have experienced globalization, favourable demographics, and reforms. India is continued downward pressures, and sovereign bond spreads have expected to be third largest consumer economy as its consumption is risen amid ongoing trade tensions and concerns about the growth expected to triple to US$4 trillion by 2025. The World Bank expects, outlook. New regulations on commercial bank exposures to India’s GDP growth to accelerate moderately to 7.5% in Fiscal 2020, shadow financing, together with stricter provisions for off-budget driven by continued investment, improved export performance, and borrowing by local governments, have slowed credit growth to the resilient consumption. India is likely to become the world’s secondnon-financial sector. However, in mid and late 2018, the authorities largest economy by 2030, next only to China. reiterated their intention to pursue looser macroeconomic policies WORLD to counter the potential economic impact of trade disputes with the United States. Prices of newly constructed residential buildings Global growth is moderating as the recovery in trade and have rebounded, including in Tier 1 cities, following several years manufacturing activity is losing its steam. Despite ongoing of correction. Consumer price inflation has generally moved up negotiations, trade tensions among major economies remain since mid-2018, partly reflecting currency depreciation and higher elevated. A strengthening U.S dollar, heightened financial market energy and food prices in most of last year, but it remains below volatility, and rising risk premiums have intensified capital target. outflow and currency pressures in some large Emerging Market and Developing Economies (EMDEs), with some vulnerable Japan’s economy also saw annualized growth of 0.8% due to countries experiencing substantial financial stress. Growth in the bad weather and natural disasters. The labour market has been United States has remained solid, bolstered by fiscal stimulus. In robust, with the unemployment rate at 2.4%, rising earnings, and contrast, activity in the Euro Area has been somewhat weaker than the participation rate standing above 79%—up 1.5%, since the previously expected, owing to slowing net exports. While growth beginning of last year. Rising labour force inputs, however, have in advanced economies is estimated to have slightly decelerated been offset by weak productivity. The Bank of Japan continues to 116 provide stimulus by keeping long-term rates near zero and adding FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) to its balance sheet. It now holds about 40% of government debt. Units % Units % The GDP rate of Russia slowed down to 0.8% in 2018. At a growth Passenger cars 2,86,730 22.5% 2,91,299 23.9% rate of 1.2%, South Africa’s economic expansion would still be Utility vehicles 4,60,056 36.1% 4,73,273 38.7% above the 0.8% level at which the economy expanded in 2018. The Light Commercial 3,34,005 26.2% 2,85,857 23.4% Middle East economy growth looks uncertain with the cut in oil Vehicles production in compliance with OPEC+ deal and geopolitical risks Medium and 1,93,281 15.2% 1,70,695 14.0% will continue to cap the growth. Heavy Commercial Vehicles The global automobile industry is on the brink of major transformation. Technology is driving this shift, shaped by Total 12,74,072 100.0% 12,21,124 100.0% demographic, regulatory and environmental pressures. By 2025, The Company sold 12,74,072 units and 12,21,124 units in FY 2018the vehicle will grow smarter and more efficient, with high efficiency 19 and FY 2017-18, respectively (excluding wholesales from the engines, lighter materials and autonomous driving systems. The China joint venture), consisting of 7,61,786 units of Tata and other STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) industry will evolve, with new competition from tech companies, brand vehicles and 5,12,286 units of Jaguar Land Rover vehicles for and suppliers capable of producing high-tech parts at low prices. FY 2018-19. In terms of units sold, the Company’s largest market is The recent studies show that a dramatic shift of production and India, where the Company sold 6,93,756 units and 6,16,801 units sales to the Asian markets will take place, and as a result, three during FY 2018-19 and FY 2017-18, respectively (constituting lac jobs in Europe is expected to be at risk. Mobility ecosystems in 54.5% and 50.5% of total sales in FY 2018-19 and FY 2017-18, major urban areas will lead to demotorization. Electric vehicles is respectively), followed by North America, where the Company sold expected to account for about 10% of new vehicle sales by 2025. 1,33,237 units and 1,36,447 units in FY 2018-19 and FY 2017Hybrids will reach a 40% share. 18, respectively (constituting 10.5% and 11.2% of total sales in FY Global Commercial vehicle market is expected to reach $2.27 2018-19 and FY 2017-18, respectively). The automotive operations trillion by 2025. The market is projected to expand at a CAGR segment is further divided into of 7.1% during the forecast period. Increased urbanization, (i) Tata and other brand vehicles commercial vehicles; coupled with rising spending on infrastructure development (ii) Tata and other brand vehicles – passenger vehicles; in emerging economies such as China, India, and Turkey, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) are expected to drive the market over the forecast period. In (iii) Jaguar Land Rover; and addition, increasing penetration of electric commercial vehicles (iv) Vehicle Financing is also anticipated to contribute toward market expansion over the coming years. Adoption of electric vehicles (EVs) is Tata and other brand vehicles primarily driven by need to meet emission reduction standards India is the primary market for Tata and other brand vehicles and regulations enforced by government bodies worldwide. (including vehicle financing). During FY 2018-19, there was a robust Commercial vehicle telematics is another trend that is gaining and steady pace of economic growth in the geographic markets in traction and is anticipated to have a positive impact on the which the Tata and other brand vehicles segment has operations. market over the forecast period. The following table sets forth the Company consolidated total Global Car and Sports Utility Vehicles sales in 2019 is expected sales of Tata and other brand vehicles: to fall slightly as the world economy stumbles. (Source : Global Economic Prospects, World Bank) FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 Units % Units % Automotive Operations Passenger cars 1,30,887 17.2% 1,40,815 20.8% Utility vehicles 1,03,613 13.6% 78,459 11.6% Automotive operations is the Company’s most significant segment, Light Commercial 3,34,005 43.8% 2,85,857 42.3% which include: Vehicles o activities relating to the development, design, manufacture, Medium and Heavy 1,93,281 25.4% 1,70,695 25.3% assembly and sale of vehicles as well as related spare parts Commercial Vehicles and accessories; Total 7,61,786 100.0% 6,75,826 100.0% o distribution and service of vehicles; and The Company’s overall sales of Tata and other brand vehicles increased by 12.7% to 7,61,786 units in FY 2018-19 from o financing of the Company’s vehicles in certain markets. 6,75,826 units in FY 2017-18. Of the 7,61,786 units sold overall The Company’s consolidated total sales (including international in FY 2018-19, the Company sold 6,93,756 units of Tata and other business sales and Jaguar Land Rover sales, excluding China brand vehicles in India, while 68,030 units were sold outside of joint venture) for FY 2018-19 and FY 2017-18 are set forth in the India, compared to 6,16,801 units and 59,025 units, respectively table below: in FY 2017-18. 117 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year The above volumes includes Fiat branded vehicles of 23,237 in FY 2018-19, as compared to 29,807 in FY 2017-18. Vehicle Sales in India Automobile sales in India rose by 5.9% in FY 2018-19. The following table sets forth the Company‘s (on standalone basis) sales, industry sales and relative market share in vehicle sales in India. Passenger vehicles includes passenger cars and utility vehicles. Commercial vehicles include Medium & Heavy Commercial Vehicles and Light Commercial Vehicles. Industry Sales Company Sales Market Share FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 Growth FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 Growth FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 Units % Units % % Commercial Vehicles1 10,38,834 8,87,316 17.1% 4,68,788 3,99,821 17.2% 45.1% 45.1% Passenger Vehicles2 33,46,374 32,55,010 2.8% 2,10,500 1,84,743 13.9% 6.3% 5.7% Total 43,85,208 41,42,326 5.9% 6,79,288 5,84,564 16.2% 15.5% 14.1% Source: Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers report and Company Analysis 1 Commercial vehicles include V2 van sales. 2 Passenger vehicles does not include Jaguar Land Rover-branded cars. The Company's share of the Indian automotive vehicle market for commercial and passenger vehicles together increased from 14.1% in FY2017-18 to 15.5% in FY2018-19. Company maintained its leadership position in the commercial vehicle category in the industry, which was characterized by increased competition during the year. The passenger vehicle market also continued to be subject to intense competition. The commercial vehicle industry started on a very strong note which continues in the first half of FY2018-19. The increased axle load norms, liquidity crunch and other factors dampened the demand in the second half. The passenger vehicle industry performance was also affected by availability of retail finance, higher interest rates and insurance costs. Passenger Vehicles in India Industry-wide sales of passenger vehicles in India increased by 2.8% in FY 2018-19, compared to a 7.3% growth in FY 2017-18, Whilst market situation remained challenging throughout the year, the Company outperformed the industry with a growth of 13.9% for FY2018-19. The Company’s passenger vehicles category consists of: (i) passenger cars and (ii) utility vehicles. The following table sets forth the Company’s passenger vehicle sales, industry sales and relative market share in passenger vehicle sales in India. Industry Sales Company Sales Market Share FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 Growth FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 Growth FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 Units % Units % % % Passenger Cars 22,18,197 21,73,380 2.1% 1,31,035 1,34,860 (2.8%) 5.9% 6.2% UV & Vans1 11,28,177 10,81,630 4.3% 79,465 49,883 59.3% 7.0% 4.6% Total2 33,46,374 32,55,010 2.8% 2,10,500 1,84,743 13.9% 6.3% 5.7% Source: Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers report and Company Analysis 1 Excludes V2 van sales. 2Total industry numbers includes sale in other segments. The Company sold 1,31,035 units in the passenger car category in FY 2018-19, representing a decrease of 2.8% compared to 1,34,860 units in FY 2017-18. In the utility vehicles category, the Company sold 79,465 units in FY 2018-19, representing an increase of 59.3% from 49,883 units in FY 2017-18. Tata Nexon, which was launched in FY 2017-18 has helped the Company increasing its market share in UV segment to 7.0% in FY2018-19 as compared to 4.6% in FY2017-18. In January 2019, the Company launched, Harrier – SUV, the first model from Omega architecture and sold 4,363 units. Commercial Vehicles in India Industry sales of commercial vehicles increased by 17.1% to 10,38,834 units in FY 2018-19 from 8,87,316 units in FY 2017-18. Industry sales in the medium and heavy commercial vehicle segment has grown by 10.9% at 2,74,750 units in FY 2018-19, as compared to 2,47,659 in FY 2017-18. The M&HCV industry has shown signs of recovery since July 2017. The implementation of GST, restrictions on overloading and infrastructure growth supported by the Government has boosted the demand. Industry sales of ILCV reported an increase of 21.7% to 1,25,471 units in FY 2018-19, from 1,03,131 units in FY 2017-18. Industry sales of SCV & Pickups reported an increase of 22.4% to 5,15,491 units in FY 2018-19, from 4,21,084 units in FY 2017-18. The ILCV & SCV industry growth is mainly due to high investments in e-commerce segments which is driving demand for last mile transportation requirements, growth in replacement 118 demand, improved financing and recovery in rural demand. Industry sales of CV Passenger reported an increase of 6.7% to 1,23,122 INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) units in FY 2018-19, from 1,15,442 units in FY 2017-18. The following table sets forth the Company’s commercial vehicle sales, industry sales and relative market share in commercial vehicle sales in India. Industry Sales Company Sales Market Share FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 Growth FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 Growth FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 Units % Units % % % M&HCV 2,74,750 2,47,659 10.9% 1,51,004 1,34,455 12.3% 55.0% 54.3% ILCV1 1,25,471 1,03,131 21.7% 57,015 46,343 23.0% 45.4% 44.9% SCV & Pickups 5,15,491 4,21,084 22.4% 2,06,655 1,66,746 23.9% 40.1% 39.6% CV Passenger 1,23,122 1,15,442 6.7% 54,114 52,277 3.5% 44.0% 45.3% Total 10,38,834 8,87,316 17.1% 4,68,788 3,99,821 17.2% 45.1% 45.1% Source: STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers report and Company Analysis 1 LCVs include V2 van sales 2 Total industry numbers includes sale in other segments. The sales of the Company’s commercial vehicles in India grew by 18, a drop of 24.8%.The domestic sales at 4,371 units in FY 201817.2% to 4,68,788 units in FY 2018-19 from 3,99,821 units in FY 19, reduced by 36.3% as compared to 6,859 units in FY 2017-18, 2017-18. The Company’s sales in the M&HCV category increased primarily due to lower industry volumes and aggressive discounting by 12.3% to 1,51,004 units in FY 2018-19, as compared to sales and marketing strategies of importers. The combined market share of 134,455 units in FY 2017-18. The Company’s sales in the ILCV was 21.1% in FY 2018-19 as compared to 26.5% in FY 2017-18. segment increased by 23.0% to 57,015 units in FY 2018-19, from The export market scenario continued to remain challenging in FY 46,343 units in FY 2017-18. The sales in SCV & Pickups segment 2018-19, with factors like local currency depreciation against the increased by 23.9% to 2,06,655 units in FY 2018-19 from 1,66,746 US Dollar, continuing statutory regulations to reduce imports, the units in FY 2017-18.The CV Passenger segment grew by 3.5% to slowdown in Chinese economy impacting commodity exporting FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) 54,114 units in FY 2018-19 from 52,277 units in FY 2017-18. countries and increased dealer inventory and impact of US sanction on Iran. However, TDCV could increase its export sales to 2,301 Tata and other brand vehicles — Exports units, 14.4% higher compared to 2,011 units in FY 2017-18. TDCV is International business has consistently expanded since its working on an aggressive turnaround plan to get back to sustainable inception in 1961. The Company have a global presence in more profitable growth in the coming years. than 46 countries, including all South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation countries, South Africa, Africa, Middle East, Tata and other brand vehicles — Sales and Distribution Southeast Asia and Ukraine. The Company markets a range of The Company’s sales and distribution network in India as at March products including M&HCV trucks, LCV trucks, buses, pickups and 2019 comprised approximately over 6,600 touch points for sales small commercial vehicles. and service for its passenger and commercial vehicle business. The Company’s exports (on standalone basis) grew marginally The Company’s subsidiary, TML Distribution Company Limited, or by 1.4% to 53,140 units in FY 2018-19 as compared to 52,404 TDCL, acts as a dedicated distribution and logistics management units in FY 2017-18. Commercial vehicles exports were 51,119 Company to support the sales and distribution operations of its units in FY 2018-19, as compared to 50,106 units in FY 2017-18. vehicles in India. The Company believes this has improved the The new regulations and political uncertainty in Sri Lanka and efficiency of its selling and distribution operations and processes. slump in Middle East, resulted in significant drop in the market, The Company uses a network of service centers on highways and affecting the Company’s sales. However, the Company’s market a toll-free customer assistance center to provide 24-hour roadside share in both these markets improved for the commercial vehicles. assistance, including replacement of parts, to vehicle owners. The Company bagged several prestigious orders in FY 2018-19. TDCL provides distribution and logistics support for vehicles Passenger vehicles exports stood at 2,021 units in FY 2018-19, manufactured at the Company’s facilities and has set up stocking compared to 2,298 units in FY 2017-18. Two large markets remain points at some of Company’s plants and at different places non-operational Sri Lanka due to high import duties, tight retail throughout India. TDCL helps us improve planning, inventory financing and South Africa due to the closure of the distribution management, transport management and timing of delivery. The channel. Tata Motors made the first ever supply to Bangladesh Company has customer relations management system, or CRM, Army with 18 Units of Hexa. at all of its dealerships and offices across the country, which In FY 2018-19, Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Co. Ltd or TDCV’s supports users both at its Company and among its distributors in vehicles sales were 6,672 units compared to 8,870 units in FY 2017India and abroad. 119 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year The Company markets its commercial and passenger vehicles in • f urnishing, in favor of the investors, 14.39% of the future several countries in Africa, the Middle East, South East Asia, South principal in the receivables as collateral, for securitizations Asia, Australia, Latin America, Russia and the Commonwealth of done through FY 2018-19, either by way of a fixed deposit Independent States countries. The Company has a network of or bank guarantee or subordinate tranche to secure the distributors in all such countries, where it exports its vehicles. Such obligations of the purchasers and our obligations as the distributors have created a network of dealers and branch offices and collection agent, based on the quality of receivables and rating facilities for sales and after-sales servicing of the Company’s products assigned to the individual pool of receivables by the rating in their respective markets. The Company has also stationed overseas agency(ies); and resident sales and service representatives in various countries to •  y way of over-collateralization or by investing in subordinate b oversee its operations in the respective territories. pass-through certificates to secure the obligations of the Tata and other brand vehicles – Vehicle Financing purchasers. Through the Company’s wholly owned subsidiary TMF Holdings Ltd Tata and other brand vehicles — Competition and its step down subsidiaries Tata Motors Finance Ltd (TMFL) and The Company faces competition from various domestic and foreign Tata Motors Finance Solutions Ltd (TMFSL), the Company provides automotive manufacturers in the Indian automotive market. financing services to purchasers of its vehicles through independent Improving infrastructure and robust growth prospects compared dealers, who act as the Company’s agents for financing transactions, to other mature markets has attracted a number of international and through the Company’s branch network. TMF group disbursed companies to India that either have formed joint ventures with local `21,993 crores and `15,406 crores in vehicle financing during FY partners or have established independently owned operations in 2018-19 and FY 2017-18, respectively. During FY 2018-19 and India. Global competitors bring with them decades of international FY 2017-18, approximately 26% and 25%, respectively, of the experience, global scale, advanced technology and significant Company’s vehicle unit sales in India were made by the dealers financial resources, and, as a result, competition is likely to further through financing arrangements with Company’s captive financing intensify in the future. The Company has designed its products subsidiary. As at March 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company’s to suit the requirements of the Indian market based on specific customer finance receivable portfolio comprised 5,77,399 and customer needs such as safety, driving comfort, fuel-efficiency 488,456 contracts, respectively. The Company follow specified and durability. The Company believes that its vehicles are suited internal procedures, including quantitative guidelines, for selection to the general conditions of Indian roads and the local climate. of its finance customers and assist in managing default and Its vehicles have also been designed to comply with applicable repayment risk in the Company’s portfolio. The Company originate environmental regulations currently in effect. The Company also all of the contracts through its authorized dealers and direct offers a wide range of optional configurations to meet the specific marketing agents with whom the Company have agreements. All the needs of its customers and intends to develop and is developing Company’s marketing, sales and collection activities are undertaken products to strengthen its product portfolio in order to meet the through dealers or by TMF group. increasing customer expectations of owning world-class products. TMFL securitize or sell its finance receivables on the basis of the Tata and other brand vehicles — Seasonality evaluation of market conditions and funding requirements. The constitution of these pools is based on criteria that are decided by Demand for the Company’s vehicles in the Indian market is subject credit rating agencies and/or based on the advice that we receive to seasonal variations. Demand for the Company’s vehicles regarding the marketability of a pool. TMFL undertake these generally peaks between January and March, although there is a securitizations of its receivables due from purchasers by means of decrease in demand in February just before release of the Indian private placement. fiscal budget. Demand is usually lean from April to July and picks up again in the festival season from September onwards, with a TMFL act as collection agents on behalf of the investors, decline in December due to year-end. representatives, special purpose vehicles or banks, in whose favor the receivables have been assigned, for the purpose of Jaguar Land Rover collecting receivables from the purchasers on the terms and Total wholesales of Jaguar Land Rover vehicles (excluding Chery conditions contained in the applicable deeds of securitization, in Jaguar Land Rover and JLR CKD operations) with a breakdown respect of which pass-through certificates are issued to investors between Jaguar and Land Rover brand vehicles, in FY 2018-19 in case of special purpose vehicles, or SPVs. TMFL also secure the and FY 2017-18 are set forth in the table below: payments to be made by the purchasers of amounts constituting the receivables under the loan agreements to the extent specified FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 by rating agencies by any one or all of the following methods: Units % Units % • f urnishing collateral to the investors, in respect of the Jaguar 1,53,757 30.3% 1,50,484 27.6% obligations of the purchasers and the undertakings to be Land Rover 3,54,138 69.7% 3,94,814 72.4% provided by TMFL; Total 5,07,895 100.0% 5,45,298 100.0% 120 In FY 2018-19, Jaguar Land Rover wholesale volumes (excluding By brand, Jaguar retails were 38,515 vehicles in FY 2018-19, INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) sales from Chery Jaguar Land Rover) were 5,07,895 units, down up 20.1% compared to 32,078 vehicles in FY 2017-18, and Land 6.9%, compared to FY 2017-18, primarily reflecting weak market Rover retails were 79,400, up 3.5% compared to 76,681 last year. conditions in China as well as production downtime to reduce North America inventory, partially offset by growth in UK sales volumes. The introduction of new and refreshed models led by the Jaguar Economic performance in North America remained generally E-PACE, award winning I-PACE, Range Rover Velar and the favourable in FY 2018-19 with solid GDP but industry vehicle sales refreshed Range Rover and Range Rover Sport were offset by were slightly lower (0.5%) year on year. Jaguar Land Rover retails lower sales of more established models, mainly in China, and increased significantly, up 8.1% year on year, to 1,39,778 units in FY the run-out of the first generation Range Rover Evoque in the 2018-19 compared to 1,29,319 units in FY 2017-18. By brand, Jaguar third quarter ahead of with the launch of the new Evoque now retails were 36,768 vehicles in FY 2018-19, down 10.0% compared to available. Wholesale volumes (excluding sales from Chery Jaguar 40,855 vehicles in FY 2017-18, offset by Land Rover retails, which Land Rover) were up in the UK (4.1%), but down in other regions were 1,03,010, up 16.4% compared to 88,464 last year. including North America (2.4%), Overseas markets (5.5%), Europe Europe STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) (6.1%) and China (38.8%). GDP growth in Europe was mixed in FY 2018-19 and slowed by Jaguar wholesale volumes were 1,53,757 units, up 2.2% compared the end of the year as economic growth in Germany slowed, and to FY 2017-18, as the introduction of the E-Pace and award Italy entered recession. Industry volumes in Europe were down winning all electric I-PACE, were partially offset by lower sales 0.9% and Jaguar Land Rover retail sales fell 4.5% year on year to volume other more established models, primarily F-PACE and XE. 1,27,566 vehicles in FY 2018-19 from 1,33,592 in FY 2017-18, Land Rover wholesale volumes were 3,54,138 units, down 10.3% primarily as a result of continuing diesel uncertainty, Brexit and the compared to the previous year, as sales of the refreshed Range change to more stringent World Harmonized Light Vehicle Testing Rover and Range Rover Sport (including hybrid models) as well Procedure (WLTP) emissions testing regime. By brand, Jaguar as a full year of Range Rover Velar sales were offset by lower retails were 49,474 vehicles in FY 2018-19, up 36.5% compared volumes of more established models, mainly in China, and the run to 36,248 vehicles in FY 2017-18, and Land Rover retails were out of the first generation Range Rover Evoque in the 3rd quarter 78,092, down 19.8% compared to 97,344 last year. ahead with the launch of the new Evoque now available. China FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) The wholesale volumes of Chery Jaguar Land Rover (China Economic growth continued to slow in China during FY 2018-19 as joint venture) were 57,428 units in FY 2018-19, down 34.9% weaker market conditions and trade tension with the US continued. compared to the 88,212 units in FY 2017-18, primarily reflecting As a result, and compounded by uncertainty driven by import duties the challenging market conditions in China. By model, the in July, industry vehicle sales declined by 8.3% year on year and introduction of the Jaguar E-Pace and a full year of long wheelJaguar Land Rover retail volumes (including sales from the China base XEL sales were offset by lower sales of the more established Joint Venture) decreased by 34.1% to 98,922 units in FY 2018-19 Land Rover Discover Sport, Range Rover Evoque and long wheelfrom 1,50,116 units in FY 2017-18. By brand, Jaguar retails were base Jaguar XFL. 32,797 vehicles in FY 2018-19, down 26.6% compared to 44,705 Jaguar Land Rover’s performance in key geographical markets on vehicles in FY 2017-18, and Land Rover retails were 66,125, down a retail basis 37.3% compared to 1,05,411 last year. Retail volumes (including retail sales from the China Joint Venture) Other Overseas markets in FY 2018-19 declined by 5.8% to 5,78,915 units from 6,14,309 Jaguar Land Rover’s retail volumes in other overseas markets units in FY 2017-18 as the introduction of new and refreshed increased by 2.4% to 94,734 vehicles in FY 2018-19 compared models led by the Jaguar E-PACE, award winning I-PACE, Range to 92,523 units in the prior year. By brand, Jaguar retails were Rover Velar and the refreshed Range Rover and Range Rover 22,644 vehicles in FY 2018-19, up 9.5% compared to 20,674 Sport were offset by lower sales of more established models, vehicles in FY 2017-18, and Land Rover retails were 72,090, up mainly in China, and the run-out of the first generation Range 0.3% compared to 71,849 last year. Rover Evoque in the third quarter ahead of with the launch of the new Evoque now available. Jaguar Land Rover’s Sales & Distribution United Kingdom As at March 31, 2019, Jaguar Land Rover distribute its vehicles Industry vehicle sales fell 3.7% in FY 2018-19 in the United in 120 markets for Jaguar and 128 markets for Land Rover Kingdom as diesel (sales down 25.9% year on year) and Brexit globally. Sales locations for vehicles are operated as independent uncertainty continued, with the Brexit deadline extended to the franchises. Jaguar Land Rover are represented in its key markets end of October but uncertainty remaining over any potential deal. through its National Sales Company’s (“NSC’s”) as well as Jaguar Land Rover retail volumes increased by 8.4% to 1,17,915 thirdparty importers. Jaguar and Land Rover have regional offices units in FY 2018-19 compared to 1,08,759 units in FY 2017-18. in certain select countries that manage customer relationships and 121 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year vehicle supplies and provide marketing and sales support to their Highways, Centre upgraded fiscal spending on rural roads at `19k regional importer markets. The remaining importer markets are crore under Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY). Focus on managed from the United Kingdom. road building under National Highway Authority of India and PMGSY will spur demand for commercial vehicles and tractors, respectively. Jaguar Land Rover products are sold through a variety of sales channels: through its dealerships for retail sales; for sale to fleet The Automotive Mission Plan 2016-26 aims at 12% share customers, including daily rental car companies; commercial of automotive industry in GDP, along with implementation of fleet customers; leasing companies; and governments. Jaguar BS6 vehicles by 2023 for four wheelers. Budget 2019 saw for Land Rover do not depend on a single customer or small group of the first time, government’s intent to have electric mobility customers to the extent that the loss of such a customer or group by 2030. The Faster Adoption And Manufacturing of (Hybrid) of customers would have a material adverse effect on its business. & Electric (FAME) Vehicles in India lays down the roadmap to support the development of electric and hybrid vehicles market As at March 31, 2019, Jaguar Land Rover global sales and and its manufacturing eco-system with a view to achieve selfdistribution network comprised 23 NSCs, 77 importers, 2 export sustenance as early as 2020. Technology development, demand partners and 2,684 franchise sales dealers, of which 1,299 are creation, pilot projects and charging infrastructure are the focus joint Jaguar and Land Rover dealers. areas of the scheme. Jaguar Land Rover — Competition Jaguar Land Rover has a strong product range that compete in Jaguar Land Rover operates in a globally competitive environment various segments, including the increased electrification of the and faces competition from established premium and other vehicle product portfolio. New and refreshed products, including the manufacturers who aspire to move into the premium performance Range Rover Velar (on sale since July 2017), the Jaguar E-PACE car and premium SUV markets, some of which are much larger (on sale since November 2017) and the all-electric Jaguar I-PACE than they are. Jaguar vehicles compete primarily against other (on sale since June 2018) as well as the refreshed Range Rover European brands such as Audi, Porsche, BMW and Mercedes Benz and Range Rover Sport (including hybrid models), the recently as well as Tesla. Land Rover and Range Rover vehicles compete announced new Defender and other new and refreshed products, largely against SUVs from companies such as Audi, BMW, Infiniti, ensures that Jaguar Land Rover can compete in the premium Lexus, Mercedes Benz, Porsche, Volvo and Volkswagen. segments with class-leading products. Jaguar Land Rover — Seasonality FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE ON A CONSOLIDATED BASIS Jaguar Land Rover volumes are impacted by the biannual change The financial information discussed in this section is derived from in agerelated registration plates of vehicles in the United Kingdom, the Company’s Audited Consolidated Financial Statements. where new agerelated plate registrations take effect in March and The Company has adopted Ind AS 115 with a modified retrospective September. This has an impact on the resale value of the vehicles approach. The Company makes transport arrangements for because sales are clustered around the time of the year when the delivering its vehicles to the dealers. The gross consideration vehicle registration number change occurs. Seasonality in most received in respect of these arrangements was recognized and other markets is driven by the introduction of new model year presented with revenue in the statement of profit and loss. The costs vehicles and derivatives. Furthermore, Western European markets associated with these arrangements were presented within freight tend to be impacted by summer and winter holidays, and the cost in the statement of profit and loss. In accordance with Ind AS Chinese market tends to be affected by the Lunar New Year holiday 115, the Company has determined that it is an agent in providing in either January or February, the PRC National Day holiday and these services, and therefore the gross consideration received, the Golden Week holiday in October. The resulting sales profile net off cost associated with respect to these arrangements is influences operating results on a quarter-to-quarter basis. presented within revenue effective April 1, 2018. Certain payouts Other Operations Overview made to dealers such as infrastructure support payments are to be treated as variable components of consideration and are The Company’s other operations business segment mainly includes therefore in accordance with Ind AS 115, recognized as revenue information technology services, machine tools and factory deductions in future. These changes in presentation in the income automation services. The Company’s revenue from other operations statement has resulted in decrease in both revenues and expenses before inter-segment eliminations was `3,626.07 crores in FY by `3,809.03 crores for the year ended March 31, 2019. 2018-19, an increase of 11.5% from `3,252.36 crores in FY 201718. Revenues from other operations represented 1.2% and 1.1% of Overview total revenues, before inter-segment eliminations, in FY 2018-19 The Company income from operations including finance revenues and FY 2017-18. increased by 3.3% to `3,01,938.40 crores in FY 2018-19 from `2,92,340.64 crores in FY 2017-18. The increase is mainly OPPORTUNITIES: attributable to better sales volumes of the Company’s India In the Budget 2019, the Government of India has allocated `83k crore business and favourable currency translation from GB£ to INR of to highways among various infra-based sectors. Apart from National `14,516.58 crores, offset by lower sales of Jaguar Land Rover. 122 The Company has pursued a strategy of increasing exports of I. Automotive: The Automotive segment consist of four INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Tata and other brand vehicles to new and existing markets. Tata reportable sub-segments: Tata Commercial Vehicles, Technologies Ltd (TTL), subsidiary of the Company, witnessed Tata Passenger Vehicles, Jaguar Land Rover and Vehicle increase in revenue due to favourable currency movement, which Financing. helped in growth of revenue in the UK, Europe and North America. II. Others: Others consist of IT services and machine tools and The growth in Asia Pacific revenue of TTL was primarily driven factory automation solutions. by strong revenue growth in India and China in key accounts and growth in educational product sales. However, due to lower sales Tata Commercial vehicles include commercial vehicles of JLR and increased growth in revenue in India in FY 2018-19, manufactured under Tata and Daewoo brands. Tata passenger the proportion of the Company’s net sales earned from markets vehicles include passenger vehicles manufactured under Tata and outside of India decreased to 77.4% in FY 2018-19 from 79.9% in Fiat brands and excludes vehicles manufactured under Jaguar FY 2017-18. Further, in FY 2018-19, the revenue of the Company’s Land Rover brands. Vehicle Financing which is Tata Motors Finance subsidiary in South Korea, TDCV, has been lower due to lower include financing of Tata and Jaguar Land Rover new vehicles, industry volumes and aggressive discounting and marketing pre-owned vehicles including other OEMs brands and corporate STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) strategy of importers. The following table sets forth the Company’s lending to the Company’s channel partners. revenues from its key geographical markets and the percentage of The Company believe that this reorganization will improve total revenues that each key geographical market contributes for speed, agility and simplicity within our business units, and the periods indicated: enable strong functional leadership, improved decision-making, Revenue FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 quicker responses to changing market conditions and clear (` in crores) % (` in crores) % accountability. India 68,087.44 22.6% 58,659.18 20.1% The table below sets forth the breakdown in revenues between China 30,414.75 10.1% 42,635.26 14.6% the Company automotive operations and other operations in FY UK 49,113.81 16.3% 50,456.60 17.3% 2018-19 and FY 2017-18 and the percentage change from period United States 52,472.91 17.4% 44,991.88 15.4% to period. Rest of Europe* 49,814.17 16.4% 46,393.27 15.9% FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 Change Rest of World* 52,035.32 17.2% 49,204.45 16.7% FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) (` in crores) % Total 3,01,938.40 2,92,340.64 Automotive operations 2,99,655.61 2,90,384.64 3.2 Earnings before other income, interest and tax, were `3,774.03 Others 3,626.07 3,252.36 11.5 crores in FY 2018-19 compared to `11,787.51 crores in FY Inter-segment elimination (1,343.28) (1,296.36) 3.6 2017-18. The decrease was primarily driven by the performance Total 3,01,938.40 2,92,340.64 3.3 of Jaguar Land Rover business, including higher depreciation and amortization, fixed marketing expenses/selling costs. The Automotive operations Company’s net loss (attributable to shareholders of the Company) Automotive operations are the Company most significant segment, was `28,826.23 crores in FY 2018-19 as compared to a profit of accounting for 99.2% and 99.3% of the Company’s total revenues in `8,988.91 crores in FY 2017-18. In FY 2018-19, the Company has FY 2018-19 and FY 2017-18 respectively. In FY 2018-19, revenue taken an impairment charge of £3,105 million (`27,837.91 crores). from automotive operations before inter-segment eliminations The Company assessed the recoverable amount of the Jaguar was `2,99,655.61 crores as compared to `2,90,384.64 crores in Land Rover business, which represent a single cash-generating FY 2017-18, an increase of 3.2%. unit (CGU), as the higher of Fair Value Less Cost of Disposal (‘FVLCD’) and Value in Use (‘VIU’) of the relevant assets of the CGU, The following table sets forth selected data regarding the due to weaker sales and profitability, change in market conditions Company’s automotive operations for the periods indicated, and especially in China, technology disruptions. the percentage change from period to period (before inter-segment eliminations). The Company’s operations is divided into automotive operations and other operations as described further below. FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 Change % A core initiative of the Company was the implementation of the Total revenue (` in crores) 2,99,655.61 2,90,384.64 3.2 Organization Effectiveness (OE) program, a strategic program Earning before other income, 3,388.77 11,512.38 (70.6) designed to overhaul and transform the Company. interest and tax (` in crores) Earning before other income, 1.1% 4.0% Pursuant to the changes implemented as a result of the OE interest and tax program, the Company has drawn separate strategies for (% to total revenue) commercial vehicles, passenger vehicles and financing business from FY 2018-19. Consequent to these changes, commencing FY The Company’s automotive operations segment is further divided 2018-19, the reportable segments is as follows: into Tata and other brand vehicles, Vehicle financing and Jaguar 123 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Land Rover. In FY 2018-19, Jaguar Land Rover contributed 75% Results of Operations of the Company’s total automotive revenue compared to 77% in The following table sets forth selected items from the Company’s FY 2017-18 and the remaining 25% was contributed by Tata and consolidated statements of income for the periods indicated and other brand vehicles and Financing in FY 2018-19 compared to shows these items as a percentage of total revenues: 23% in FY 2017-18. The Company’s revenue from Tata and other brand vehicles FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 (including vehicle financing) and Jaguar Land Rover in FY 2018(%) (%) 19 and FY 2017-18 and the percentage change from period to Revenue from operations 100.0 100.0 period (before intra-segment eliminations) is set forth in the (net of excise duty) table below. Expenditure: Cost of material consumed 65 63.6 FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 Change (including change in stock) (` in crores) % Excise Duty (refer below explanation) 0.3 Tata and other brand 76,417.68 65,685.50 16.3 Employee Cost 11 10.4 vehicles including vehicle Product development/Engineering 1.4 1.2 financing Other expenses (net) 20.6 20.6 Jaguar Land Rover 2,23,513.58 2,24,831.05 (0.6) Amount transferred to capital and other (6.5) (6.4) Intra-segment elimination (275.65) (131.91) (109.0) accounts Total 2,99,655.61 2,90,384.64 3.2 Total Expenditure 91.5 89.7 Profit before other income, Depreciation 8.5 10.3 The Tata and other brand vehicles including vehicle financing and amortization, Finance costs, Foreign consists of following categories: exchange (gain)/loss, exceptional item and tax FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 Change Other Income 1.0 1.4 (` in crores) % Profit before Depreciation and 9.5 11.7 Commercial Vehicle 58,137.10 49,373.55 17.7 Amortization, Finance costs, Foreign Passenger Vehicle 14,469.80 13,342.04 8.5 exchange (gain)/loss, exceptional item and Unallocable 110.60 169.69 (34.8) tax Vehicle Finance 3,700.18 2,800.22 32.1 Depreciation and Amortization 7.9 7.4 Total 76,417.68 65,685.50 16.3 Finance costs 1.9 1.6 Foreign exchange loss (net) 0.3 (0.4) Other operations Exceptional Item (gain)/loss (net) 9.8 (0.7) Profit/(loss) before tax (10.4) 3.8 The following table sets forth selected data regarding the Company’s Tax expense / (credit) (0.8) 1.5 other operations for the periods indicated and the percentage change from period to period (before inter-segment eliminations). Profit/(loss) after tax (9.6) 2.3 Share of profits/(loss) of equity accounted 0.1 0.8 FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 Change (%) investees (net) Total revenue (` in crores) 3,626.07 3,252.36 11.5% Minority Interest Earning before other income, 505.44 422.32 19.7% Profit/(loss) for the year (9.5) 3.1 interest and tax (` in crores) Cost of materials consumed (including change in stock) Earning before other income, 13.9% 13.0% interest and tax (% to total FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 revenue) (` in crores) Consumption of raw materials and 1,82,254.45 1,73,371.19 The other operations business segment includes information components technology, machine tools and factory automation solutions. In FY 2018-19, revenue from other operations before inter-segment Basis adjustment on hedge accounted (1,245.37) (1,378.60) eliminations was `3,626.07 crores compared to `3,252.36 crores derivatives in FY 2017-18. Results for the other operations business segment Purchase of product for sale 13,258.83 15,903.99 before other income, finance cost, tax and exceptional items (before Change in inventories of finished goods, 2,053.28 (2,046.58) inter-segment eliminations) were `505.44 crores in FY 2018-19 as Work-in-progress and products for sale compared to `422.32 crores for FY 2017-18. Total 1,96,321.19 1,85,850.00 124 Cost of material consumed increased from 63.6% of total revenue The changes are mainly driven by volumes and the size of INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) (excluding income from vehicle financing) in FY 2017-18 to operations. 65.0% in FY 2018-19. For Tata Motors Standalone (including i. Processing charges were mainly incurred by Tata and other brand Joint Operations), costs of materials consumed was 73.1% of net vehicles, which, due to higher volumes, led to higher expenditures. revenue in FY 2018-19 of total revenue as compared to 72.7% in FY 2017-18, representing an increase of 40 bps, which was ii. Freight, transportation, port charges etc. have decreased, for mainly attributable to a change in product mix. For Jaguar Land Jaguar Land Rover, predominantly due to decreased sales in Rover, costs of materials consumed was 63.8% of total revenue in certain geographies. As a percentage to total revenue, Freight, FY 2018-19 compared to 61.9% in FY 2017-18, representing an transportation and port charges etc. were at 2.6% in FY 2018increase of 190 bps, mainly driven by product mix. 19, as compared to 3.7% in FY 2017-18. The decrease is also due to presentation change on adoption of Ind AS 115. Employee Costs were `33,243.87 crores in FY 2018-19 as iii. Publicity expenses decreased by 2.7% mainly due to decrease compared to `30,300.09 crores in FY 2017-18, an increase of in JLR and represented 2.9% of total revenues in FY 2018-19 9.7%. There was unfavourable translation impact of GB£ to INR of and 3.1% in FY 2017-18. In addition to routine product and Jaguar Land Rover operation of `1,691.23 crores. At Jaguar Land STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) brand campaigns, the Company incurred expenses relating to Rover the increase in employee cost is by 3.5% to GB£2,822 million new product introduction campaigns for the I-Pace, E-Pace, (`25,903.78 crores) in FY 2018-19 as compared to GB£2,726 million Velar and the all new Jaguar XF, the Harrier, Tiago/Tigor JTP (`23,392.69 crores) in FY 2017-18, primarily reflects the average range at Tata Motors. increase in the employee head count all across functions. For Tata Motors Standalone (including joint operations), the employee cost iv. W  arranty and product liability expenses represented 3.9% and increased by 7.7% to `4,273.10 crores as compared to `3,966.73 2.6% of the Company’s revenues in FY 2018-19 and FY 2017crores in FY 2017-18, mainly due to annual increments, higher bonus 18, respectively. The warranty expenses at Jaguar Land Rover and performance payment accruals and wage revisions. To manage, represented 4.2% of the revenue as compared to 2.7% last employee costs, in FY 2018-19, Jaguar Land Rover announced the year, primarily due to new campaigns, whereas Tata Motors voluntary redundancy program, resulting in a charge of `1,367.22 India operations these represent 1.5% and 1.3% of revenue for crores (considered in exceptional items). FY 2018-19 and FY 2017-18, respectively. v. W  orks operation and other expenses have decreased to 6.7% of Other Expenses includes all works operations, indirect net revenue in FY 2018-19 from 6.9% in FY 2017-18. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) manufacturing expenses, freight cost, fixed marketing costs and other administrative costs. These expenses have increased to vi. Engineering expenses at Jaguar Land Rover have been flat, `62,238.12 crores in FY 2018-19 from `60,184.21 crores in FY reflecting the continued investment in the development of new 2017-18. The breakdown is provided below: vehicles. A significant portion of these costs are capitalized and shown under the line item “Amount transferred to capital and FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 Change other accounts”. (` in crores) vii. The provision and write off of various debtors, vehicle loans and Processing charges 1,634.36 1,339.08 295.28 advances (net), has increased to `534.43 crores in FY 2018Consumption of stores and 2,444.15 2,210.56 233.59 19 as compared to `57.87 crores in FY 2017-18. Allowances spare parts for trade and other receivables for FY 2018-19 increased to `211.81 crores, as compared to `14.57 crores. In FY 2017-18, Freight, transportation, port 7,804.47 10,742.12 (2,937.65) there was reversal of certain provisions for trade receivables charges, etc. due to favourable litigation award. Allowances for finance Power and fuel 1,585.93 1,308.08 277.85 receivables has increased to `320.24 crores in FY 2018-19, as Warranty and product 11,890.70 7,700.07 4,190.63 compared to `43.30 crores in FY 2017-18. The increase is due liability expenses to higher finance receivables, due to increased volumes, lower Publicity 8,729.63 8,968.59 (238.96) calculations on percentage terms of finance receivables and Information technology/ 2,340.45 2,143.18 197.27 there was a reversal of provision in FY 2017-18. computer expenses Amount transferred to capital and other accounts represents Allowance for finance, trade 534.43 57.87 476.56 expenditure transferred to capital and other accounts allocated and other receivables out of employee cost and other expenses, incurred in connection Engineering expenses 5,275.58 5,278.84 (3.26) with product development projects and other capital items. The expenditure transferred to capital and other accounts has MTM (gain)/loss on (84.75) 214.63 (299.38) increased by 5.8% to `19,659.59 crores in FY 2018-19 from commodity derivatives `18,588.09 crores in FY 2017-18, mainly due to various product Works operation and other 20,083.17 20,221.19 (138.02) development projects undertaken by the Company for the expenses introduction of new products and the development of engine and Other Expenses 62,238.12 60,184.21 2,053.91 products variants. 125 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Other Income decreased by 25.1% to `2,965.31 crores in FY 2018a) In FY 2018-19, Jaguar Land Rover announced the voluntary 19 from `3,957.59 crores in FY 2017-18. Interest income increased redundancy program, resulting in a charge of `1,367.22 crores. to `786.46 crores in FY 2018-19, compared to `711.81 crores b) The debit of GB£16.5 million (`147.93 crores) in FY 2018-19 in FY 2017-18, whereas profit on sale of investment marginally as compared to credit of GB£437 million (`3,609.01 crores) in decreased to `128.61 crores in FY 2018-19, compared to `129.26 FY 2017-18, related to the amendment of the Defined Benefit crores in FY 2017-18. Fair value gain in investments has increased scheme of Jaguar Land Rover as past service costs. to `238.54 crores in FY 2018-19, as compared to `32.05 crores in FY 2017-18. During FY 2018-19, the fair value of the investment in c) In FY 2018-19, the Company has taken an impairment charge Lyft has increased by GB£24.35 million (`223.45 crores), due to IPO of £3,105 million (`27,837.91 crores). The Company assessed lisiting on the NASDAQ stock exchange. the recoverable amount of the Jaguar Land Rover business, which represent a single cash-generating unit (CGU), as the Profit before Depreciation and Amortization, Finance costs, higher of Fair Value Less Cost of Disposal (‘FVLCD’) and Value Foreign exchange (gain)/loss, exceptional item and tax is in Use (‘VIU’) of the relevant assets of the CGU, due to change in `28,535.55 crores in FY 2018-19, representing 9.5% of revenue in market conditions especially in China, technology disruptions FY 2018-19 compared to `34,229.99 crores in FY 2017-18. and rising cost of debt. Depreciation and Amortization: During FY 2018-19, depreciation d) On July 31, 2018, the Company decided to cease the current and amortization expenditures increased by 9.5% to `23,590.63 manufacturing operations of Tata Motors Thailand Ltd. The crores from `21,553.59 crores in FY 2017-18. The depreciation Company will address the Thailand market with a revamped increase of 12.2% to `12,200.42 crores as compared to `10,874.34 product portfolio, suitable to the local market needs, delivered crores in FY 2017-18 is mainly at Jaguar Land Rover due to new through a CBU distribution model. Accordingly, the relevant product launches and opening of new facilities (Slovakia). The restructuring costs have been accounted in FY 2018-19. amortization expenses have also increased by 6.7% to `11,390.21 crores in FY 2018-19 from `10,679.25 crores in FY 2017-18, e) In FY 2018-19, the Company has sold investment in TAL and are attributable to new products introduced during the year, Manufacturing Solutions Limited to Tata Advanced Systems mainly at Jaguar Land Rover business. Ltd. Product development/engineering expenses The Company Earnings Before Interest Tax (EBIT) decreased to `3,643 crores introduced the factor of “affordability” of investments w.e.f. April 1, in FY 2018-19, compared to `11,846 crores in FY 2017-18. 2018 for capitalization of product development costs. Accordingly, EBIT is defined to include the revaluation of current assets and charge off increased by 19.6% to `4,224.57 crores in FY 2018-19 liabilities and realized foreign exchange and commodity hedges from `3,531.87 crores in FY 2017-18. as well as profits from equity accounted investees but excludes the revaluation of foreign currency debt, mark to market (MTM) Finance Cost Increased by 23% to `5,758.60 crores in FY 2018on foreign exchange and commodity hedges, other income and 19 from `4,681.79 crores in FY 2017-18. The Increase was mainly exceptional items. attributable to higher interest rates and borrowings. The finance cost at JLR is higher from `724.65 crores to `1010.68 crores due Consolidated loss before tax `31,371.15 crores in FY 2018-19, to $1bn syndicated loan facility drawn down in October 2018. compared to profit of `11,155.03 crores in FY 2017-18. The loss Foreign exchange loss of `905.91 crores in FY 2018-19 as before tax is primarily driven by compared to gain of `1,185.28 crores in FY 2017-18. The loss was •  he profitability at Jaguar Land Rover operations were lower T mainly due to depreciation of GBP and INR as compared to USD. due to product mix, higher manufacturing expenses and other Exceptional items (gain)/loss operating costs including higher marketing expenses, higher depreciation and amortization expenses related to significant FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 Change capital expenditure incurred in prior periods. (` in crores) Employee separation cost 1,371.45 3.68 1,367.77 • Impairment charge of `27,837.91 crores for Jaguar Land Defined benefit pension plan 147.93 (3,609.01) 3,756.94 Rover. amendment Offset by Write off of Property, plant 180.97 1,641.38 (1,460.41) • Improvement in the Tata Motors Ltd Standalone business in and equipment and capital India, mainly favourable model mix and better management of work in progress other operating costs. Provision for costs of closure 381.01 381.01 of operation of a subsidiary • The increase in profits in FY 2017-18 was also due to Provision for impairment in 27,837.91 27,837.91 exceptional gain of `3,609.01 crores of pension cost. Jaguar Land Rover Tax Expense represents a net credit of `2,437.45 crores in FY Profit on sale of investment in (376.98) (376.98) a subsidiary Co. 2018-19, as compared to net charge of `4,341.93 crores (effective Others 109.27 (11.19) 120.46 tax rate of 32.3%) in FY 2017-18. Due to impairment charge at Total 29,651.56 (1,975.14) 31,626.70 Jaguar Land Rover, there is a write down of previously recognized 126 deferred tax asset of `2,698.15 crores. Further, for Tata Motors Ltdand certain subsidiaries, the Company has not recognized deferred INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) tax assets due to uncertainty of future taxable profits. Consolidated loss after tax of `28,826.23 crores in FY 2018-19 from profit of `8,988.91 crores in FY 2017-18, after considering the profits from associate companies and shares of minority investees. The losses was mainly attributable to Jaguar Land Rover business performance, including impairment charge. Consolidated Balance Sheet ` in crores As at March 31, Change Translation of JLR Net Change 2019 2018 ASSETS (a) Property, plant and equipment and 1,42,370 1,61,331 (18,961) (2,215) (16.746) intangible assets STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) (b) Goodwill 748 116 632 632 (c) Investment in equity accounted investees 5,335 5,385 (50) (84) 34 (d) Financial assets 1,03,404 1,04,184 (780) (1,010) 230 (e) Deferred tax assets (net) 5,151 4,159 992 (91) 1,083 (f) Current tax assets (net) 1,209 1,109 100 (2) 102 (g) Other assets 9,801 10,344 (543) (116) (427) (h) Inventories 39,014 42,138 (3,124) (640) (2,484) (i) Assets classified as held-for-sale 162 2,585 (2,423) (2,423) TOTAL ASSETS 3,07,195 3,31,351 (24,156) (4.158) (19,998) LIABILITIES (a) Financial liabilities: 1,98,463 1,88,941 9,522 (2,292) 11,814 (b) Provisions 22,052 18,902 3,150 (377) 3,527 (c) Deferred tax liabilities (net) 1,491 6,126 (4,635) (18) (4,617) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) (d) Other liabilities 23,469 18,800 4,669 (394) 5,063 (d) Current tax liabilities (net) 1,018 1,559 (541) (17) (524) (e) Liabilities directly associated with Assets 1,070 (1,070) (1,070) held-for-sale TOTAL LIABILITIES 2,46,492 2,35,398 11,094 (3,098) 14,192 Property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets As at March 31, Change 2019 2018 (` in crores) Property, plant and equipment (including capital work-in81,158.03 90,010.78 (8,852.75) progress) Other intangible assets (including assets under 61,212.41 71,320.13 (10,107.72) development) Total 1,42,370.44 1,61,330.91 (18,960.47) There is decrease (net of depreciation and amortization) in the intangible and tangible assets in FY 2018-19. The decrease was due to impairment charge of `27,837.91 crores at Jaguar Land Rover. Further, the decrease was due to unfavourable currency translation impact from GB£ to INR of `2,215 crores. This was offset mainly at Jaguar Land Rover Slovakia plant, tooling and facilities for new products like E-Pace, Evoque, I-Pace etc. At Tata Motors Ltd, the additions were mainly in dies, tooling’s, and product development cost for new products. Investments in equity accounted investees were `5,334.88 crores as at March 31, 2019, as compared to `5,385.24 crores as at March 31, 2018. Financial Assets (Current + Non-current) Investments (Current + Non-current) were ` 10,435.84 crores as at March 31, 2019, as compared to `15,427.51 crores as at March 31, 2018. The details are as follows: 127 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year As at March 31, As at March 31, Change Change 2019 2018 2019 2018 (` in crores) (` in crores) Deferred tax assets 5,151.11 4,158.70 992.41 Mutual Funds 8,966.25 14,360.47 (5,394.22) Deferred tax liability 1,491.04 6,125.80 (4,634.76) Quoted Equity shares 727.45 339.92 387.53 A deferred tax credit (net) of `4,662.68 crores was recorded in the Unquoted Equity shares 562.18 609.08 (46.90) income statement, mainly at JLR due to impairment charge during Others 179.96 118.04 61.92 FY 2018-19 and `700.99 crores in other comprehensive income, Total 10,435.84 15,427.51 (4,991.67) which mainly includes post-retirement benefits and cash flow hedges in FY 2018-19. The decrease in mutual fund investments was at Jaguar Land Rover and Tata Motors Limited. Increase in quoted equity shares Inventories as at March 31, 2019, were `39,013.73 crores as is due to fair value gain. compared to `42,137.63 crores as at March 31, 2018, a decrease of 7.4%. Inventory at Tata and other brand vehicles (including Finance receivables (current + non-current) were `33,624.69 vehicle financing) was ` 6,399.94 crores as at March 31, 2019 as crores as at March 31, 2019, as compared to `23,881.18 crores as compared to `7,318.87 crores as at March 31, 2018. Inventory at at March 31, 2018, an increase of 40.8%, primarily due to increased Jaguar Land Rover was `32,613.86 crores as at March 31, 2019, vehicle financing business. The Gross finance receivables a decrease of 6.3%, as compared to `34,805.01 crores as at March were `34,457.74 crores as at March 31, 2019, as compared to 31, 2018. In terms of number of days of sales, finished goods `25,070.75 crores as at March 31, 2018. represented inventory of 39 days in FY 2018-19 as compared to Loans and Advances 40 days in FY 2017-18. Trade Receivables (net of allowance for doubtful debts) were As at March 31, Change `18,996.17 crores as at March 31, 2019, representing a decrease 2019 2018 of 4.5% compared to `19,893.30 crores as at March 31, 2018. (` in crores) Trade Receivables have increased at Tata and other brand vehicles Long term loans and advances 407.42 495.41 (87.99) (including vehicle financing) to ` 6,473.72 crores as at March 31, Short term loans and advances 1,268.70 1,451.14 (182.44) 2019 as compared to `5,492.78 crores as at March 31, 2018. Total 1,676.12 1,946.55 (270.43) The increase was mainly due to higher sales in FY 2018-19. Trade receivables at Jaguar Land Rover was `12,063.57 crores Loans and advances include advances to suppliers and contractors as at March 31, 2019, as compared to `14,374.03 crores as at etc. which has decreased to `1,177.45 crores as at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018, due to lower receivables in UK. The allowances from `1,431.98 crores as at March 31, 2018. for doubtful debts were `970.10 crores as at March 31, 2019 Other Financial Assets compared to `1,261.67 crores as at March 31, 2018. In terms of number of day’s sales, trade receivable represented 24 days in FY As at March 31, 2018-19 as compared to 21 days of 2018. Change 2019 2018 Cash and cash equivalents were `21,559.80 crores, as at March (` in crores) Other financial assets non 2,809.18 4,563.87 (1,754.69) 31, 2019, compared to `14,716.75 crores as at March 31, 2018. current The Company holds cash and bank balances in Indian rupees, GB£, Other financial assets – current 3,213.56 3,857.64 (644.08) Chinese Renminbi, etc. Total 6,022.74 8,421.51 (2,398.77) Other bank balances were `11,089.02 crores, as at March 31, These included `2,146.68 crores of derivative financial 2019, compared to `19,897.16 crores as at March 31, 2018. These instruments, mainly attributable to Jaguar Land Rover as at March include bank deposits maturing within one year of `10,574.21 31, 2019 compared to `5,323.02 crores as at March 31, 2018, crores as at March 31, 2019, compared to `19,361.58 crores as reflecting notional asset due to the valuation of derivative contracts. at March 31, 2018. Recovery from suppliers has decreased to `1,927.28 crores as at Current tax assets (net) (current + non-current) were `1,208.93 March 31, 2019, as compared to `2,038.42 crores as at March 31, crores, as at March 31, 2019, compared to `1,108.81 crores as at 2018. Further, there is deposit with financial institution of `500.00 March 31, 2018. crores as at March 31, 2019. Other assets Deferred tax assets / liability: Deferred tax assets represent timing As at March 31, differences for which there will be future current tax benefits due Change 2019 2018 to unabsorbed tax losses and expenses allowable on a payment (` in crores) basis in future years. Deferred tax liabilities represent timing Other assets non current 2,938.73 2,681.25 257.48 differences where current benefit in tax will be offset by a debit in Other assets – current 6,862.22 7,662.37 (800.15) the statement of profit and loss. Total 9,800.95 10,343.62 (542.67) 128 These mainly includes prepaid expenses, including rentals on Other financial liabilities INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) operating lease of `2,341.67 crores as at March 31, 2019, as As at March 31, compared to `2,584.66 crores as at March 31, 2018. Taxes 2019 2018 Change recoverable, statutory deposits and dues from government were Other financial liabilities non 2,792.71 2,739.14 53.57 `6,153.85 crores as at March 31, 2019, as compared to `6,724.43 current crores as at March 31, 2018. Other financial liabilities – 32,855.65 31,267.49 1,588.16 current Shareholders’ fund was `60,179.56 crores and `95,427.91 crores Total 35,648.36 34,006.63 1,641.73 as at March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, a decrease of 36.9% mainly due to losses in FY 2018-19 of `28,826.23 crores, due to These included `7,404.97 crores of derivative financial instruments, performance and impairment charge for Jaguar Land Rover business. mainly attributable to Jaguar Land Rover as at March 31, 2019 compared to `8,657.86 crores as at March 31, 2018, reflecting Reserves decreased by 37.2% from `94,748.69 crores as at March favorable foreign exchange movement between US$ and GB£. 31, 2018 to `59,500.34 crores as at March 31, 2019. Though, the Further, liability for capital expenditure decreased to `7,046.74 loss for FY 2018-19 was `28,826.23 crores, decrease in Reserves of crores as at March 31, 2019, as compared to `8,219.45 crores STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) `35,248.35 crores was primarily attributable to following reasons: as at March 31, 2018. These decreases were offset by increase in •  Debits for remeasurement of employee benefit plans was current maturities of long-term borrowings to `15,051.41 crores `2,174.01 crores in FY 2018-19. as at March 31, 2019, as compared to `10,956.12 crores as at March 31, 2018. • Translation loss of `2,068.84 crores recognized in translation reserve on consolidation of subsidiaries further contributed to Trade payables were `68,513.53 crores as at March 31, 2019, as a decrease in reserves and surplus. compared to `72,038.41 crores as at March 31, 2018. The number • Further decrease in hedging reserves by `2,191.36 crores, of day’s payable outstanding is 110 days in FY 2018-19 compared primarily due to mark-to-market gains on forwards and to 121 days in FY 2017-18. The Consolidated cash conversion options in Jaguar Land Rover, primarily due to Strengthening cycle indicates the time, the Company takes to collect cash from in the US$-GB£ forward rates. sale of inventory. It is calculated as trade receivables (in days) plus inventory (in days) less trade payable (in days). The status as at Borrowings March 31, 2019 and 2018, is as follows: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) As at March 31, Change As at March 31, 2019 2018 2019 2018 (` in crores) (Number of days) Long term borrowings 70,973.67 61,199.50 9,774.17 Tata Motors Ltd Consolidated (39) (47) Short term borrowings 20,150.26 16,794.85 3,355.41 Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc. (55) (51) Current maturities of long term 15,051.41 10,956.12 4,095.29 borrowings Acceptances were `3,177.14 crores as at March 31, 2019, as Total 106,175.34 88,950.47 17,224.87 compared to `4,901.42 crores as at March 31, 2018. • C  urrent maturities of long-term borrowings represent the Provisions (current and non-current) were made towards warranty amount of loan repayable within one year. and employee benefit schemes. Short-term provisions are those, which are expected to be settled during next financial year. The •  he closing net automotive debt increased to `28,394 crores T details are as follows: at March 31, 2019 from `13,889 crores as at March 31, 2018 mainly due to cumulative negative free cash flow primary at As at March 31, Change JLR. 2019 2018 (` in crores) • During FY 2018-19, Long term provisions non11,854.85 10,948.44 906.41 o the Company raised `1,500 crores through Buyer’s line of current credit from banks with a tenor ranging from 4 years to 5 years. Short term provisions – current 10,196.75 7,953.50 2,243.25 o Jaguar land rover Automotive plc, arranged and draw down on a Total 22,051.60 18,901.94 3,149.66 USD1 billion (`6,834 crores) syndicated loan of USD 200 million (`1,367.63 crores) and USD 800 million (`5,466.74 crores) i. Provision for warranty increased to `17,501.26 crores as at maturing in October 2022 and January 2025 respectively. March 31, 2019, as compared to `15,935.10 crores as at March 31, 2018, an increase of `1,566.16 crores primarily at JLR. o  Jaguar land rover Automotive plc, issued a €500 million (`3,898.95 crores) bond in September 2018 maturing in ii.  The provision for employee benefits obligations increased January 2026 with a coupon of 4.5%. to `1,934.22 crores as at March 31, 2019, as compared to o Tata Motors Finance group had raised `2,066 crores by issuing `844.64 crores as at March 31, 2018. The increase is due to NCD and through secured term loan amounting to `6,306 provisions for employee separation cost at JLR of `954.40 crores. crores. 129 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year iii. Provision for legal and product liability increased to `1,786.43 FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 Change crores as at March 31, 2019, as compared to `1,319.87 crores (` in crores) as at March 31, 2018. Effect of exchange fluctuation (1,410.92) 1,306.41 Other liabilities on cash flows Classified as held for sale (243.94) As at March 31, Change Reversal of opening held for 243.94 2019 2018 sale adjustment (` in crores) Cash and cash equivalent, 21,559.80 14,716.75 Other liabilities non current 13,922.21 11,165.19 2,757.02 end of the year Other liabilities – current 9,546.46 7,634.55 1,911.91 a) Cash generated from operations before working capital Total 23,468.67 18,799.74 4,668.93 changes was `28,762.43 crores in FY 2018-19, as compared These mainly includes liabilities towards employee benefits to `33,312.28 crores in the previous year, representing a obligations of `6,110.12 crores as at March 31, 2019, as compared decrease in cash from generated from consolidated operations. to `4,100.76 crores as at March 31, 2018, increase mainly at After considering the impact of working capital changes Jaguar Land Rover. Contract liabilities were `9,250.47 crores as including the net movement of vehicle financing portfolio, the at March 31, 2019, as compared to `7,867.89 crores as at March net cash generated from operations was `18,890.75 crores in 31, 2018. Statutory dues (VAT, Excise, Service Tax, Octroi etc.) were FY 2018-19, as compared to `23,857.42 crores in the previous `3,913.94 crores as at March 31, 2019, as compared to `3,176.86 year. The increase in finance receivables offset by decrease in crores as at March 31, 2018. Government Grants increased to trade receivables, inventories and other assets, amounting to `3,278.37 crores as at March 31, 2019 as compared to `2,976.65 `6,515.44 crores mainly due to increase in sales was coupled crores as at March 31, 2018. with decrease in trade and other payables and provisions amounting to `696.81 crores. Consolidated Cash Flow b) The net cash outflow from investing activity decreased to The following table sets forth selected items from consolidated `19,711.09 crores in FY 2018-19 from `26,201.61 crores in cash flow statement: FY 2017-18.. FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 Change • Capital expenditure (net) was at `35,236.29 crores in FY (` in crores) 2018-19, compared to `35,048.62 crores, related mainly Cash from operating activity 18,890.75 23,857.42 (4,966.67) to capacity/ expansion of facilities, quality and reliability Profit for the year (28,724.20) 9,091.36 projects and product development projects. Adjustments for cash flow 57,486.63 24,220.92 from operations • Net investments, short-term deposits, margin money and Changes in working capital (7,212.25) (6,433.70) loans given was an inflow of `14,532.42 crores in FY Direct taxes paid (2,659.43) (3,021.16) 2018-19 as compared to inflow of `6,359.13 crores in FY 2017-18, mainly at Jaguar Land Rover. Cash from investing activity (19,711.09) (26,201.61) 6,490.52 Payment for property, plant (35,236.29) (35,048.62) c) The net change in financing activity was an inflow of `8,830.37 and equipment and other crores in FY 2018-19 as compared to `2,011.71 crores in FY intangible assets (net) 2017-18. Net investments, short term 14,532.42 6,359.13 • In FY 2018-19, `12,755.97 crores were raised from longdeposit, margin money and term borrowings (net) as compared to `4,557.96 crores loans given (net) in FY 2017-18 as described in further detail below Dividend and interest received 992.78 2,487.88 Net Cash from / (used in) 8,830.37 2,011.71 6,818.66 • Net increase in short-term borrowings of `3,174.23 Financing Activities crores in FY 2018-19 as compared to `2,960.35 crores Dividend Paid (including paid (94.74) (95.96) in FY 2017-18, mainly at Tata and other brand vehicles to minority shareholders) (including vehicle financing). Interest paid (7,005.09) (5,410.64) d) There has been a net outflow in the Free cash flows of Net Borrowings (net of issue 15,930.20 7,518.31 `16,345.54 crores due to lower growth and higher investments expenses) in Jaguar Land Rover. Net increase / (decrease) in 8,010.03 (332.48) 8,342.51 As at March 31, 2019, the Company’s borrowings (including shortcash and cash equivalent term debt) were `1,06,175.34 crores, compared to `88,950.47 Cash and cash equivalent, 14,716.75 13,986.76 crores as at March 31, 2018.. beginning of the year 130 KEY FINANCIAL RATIOS The Company expects to meet most of its investments out of INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) operating cash flows and cash liquidity available. In order to The details of significant changes (25% or more) in the key financial meet the remaining funding requirements, the Company may be ratios in FY 2019 compared to 2018 is as follows: required to raise funds through additional loans and by accessing FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 Formula used Reason for change capital markets from time to time, as deemed necessary. Debt 1.76 0.93 Total Debt / The Consolidated With the ongoing need for investments in products and Equity Shareholders debt has technologies, the Company on a consolidated basis has free cash ratio (in Equity increased by 19% times) in FY 2018-19 flow (a non-GAAP measure, measured at cash flow from operating compared to FY activities, less payment for property, plant and equipment and 2017-18. The intangible assets) negative in FY 2018-19, of `16,346 crores. Shareholders The cash flow from financing arm is negative `7,177 crores. Net equity has been reduced due Automotive cash flow is negative `9,169 crores. The Company to impairment expects that with the improvement in macro-economic conditions charge of and business performance, through other steps like raising funds, STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) GB£3,105 million review of non-core investments, and through appropriate actions taken in FY 201819 for Jaguar for raising additional long-term resources, the funding gap can be Land Rover. appropriately addressed. Interest 0.66 2.52 EBIT as per Due to higher coverage segment Interest cost The following table provides information for the credit rating of Tata ratio (in / Interest and lower sales Motors Limited for short-term borrowing and long-term borrowing times) expense at Jaguar Land from the following rating agencies as at March 31, 2019: Credit Rover, the interest Analysis and Research Ltd Ratings, or CARE, Information and coverage ratio is low. Credit Rating Agency of India Ltd, or ICRA, Credit Rating Information Net profit (10) 3 Net Profit / Due to subdued Services of India Limited, or CRISIL Ltd, Standard & Poor’s Ratings margin (%) Revenue from business Group, or S&P, and Moody’s Investor Services, or Moody’s. A credit operation performance rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities. A at Jaguar Land credit rating may be subject to withdrawal or revision at any time. Rover and FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) impairment Each rating should be evaluated separately of any other rating: charge of CARE ICRA CRISIL S&P Moody’s GB£3,105 million in FY Long-term borrowings AA AA AA B+ Ba2 2018-19, there Short-term borrowings A1+ A1+ A1+ — — has been a loss resulting in The Company believes that it has sufficient liquidity available to negative Net meet its planned capital requirements. However, the Company’s profit margin. sources of funding could be materially and adversely affected by an economic slowdown, as was witnessed in Fiscal 2009, or other Principal Sources of Funding Liquidity macroeconomic factors in India and abroad, such as in the United The Company finances its capital expenditures and research Kingdom, the United States, Europe, Russia and China, all of which and development investments through cash generated from are beyond the Company’s control. A decrease in the demand for operations, cash and cash equivalents, debt and equity funding. the Company’s vehicles could affect its ability to obtain funds from The Company also raises funds through sale of investments, external sources on acceptable terms or in a timely manner. including divestment in stakes of subsidiaries on a selective basis. The Company’s cash is located at various subsidiaries within the The Company’s cash and bank balances on a consolidated basis were Tata Motors Group. There may be legal, contractual or economic `32,648.82 crores as at March 31, 2019, as compared to `34,613.91 restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to transfer funds to the crores as at March 31, 2018. These enable the Company to cater to Company in the form of cash dividends, loans, or advances. Brazil, business needs in the event of changes in market conditions. Russia, South Africa and other jurisdictions have regulatory restrictions, disincentives or costs on pooling or transferring The Company’s capital expenditures were `36,635.67 crores and of cash. However, such restrictions have not had and are not `42,672.29 crores for FY 2018-19 and FY 2017-18, respectively, estimated to have a significant impact on the Company’s ability to and it currently plans to invest approximately `450 billion in meet its cash obligations. FY 2018-19 in new products and technologies. The Company intends to continue to invest in new products and technologies to In order to refinance the Company’s borrowings and for supporting meet consumer and regulatory requirements. These investments long-term fund needs, the Company continued to raise funds in FY are intended to enable the Company to pursue further growth 2017-18 and 2019, through issue of various debt securities and opportunities and improve the Company’s competitive positioning. loans as described below. 131 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year The Company successfully completed liability management these jurisdictions is subject to certain restrictions on cash pooling, exercise by part refinancing of US$500 million notes due for intercompany loan arrangements or interim dividends. However, repayment on April 30, 2020. The Company raised ECB of annual dividends are generally permitted and JLR do not believe US$237.468 million maturing in June 2025 which was used to that these restrictions have, or are expected to have, any impact on repay the investors, who had surrendered their bonds through the Jaguar Land Rover’s ability to meet its cash obligations. tendering process. Certain debt issued by Jaguar Land Rover is subject to customary During FY 2018-19, Tata Motors Limited raised unsecured term covenants and events of default, which include, among other loans of `1500 crores from banks for ongoing capital spending things, restrictions or limitations on the amount of cash, which may requirements. be transferred outside the Jaguar Land Rover group of companies in the form of dividends, loans or investments to the Company and During FY 2018-19, JLR issued EUR500 million senior notes due in its subsidiaries. These are referred to as restricted payments in the 2026 at a coupon of 4.50% per annum. JLR also raised US$1,000 relevant Jaguar Land Rover financing documentation. In general, million through syndicated loan. The proceeds were for general the amount of cash which may be transferred as restricted corporate purposes, including support for JLR’s ongoing growth payments from the Jaguar Land Rover group to the Company and and capital spending requirements. its subsidiaries is limited to 50% of its cumulative consolidated net During FY 2018-19, TMFHL and its subsidiaries, Tata Motors income (as defined in the relevant financing documentation) from Finance Limited and TMFSL, raised `2,066 crores (Face Value) January 2011. As at March 31, 2019, the estimated amount that is by issuing NCDs. Bank borrowings through secured term loans available for dividend payments, other distributions and restricted continued to be a major source of funds for long-term borrowing payments was approximately GB£4,315 million. and raised `6,306 crores during FY 2018-19. TMFL has also done FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE ON A STANDALONE BASIS securitization of `3,862 crores in FY 2018-19. The financial information discussed in this section is derived The Tata Motors Group funds its short-term working capital from the Company’s Audited Standalone Financial Statements. requirements with cash generated from operations, overdraft These include the Company’s proportionate share of income and facilities with banks, short-and medium-term borrowings from expenditure in its two Joint Operations, namely Tata Cummins Pvt lending institutions, banks and commercial paper. The maturities Ltd and Fiat India Automobiles Pvt Ltd. of these short-and medium-term borrowings and debentures are generally matched to particular cash flow requirements. The FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 working capital limits are `10,000 crores from various banks in (%) (%) India as at March 31, 2019. The working capital limits are secured Income from operations (net of excise 100 100 by hypothecation of certain existing current assets of the Company. duty) The working capital limits are renewed annually. Expenditure: Jaguar Land Rover Automotive plc currently has a GB£1,935 Cost of material consumed (including 73.1 72.7 million revolving credit facility with a syndicate of 30 banks, change in stock) maturing in 2022. The revolving credit facility remained undrawn Excise Duty -1.4 as at March 31, 2019. Employee cost 6.2 6.8 Product development/Engineering 0.8 0.8 Some of the Company’s financing agreements and debt expenses arrangements set limits on and/or require prior lender consent Other expenses (net) 14.0 15.7 for, among other things, undertaking new projects, issuing new securities, changes in management, mergers, sales of undertakings Amount capitalised (1.6) (1.5) and investment in subsidiaries. In addition, certain negative Profit before other income, depreciation 7.5 4.1 covenants may limit the Company’s ability to borrow additional and amortisation, finance costs, foreign funds or to incur additional liens, and/or provide for increased costs exchange loss, exceptional items and tax in case of breach. Certain of the Company’s financing arrangements Other income 3.7 4.2 also include financial covenants to maintain certain debtto-equity Profit before depreciation and 11.2 8.3 ratios, debt-to-earnings ratios, liquidity ratios, capital expenditure amortisation, finance costs, foreign ratios and debt coverage ratios. exchange loss, exceptional items and tax Depreciation and amortisation 4.5 5.3 The Company monitors compliance with its financial covenants Finance costs 2.6 3.0 on an ongoing basis. The Company also reviews its refinancing Foreign exchange (gain)/loss 0.3 0.0 strategy and continues to plan for deployment of long-term funds Exceptional items – loss 0.3 1.6 to address any potential non-compliance. Profit/(loss) before tax 3.5 (1.6) As at March 31, 2019, GB£262 million of cash was held by Jaguar Tax expenses 0.6 0.2 Land Rover subsidiaries outside of the UK. The cash in some of Profit/(loss) after tax 2.9 (1.8) 132 FY 2018-19 has been a good year for the Company, followed a 7.7%, mainly due to higher volumes, annual increments, higher INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) period of high demand in the automotive sector in India. bonus and performance payment provisions for FY 2018-19 and wage revisions at some plant locations. The number of employees Income from operations of the Company for FY 2018-19, stood at in TML Standalone only were 27,572 as at March 31, 2019, as `69,202.76 crores as compared to `58,689.81 crores, an increase compared to 24,922 as at March 31, 2018. The Company has given of 17.9%. Sale of vehicles stood at `61,357.95 crores as compared share based payments to certain employees, resulting in a charge to `52,636.85 crores, an increase of 16.6%. Total number of of `8.44 crores in FY 2018-19. vehicles sold were 732,428 units in FY 2018-19, as compared to 636,968 units in FY 2017-18, a growth of 15%. Sale of spare parts Other Expenses includes all works operations, indirect & miscellaneous products stood at `6,965.74 crores as compared manufacturing expenses, freight cost, fixed marketing costs and to `5,231.19 crores, an increase of 33.2%. other administrative costs. These expenses have increased by 4.8% to `9,680.46 crores in FY 2018-19 from `9,234.27 crores in FY 2018-19, was the first full year of benefits of the strategic FY 2017-18. The breakdown is provided below: Organization Effectiveness (OE) program, designed to overhaul and transform the organizational structure of the company. As a result FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 Change STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) of the OE program, the company has drawn separate strategies for (` in crores) commercial vehicles and passenger vehicles from FY 2018-19. Processing charges 1,567.89 1,240.88 327.01 Consequent to these changes, from April 1, 2018, the operating Consumption of stores & 617.67 639.35 (21.68) segments of the Company are as follows as at March 31, 2019 spare parts and 2018: Freight, transportation, port 1,865.62 1,703.15 162.47 (` in crores) charges, etc. Power and fuel 598.62 545.12 53.50 FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 Warranty expenses 999.47 766.18 233.29 Earnings Earnings Information technology/ 714.17 711.95 2.22 before Revenue before Interest Revenue and Tax (EBIT) Interest and computer expenses Tax (EBIT) Publicity 736.13 720.18 15.95 Commercial 54,036.54 4,423.50 44,875.54 3,474.29 Allowances made/(reversed) 170.90 (109.19) 280.09 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) vehicles for trade and other receivables Passenger 15,052.30 (1,396.08) 13,644.58 (2,985.13) Assets scrapped/written off 230.28 995.47 (765.19) vehicles Works operation and other 2179.71 2,021.18 158.53 Corporate/ 113.92 (349.92) 169.69 (265.45) expenses Unallocable Other Expenses 9,680.46 9,234.27 446.19 Cost of materials consumed (including change in stock) The changes are mainly driven by volumes and the size of operations. FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 (` in crores) i. Freight, transportation, port charges etc., as a percentage to Consumption of raw materials and 43,748.77 37,080.45 total revenue, were 2.7% in FY 2018-19, as compared to 2.9% components in FY 2017-18. The increase in absolute amount is due to higher vehicle sales in FY 2018-19. Purchase of product for sale 6,722.32 4,762.41 Change in inventories of finished 144.69 842.05 ii.  Publicity expenses represented 1.1% of total revenues in goods, Work-in-progress and products FY 2018-19 and 1.2% in FY 2017-18. In addition to routine for sale product and brand campaigns, the Company incurred expenses Total 50,615.78 42,684.91 relating to new product introduction campaigns for the Harrier etc. Cost of material consumed increased from 72.7% of total revenue iii.  Warranty expenses represented 1.4% and 1.3%, of the to 73.1% in FY 2018-19, representing an increase of 40 bps, mainly Company’s revenues in FY 2018-19 and 2018, respectively. due to product mix. The increase was due to increased volumes of M&HCV. Excise duty Consequent to the introduction of Goods and Service Further, the Company has increased product warranty period Tax (GST) with effect from July 1, 2017, Central Excise, Value for certain vehicles from four years to six years effective from Added Tax (VAT) etc. have been replaced by GST. Excise duty for FY January 1, 2018. 2017-18 was `793.28 crores. iv. Information technology/computer expenses represented 1% Employee Costs were `4,273.10 crores in FY 2018-19 as and 1.2% of the Company’s revenues in FY 2018-19 and 2018, compared to `3,966.73 crores in FY 2017-18, an increase by respectively. 133 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year v. Allowances made for trade and other receivables of `170.90 Foreign exchange loss of `215.22 crores in FY 2018-19 as crores in FY 2018-19, In FY 2018, there was a reversal due to compared to loss of `17.14 crores in FY 2017-18. The loss was favorable litigation orders. due to depreciation on INR as compared to US$. vi. Assets written off were `230.28 crores in FY 2018-19, as Exceptional items compared to `995.47 crores in FY 2017-18. FY 2019 FY 2018 Change vi. Works operation and other expenses have decreased to 3.1% (` in crores) of net revenue in FY 2018-19 from 3.4% in FY 2017-18. The Employee separation cost 4.23 3.68 0.55 Company has run certain impact projects thereby reducing Provision for impairment of investment 241.86 241.86 its fixed costs. In absolute terms the expenses increased by in subsidiary companies `158.53 crores in FY 2018-19. The Company has subscribed Impairment of capitalized fixed assets 180.66 962.98 (782.32) to the Tata Brand Equity & Brand Promotion Agreement, for Profit on sale of investment in (332.95) (332.95) which the Company has to pay an annual subscription of subsidiary co. 0.25% of the annual net income, subject to a ceiling of 5% of Others 109.27 109.27 the annual profit before tax. In view of profits in FY 2018-19, Total 203.07 966.66 (763.59) there is an accrual for such fees.. i.  Employee separation cost: The Company has given early retirement to certain employees resulting in expenses in FY Product development/engineering expenses The Company 2018-19 and FY 2017-18. introduced the factor of “affordability” of investments w.e.f. April 1, 2018 for capitalization of product development costs. Accordingly, ii. The Company has made provision of `241.86 crores during FY the amount written off increased by 20.4% to `571.76 crores in FY 2018-19 for certain of its investments in subsidiary companies, 2018-19 from `474.98 crores in FY 2017-18. due to continued losses. Amount transferred to capital and other account represents iii. In order to make the Company fit for future certain product expenditure transferred to capital and other accounts allocated development programs were reviewed and accordingly an out of employee cost and other expenses, incurred in connection impairment charge of `180.66 crores were taken during FY with product development projects and other capital items. 2018-19, as compared to `962.98 crores in FY 2017-18. The expenditure transferred to capital and other accounts has iv. In FY 2018-19, the Company has sold investment in TAL increased by 27.8% to `1,093.11 crores in FY 2018-19 from Manufacturing Solutions Limited to Tata Advanced Systems `855.08 crores in FY 2017-18, mainly due to various product Ltd. development projects undertaken by the Company for the introduction of new products, BS6 and the development of engine iv. The Company has entered into an agreement for transfer and products variants. of its Defence undertaking, which had a value of `209.27 crores as at December 31, 2017 to Tata Advanced Systems Other Income increased by 2.5% to ` 2,554.66 crores in FY 2018Ltd (transferee company), for an upfront consideration of 19 from `2,492.48 crores in FY 2017-18. This includes interest `100 crores and a future consideration of 3% of the revenue income of `335.87 crores in FY 2018-19, compared to `397.71 generated from identified Specialized Defence Projects for crores in FY 2017-18. Dividend income increased to `1,526.25 upto 15 years from FY 2019-20 subject to a maximum of crores in FY 2018-19 from `1,054.69 crores in FY 2017-18, `1,750 crores. The future consideration of 3% of revenue whereas profit on sale of investment decreased to `69.27 crores in depends on future revenue to be generated from the said FY 2018-19, compared to `103.17 crores in FY 2017-18. projects by the transferee company. On account of the same, Profit before depreciation and amortization, finance costs, foreign the Company has recognized a provision of `109.27 crores, exchange loss, exceptional items and tax is `7,709.43 crores in FY which may get reversed in future once projects start getting 2018-19, representing 11.1% of revenue, compared to `4,883.20 executed from FY 2019-20 onwards. crores (8.3% of revenue) in FY 2017-18. Profit before tax was `2,398.93 crores in FY 2018-19, compared Depreciation and amortization: During FY 2018-19, expenditures to a loss of `946.92 crores in FY 2017-18. In FY 2017-18, though decreased marginally to `3,098.64 crores from `3,101.89 the Company performed well in terms of sales and revenue crores in FY 2017-18. The depreciation has increased by 2.2% to and reducing the costs, the losses were due to certain one-time `2,017.45 crores as compared to `1,973.94 in FY 2017-18. The charges to make the Company “fit for future”. amortization expenses have decreased by 4.1% to `1,081.19 Tax Expense represents a net charge of `378.33 crores in FY 2018crores in FY 2018-19 from `1,127.95 crores in FY 2017-18, and 19, as compared to `87.93 crores in FY 2017-18. The increase was are mainly attributable to product development costs. mainly due to better performance of the Company including its Finance Cost has increased by 2.8% to `1,793.57 crores in FY Joint operations. 2018-19 from `1,744.43 crores in FY 2017-18. The increase is Profit after tax was `2,020.60 crores in FY 2018-19 as compared attributable to higher interest rates. loss of `1,034.85 crores in FY 2017-18. 134 Standalone Balance Sheet Other Financial Assets INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Property, plant and equipment and Other Intangible assets. (` in crores) As at March 31, Change (` in crores) 2019 2018 As at March 31, Change Other financial assets non 994.39 793.40 200.99 current 2019 2018 Other financial assets – 1,279.68 646.31 633.37 Property, plant and equipment 20,463.57 19,563.97 899.60 current (including capital work-in-progress) Total 2,274.07 1,439.71 834.36 Other intangible assets 8,010.76 7,137.29 873.47 The above includes `997.03 crores as at March 31, 2019 on (including assets under account of accrual of Government grants receivable as compared development) to `878.54 of FY 2017-18. Further, it also consists of `392.00 Total 28,474.33 26,701.26 1,773.07 crores of derivative financial instruments, as at March 31, 2019 compared to `242.34 crores as at March 31, 2018, reflecting There is increase (net of depreciation and amortization) in the STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) notional asset due to the valuation of derivative contracts. The intangible and tangible assets in FY 2018-19, mainly due to new increase is also due to deposits placed with financial institutions of product introduction. `500.00 crores as at March 31, 2019. Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates Inventories as at March 31, 2019, were `4,662 crores as were `15,028.62 crores as at March 31, 2019, as compared to compared to `5,670.13 crores as at March 31, 2018, a decrease `14,632.51 crores as at March 31, 2018. During FY 2018-19, of 17.8%. In terms of number of days of sales, finished goods the Company made additional investments of `600 crores in Tata represented 11 inventory days in FY 2018-19 as compared to 15 Motors Finance Holdings Ltd. days in FY 2017-18. Investments (Current + Non-current) were `1,838.75 crores as at Trade Receivables (net of allowance for doubtful debts) March 31, 2019, as compared to `2,131.06 crores as at March 31, were `3,250.64 crores as at March 31, 2019, representing a 2018. The details are as follows: decrease of 6.6% compared to `3,479.81 crores as at March (` in crores) 31, 2018. The allowances for doubtful debts were `600.86 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) crores as at March 31, 2019 compared to `543.50 crores as As at March 31, Change at March 31, 2018. In terms of days of sales, trade receivables 2019 2018 represent 18 days in FY 2018-19 as compared to 17 days in Mutual Funds 1,174.46 1,517.03 (342.57) FY 2017-18. Quoted Equity shares 271.08 303.84 (32.77) Cash and cash equivalents were `487.40 crores, as at March 31, Unquoted Equity shares 393.21 310.19 83.03 2019, compared to `546.82 crores as at March 31, 2018. Total 1,838.75 2,131.06 (292.31) Other bank balances were `819.21 crores, as at March 31, There was decrease in mutual fund investments in FY 2018-19. 2019, compared to `248.60 crores as at March 31, 2018. These Decrease in quoted equity shares were due to decrease in market include earmarked balances with banks of `169.21 crores as at value as at March 31, 2019. Increase in unquoted equity shares is March 31, 2019, compared to `248.53 crores as at March 31, due to unrealized fair value gains as at March 31, 2019. 2018 & also includes Bank deposits of `650 crores, as at March 31, 2019. Loans and Advances Current tax assets (net) (current + non-current) were `715.30 (` in crores) crores, as at March 31, 2019, compared to `769.63 crores as at As at March 31, March 31, 2018. Change 2019 2018 Other assets Long term loans and 143.13 143.96 (0.83) (` in crores) advances As at March 31, Change Short term loans and 200.08 140.27 59.81 2019 2018 advances Other assets non current 1,819.90 1,546.39 273.51 Total 343.21 284.23 58.98 Other assets – current 934.87 1,439.73 (504.86) Loans and advances include advance to suppliers, contractors Total 2,754.77 2,986.12 (231.35) etc. Advance and other receivables increased to `129.55 crores as at March 31, 2019, as compared to `68.03 crores as at March a)  Taxes recoverable, statutory deposits and dues from 31, 2018. government decreased to `1,561.81 crores as at March 31, 2019, as compared to `1,978.74 crores as at March 31, 2018. 135 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year The above was offset by: Provisions (current and non-current) were made towards warranty and employee benefit schemes. Short-term provisions are those, b) Capital advances which increased to `374.95 crores as at March which are expected to be settled during next financial year. The 31, 2019, as compared to `285.54 crores as at March 31, 2018. details are as follows: c) Recoverable form insurance companies increased to `354.56 (` in crores) crores as at March 31, 2019 as compared to `212.96 crores as As at March 31, Change at March 31, 2018.. 2019 2018 Shareholders’ fund was `22,162.52 crores and `20,170.98 crores Long term provisions 1,281.59 1,009.48 272.11 as at March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, an increase of 9.9%. (Non-current) Short term provisions 1,148.69 862.92 285.77 Reserves increased by 10.2% from `19,491.76 crores as at March (Current) 31, 2018 to `21,483.30 crores as at March 31, 2019, mainly due Total 2,430.28 1,872.40 557.88 to profits for FY 2018-19. i. Provision for warranty increased to `1,612.37 crores as at Borrowings March 31, 2019, as compared to `1,103.47 crores as at March (` in crores) 31, 2018, an increase of `508.90 crores, mainly due to increase As at March 31, Change in volumes, higher warranty cost for BS IV models and also 2019 2018 increase of warranty period for certain vehicle models, w.e.f. Long term borrowings 13,919.81 13,155.91 763.90 January 1, 2018. Short term borrowings 3,617.72 3,099.87 517.85 ii.  The provision for employee benefits obligations were at Current maturities of long 1,102.10 2,208.06 (1,105.96) term borrowings `739.53 crores as at March 31, 2019, as compared to `655.05 crores as at March 31, 2018. Total 18,639.63 18,463.84 175.79 Other liabilities Current maturities of long-term borrowings represent the amount (` in crores) of loan repayable within one year. As at March 31, Other financial liabilities 2019 2018 Change (` in crores) Other liabilities non current 218.24 291.09 (72.85) As at March 31, Change Other liabilities – current 2,356.01 1,917.60 438.41 2019 2018 Total 2,574.25 2,208.69 365.56 Other financial liabilities non 180.80 211.28 (30.48) These mainly includes current Other financial liabilities – 2,237.98 4,091.16 (1,853.18) a) Contact liabilities were `1,063.36 crores as at March 31, 2019, current as compared to `1,063.01 crores as at March 31, 2018. Total 2,418.78 4,302.44 (1,883.66) b) Government incentives increased to `324.22 crores as at Financial guarantee contracts is `NIL as at March 31, 2019, March 31, 2019 as compared to `274.66 crores as at March as compared to `977.26 crores as at March 31, 2018. Further, 31, 2018. current maturities of long-term borrowings were `1,102.10 c) Statutory dues (GST, VAT, Excise, Service Tax, Octroi etc.) crores as at March 31, 2019 as compared to `2,208.06 crores were `1,091.92 crores as at March 31, 2019, as compared to as at March 31, 2018. Furthermore, interest accrued but not `781.12 crores as at March 31, 2018. due on borrowings were `373.04 crores as at March 31, 2019 as compared to `500.06 crores as at March 31, 2018. These Deferred tax liability represent timing differences where current decreases were offset by increase in deposits and retention benefit in tax will be offset by a debit in the statement of profit money to `397.06 crores as at March 31, 2019, as compared to and loss. The amount increased to `205.86 crores as at March 31, `186.44 crores as at March 31, 2018. 2019, as compared to `154.61 crores as at March 31, 2018. Trade payables were `10,408.83 crores as at March 31, 2019, as Standalone Cash Flow compared to `9,411.05 crores as at March 31, 2018, mainly due to FY 2019 FY 2018 Change creditors for goods supplied and services received, liabilities for variable (` in crores ) marketing expenses etc. The number of day’s payable outstanding is Net cash from operating 6,292.63 4,133.94 2,158.69 63 days in FY 2018-19 compared to 68 days in FY 2017-18. The cash activities conversion cycle as at March 31, 2019 is negative 21 days in FY 2018Profit/(Loss) for the year 2,020.60 (1,034.85) 19 as compared to negative 16 days in FY 2017-18. Adjustments for cash flow 4,146.39 5,125.70 from operations Acceptances were `3,093.28 crores as at March 31, 2019, as Changes in working capital 307.86 51.50 compared to `4,814.58 crores as at March 31, 2018. 136 FY 2019 FY 2018 Change c)  The net change in financing activity was an outflow of INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) (` in crores ) `2,529.70 in FY 2018-19 against inflow of `3,105.63 crores in Direct taxes paid (182.22) (8.41) FY 2017-18. The outflow is attributable to: Net cash used in investing (3,820.55) (710.27) (3,110.28) • Long-term borrowings (net) – outflow of `703.98 crores in activities FY 2018-19 as compared to inflow of `1,034.70 crores. Payment for Assets (4,753.23) (2,794.80) Net investments, short term (963.09) 630.50 • Short-term borrowings (net) – inflow of `531.61 crores in deposit, margin money and FY 2018-19 as compared to outflow of `2,039.14 crores. loans given • In FY 2018-19, interest payment was `2,354.70 crores as Dividend and interest received 1,895.77 1,454.03 compared to `2,098.44 crores in FY 2017-18. Net Cash used in financing (2,529.70) (3,105.63) 575.93 activities d) There has been positive Free cash flows of `1,539.40 crores Dividend Paid (including paid (2.63) (2.75) in FY 2018-19 due to improved performance mainly at Tata to minority shareholders Motors Ltd. STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Interest paid (2,354.70) (2,098.44) KEY FINANCIAL RATIOS Net Borrowings (net of issue (172.37) (1,004.44) expenses) The details of significant changes (25% or more) in the key financial Net increase / (decrease) in (57.62) 318.04 ratios in FY 2018-19 compared to 2018 is as follows: cash and cash equivalent Cash and cash equivalent, 546.82 228.94 Formula FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 Reason for change beginning of the year used Inventory 11.64 8.97 Cost of The inventory turnover Effect of exchange fluctuation (1.80) (0.16) Turnover goods sold ratio has improved in on cash flows ratio (in / Average FY 2018-19 compared Cash and cash equivalent, end 487.40 546.82 times) Inventory to FY 2017-18 as there of the year has been reduction in Inventory and increase a)  Increase in cash from operations reflects better business in Revenue from performance in FY 2018-19. The cash from operations before operations by 18% FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) working capital changes was `6,167 crores in FY 2018-19 Interest 1.49 0.13 EBIT as per The interest coverage coverage segment ratio has turned compared to `4,090.85 crores in FY 2017-18. There was a ratio (in / Interest positive in FY 2018-19 net inflow of `307.86 crores in FY 2018-19, as compared to times) expense compared to negative `51.50 crores in FY 2017-18 towards working capital changes. 0.42 in FY 2017-18. This is mainly due b) The net cash used in investing activities was `3,820.55 crores to better operational in FY 2018-19 compared to `710.27 crores in FY 2017-18, performance. mainly attributable to: Net profit 3 (2) Net Profit The net profit margin margin / Revenue has improved • The cash used for payments for fixed assets was `4,753.23 (%) from substantially in FY crores (net) in FY 2018-19 compared to `2,794.80 crores operation 2018-19 compared to FY 2017-18 due in FY 2017-18 due to higher BS6 investments. to better operational • Outflow by way of investments in subsidiary companies performance. resulting in cash outflows of `837.98 crores in FY 2018FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF JAGUAR LAND ROVER (AS PER 19 as compared to `300 crores in FY 2017-18. IFRS) • Outflow by way of deposits with financial institution The financial statements of Jaguar Land Rover are prepared in resulting in cash outflow of `500 crores in FY 2018-19 as accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) compared to `Nil in FY 2017-18. applicable in the United Kingdom. This information is given to enable • There was an outflow (net) of `570.64 crores in FY 2018the readers to understand the performance of Jaguar Land Rover 19 compared to `110.96 crores for FY 2017-18 towards [on a consolidated basis for the Jaguar Land Rover group. Fixed / restricted deposits. Revenues for Jaguar Land Rover for FY 2018-19 were GB£24,214 • I ncrease in Investments in mutual funds in FY 2018-19 million, a decrease of 6.1% compared to the GB£25,786 million in was `413.74 crores as compared to increase of `1,025.59 FY 2017-18, driven primarily by decreased wholesale volumes, crores in FY 2017-18. primarily in China. • Inflow due to dividends and interest in FY 2018-19 was Material and other cost of sales in FY 2018-19 were of GB£15,670 `1,895.77 crores as compared to `1,454.03 crores in FY million, down 4.0% compared to the GB£16,328 million in FY 20172017-18. 18 (and increased as a proportion of revenue to 64.7% in FY 2018137 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year 19 compared to 63.3% in FY 2017-18) primarily driven by the GB£178 million of net interest (including the payment of lease decrease in sales volumes. obligations) expense and GB£47 million of other inflows and adjustments, free cash flow was negative GB£1,267 million. The Employee costs increased by 3.6% to GB£2,820 million in FY net increases in debt of GB£613 million reflects the issuance of 2018-19 compared to GB£2,722 million in FY 2017-18, primarily a EUR500 million bond in September 2018, the completion and reflecting the higher average number of employees in FY 2018-19 draw down of the US$1 billion loan in October 2018, partially compared to FY 2017-18. offset by the maturity of the US$700 million bond in December Other expenses (net of income) decreased by 4.1% to GB£5,567 2018 and a GB£54 million reduction in drawings under an million in FY 2018-19 compared to GB£5,846 million in FY 2017-18. uncommitted invoice discounting facility wound down ahead of its expiry in April and replaced with a newly established US$700 Product development costs capitalized decreased by 2.1% to million committed invoice discounting facility. A dividend of GB£1,576 million in FY 2018-19 compared to GB£1,610 million in GB£225 million was paid to Tata Motors in June 2018 and GB£3 FY 2017-18 primarily related to the development of future models, million of other distributions were paid during the year. As a result technologies and production facilities. Jaguar Land Rover had a total cash balance of GB£3,775 million EBITDA was GB£1,981 million (8.2% margin) in FY 2018-19, (comprising GB£2,747 million of cash and cash equivalents and compared to the EBITDA of GB£2,794 million (10.8% margin) in FY GB£1,028 million of financial deposits) as at March 31, 2019 2017-18, primarily reflecting the lower wholesales, particularly compared to GB£4,657 million of total cash as at March 31, in China, higher incentive and warranty costs, partially offset by 2018 (comprising GB£2,626 million of cash and cash equivalents Project Charge cost efficiencies and favourable realized foreign and GB£2,031 million of financial deposits). With total cash of exchange movements. GB£3,775 million and an undrawn revolving credit facility of GB£1,935 million (maturing in July 2022), total liquidity available The loss before interest tax and exceptional charges (EBIT) was to Jaguar Land Rover was GB£5,710 million as at March 31, negative GB£180 million (0.7% margin) in FY 2018-19, compared 2019, compared to GB£6,592 million as at March 31, 2018. to the EBIT of GB£971 million (3.8% margin) in FY 2017-18 due to the lower EBITDA as well as an increase in depreciation and FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF TMF HOLDINGS LTD AT amortization and lower profits from the China joint venture. CONSOLIDATED BASIS (AS PER IND AS) The loss before tax (“PBT”) before exceptional item of GB£358 Consolidated revenue for TMF Holdings during FY 2018-19 million in FY 2018-19 compared to profit of GB£1,074 million in increased 36.7% to `3,974.57 crores, compared to `2,908.47 crores FY 2017-18, as the lower EBIT, explained by higher interest costs in FY 2017-18. The Profit before tax was `122.64 crores in FY 2018and unfavourable revaluation of foreign currency debt and hedges 19 compared to `30.69 crores in FY 2017-18. The Profit after tax in FY 2018-19 compared to favourable revaluation in the previous was `163.97 crores in FY 2018-19, as compared to `76.34 crores year. In Q3 of FY 2018-19, JLR concluded that the carrying value in previous year. The GNPA reduced by 139 bps to 2.57% (measured of assets should be written down, resulting in a GB£3,105 million on 90 days basis). NNPA at 1.37%. pre-tax exceptional charge. In Q4 FY 2018-19, JLR implemented a redundancy programme to deliver ongoing cost savings and to FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF TATA DAEWOO COMMERCIAL capture the one-time separation costs an exceptional charge of VEHICLES (AS PER KOREAN GAAP) GB£149 million was recognized. After these exceptional items the During FY 2018-19, TDCV, registered revenues of KRW 651.36 loss before tax was GB£3,629 million in FY 2018-19 compared to billion (`4,090 crores), a drop of 25.0% over the previous year PBT of GB£1,512 million (including GB£437 million exceptional revenues of KRW 868.26 billion (`5,035 crores), mainly due to pension credit) in FY 2017-18. lower domestic sales and market slowdown. The loss after tax was The loss after tax was GB£3,321 million in FY 2018-19 compared KRW 28.02 billion (`179 crores) compared to profit after tax of to PAT of GB£1,114 million in FY 2017-18. The losses incurred in KRW 33.66 billion (`203 crores) of FY 2017-18. Lower absorption FY 2018-19 resulted in a GB£308 million tax credit compared to of fixed cost due to lower production and lower sales has resulted GB£398 million tax charge in FY 2017-18 (26.3% effective tax rate). into lower profitability during the year as compared to previous year which was partially offset the impact of lower sales which Net cash generated from operating activities was GB£2,253 million in was partially set off by material cost reduction FY 2018-19 compared to GB£2,958 million in FY 2017-18, primarily reflecting the loss in FY 2018-19, partially offset by GB£405 million FIANNCIAL PERFORMANCE OF TATA TECHNOLOGIES LTD of working capital inflows (GB£81 million working capital inflow in FY The consolidated revenue of TTL in FY 2018-19 increased by 9.3% 2017-18), and GB£22 million of dividends received from the China to `2,942.21 crores, compared to `2,691.48 crores in FY 2017joint venture compared to GB£206 million of dividends received in FY 18. The profit before tax increased by 39.9% to `470.94 crores 2017-18. In addition GB£227 million was paid in tax in FY 2018-19 in FY 2018-19, compared to `336.53 crores in FY 2017-18. The compared to GB£312 million in FY 2017-18. profit after tax increased by 43.3% to `352.60 crores in FY 2018After GB£3,389 million of investment spending (excluding 19, as compared to `245.81 crores in FY 2017-18. The Company GB£421 million of expensed Research and Development), witnessed increase in revenue due to favourable currency 138 movement which helped in growth of revenue in UK & Europe and whistle blower mechanisms are operative across the INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) North America, the growth in APAC Revenue was primarily driven Company. by strong revenue growth in India & China in key accounts and The Board takes responsibility for the overall process of risk growth in educational product sales. There has been increase in management throughout the organization. Through an Enterprise purchase of traded products, employee costs and other expenses Risk Management programme, the Company’s business units and partially offset by outsourcing and consultancy charges, leading corporate functions address risks through an institutionalized to an increase in profits. approach aligned to the Company’s objectives. The Business risk is INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS AND THEIR ADEQUACY managed through cross-functional involvement and communication across businesses. The results of the risk assessment are presented The Company has an adequate system of internal controls in place. to the senior management. The Risk Management Committee It has documented policies and procedures covering all financial reviews business risk areas covering operational, financial, strategic and operating functions. These controls have been designed to and regulatory risks. provide a reasonable assurance with regard to maintaining of proper accounting controls for ensuring reliability of financial reporting, During FY 2018-19, the Company conducted an assessment of the STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) monitoring of operations, and protecting assets from unauthorized effectiveness of the Internal Control over Financial Reporting and use or losses, compliances with regulations. The Company has has determined that the Company’s Internal Control over Financial continued its efforts to align all its processes and controls with Reporting for Tata Motors Limited, its subsidiary companies, its joint global best practices. operation companies, its associates and joint ventures which are companies incorporated in India as at March 31, 2019 is effective. Some significant features of the internal control of systems are: The Company identified certain control weaknesses in its subsidiary •  he Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, comprising of T Jaguar Land Rover during FY 2018-19. The management has independent directors and functional since August 1988, regularly performed additional procedures and confirmed that there are no reviews the audit plans, significant audit findings, adequacy of material misstatements in the financial statement. However, the internal controls, compliance with accounting standards as well Company’s annual report in Form 20-F to be submitted to Securities as reasons for changes in accounting policies and practices, if any; Exchange Commission, USA is being finalized and hence the final • D  ocumentation of major business processes and testing thereof assessment and reporting of internal control over financial reporting, including financial closing, computer controls and entity level for Jaguar Land Rover is pending. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) controls, as part of compliance programme towards SarbanesHUMAN RESOURCES / INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS Oxley Act, as required by the listing requirements at New York Stock Exchange; The Company considers its human capital a critical factor to its success. Under the aegis of Tata Sons and the Tata Sons promoted • A  n ongoing programme, for the reinforcement of the Tata Code entities, the Company has drawn up a comprehensive human of Conduct is prevalent across the organization. The Code covers resource strategy, which addresses key aspects of human resource integrity of financial reporting, ethical conduct, regulatory development such as: compliance, conflicts of interest’s review and reporting of concerns. • The code of conduct and fair business practices; • A  fair and objective performance management system linked •  tate-of-the-art Enterprise Resource Planning, supplier S to the performance of the businesses which identifies and relations management and customer relations management differentiates employees by performance level; connect the Company’s different locations, dealers and vendors • Creation of a common pool of talented managers across for efficient and seamless information exchange. The Company Tata Sons and the Tata Sons promoted entities with a view to also maintains a comprehensive information security policy and increasing their mobility through job rotation among the entities; undertakes continuous upgrades to its IT systems; • Evolution of performance based compensation packages to •  etailed business plans for each segment, investment strategies, D attract and retain talent within Tata Sons and the Tata Sons year-on-year reviews, annual financial and operating plans and promoted entities; and monthly monitoring are part of the established practices for all • Development and delivery of comprehensive training programs operating and service functions; to impact and improve industryand/or function-specific skills as well as managerial competence. • A  well-established, independent, multi-disciplinary Internal Audit team operates in line with governance best practices. It In line with the Company human resource strategy, it has reviews and reports to management and the Audit Committee implemented various initiatives in order to build better organizational about compliance with internal controls and the efficiency capabilities that the Company believe will enable it to sustain and effectiveness of operations as well as the key process competitiveness in the global marketplace. The Company’s focus is risks. The scope and authority of the Internal Audit division to attract talent, retain the better and advance the best. Some of the is derived from the Internal Audit Charter, duly approved by initiatives to meet this objective include: the Audit Committee; and Anti-fraud programmes including 139 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year •  evelopment of an agile organization through process D gaps and preparing its employees to adopt to fast changing modification, delayering and structure alignment and increase external environment in order to meet its strategic objectives. in customer facing roles; To achieve this, the Company has established the Tata Motors • Changed organization structure has empowered teams, across Academy, which addresses development needs of various segments each product lines, which will manage the product lifecycle and of its workforce through a structured approach. The Tata Motors be accountable for the Profit and Loss; Academy focuses on three functional pillars – customer excellence, • Extensive process mapping exercises to benchmark and align product leadership, and operational excellence – and one pillar on the human resource processes with global best practices; management education, all of which are aligned with the Company• Outsource transactional activities to an in house back office level strategic objectives. The emphasis of functional academies is to (Global Delivery Center), thereby reducing cost and time of strengthen knowledge, skills and expertise with an in depth approach, transaction; within respective function, and the emphasis of management • Talent management process redesigned with a stronger education is developing general management and leadership skills. emphasis on identifying future leaders; Tata Motors Academy also provides executive education opportunities • Build strategic partnerships with educational institutions of in the areas of B.Tech, M.Tech, and Executive MBA. repute to foster academia based research and provide avenues for employees to further their educational studies; As an integral part of the Tata Motors Academy, the Company’s • Enhance company’s image and desirability amongst the target Learning Advisory Council, which includes senior leaders from engineering and management schools, to enable it to attract the different parts of organization, aims to align its learning and best; development efforts, more closely with its business needs • Foster diverse workforce to leverage the multiplicity of skillsets and priorities. The Learning Advisory Council is responsible for in all its operations; providing guidance and strategic direction to the Academies to • Functional academies setup for functional skills development; design, implement and review the learning agenda. • Skill development of all Blue collared workforce to enable them The Company is now migrating from a trade-based training to effectively meet the productivity and quality deliverables; approach to a process-based training approach, which emphasizes and team members’ knowledge as related to their actual work, in •  raining youth under Government of India’s National T addition to the general trade-based skills, which are learned at Employment Enhancement Mission in our skill development training institutes. These skills are very specific and not currently centers in all the plants. These trainees are given Automotive taught at the training institutes. To accomplish this, the Company Skill Development Council certification, helping them get gainful is implementing a fundamental skills training initiative throughout employment in the industry. Engaging trainees benefit the organization. Its objective is to address key employee performance company to meet the cyclicity of demand as well. issues, such as inconsistent quality, poor craftsmanship, high The Company employed approximately 82,797 and 81,090 frequencies of repair reworking and low productivity levels permanent employees as at March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. through training of front-line team members. The average number of flexible (temporary, trainee and contractual) Union Wage Settlements The Company has labour unions for employees for FY 2018-19, was approximately 31,647 (including operative grade employees at all its plant across India, except joint operations) compared to 38,017 in FY 2017-18. Dharwad plant. The Company has generally enjoyed cordial relations The following table set forth a breakdown of persons employed by with its employees at its factories and offices and have received union the Company’s business segments and by geographic location as at support in the implementation of reforms that impact safety, quality, March 31, 2019 and 2018. cost erosion and productivity improvements across all locations. As at March 31, Employee wages are paid in accordance with wage agreements 2019 2018 that have varying terms (typically three to five years) at different Segment No. of Employees locations. The expiration dates of the wage agreements with Automotive 73,394 72,151 respect to various locations/subsidiaries are as follows: Other 9,403 8,939 Location/subsidiaries Wage Agreement valid until Total 82,797 81,090 Pune commercial vehicles August 31, 2021 Location No. of Employees Pune passenger vehicles March 31, 2022 India 41,655 41,295 Jamshedpur March 31, 2019 Abroad 41,142 39,795 Mumbai December 31, 2018 Total 82,797 81,090 Lucknow March 31, 2020 Pantnagar March 31, 2019 Training and Development The Company has committed to the Jaguar Land Rover – UK Plants Negotiations ongoing development of its employees to strengthen their functional, managerial and leadership capabilities. The Company has a The Company’s wage agreements link an employee’s compensation focused approach with the objective of addressing all capability to certain performance criteria that are based on various factors 140 such as quality, productivity, operating profit and an individual’s to live in India’s cities. Therefore, automakers are slated to be one INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) performance and attendance. The Company has generally received of the greatest contributors to this futuristic plan of 100 smart union support in its implementation of reforms that impact quality, cities by 2020. The Company has recently supplied Hybrid electric cost erosion and productivity improvements across all locations in buses, which runs both on diesel and electric, and is economically addition to this this time we have signed settlement with a variable viable, safe and environment-friendly. as part of wage cost and stagger payment instead of one time pay The Company is looking to be the major beneficiary for the to be bring more cost effectiveness on account of fixed pay. increased infrastructure spending on roads, airports and expected JAGUAR LAND ROVER high GDP. The lower interest regime also bodes well for the sector as more than 80% of the vehicles in India are financed. In Automotive apprenticeships Passenger vehicle, there has been a shift in the trend of buying Jaguar Land Rover has always focused on the safety, security, from small passenger vehicles towards Utility Vehicles (UV). This wellbeing and development of the people. The Company nurture shift will lead to more profitable growth for the Automobile sector. and retain talent through the Jaguar Land Rover Academy, an The Company is preparing for the shift to BS6 standards and environment offering accredited learning for the employees at every National Electric Mobility Mission 2017. STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) stage of their career. Actively shaping education and contributing The demand for Heavy Commercial Vehicle (HCV) is expected to to the skills development available to our communities is part of grow by 7% to 8% over the long term. The privatization of select State our long-term recruitment strategy. So too is continuing JLR’s Transport undertakings bodes well for the bus segment. Auto industry successful apprentice and graduate programme, working closely has witnessed multiple tailwinds in last two to three years like multiwith academic partners such as Warwick Manufacturing Group. year low interest rates, subdued metal prices, and low oil prices, Closing the gender gap and a digital call for the worlds brightest however, many of these factors are showing early signs of reversal. and best This can result in an adverse impact to volumes and profitability. Jaguar Land Rover has focus on attracting women into engineering There is an increasing buzz for e-mobility by 2030. The Company and advanced manufacturing through programmes such as JLR’s acknowledges the importance to environment risk and is prepared Young Women in the Know initiative for female students aged 15 for the electric vehicles which is visible from the recent orders to 18. With fewer women than men in senior roles and a majority of received from EESL and Government of Maharashtra. The men in production operations in factories, the gender gap was hard Company has already started delivery of the vehicles to EESL. In FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) to close. Traditionally, lower numbers of women coming into the addition to Electric vehicles, the Company is preparing itself to be industry and flourishing within it has made this even harder. However, efficient in not only BS6, but also plans to take a holistic approach the Company is committed both to equality and encouraging a diverse towards environment regulations and stay ahead in Industry. workforce, and things are changing for the better. The proportion of Jaguar Land Rover have invested intensively to prepare for female managers at Jaguar Land Rover has trebled to 17% since 2011 the move from the internal combustion engine to autonomous, and our female workforce has increased by 18.5% since 2017. 15% of connected, electrified and shared mobility or ICE to ACES . From Jaguar Land Rover’s engineering apprentices are female, compared to 2020, all of the new vehicle models of Jaguar and Land Rover the national average of just 4%. In 2017, 36% of total apprenticeship brands, will offer a choice of varying degrees of electrification, from recruits were female and, for the first time, JLR recruited more women mild and plug-in-hybrid to battery electric, as well as advanced (55%) than men to JLR’s advanced apprenticeship programme. In electronic architectures and ACES product features. Jaguar Land addition, more early career females have been recruited, however Rover have a defined vision to shape future mobility Destination there has been a 1.3% increase to the gender pay gap and a 0.6% Zero zero emission, zero accidents and zero congestion. increase to the gender bonus gap in 2018. Continued investment, by Jaguar Land Rover, in new products Human Rights and technologies as well as expanding its production capacity in The Human Rights Policy sets out the commitment to respect and appropriate strategic locations, while balancing production with comply will all relevant laws, rules and regulations in the territories sales, is key for the success of the Company. in which Jaguar Land Rover operates. These include provisions CAUTIONARY STATEMENT addressing slavery, human trafficking, forced labour, child labour and upholding each employee’s right to freedom of association. Statements in the Management Discussion and Analysis describing The Company has refreshed the assessment of slavery and human the Company’s objective, projections, estimates and expectations trafficking risk risks and continue to deem the risk to be low. may be “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of applicable securities laws and regulations. Actual results could OUTLOOK differ materially from those expressed or implied. Important factors The Indian automotive sector has the potential to generate upto that could make a difference to the Company operations include, US$300 billion in annual revenue by 2026, create 65 million among others, economic conditions affecting demand/supply and additional jobs and contribute over 12% to India’s GDP. Increased price conditions in the domestic and overseas markets in which the urbanization is firmly placed in the center of this progress. As per Company operates, changes in government regulations, tax laws World Bank study, by 2031, some 600 million people are expected and other statutes and incidental factors. 141 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Risk Factors Risk Factors 22% of its retail sales volume in FY 2018-19 were to customers based in the European Union (excluding the United Kingdom) and a Risks associated with the Company’s Business and the Automotive substantial portion of its suppliers are situated there. The economic Industry. outlook could be further adversely affected by the risk of a greater The United Kingdom’s contemplated exit from the European push for independence by Scotland or Northern Ireland or the Union may adversely impact Jaguar Land Rover business, results risk that the Euro as the single currency of the European Union of operations and financial condition. could cease to exist. Changes to the United Kingdom’s border and immigration policy could likewise occur as a result of Brexit, In a non-binding referendum on the United Kingdom’s membership affecting JLR’s business’s ability to recruit and retain employees in the European Union in June 2016, a majority of the electorate from outside the United Kingdom. Any of the foregoing factors and voted for the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European other factors relating to Brexit that we cannot predict may have Union. Pursuant to its invocation of Article 50 of the Lisbon a material adverse effect on JLR’s business, results of operations Treaty, the United Kingdom is currently negotiating its exit from and financial condition. the European Union. Substantial uncertainty remains regarding the outcome of the negotiations, the United Kingdom’s future If the Company is unable to effectively implement or manage its relationship with the European Union, the legal structure growth strategy, the Company’s operating results and financial applicable to companies doing business in the United Kingdom condition could be materially and adversely affected. as well as the scope and duration of a transitionary period, if any, As part of the Company’s growth strategy, it may open new following the expiration of the Article 50 period in December 2020. manufacturing, research or engineering facilities, expand existing This uncertainty, along with any real or perceived impact of Brexit, facilities, add additional product lines or expand the Company’s could have a material adverse effect on the JLR’s business, results businesses into new geographical markets. There is a range of of operations and financial condition. risks inherent in such a strategy that could adversely affect the Depending on the outcome of the negotiations, including if the Company’s ability to achieve these objectives, including, but not United Kingdom exits the European Union without a formal limited to, the following: the potential disruption of the Company’s agreement, the United Kingdom could lose its present rights or business; the uncertainty that new product lines will generate terms of access to the single European Union market and European anticipated sales; the uncertainty that it may not be able to meet or Union customs area and to the global trade deals negotiated by the anticipate consumer demand; the uncertainty that a new business European Union on behalf of its members. New or modified trading will achieve anticipated operating results; the diversion of arrangements between the United Kingdom and other countries resources and management’s time; the Company’s cost reduction may have a material adverse effect on the JLR’s business. A efforts, which may not be successful; the difficulty of managing decline in trade could also affect the attractiveness of the United the operations of a larger company; and the difficulty of competing Kingdom as a global investment center and, as a result, could for growth opportunities with companies having greater financial have a detrimental impact on the level of investment in United resources than the Company have. Kingdom companies, including the extended value chain of Jaguar More specifically, the Company’s international businesses face Land Rover. The uncertainty concerning the terms of Brexit could a range of risks and challenges, including, but not limited to : also have a negative impact on the growth of the United Kingdom language barriers, cultural differences, difficulties in staffing and economy, which may cause Jaguar Land Rover’s customers to managing overseas operations, inherent difficulties and delays in re-evaluate when and to what extent they are willing to spend contract enforcement and the collection of receivables under the on JLR’s products and services. This could also result in greater legal systems of foreign countries, the risk of non-tariff barriers, volatility in the British pound against foreign currencies in which regulatory and legal requirements affecting the Company’s ability Jaguar Land Rover conducts business, particularly the U.S. dollar, to enter new markets through joint ventures with local entities, the Euro and the Chinese yuan. difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals, environmental permits The Brexit vote and the perceptions as to the impact of the and other similar types of governmental consents, difficulties in withdrawal of the United Kingdom have created significant negotiating effective contracts, obtaining the necessary facility uncertainty regarding the future relationship between the United sites or marketing outlets or securing essential local financing, Kingdom and the European Union, including with respect to liquidity, trade financing or cash management facilities, export and the laws and regulations that will apply as the United Kingdom import restrictions, multiple tax regimes (including regulations determines which European Union derived laws to replace or relating to transfer pricing and withholding and other taxes on replicate. This uncertainty may adversely affect business activity remittances and other payments from subsidiaries), foreign and economic conditions in the United Kingdom and the Eurozone. investment restrictions, foreign exchange controls and restrictions In particular, changes in taxes, tariffs and other fiscal policies on repatriation of funds, other restrictions on foreign trade or could have a significant impact on Jaguar Land Rover business; investment sanctions, and the burdens of complying with a wide 142 variety of foreign laws and regulations. Furthermore, as part of the Deterioration in global economic conditions could have a material INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Company’s global activities, it may engage with third-party dealers adverse impact on the Company sales and results of operations. and distributors, which it do not control but which, nevertheless, The automotive industry could be affected materially by the take actions that could have a material adverse impact on the general economic conditions in India and around the world. Company’s reputation and business; the Company cannot assure The automotive industry, in general, is cyclical, and economic that it will not be held responsible for any activities undertaken slowdowns in the recent past have affected the manufacturing by such dealers and distributors. If the Company is unable to sector in India, including the automotive and related industries. manage risks related to its expansion and growth in other parts Deterioration of key economic metrics, such as the growth rate, of the world and therefore fail to establish a strong presence in interest rates and inflation, reduced availability of financing for those higher growth markets, the Company’s business, results of vehicles at competitive rates, implementation of burdensome operations and financial condition could be adversely affected or environmental and tax policies and increase in freight rates and its investments could be lost. fuel prices could materially and adversely affect its automotive Furthermore, the Company is subject to risks associated with sales and results of operations. growing its business through mergers and acquisitions. The STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) In addition, investors’ reactions to economic developments or a loss Company believe that its acquisitions provide opportunities to of investor confidence in the financial systems of other countries grow significantly in the global automobile markets by offering may cause volatility in Indian financial markets and indirectly, in premium brands and products. The Company’s acquisitions have the Indian economy in general. Any worldwide financial instability, provided it with access to technology and additional capabilities including increased protectionist measures and withdrawal from while also offering potential synergies. However, the scale, trade pacts by countries in which the Company operate, could scope and nature of the integration required in connection with also have a negative impact on the Indian economy, including the Company’s acquisitions present significant challenges, and the movement of exchange rates and interest rates in India. In it may be unable to integrate the relevant subsidiaries, divisions the event global economic recovery is slower than expected, or and facilities effectively within the Company’s expected schedule. if there is any significant financial disruption, this could have a An acquisition may not meet the Company’s expectations and the material adverse effect on the Company’s cost of funding, portfolio realization of the anticipated benefits may be blocked, delayed or of financing loans, business, prospects, results of operations, reduced as a result of numerous factors, some of which are outside financial condition and the trading price of the Company’s Shares the Company’s control. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) and ADSs. For example, the Company acquired the Jaguar Land Rover In November 2018, the United States, Mexico and Canada business from Ford in June 2008, and since then Jaguar Land signed the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (“USMCA”), Rover has become a significant part of the Company’s business, which is intended to succeed the North American Free Trade accounting for approximately 74% of the Company’s total revenues Agreement (“NAFTA”). USMCA has been signed but not ratified in FY 2018-19. As a result of the acquisition, the Company are by the legislature of each of the United States, Canada and responsible for, among other things, the obligations and liabilities Mexico. It remains unclear what the U.S., Canadian, or Mexican associated with the legacy business of Jaguar Land Rover. There governments will or will not do with respect to NAFTA, USMCA or can be no assurances that any legacy issues at Jaguar Land Rover other international trade agreements and policies. This uncertainty or any other acquisition the Company have undertaken in the past and potential governmental action related to tariffs or international or will undertake in the future would not have a material adverse trade agreements has the potential to adversely impact demand effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations, for the Company’s products, costs, customers, suppliers and/or as well as the Company’s reputation and prospects. the North American economy or world economy or certain sectors The Company will continue to evaluate growth opportunities thereof and, thus, to adversely impact the Company’s business. through suitable mergers and acquisitions in the future. Growth Jaguar Land Rover business has significant operations in the through mergers and acquisitions involves business risks, United Kingdom, North America, continental Europe and China, as including unforeseen contingent risks or latent business liabilities well as sales operations in markets across the globe. Conditions in that may only become apparent after the merger or acquisition automotive markets were more challenging in FY 2018-19, notably is completed. The key success factors are seamless integration, in China where industry volumes were down 8.3% year-on-year effective management of the merged and/or acquired entity, amid increasing trade tensions with the United States. Industry retention of key personnel, cash flow generation from synergies volumes were also lower in the United Kingdom (-3.7%), including in engineering and sourcing, joint sales and marketing efforts, a 25.9% decline in diesel vehicle sales, down slightly in the and management of a larger business. If any of these factors United States (-0.5%), and in Europe (-3.8%). Conditions remained fails to materialize or if the Company are unable to manage any challenging in other markets, with only modest growth in industry of the associated risks successfully, the Company’s business, volumes. Jaguar Land Rover’s growth plans may not materialize financial condition and results of operations could be materially as expected, which could have a significant adverse impact on the and adversely affected. company’s financial performance. If automotive demand softens 143 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year because of lower or negative economic growth in key markets or have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition due to other factors, Jaguar Land Rover’s operations and financial or results of operations including compliance to CAFÉ norms. condition could be materially and adversely affected as a result. Impairment of tangible and intangible assets may have a material In addition, the current U.S. presidential administration could seek adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. to introduce changes to laws and policies governing international trade and impose additional tariffs and duties on foreign vehicle Designing, manufacturing and selling vehicles is capital intensive imports, which could have a material adverse effect on Jaguar and requires substantial investments in intangible assets such Land Rover’s sales in the United States. as research and development, product design and engineering technology. The Company review the value of its intangible Deterioration in key economic factors, such as those mentioned assets to assess on an annual basis whether the carrying amount above, in countries where Jaguar Land Rover has sales matches the recoverable amount for the asset concerned based operations may result in a decrease in demand for Jaguar Land on underlying cash-generating units The Company has had to take Rover automobiles. A decrease in demand would, in turn, cause a £3.1b impairment charge during FY 2018-19 due to the adverse automobile prices and manufacturing capacity utilization rates market conditions particularly in China, rising interest rates and to fall. Such circumstances have in the past materially affected, consistent failure to meet internal business plans. While the and could in the future materially affect, the company’s business, company has put in place comprehensive plans to turnaround the results of operations and financial condition. business, it is not possible to predict the headwinds the company A significant reliance on key markets by both TML and Jaguar may face and hence it may have to take further impairment losses in Land Rover increases the risk of negative impact of reduced the future if the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount, customer demand in those countries. which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and the results of operations. The Company rely on the United Kingdom, Chinese, North American, Indian and continental European markets from which Deterioration in the performance of any of the Company’s the company derive the substantial majority of the company’s subsidiaries, joint ventures and affiliates could materially and revenues. Although demand remains relatively solid, a decline adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. in demand for the company’s vehicles in these major markets The Company have made and may continue to make capital may in the future significantly impair its business, financial commitments to its subsidiaries, joint ventures and affiliates, and position and results of operations. For example, the recent if the business or operations of any of these subsidiaries, joint adverse public perception towards diesel powered vehicles, ventures and affiliates deteriorates, the value of the Company’s resulting from emissions scandals and tax increases on diesel investments may decline substantially. Operating a business as vehicles, has precipitated a sharp fall in diesel sales, primarily a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities in the United Kingdom and Europe, and created uncertainty for and a requirement of information sharing. The Company is also customers that could further impact its sales of diesel vehicles in subject to risks associated with joint ventures and affiliates wherein the future. Additionally, in China, the economy is experiencing a the Company retain only partial or joint control. The Company’s moderation of industry growth and increased pricing pressures partners may be unable, or unwilling, to fulfill their obligations, due to macroeconomic volatility, softening consumer demand and or the strategies of the Company’s joint ventures or affiliates may increasing competition. Softening of the Chinese economy would not be implemented successfully, any of which may significantly be expected to impact the company’s growth opportunities in that reduce the value of the Company’s investments or relationship country, which is an important market for the company. In addition, with the co-owner may be deteriorated, and, which could, in turn, company’s strategy, which includes new product launches and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s reputation, expansion into growing markets may not be sufficient to mitigate business, financial position or results of operations. a decrease in demand for company’s products in mature markets in the future, which could have a significant adverse impact on The company have pursued and may continue to pursue significant company’s financial performance. investments in certain strategic development projects with third parties. In particular, JLR have entered into a joint venture with The electric vehicle market may not evolve as anticipated. Chery in China to develop, manufacture and sell certain Jaguar Sales of electric vehicles are hard to predict as consumer demand Land Rover vehicles and at least one own branded vehicle in may fail to shift in favour of electric vehicles and this market China. Additionally, in March 2018, JLR announced its strategic segment may remain small relative to the overall market for partnership with Waymo to develop the world’s first premium self years to come. Consumers may remain or become reluctant to driving electric vehicle. Joint venture and strategic partnership adopt electric vehicles due to the lack of fully developed charging projects, like JLR’s joint venture in China and partnership with infrastructure, long charging times or increased costs of purchase Waymo, may be developed pursuant to agreements over which the and fueling. Jaguar Land Rover launched the all electric Jaguar Company only have partial or joint control. Investments in projects I-PACE in FY 2018-19 and retail sales of this model totaled 11,336 over which the Company have partial or joint control are subject to vehicles in the twelve months to 31 March 2019. If the value the risk that the other shareholders of the joint venture, who may proposition of electric vehicles fails to fully materialize, this could have different business or investment strategies than the Company 144 does or with whom the Company may have a disagreement research and development, product design, engineering, technology INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) or dispute, may have the ability to block business, financial or and marketing in order to meet both consumer preferences management decisions, such as the decision to distribute dividends and regulatory requirements. If the Company’s competitors or appoint members of management, which may be crucial to the consolidate or enter into other strategic partnerships or ventures, success of the project or the company’s investment in the project, they may be able to take better advantage of economies of scale. or otherwise implement initiatives which may be contrary to the The Company believe that competitors may be able to benefit from company’s interests. Moreover, the Company’s partners may be the cost savings offered by consolidation or strategic partnerships, unable, or unwilling, to fulfil their obligations under the relevant which could adversely affect the Company’s competitiveness. joint venture agreements and shareholder agreements or may Competitors could use consolidation or strategic partnerships as a experience financial or other difficulties that may adversely impact means of enhancing their competitiveness (including through the the company’s investment in a particular joint venture. acquisition of technology), which could also materially adversely affect the Company’s business. Further, the Company’s growth Operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional strategy relies on the expansion of its operations in less mature organisational formalities as well as time consuming procedures markets abroad, where it may face significant competition and for sharing information and making decisions. In joint ventures, the STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) higher than expected costs to enter and establish ourselves. company is required to foster its relationships with its co owners as well as to promote the overall success of the joint venture, and The Company is subject to risks associated with product liability, if there is a significant change in the relationship (for example, if warranty and recall. a co owner changes or relationships deteriorate), the Company’s The company is subject to risks and costs associated with product success in the joint venture may be materially adversely affected. liability, warranties and recalls in connection with performance, Intensifying competition could materially and adversely affect compliance or safety related issues affecting company’s vehicles. the Company’s sales, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time the company may be subject to investigations by governmental authorities relating to safety related and other The global automotive industry is highly competitive and compliance issues with the company’s vehicles. For example, there competition is likely to further intensify from new industry are ongoing investigations with governmental agencies in China, entrants, in the worldwide automotive industry. Competition is South Korea and the United Kingdom relating to the quality of especially likely to increase in the premium automotive categories TDV6 diesel engines installed in some of the vehicles which are as each market participant intensifies its efforts to retain its FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) in service. In particular, as vehicles become more technologically position in established markets while also expanding in emerging advanced, the company is subject to risks related to their software markets such as China, India, Russia, Brazil and parts of Asia. and operation, including as part of company’s JLR Advanced Factors affecting competition include product quality and features, Driver Assistance Systems automation. The Company expend innovation and the development time for introduction of new considerable resources in connection with product recalls and products, cost control, pricing, reliability, safety, fuel economy, these resources typically include the cost of the part being replaced environmental impact and perception thereof, customer service and the labour required to remove and replace the defective part. and financing terms. Some of the Company’s competitors based In addition, product recalls can cause company’s consumers to in the European Union may gain a competitive advantage that question the safety or reliability of company’s vehicles and harm would enable them to benefit from their access to the European company’s reputation. Any harm to the reputation of any one of Union single market post-Brexit. There can be no assurance that company’s models can result in a substantial loss of customers. the Company will be able to compete successfully in the global For example, in May 2015, an industry wide passenger airbag automotive industry in the future. safety recall was announced in the United States by the National The Company also face strong competition in the Indian market Highway Traffic System Administration (“NHTSA”), in respect of from domestic, as well as foreign automobile manufacturers. frontal airbags which use ammonium nitrate propellant without any Improving infrastructure and growth prospects, compared to those desiccant from Takata Corporation (“Takata”), a supplier of airbags. of other mature markets, has attracted a number of international Certain airbags supplied by Takata were installed in company’s companies to India either through joint ventures with local JLR vehicles. JLR considered the cost associated with the recall partners or through independently owned operations in India. to be an adjusting post balance sheet event and recognised a International competitors bring with them decades of international provision of £67.4 million for the estimated cost of repairs in its experience, global scale, advanced technology and significant income statement for FY 2015-16. The provision held at the end financial resources. Consequently, domestic competition is likely of FY 2018-19 is £58 million and will be utilized as the mandated to further intensify in the future. There can be no assurance that repairing is fulfilled over the next one to two years. Additionally, the Company will be able to implement its future strategies in a in December 2016, NHTSA announced that it was conducting way that will mitigate the effects of increased competition on the an investigation into reports of rollaways of parked vehicles in Indian automotive industry. certain of JLR’s models. Further, in July 2018, NHTSA announced that it is seeking to conduct an investigation into reports of doors Designing, manufacturing and selling vehicles is capital-intensive inadvertently opening in certain of our vehicles whilst the vehicle and requires substantial investments in manufacturing, machinery, is in motion, following a recall remedy to rectify this risk. 145 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Furthermore, the Company may also be subject to class actions delays in developing fuel efficient products could materially affect or other large-scale product liability or other lawsuits in various the company’s ability to sell premium passenger cars and large or jurisdictions in which the Company has a significant presence. The medium-sized all-terrain vehicles at current or targeted volumes use of shared components in vehicle production increases this and could have a material adverse effect on the company’s general risk because individual components are deployed in a number of business activity, net assets, financial position and results of different models across the Company’s brands. Any costs incurred operations. In addition, deterioration in the quality of the company’s or lost sales caused by product liability, warranties and recalls vehicles could force the company to incur substantial costs and could materially adversely affect the Company’s business. damage its reputation. There is a risk that competitors or joint ventures set up by competitors will develop better solutions and The Company’s future success depends on the Company’s ability will be able to manufacture the resulting products more rapidly, in to satisfy changing customer demands by offering innovative larger quantities, with a higher quality and/or at a lower cost. It is products in a timely manner and maintaining such products’ possible that the company could then be compelled to make new competitiveness and quality. investments in researching and developing other technologies Customer preferences, especially in many of the more mature to maintain its existing market share or to win back the market markets, have trended towards smaller and more fuel-efficient share lost to competitors. Finally, the company’s manufacturing and environmental-friendly vehicles. Climate change concerns, operations and sales may be subject to potential physical impacts increases in fuel prices, certain government regulations (such as of climate change, including changes in weather patterns and an CO2 emissions limits and higher taxes on SUVs) and the promotion increased potential for extreme weather events, which could affect of new technologies encourage customers to look beyond the manufacture and distribution of company’s products and the standard purchasing factors (such as price, design, performance, cost and availability of raw materials and components. brand image and features). As a result, customers may look to In contrast to other mature markets, consumer preferences in the differentiation of the technology used in the vehicle or the the United States have shifted towards increased demand for the manufacturer or provider of this technology. Such consumer Company’s pickup trucks and larger SUVs. A shift in consumer preferences could materially affect the Company’s ability to sell demand away from these vehicles within the United States towards premium passenger cars and large or medium-sized all-terrain compact and mid-size passenger cars, whether in response to vehicles at current or targeted volume levels, and could have higher fuel prices or other factors, could adversely affect the a material adverse effect on the Company’s general business Company’s profitability. Conversely, if the trend in U.S. consumer activity, net assets, financial position and results of operations. preferences for SUVs holds, the Company could face increased Such consumer preferences could materially affect the Company’s competition from other carmakers as they adapt to the market ability to sell premium passenger cars and large or medium-sized shift and introduce their own SUV models, which could materially all-terrain vehicles at current or targeted volume levels, and could and adversely impact the Company’s business, financial position or have a material adverse effect on the Company’s general business results of operation. activity, net assets, financial position and results of operations. Private and commercial users of transportation increasingly use The Company’s operations may be significantly impacted if it modes of transportation other than the automobile, especially fail to develop, or experience delays in developing, fuel-efficient in connection with increasing urbanisation. The reasons for this vehicles that reflect changing customer preferences and meet the include the rising costs related to automotive transport of people and specific requirements of government regulations. The Company’s goods, increasing traffic density in major cities and environmental competitors can gain significant advantages if they are able to awareness. In addition, the increased use of car sharing concepts offer vehicles that satisfy customer preference and government (e.g. Zipcar and DriveNow) and other innovative mobility initiatives regulations earlier than the Company are. Potential delays in facilitates access to other methods of transport, thereby reducing bringing new high-quality vehicles to market would adversely dependency on private automobiles. Furthermore, non traditional affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of market participants and/or unexpected disruptive innovations operations and cash flows and cashflows. may disrupt the established business model of the industry by As a result of the public discourse on climate change and volatile introducing new technologies, distribution models and methods of fuel prices, the company faces more stringent government transportation. regulations, including imposition of speed limits and higher taxes A shift in consumer preferences away from private automobiles on sports utility vehicles or premium automobiles. The company would have a material adverse effect on Company’s general endeavor to take account of these factors, and it is focused on business activity and on its sales, prospects, financial condition researching, developing and producing new drive technologies, and results of operations such as hybrid engines and electric cars. The company is also investing in development programs to reduce fuel consumption To stimulate demand, competitors in the automotive industry have through the use of lightweight materials, reducing parasitic losses offered customers and dealers price reductions on vehicles and through the driveline and improving aerodynamics. Coupled with services, which has led to increased price pressures and sharpened consumer preferences, a failure to achieve its planned objectives or competition within the industry. As a provider of numerous high146 volume models, the Company’s profitability and cash flows retrofit diesel vehicles with software that will allow them to reduce INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) are significantly affected by the risk of rising competitive price emissions which may require us to undertake increased R&D pressures. Special sales incentives and increased price pressures spending. There is a risk that these R&D activities, including retrofit in the new car business also influence price levels in the used car software upgrades, will not achieve their planned objectives or that market, with a negative effect on vehicle resale values. This could competitors or joint ventures set up by competitors will develop have a negative impact on the profitability of the used car business better solutions and will be able to manufacture the resulting in the Company’s dealer organization. products more rapidly, in larger quantities, with a higher quality and/or at a lower cost. This could lead to increased demand for There can be no assurance that the Company’s new models will the products of such competitors and result in a loss of market meet its sales expectations, in which case it may be unable to share for the Company. There is also a risk that the money invested realize the intended economic benefits of its investments, which in researching and developing new technologies, including would in turn materially affect the Company’s business, results of autonomous, connected and electrification technologies, or money operations and financial condition. In addition, there is a risk that its invested in mobility solutions to overcome and address future quality standards can be maintained only by incurring substantial travel and transport challenges, will, to a considerable extent, costs for monitoring and quality assurance. For the Company’s STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) have been spent in vain, because the technologies developed or customers, one of the determining factors in purchasing its vehicles the products derived therefrom are unsuccessful in the market is the high quality of the products. A decrease in the quality of the or because competitors have developed better or less expensive Company’s vehicles (or if the public were to have the impression products. It is possible that Jaguar Land Rover could then be that such a decrease in quality had occurred) could damage its compelled to make new investments in researching and developing image and reputation as a premium automobile manufacturer other technologies to maintain its existing market share or to win and in turn materially affect the Company’s business, results of back the market share lost to competitors. operations and financial condition. In addition, climate change concerns and the promotion of new In addition, product development cycles can be lengthy, and there technologies encourages customers to look beyond standard is no assurance that new designs will lead to revenues from vehicle factors (such as price, design, performance, brand image or sales, or that the Company will be able to accurately forecast comfort/features) to differentiation of the technology used in the demand for its vehicles, potentially leading to inefficient use of its vehicle or the manufacturer or provider of this technology. This production capacity. Additionally, the Company’s high proportion could lead to shifts in demand and the value-added parameters in FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) of fixed costs, due to its significant investment in property, plant the automotive industry at the expense of the Company’s products. and equipment, further exacerbates the risks associated with incorrectly assessing demand for the Company’s vehicles. Underperformance of the Company’s distribution channels could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s sales and results The Company is exposed to the risks of new drive and other of operations. technologies being developed and the resulting effects on the automobile market. The Company’s products are sold and serviced through a network of authorized dealers and service centers across India and Over the past few years, the global market for automobiles, through a network of distributors and local dealers in international particularly in established markets, has been characterized by markets. The Company monitor the performance of its dealers increasing demand for more environmentally friendly vehicles and distributors and provide them with support to enable them and technologies. This is related, in particular, to the public debate to perform to its expectations. There can be no assurance, on global warming and climate protection. Jaguar Land Rover however, that the Company’s expectations will be met. Any endeavours to take account of climate protection and the ever underperformance by or a deterioration in the financial condition more-stringent laws and regulations that have been and are likely of the Company’s dealers or distributors could materially and to be adopted. Jaguar Land Rover is focusing on researching, adversely affect the Company’s sales and results of operations. developing and producing new drive technologies, such as hybrid engines and electric cars. Jaguar Land Rover is also investing in If dealers or importers encounter financial difficulties and the development programmes to reduce fuel consumption through Company’s products and services cannot be sold or can be sold the use of lightweight materials, reducing parasitic losses through only in limited numbers, this would have a direct effect on the sales the driveline and improvements in aerodynamics (e.g. through our of such dealers and importers. Additionally, if the Company cannot premium transverse architecture). Recently, several jurisdictions, replace the affected dealers or importers with other franchises, such as Norway, Germany, the United Kingdom, France, the the financial difficulties experienced by such dealers or importers Netherlands, India and China, have announced the intention could have an indirect effect on the Company’s vehicle deliveries. to eliminate the sale of conventionally fueled vehicles in their Consequently, the Company could be compelled to provide markets in the coming decades. additional support for dealers and importers and, under certain Diesel technologies have also become the focus of legislators in circumstances, may even take over their obligations to customers, the United States and European Union as a result of emissions which would adversely affect the Company’s financial position and levels. This has led various carmakers to announce programs to results of operations in the short term. 147 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Disruptions to the Company’s supply chains or shortages of A change in requirements under long-term supply arrangements essential raw materials may adversely affect the Company’s committing Jaguar Land Rover to purchase minimum or fixed production and results of operations. quantities of certain parts, or to pay a minimum amount to the seller, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s The Company rely on third parties for sourcing raw materials, financial condition or results of operations. The Company have parts and components used in the manufacture of the Company’s entered into a number of long-term supply contracts that require products. At the local level, the Company are exposed to reliance Jaguar Land Rover to purchase a fixed quantity of parts to be used on smaller enterprises where the risk of insolvency is greater. in the production of Jaguar Land Rover vehicles (e.g., ‘‘take-or-pay’’ Furthermore, for some parts and components, the Company is contracts). If the need for any of these parts were to lessen, Jaguar dependent on a single source. The Company’s ability to procure Land Rover could still be required to purchase a specified quantity supplies in a cost-effective and timely manner or at all is subject of the part or pay a minimum amount to the seller pursuant to to various factors, some of which are not within its control. For the take-or-pay contract, which could have a substantial adverse instance, the outcome of the Brexit negotiations could lead to effect on its financial condition or results of operations. reduced access to the European Union single market and to the global trade deals negotiated by the European Union on behalf The Company is more vulnerable to reduced demand for premium of its members, which could affect the imports of raw materials, performance cars and all-terrain vehicles than automobile parts and components and disrupt Jaguar Land Rover supplies. manufacturers with a more diversified product range. Furthermore, there is the risk that manufacturing capacity does The Jaguar Land Rover operates in the premium performance car not meet, or exceeds, sales demand thereby compromising and all-terrain vehicle segments, which are very specific segments business performance and without any near term remedy given of the premium passenger car market, and it has a more limited range the time frames and investments required for any change. While of models than some of the Company’s competitors. Accordingly, its the Comapany manage its supply chain as part of its supplier performance is linked to market conditions and consumer demand management process, any significant problems with its supply in those market segments in which it operates. Furthermore, some chain or shortages of essential raw materials in the future other premium performance vehicle manufacturers operate in a could affect the Company’s results of operations in an adverse relatively broader spectrum of market segments, which makes manner. them comparatively less vulnerable to reduced demand for any Adverse economic conditions and falling vehicle sales have had specific segment. Any downturn or reduction in the demand for a significant financial impact on the company’s suppliers in the premium passenger cars and all-terrain vehicles, or any reduced past. Deterioration in automobile demand and lack of access to demand for Jaguar Land Rover’s most popular models in the sufficient financial arrangements for company’s supply chain geographic markets in which it operates could have a substantial could impair the timely availability of components to us. In addition, adverse effect on its performance and earnings. if one or more of the other global automotive manufacturers were Increases in input prices may have a material adverse effect on to become insolvent, this would have an adverse impact on the the Company’s results of operations. supply chains and may further adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The company is also exposed to supply In FY 2018-19 and 2017-18, the consumption of raw materials, chain risks relating to lithium ion cells, which are critical for the components aggregates and purchase of products for sale Company’s electric vehicle production. Any disruption in the supply (including changes in inventory) constituted 65.5% and 64.4%, of battery cells from such suppliers could disrupt production of the respectively, of the Company’s revenues. Prices of commodity items company’s vehicles. The severity of this risk is likely to increase as used in manufacturing automobiles, including steel, aluminum, the company and other manufacturers expands the production of copper, zinc, rubber, platinum, palladium and rhodium, have electric vehicles and the demand for such vehicles increases. become increasingly volatile in recent years. Furthermore, prices of commodity items such as steel, non ferrous metals, precious The Company have also entered into supply agreements with metals, rubber and petroleum products may rise significantly. Ford and certain other third parties for critical components and Most of these inputs are priced in US dollars on international remain reliant upon Ford and the Ford PSA joint venture for a markets. While the Company continue to pursue cost reduction portion of its engines. However, following the launch of the EMC initiatives, an increase in price of input materials could severely in Wolverhampton, and the subsequent engine plant opened by its impact the Company’s profitability to the extent such increase China Joint Venture, the Company now also manufacture its own cannot be absorbed by the market through price increases and/ “in house” engines. The company may not be able to manufacture or could have a negative impact on demand. In addition, because of certain types of engines or find a suitable replacement supplier intense price competition and fixed costs base, the company may in a timely manner in the event of any disruption in the supply not be able to adequately address changes in commodity prices of engines, or parts of engines, and other hardware or services even if they are foreseeable. provided to us by Ford or the Ford PSA joint venture and such disruption could have a material adverse impact on our operations, In addition, the company is exposed to the risk of contraction in business and/or financial condition. the supply, and a corresponding increase in the price of, rare and frequently highly sought after raw materials, especially those 148 used in vehicle electronics such as rare earth metals, which are essential local financing, liquidity, trade financing or cash INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) predominantly produced in China. Rare earth metal prices and management facilities, export and import restrictions, multiple supply remain uncertain. China has, in the past, limited the export tax regimes (including regulations relating to transfer pricing and of rare earths from time to time. If the company is unable to find withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments substitutes for such raw materials or pass price increases on to from subsidiaries), foreign investment restrictions (including customers by raising prices, or to safeguard the supply of scarce restrictions on incentives offered by foreign governments for raw materials, the company’s vehicle production, business and investment in their jurisdictions), foreign exchange controls and results from operations could be affected. restrictions on repatriation of funds, other restrictions on foreign trade or investment sanctions, and the burdens of complying with The Company manages these risks through the use of fixed a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations. If the Company is supply contracts with tenor up to 12 months and the use of unable to manage risks related to its expansion and growth in financial derivatives pursuant to a defined hedging policy. The other parts of the world and therefore fail to establish a strong company enters into a variety of foreign currency, interest rates presence in those higher growth markets, its business, results of and commodity forward contracts and options to manage its operations and financial condition could be adversely affected or exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) the Company’s investments could be lost. and commodity price risk. These financial exposures are managed in accordance with the Company’s risk management policies and Currency, Exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations could procedures. The company uses foreign currency forward and materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition option contracts to hedge risks associated with foreign currency and results of operations. fluctuations relating to highly probable forecast transactions. The Company’s Jaguar Land Rover operations are subject to The Company also enter into interest rate swaps and interest rate risks arising from fluctuations in exchange rates with reference currency swap agreements, mainly to manage exposure on the to countries in which it operates. The company imports capital company’s fixed rate or variable rate debt. The Company further equipment, raw materials and components from, manufacture use interest rate derivatives or currency swaps to hedge exposure vehicles in, and sell vehicles into, various countries, and therefore, to exchange rate fluctuations on principal and interest payments the company’s revenues and costs have significant exposure to the for borrowings denominated in foreign currencies. Specific relative movements of the GBP, the U.S. dollar, the Euro, the Russian transactional risks include risks like liquidity and pricing risks, Ruble, the Chinese Renminbi, the Singapore dollar, the Japanese interest rate and exchange rate fluctuation risks, volatility risks, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Yen, the Australian dollar, the South African rand, the Thai baht, counterparty risks, settlement risks and gearing risks. However, the Korean won and the Indian rupee. The United Kingdom’s exit the hedging transactions may not adequately protect us against from the European Union could also have a negative impact on the these risks. In addition, if markets move adversely, the Company growth of the United Kingdom economy. A significant proportion may incur financial losses on such hedging transactions, and the of the company’s input materials and components and capital financial condition and results of operations may be adversely equipment are sourced overseas, in particular from Europe, and impacted. therefore the company have costs in, and significant exposure Any inability to implement the Company’s growth strategy to the movement of, the euro (specifically a strengthening of the by entering new markets may adversely affect its results of euro) and certain other currencies relative to the British pound operations. (JLR’s reporting currency) which may result in decreased profits to the extent these are not fully mitigated by non British pound The Company’s growth strategy relies on the expansion of its sales. The majority of the company’s product development and operations in emerging markets and other parts of the world which manufacturing operations, as well as its global headquarters, are feature higher growth potential than many of the more mature based in the United Kingdom, but the company also have national automotive markets in developed countries. The costs associated sales companies which operate in the major markets in which the with entering and establishing the Company in new markets, and company sell vehicles. As a result, the company have exposure to expanding such operations may, however, be higher than expected, movements of the US dollar, Euro, Chinese yuan, Russian rouble it may face significant competition in those regions. In addition, and other currencies relative to the British pound and foreign the Company’s international business faces a range of risks and exchange volatility may affect company’s results of operations, challenges, including language barriers, cultural differences, profitability and financial position. difficulties in staffing and managing overseas operations, inherent difficulties and delays in contract enforcement and the collection Moreover, the Company has outstanding foreign currencyof receivables under the legal systems of foreign countries, the risk denominated debt and are sensitive to fluctuations in foreign of non-tariff barriers, regulatory and legal requirements affecting currency exchange rates. The Company has experienced and could the Company’s ability to enter new markets through joint ventures in the future experience foreign exchange losses on obligations with local entities, difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals, denominated in foreign currencies in respect of its borrowings and environmental permits and other similar types of governmental foreign currency assets and liabilities due to currency fluctuations. consents, difficulties in negotiating effective contracts, obtaining The Company is exposed to changes in interest rates, as it has both the necessary facility sites or marketing outlets or securing interest-bearing assets (including cash balances) and interest149 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year bearing liabilities, which bear interest at variable rates. Although the and prevailing conditions in credit markets may adversely affect Company engages in managing its interest and foreign exchange both consumer demand and the cost and availability of finance for exposure through use of financial hedging instruments, such as company’s business and operations. If the global economy goes forward contracts, swap agreements and option contracts, higher into recession and consumer demand for company’s vehicles interest rates and a weakening of the Indian rupee against major drops, as a result of higher oil prices, excessive public debt or for foreign currencies could significantly increase the Company’s cost any other reasons, and the supply of external financing becomes of borrowing, which could have a material adverse effect on its limited, the company may face significant liquidity risks financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. A decline in retail customers’ purchasing power or consumer Appropriate hedging lines for the type of risk exposures the Company confidence or in corporate customers’ financial condition and are subject to may not be available at a reasonable cost, particularly willingness to invest could materially and adversely affect the during volatile rate movements, or at all. Moreover, there are risks Company’s business. associated with the use of such hedging instruments. While hedging Demand for vehicles for personal use generally depends on instruments may mitigate the Company’s exposure to fluctuations consumers’ net purchasing power, their confidence in future in currency exchange rates to a certain extent, it potentially forego economic developments and changes in fashion and trends, while benefits that might result from market fluctuations in currency demand for vehicles for commercial use by corporate customers exposures. These hedging transactions can also result in substantial (including fleet customers) primarily depends on the customers’ losses. Such losses could occur under various circumstances, financial condition, their willingness to invest (motivated by including, without limitation, any circumstances in which a expected future business prospects) and available financing. counterparty does not perform its obligations under the applicable A decrease in potential customers’ disposable income or their hedging arrangement (despite having International Swaps and financial flexibility or an increase in the cost of financing will Derivatives Association (ISDA) agreements in place with each of the generally have a negative impact on demand for the Company’s Company’s hedging counterparties), there are currency fluctuations, products. A weak macroeconomic environment, combined with the arrangement is imperfect or ineffective, or the Company’s restrictive lending and a low level of consumer sentiment generally, internal hedging policies and procedures are not followed or do may reduce consumers’ net purchasing power and lead existing not work as planned. In addition, because the Company’s potential and potential customers to refrain from purchasing a new vehicle, obligations under the financial hedging instruments are marked to defer a purchase further or to purchase a smaller model with to market, the Company may experience quarterly and annual less equipment at a lower price. A deteriorating macroeconomic volatility in its operating results and cash flows attributable to its environment may disproportionately reduce demand for luxury financial hedging activities. vehicles. It also leads to reluctance by corporate customers to The Company is exposed to liquidity risks. invest in vehicles for commercial use and/or to lease vehicles, resulting in a postponement of fleet renewal contracts. The Company’s main sources of liquidity are cash generated from operations, existing notes, external debt in the form of factoring To stimulate demand, the automotive industry has offered customers discount facilities and other revolving credit facilities. However, and dealers price reductions on vehicles and services, which has adverse changes in the global economic and financial environment led to increased price pressures and sharpened competition within may result in lower consumer demand for vehicles, and prevailing the industry. As a provider of numerous high-volume models, the conditions in credit markets may adversely affect both consumer Company’s profitability and cash flows are significantly affected by demand and the cost and availability of finance for the Company’s the risk of rising competitive and price pressures. business and operations. If the global economy goes back into Special sales incentives and increased price pressures in the new recession and consumer demand for the Company’s vehicles car business also influence price levels in the used car market, drops, as a result of higher oil prices, excessive public debt or for with a negative effect on vehicle resale values. This may have a any other reasons, and the supply of external financing becomes negative impact on the profitability of the used car business in the limited, the Company may again face significant liquidity risks. Company’s dealer organization. The Company is also subject to various types of restrictions or The Company may be adversely affected by labor unrest. impediments on the ability of the companies in certain countries to transfer cash across the companies through loans or interim All of the Company’s permanent employees in India, other than dividends. These restrictions or impediments are caused officers and managers, and most of the Company’s permanent by exchange controls, withholding taxes on dividends and employees in South Korea and the United Kingdom, including distributions and other similar restrictions in the markets in which certain officers and managers, in relation to the Company’s the Company operate. The cash in some of these jurisdictions is automotive business, are members of labour unions and are subject to certain restrictions on cash pooling, intercompany loan covered by the Company’s wage agreements, where applicable, arrangements or interim dividends. with those labour unions. Any adverse changes in the global economic and financial In January 2019, JLR announced reduction of the size of its global environment may result in lower consumer demand for vehicles, workforce by around 4,500 people to deliver cost reductions and 150 cashflow improvements as well as long-term strategic operating could lead to loss of business hours, loss of reputation, and finally INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) efficiencies.In general, the Company consider its labour relations in extreme case financial loss due to business disruptions. with all its employees to be good. However, in the future the The Company’s business and prospects could suffer if the Company may be subject to labor unrest, which may delay Company lose one or more key personnel or if the Company is or disrupt its operations in the affected regions, including the unable to attract and retain its employees. acquisition of raw materials and parts, the manufacture, sales and distribution of products and the provision of services. If work The Company’s business and future growth depend largely on stoppages or lock-outs at the Company’s facilities or at the facilities the skills of its workforce, including executives and officers, and of its major vendors occur or continue for a long period of time, the automotive designers and engineers. The loss of the services of Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations one or more of the Company’s personnel could impair its ability may be materially and adversely affected. During FY 2016-17, to implement the Company’s business strategy. In view of intense the Company faced two standalone incidents of labor unrest in competition, any inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate India, one at the Company’s Dharwad plant in Karnataka and the its workforce could materially and adversely affect the Company’s other at the Company’s Sanand plant in Gujarat. Although these business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) particular issues were amicably resolved, there is no assurance The Company may be adversely impacted by political instability, that additional labour issues could not occur, or that any future wars, terrorism, multinational conflicts, and countries resorting to labour issues will be amicably resolved. protectionism, natural disasters, fuel shortages/prices, epidemics In addition, JLR is engaged in bi annual negotiations in relation to and labor strikes. wage agreements, covering approximately 20,000 of its unionised The Company’s products are exported to a number of geographical employees, the most recent of which resulted in a two year wage markets and it plans to further expand the international operations agreement concluded in November 2016. The current wage in the future. Consequently, the Company’s operations in markets agreement expires in October 2018 and is being renegotiated, with abroad may be subject to political instability, wars, terrorism, negotiations scheduled to conclude in November 2018. There is a regional or multinational conflicts, natural disasters and extreme risk, however, that future negotiations could escalate into industrial weather, fuel shortages, epidemics and labor strikes. Any action ranging from “work to rule” to a strike before a settlement is disruption of the operations of the Company’s manufacturing, ultimately reached. design, engineering, sales, corporate and other facilities could FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) The Company is exposed to operational risks, including materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition cybersecurity risks in connection with the Company’s use of and results of operations.For example, the current U.S. presidential information technology. administration could seek to introduce changes to laws and policies governing international trade and impose additional tariffs Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or and duties on foreign vehicle imports, which could have a material failed internal processes, people and systems or from external adverse effect on the Company’s sales in the United States. events. This includes, among other things, losses that are caused In addition, conducting business internationally, especially in by a lack of controls within internal procedures, violation of internal emerging markets, exposes us to additional risks, including adverse policies by employees, disruption or malfunction of IT systems, changes in economic and government policies, unpredictable computer networks and telecommunications systems, mechanical shifts in regulation, inconsistent application of existing laws or equipment failures, human error, natural disasters, security and regulations, unclear regulatory and taxation systems and breaches or malicious acts by third parties (including, for example, divergent commercial and employment practices and procedures hackers). The Company is generally exposed to risks in the field of information technology, since unauthorized access to or misuse If any of these events were to occur, there can be no assurance of data processed on the Company’s IT systems, human errors that the Company would be able to shift its manufacturing, design, associated therewith or technological failures of any kind could engineering, sales, corporate and other operations to alternate disrupt the Company’s operations, including the manufacturing, sites in a timely manner or at all. In addition, conducting business design and engineering processes. In particular, as vehicles internationally, especially in emerging markets, exposes us to become more technologically advanced and connected to the additional risks, including adverse changes in economic and internet, the Company’s vehicles may become more susceptible government policies, unpredictable shifts in regulation, inconsistent to unauthorized access to their systems. Like any other business application of existing laws, applicability of retrospective taxes, with complex manufacturing, research, procurement, sales and sanctions programs, unclear regulatory and taxation systems and marketing and financing operations, the Company is exposed to divergent commercial and employment practices and procedures. a variety of operational risks and, if the protection measures put Any deterioration in international relations, especially between in place prove insufficient, the Company’s results of operations India and its neighboring countries, may result in investor concern and financial condition can be materially adversely affected. In regarding regional stability. Any significant or prolonged disruption addition, the Company would likely experience negative press and or delay in the Company’s operations related to these risks could reputational impacts.The potential risk of cybersecurity incidents materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. 151 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Terrorist attacks, civil disturbances, regional conflicts and other In the Indian market, demand for the Company’s vehicles generally acts of violence, particularly in India, may disrupt or otherwise peaks between January and March, although there is a decrease in adversely affect the markets in which the Company operate, the demand in February just before release of the Indian fiscal budget. Company’s business and the Company’s profitability. India has Demand is usually lean from April to July and picks up again in from time to time experienced social and civil unrest and hostilities the festival season from September onwards, with a decline in and adverse social, economic or political events, including terrorist December due to year-end as customers defer purchases to the attacks and local civil disturbances, riots and armed conflict with new year. neighboring countries. Events of this nature in the future could The Company’s Jaguar Land Rover business is impacted by the biinfluence the Indian economy and could have a material adverse annual registration of vehicles in the United Kingdom where the effect on the Company’s business, as well as the market for vehicle registration number changes every March and September, securities of Indian companies, including the Company’s Shares which leads to an increase in sales during these months, and, in and ADSs. Such incidents could also create a greater perception turn, has an impact on the resale value of vehicles. This leads to that investment in Indian companies involves a higher degree of an increase in sales during the period when the aforementioned risk and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s change occurs. Most other markets, such as the United States, business, results of operations and financial condition, and also the are influenced by the introduction of new-model-year products, market price of the Company’s Shares and ADSs. which typically occurs in the autumn of each year. Furthermore, The Company are vulnerable to supply chain disruptions resulting in the United States, there is some seasonality in the purchasing from natural disasters or man-made accidents. For example, on pattern of vehicles in the northern states for Jaguar when there is August 12, 2015, there was an explosion in the city port of Tianjin, a concentration of vehicle sales in the spring and summer months one of three major ports in China through which the Company import and for Land Rover, where the trend for purchasing 4x4 vehicles its vehicles. Approximately 5,800 of the Company’s vehicles were is concentrated in the autumn and winter months. Markets in stored at various locations in Tianjin at the time of the explosion, China tend to experience higher demand for vehicles around the and, as a result, the Company recognized an exceptional charge Lunar New Year holiday in either January or February, the Chinese of GBP245 million in September 2015. Subsequently, GBP275 National Day holiday and the Golden Week holiday in October. In million of net insurance proceeds and other recoveries have been addition, demand in Western European automotive markets tends received till March 31, 2018, including GBP35 million related to to be softer during the summer and winter holidays. Jaguar Land other costs associated with Tianjin including lost and discounted Rover’s cash flows are impacted by the temporary shutdown of vehicle revenue. A significant delay or sustained interruption in four of their manufacturing plants in the United Kingdom (including the supply of key inputs sourced from areas affected by disasters the Engine Manufacturing Centre at Wolverhampton) during the or accidents could materially and adversely affect the Company’s summer and winter holidays. Sales in the automotive industry ability to maintain its current and expected levels of production, have been cyclical in the past and the Company expects this and therefore negatively affect its revenues and increase the cyclicality to continue. Company’s operating expenses. Restrictive covenants in the Company’s financing agreements The Company is a global organization, and is therefore vulnerable could limit the Company’s operations and financial flexibility to shifts in global trade and economic policies and outlook. Policies and materially and adversely impact the Company’s financial that result in countries withdrawing from trade pacts, increasing condition, results of operations and prospects. protectionism and undermining free trade could substantially Some of the Company’s financing agreements and debt affect the Company’s ability to operate as a global business. arrangements set limits on and/or require us to obtain lender Additionally, negative sentiments towards foreign companies consent before, among other things, pledging assets as security. among the Company’s overseas customers and employees could In addition, certain financial covenants may limit the Company’s adversely affect its sales as well as its ability to hire and retain ability to borrow additional funds or to incur additional liens. In the talented people. A negative shift in either policies or sentiment past, the Company has been able to obtain required lender consent with respect to global trade and foreign businesses could have for such activities. However, there can be no assurance that the a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of Company will be able to obtain such consents in the future. If the operations and financial condition. Company’s liquidity needs or growth plans require such consents The Company’s business is seasonal in nature and a substantial and such consents are not obtained, the Company may be forced decrease in its sales during certain quarters could have a material to forego or alter its plans, which could materially and adversely adverse impact on the Company’s financial performance. affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The sales volumes and prices for the Company’s vehicles are In the event the Company breach these covenants, the outstanding influenced by the cyclicality and seasonality of demand for these amounts due under such financing agreements could become products. The automotive industry has been cyclical in the past, due and payable immediately and/or result in increased costs. A and the Company expect this cyclicality to continue. default under one of these financing agreements may also result in cross-defaults under other financing agreements and result in 152 the outstanding amounts under such other financing agreements The Company may be materially and adversely affected by the INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) becoming due and payable immediately. Defaults under one or divulgence of confidential information. more of the Company’s financing agreements could have a material Although the Company has implemented policies and procedures adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. to protect confidential information, such as key contractual Future pension obligations may prove more costly than currently provisions, future projects, and customer records, such information anticipated and the market value of assets in the Company’s may be divulged, including as a result of hacking or other threats pension plans could decline. from cyberspace. If this occurs, the Company could be subject to claims by affected parties, negative publicity and loss of The Company provide post-retirement and pension benefits to proprietary information, all of which could have an adverse and its employees, including defined benefit plans. The Company’s material impact on the Company’s reputation, business, financial pension liabilities are generally funded. However, lower returns condition, results of operations and cash flows. on pension fund assets, changes in market conditions, interest rates or inflation rates, and adverse changes in other critical The Company’s business could be negatively affected by the actuarial assumptions, may impact its pension liabilities or assets actions of activist shareholders. STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) and consequently increase funding requirements, which could Certain of the Company’s shareholders may from time to time materially decrease the Company’s net income and cash flows. advance shareholder proposals or otherwise attempt to effect Jaguar Land Rover provides post-retirement and pension benefits changes at the Company, influence elections of directors or to its employees, some of which are defined benefit plans. Its acquire control over its business. The Company’s success pension liabilities are generally funded and its pension plan assets largely depends on the ability of its current management team are particularly significant. As part of Jaguar Land Rover’s Strategic to operate and manage effectively. Campaigns by shareholders Business Review process, the Company closed the Jaguar Land to effect changes at publicly listed companies are sometimes led Rover defined benefit pension plan to new joiners as at 19 April by investors seeking to increase short-term shareholder value 2010. All new employees in the Company’s operations from 19 by advocating corporate actions such as financial restructuring, April 2010 have joined a new defined contribution pension plan. increased borrowing, special dividends, stock repurchases or Under the arrangements with the trustees of the defined benefit even sales of assets or the entire company, or by voting against pension schemes, an actuarial valuation of the assets and liabilities proposals put forward by the board of directors and management of the schemes is undertaken every three years. The most recent of the company. If faced with actions by activist shareholders, the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) valuation, as at April 2018, indicated a shortfall in the assets of the Company may not be able to respond effectively to such actions, schemes as at that date, versus the actuarially determined liabilities which could be disruptive to the Company’s business. as at that date of £554 million (compared to £789 million as at April 2015). The 2018 valuation was completed in December 2018. The Company rely on licensing arrangements with Tata Sons Following the 2018 actuarial valuation the company contributions Private Limited to use the “Tata” brand. Any improper use of the for benefits accruing in the defined benefit plan reduces to c.22% associated trademarks by the Company’s licensor or any other (previously c.31%) reflecting the benefit restructure implemented third parties could materially and adversely affect the Company’s as at April 5, 2017. As at March 31, 2019, Jaguar Land Rover’s UK business, financial condition and results of operations. defined benefit pension accounted deficit had increased to £667 The Company’s rights to the Company’s trade names and trademarks million, as compared to £438 million as at March 31, 2018. This are a crucial factor in marketing its products. Establishment of the increase was primarily due to reductions in bond yields as well “Tata” word mark and logo mark in and outside India is material to as increased inflation expectations. The increase also reflects the Company’s operations. The Company has licensed the use of the cost of GMP equalisation and pension benefits for employees the “Tata” brand from its Promoter, Tata Sons Private Limited, or Tata leaving under the FY 2018-19 restructuring programmes (together Sons. If Tata Sons, or any of its subsidiaries or affiliated entities, or equal to £42 million). any third party uses the trade name “Tata” in ways that adversely Lower return on pension fund assets, changes in market affect such trade name or trademark, its reputation could suffer conditions, changes in interest rates, changes in inflation rates damage, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the and adverse changes in other critical actuarial assumptions, may Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. impact its pension liabilities or assets and consequently increase The Company is subject to risks associated with the automobile funding requirements, which will adversely affect the Company’s financing business. financial condition and results of operations. The accounted deficit is assessed and reported on a quarterly basis, it is driven by a The sale of the Company’s commercial and passenger vehicles is number of factors including asset movements, movements in the heavily dependent on funding availability for its customers. Rising discount rate (reflecting UK high quality corporate debt yields), delinquencies and early defaults have contributed to a reduction mortality rates, inflation etc as well as one-off events such as in automobile financing, which, in turn, has had an adverse effect redundancy programs. As a result, the level of the pension deficit on funding availability for potential customers. This reduction in may vary substantially between periods. available financing may continue in the future and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 153 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Default by the Company’s customers or inability to repay Inability to protect or preserve the Company’s intellectual installments as due could materially and adversely affect its property could materially and adversely affect its business, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any downgrade in the Company’s credit ratings may The Company own or otherwise have rights in respect of a number of increase its borrowing costs and restrict its access to the debt patents relating to the products it manufacture. In connection with markets. Over time, and particularly in the event of any credit the design and engineering of new vehicles and the enhancement rating downgrade, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory of existing models, the Company seek to regularly develop new changes or otherwise, the Company may need to reduce the intellectual property. The Company also use technical designs, amount of financing receivables originated, which could severely which are the intellectual property of third parties with such third disrupt the Company’s ability to support the sale of its vehicles. parties’ consent. These patents and trademarks have been of value in the growth of the Company’s business and may continue to be of The Company’s Jaguar Land Rover has consumer finance value in the future. Although the Company do not regard any of its arrangements in place with Lloyds Black Horse in the United businesses as being dependent upon any single patent or related Kingdom, FCA Bank S.p.A. in European markets and Chase Auto group of patents, an inability to protect this intellectual property Finance in North America and has similar arrangements with local generally, or the illegal breach of some or a large group of the providers in a number of other key markets. Any reduction in the Company’s intellectual property rights, would have a materially supply of available consumer financing for the purchase of new adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of vehicles or an increase in the cost thereof would make it more operations. The Company may also be affected by restrictions on difficult for some of its customers to purchase its vehicles, which the use of intellectual property rights held by third parties and the could put Jaguar Land Rover under commercial pressure to offer Company may be held legally liable for the infringement of the new (or expand existing) retail or dealer incentives to maintain intellectual property rights of others in the Company’s products. demand for its vehicles, thereby materially and adversely affecting the Company’s sales and results of operations. For example, during The Company may incur significant costs to comply with, or face the global financial crisis, several providers of customer finance civil and criminal liability for infringements of, the European reduced their supply of consumer financing for the purchase General Data Protection Regulation. of new vehicles. Additionally, base interest rates in developed In April 2016, the European Union enacted the GDPR. The GDPR is economies are at historic lows. An increase in interest rates due to a uniform framework setting out the principles for legitimate data tightening monetary policy or for any other reason would result in processing and came into force on May 25, 2018. The introduction increased costs for consumers. of the GDPR strengthens individuals’ rights and imposes stricter Furthermore, Jaguar Land Rover offers residual value guarantees requirements on companies processing personal data. The new on the purchase of certain leases in some markets. The value of regime may impose a substantially higher compliance burden on the these guarantees is dependent on used car valuations in those Company and limit its rights to process personal data, lead to cost markets at the end of the lease, which is subject to change. intensive administration processes, oblige us to provide the personal Consequently, the Company may be adversely affected by data that the Company record to customers in a form that would movements in used car valuations in these markets. require additional administrative processes or require substantial changes in its IT environment. Additionally, there are much greater Changes in the Company’s credit rating could adversely affect sanctions in case of violations of the GDPR requirements compared the value of the Company’s debt securities, finance costs and its to the previous regime. These sanctions depend on the nature of the ability to obtain future financing. infringed provision and may consist of civil liabilities and criminal Any credit ratings assigned to the Company or its debt securities sanctions. For example, criminal sanctions for compliance failures may not reflect the potential impact of all risks related to structure, have increased from its previous level in the United Kingdom of market, additional risk factors discussed and other factors that £500,000 to up to €20,000,000 or 4% of annual worldwide turnover may affect the value of its debt securities. A credit rating is not (whichever is higher). The Company’s failure to implement and a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities. Credit rating comply with the GDPR could significantly affect its reputation and agencies continually review the ratings they have assigned and relationships with its customers and suppliers, and civil and criminal their ratings may be subject to revision, suspension or withdrawal liabilities for the infringement of data protection rules could have a by the rating agency at any time. A downgrade in the Company’s significant negative effect on its financial position. credit rating may negatively affect the Company’s ability to obtain Some of the Company’s vehicles will make use of lithium-ion future financing to fund the Company’s operations and capital battery cells, which have been observed in some non-automotive needs, which may affect the Company’s liquidity. It may also applications to catch fire or vent smoke and flames, and such events increase the Company’s financing costs by increasing the interest have raised concerns, and future events may lead to additional rates of the Company’s outstanding debt or the interest rates at concerns, about the batteries used in automotive applications. which the Company is able to refinance existing debt or incur additional debt. The battery packs that the Company will use in its electric vehicles make use of lithium-ion cells. On rare occasions, lithium-ion cells 154 can rapidly release the energy they contain by venting smoke and sufficient, that any claim under the Company’s insurance policies INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) flames in a manner that can ignite nearby materials as well as will be honored fully or in a timely manner, or that the Company’s other lithium-ion cells. insurance premiums will not increase substantially. There can be no assurance that any claim under the Company’s insurance While the Company have designed the battery pack to passively policies will be honoured fully or timely, its insurance coverage contain any single cell’s release of energy without spreading will be sufficient in any respect or the insurance premiums will not to neighboring cells, there can be no assurance that a field or change substantially. Accordingly, to the extent that the Company testing failure of the Company’s vehicles will not occur, which suffer loss or damage that is not covered by insurance or that could subject us to lawsuits, product recalls, or redesign efforts, exceeds its insurance coverage, or are required to pay higher all of which would be time consuming and expensive. Negative insurance premiums, the Company’s business, financial condition public perceptions regarding the suitability of lithium-ion cells for and results of operations could be materially and adversely automotive applications, or any future incident involving lithiumaffected. ion cells such as a vehicle fire, even if such incident does not involve the Company’s vehicles, could seriously harm its business. Political and Regulatory Risks STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) In addition, the Company will store a significant number of lithiumIndia’s obligations under the World Trade Organization Agreement ion cells at its manufacturing facilities. Any mishandling of battery could materially affect the Company’s business. cells may cause disruption to the operation of its facilities. While India’s obligations under its World Trade Organization agreement the Company has implemented safety procedures related to the could reduce the present level of tariffs on imports of components handling of the cells, there can be no assurance that a safety and vehicles. Reductions of import tariffs could result in increased issue or fire related to the cells would not disrupt the Company’s competition, which in turn could materially and adversely affect operations. Such damage or injury could lead to adverse publicity the Company’s sales, business, financial condition and results of and potentially a safety recall. Moreover, any failure of a operations. competitor’s electric vehicle may cause indirect adverse publicity for us and the Company’s products. Such adverse publicity could New or changing laws, regulations and government policies harm the Company’s business, prospects, financial condition and regarding increased fuel economy, reduced greenhouse gas and operating results. other emissions, vehicle safety and taxes, tariffs or fiscal policies may have significant impact on the Company’s business. Any failures or weaknesses in the Company’s internal controls FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) could materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial As an automobile company, the Company is subject to extensive condition and results of operations. governmental regulations regarding vehicle emission levels, noise, safety and levels of pollutants generated by its production Upon evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation facilities. In particular, the United States and Europe have stringent of the Company’s internal controls, the Company concluded that regulations relating to vehicle emissions. The contemplated there was a material weakness such that its internal controls tightening of vehicle emissions regulations by the European Union over financial reporting were not effective as at March 31, 2019. will require significant costs for compliance. While the Company Although the Company have instituted remedial measures to is pursuing various technologies in order to meet the required address the material weakness identified and continually review standards in the various countries in which the Company sell its and evaluate its internal control systems to allow management vehicles, these regulations are likely to become more stringent to report on the sufficiency of its internal controls, the Company and the resulting higher compliance costs may be significant to cannot assure that it will not discover additional weaknesses in the Company’s operations and may adversely impact its business, its internal controls over financial reporting. Further, management financial condition and results of operations. They may also limit continually improves, simplifies and rationalizes the Company’s the type of vehicles the Company sell and where it sell them, which internal control framework where possible within the constraints could affect the Company’s revenues. of existing IT systems. However, any additional weaknesses or failure to adequately remediate the existing weakness could Recently, several jurisdictions, such as Norway, Germany, materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition the United Kingdom, France, the Netherlands and China have or results of operations. announced the intention to eliminate the sale of conventionally fueled vehicles in their markets in the coming decades. Diesel The Company’s insurance coverage may not be adequate to technologies have also become the focus of legislators in the protect against all potential losses to which it may be subject United States and European Union as a result of emission to, and this may have a material adverse effect on its business, levels. This has led to various carmakers to announce programs financial condition and results of operations. to retrofit diesel vehicles with software that will allow them to While the Company believe that the insurance coverage that reduce emissions. To maintain the Company’s competitiveness and it maintain is reasonably adequate to cover all normal risks compliance with applicable laws and regulations, the Company associated with the operation of the Company’s business, there can may be required to undertake increased R&D spending as well as be no assurance that the Company’s insurance coverage will be other capital expenses. 155 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year There is a risk that these R&D activities may not achieve their Commencing July 1, 2017, the Indian tax regime underwent a planned objectives or the Company’s competitors will develop systemic change. The Government of India, in conjunction with the better solutions and will be able to manufacture the resulting state governments, implemented a comprehensive national goods products more rapidly. This could result in loss of market share and services tax, or GST, regime to combine taxes and levies by for the Company. the central and state governments into one unified rate structure. Based on the application of the tax, GST will be classified as either There is also a risk that investments in research and development Central GST (CGST), in instances where the central government of new technologies, including autonomous, connected and levies the tax; State/Union Territory GST (SGST/UTGST), in electrification technologies, and solutions to address future instances where the state or union territory governments levy the travel and transport challenges, may fail to generate sufficient tax; and Integrated GST (IGST), in instances where the GST is levied returns because the technology developed or the products on the inter-state supply of goods and services. derived therefrom are unsuccessful in the marked and/or because the Company’s competitors have developed better and/or less Imposition of any additional taxes and levies designed to limit the expensive products. use of automobiles and changes in corporate and other taxation policies as well as changes in export and other incentives given by Additionally, In order to comply with current and future safety and various governments or import or tariff policies, could adversely environmental norms, the Company may have to incur additional affect the demand for its vehicles and its results of operations. For capital expenditure and R&D expenditure to (i) operate and maintain instance, Brexit may result in material changes to the UK’s tax, the Company’s production facilities, (ii) install new emissions tariff and fiscal policies. In addition, the current U.S. presidential controls or reduction technologies, (iii) purchase or otherwise administration has called for changes to laws and policies obtain allowances to emit greenhouse gases, (iv) administer and governing international trade to further restrict free trade, including manage the Company’s greenhouse gas emissions program, and imposing tariffs on certain goods imported into the United States (v) invest in research and development to upgrade products and (e.g. a tariff was imposed on European aluminium and steel imports manufacturing facilities. If the Company are unable to develop in June 2018). The administration has also specifically warned of commercially viable technologies or otherwise unable to attain its intention to impose a 20% tariff on European made vehicles compliance within the time frames set by the new standards, imported into the United States, a levy that, if imposed, would the Company could face significant civil penalties or be forced to increase the cost of JLR’s vehicles in the United States (as JLR restrict product offerings significantly. For example, in the United has no manufacturing operations in the United States), which is States, manufacturers are subject to substantial civil penalties if likely to have a material adverse effect on JLR’s sales in the United they fail to meet federal Corporate Average Fuel Economy, or States and its results of operation. Furthermore, in recent years, CAFE, standards. These penalties are calculated at US$5.50 for the Brazilian government has implemented increased import each tenth of a mile below the required fuel efficiency level for duty on foreign vehicles, along with related exemptions provided each vehicle sold in a model year in the U.S. market. As with many certain criteria are met. The Company continue the Company’s European manufacturers, since 2010, Jaguar Land Rover has discussions with the Brazilian government to manage the impact paid total penalties of US$46 million for its failure to meet CAFE on the Company’s business and are seeking to reduce the impact standards. of increased tariffs. Finally, the European Commission opened an Moreover, safety and environmental standards may at times impose investigation into whether certain tax and other incentives granted conflicting imperatives, which pose engineering challenges and by the government of Slovakia in connection with the construction would, among other things, increase the Company’s costs. While of the Company’s Slovakian manufacturing facility complied with the company is pursuing the development and implementation of European Union rules on state aid. Such government actions various technologies in order to meet the required standards in the may be unpredictable and beyond the Company’s control, and various countries in which the company sell its vehicles, the costs any adverse changes in government policy could have a material for compliance with these required standards could be significant adverse effect on its business prospects, results of operations and to Company’s operations and may materially and adversely affect financial condition. its business, financial condition and results of operations. Evaluating and estimating the Company’s provision and accruals The Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Bill, 2017 was passed in the for its taxes requires significant judgment. As the Company Lok Sabha on April 10, 2017, and is currently being debated in conduct its business, the final tax determination may be uncertain. the Rajya Sabha. This Bill addresses vehicle recalls, road safety, The Company operate in multiple geographical markets and traffic management and accident insurance, among other matters. its operations in each market are susceptible to additional In its current draft, the Bill imposes civil and criminal liability on tax assessments and audits. The Company’s collaborations manufacturers selling vehicles in contravention of the standards with business partners are similarly susceptible to such tax specified in the Bill, or required by the government to recall assessments. their vehicles. The Bill also proposes the creation of the National Authorities may engage in additional reviews, inquiries and Road Safety Board to provide advice to the central and state audits that disrupt the Company’s operations or challenge its governments on all aspects of road safety and traffic management. conclusions regarding tax matters. Any resulting tax assessment 156 may be accompanied by a penalty or additional fee for failing to Competition Act. Furthermore, any agreement among competitors INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) make the initial payment. The Company’s tax rates may be affected which directly or indirectly involves determination of purchase or by earnings estimation errors, losses in jurisdictions that do not sale prices, limits or controls production, sharing the market by grant a related tax benefit, changes in currency rates, acquisitions, way of geographical area or number of subscribers in the relevant investments, or changes in laws, regulations or practices. market or which directly or indirectly results in bid-rigging or Additionally, government fiscal pressures may increase the collusive bidding is presumed to have an AAEC in the relevant likelihood of adverse or aggressive interpretations of tax laws or market in India and is considered void. The Competition Act also regulations or the imposition of arbitrary or onerous taxes, interest prohibits abuse of a dominant position by any enterprise. The charges and penalties. Tax assessments may be levied even where Company cannot predict with certainty the impact of the provisions the Company consider its practices to be in compliance with tax of the Competition Act on the Company’s agreements at this stage. laws and regulations. Should the Company challenge such taxes On March 4, 2011, the Government of India issued and brought or believe them to be without merit, it may nonetheless be required into force the combination regulation (merger control) provisions to pay them. These amounts may be materially different from the under the Competition Act with effect from June 1, 2011. These Company’s expected tax assessments and could additionally result provisions require acquisitions of shares, voting rights, assets or STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) in expropriation of assets, attachment of additional securities, control or mergers or amalgamations that cross the prescribed liens, imposition of royalties or new taxes and requirements for assetand turnover-based thresholds to be mandatorily notified local ownership or beneficiation. to and pre-approved by the Competition Commission of India, or The Company could be impacted by change of emission norms in CCI. Additionally, on May 11, 2011, the CCI issued the Competition India from BS IV to BS VI , effective April 1, 2020 as BS IV vehicles Commission of India (Procedure for Transaction of Business will not be allowed to be registered effective April 1, 2020 and it Relating to Combinations) Regulations, 2011 (as amended), which will increase the cost of the BS VI vehicles. Any future potential or sets out the mechanism for the implementation of the merger real unexpected change in law could have could have a material control regime in India. adverse effect on the Company’s business prospects, results of Furthermore, the CCI has extraterritorial powers and can operations and financial condition. investigate any agreements, abusive conduct or combination On March 29, 2017, the Supreme Court of India prohibited the occurring outside India if such agreement, conduct or combination sale and registration of Bharat Stage III vehicles from April 1, has an AAEC in India. The CCI has initiated an inquiry against us FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) 2017. Bharat Stage emission standards are emission standards and other car manufacturers, collectively referred to hereinafter instituted by the Government of India to regulate the output of air as the OEMs, pursuant to an allegation that genuine spare parts pollutants from internal combustion engines and Spark-ignition of automobiles manufactured by the OEMs were not made freely engines equipment, including motor vehicles. These regulations available in the open market in India and, accordingly, antiare similar to European emission standards, and seeks to curb competitive practices were carried out by the OEMs. emission levels from motor vehicles. Bharat Stage III similar to If the Company are adversely affected, directly or indirectly, by the European standards (Euro III) which were in place between 2000 application or interpretation of any provision of the Competition and 2005 in most western nations. The Supreme Court’s judgment Act, or any enforcement proceedings initiated by the CCI, or overturned a government regulation, and was unexpected. any adverse publicity that may be generated due to scrutiny or The Petroleum Ministry of India in consultation with Public Oil prosecution by the CCI or if any prohibition or substantial penalties Marketing Companies brought forward the date of Bharat Stageare levied under the Competition Act, it could adversely affect the VI grade auto fuels in NCT of Delhi with effect from April 1, 2018 Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. instead of April 1, 2020. The Government of India has announced its intention to leapfrog to Bharat Stage-VI from April 1, 2020. Any Compliance with new or changing corporate governance future potential or real unexpected change in law could have could and public disclosure requirements adds uncertainty to the have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, results Company’s compliance policies and increases the Company’s of operations and financial condition. costs of compliance. The Company may be affected by competition law in India and The Company is subject to a complex and continuously changing any adverse application or interpretation of the Competition Act regime of laws, rules, regulations and standards relating to could adversely affect the Company’s business. accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and U.S. Securities and Exchange The Indian Competition Act oversees practices having an Commission, or SEC, regulations, Securities and Exchange appreciable adverse effect on competition, or AAEC, in a given Board of India, or SEBI, regulations, New York Stock Exchange, relevant market in India. Under the Competition Act, any formal or NYSE, listing rules, and the Companies Act, as well as Indian or informal arrangement, understanding or action in concert, stock market listing regulations. New or changed laws, rules, which causes or is likely to cause an AAEC, is considered void and regulations and standards may lack specificity and are subject to results in imposition of substantial penalties. Consequently, all varying interpretations. Under applicable Indian laws, for example, agreements entered into by us could be within the purview of the remuneration packages may, in certain circumstances, require 157 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year shareholders’ approval. New guidance and revisions may be The Company is subject to risks associated with legal proceedings provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result and governmental investigations, including potential adverse in continuing uncertainty and higher costs of compliance. The publicity as a result thereof. Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate The Company are and may be involved from time to time in civil, governance and public disclosure. However, the Company’s efforts labour, administrative or tax proceedings arising in the ordinary to comply with evolving regulations have resulted in, and are course of business. It is not possible to predict the potential for, or likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative the ultimate outcomes of, such proceedings, some of which may expenses and a diversion of management resources and time. be unfavorable to the Company. In such cases, the Company may The Companies Act has effected significant changes to the existing incur costs and any mitigating measures (including provisions Indian company law framework, such as in the provisions related taken on the Company’s balance sheet) adopted to protect against to the issue of capital, disclosures in offering documents, corporate the impact of such costs may not be adequate or sufficient. governance norms, accounting policies and audit matters, related In addition, adverse publicity surrounding legal proceedings, party transactions, class action suits against companies by government investigations or allegations may also harm the shareholders or depositors, prohibitions on loans to directors and Company’s reputation and brands. insider trading, including restrictions on derivative transactions In any of the geographical markets in which the Company operate, concerning a company’s securities by directors and key managerial the Company could be subject to additional tax liabilities. personnel. The Companies Act may subject the Company to higher compliance requirements, increase its compliance costs and divert Evaluating and estimating the Company’s provision and accruals management’s attention. The Company is also required to spend, in for its taxes requires significant judgement. As the Company each financial year, at least 2% of its average net profits during the conduct its business, the final tax determination may be uncertain. three immediately preceding financial years, calculated for Tata The Company operate in multiple geographical markets and Motors Limited on a standalone basis under Ind AS, toward corporate its operations in each market are susceptible to additional social responsibility activities. Furthermore, the Companies Act tax assessments and audits. The Company’s collaborations imposes greater monetary and other liability on the Company with business partners are similarly susceptible to such tax and its directors for any non-compliance. Due to limited relevant assessments. Authorities may engage in additional reviews, jurisprudence, in the event that the Company’s interpretation of inquiries and audits that disrupt the Company’s operations or the Companies Act differs from, or contradicts with, any judicial challenge its conclusions regarding tax matters. Any resulting pronouncements or clarifications issued by the Government of tax assessment may be accompanied by a penalty (including India in the future, the Company may face regulatory actions or revocation of a benefit or exemption from tax) or additional fee for be required to undertake remedial steps. In addition, some of the failing to make the initial payment. provisions of the Companies Act overlap with other existing laws The Company’s tax rates may be affected by earnings estimation and regulations (such as corporate governance provisions and errors, losses in jurisdictions that do not grant a related tax benefit, insider trading regulations issued by SEBI). SEBI promulgated changes in currency rates, acquisitions, investments, or changes the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) in laws, regulations, or practices. Additionally, government fiscal Regulations, 2015, or the Listing Regulations, which are applicable or political pressures may increase the likelihood of adverse to all Indian companies with listed securities or companies or aggressive interpretations of tax laws or regulations or the intending to list its securities on an Indian stock exchange, and imposition of arbitrary or onerous taxes, interest charges and the Listing Regulations became effective on December 1, 2015. penalties. Tax assessments may be levied even where the Pursuant to the Listing Regulations, the Company is required to Company consider its practices to be in compliance with tax laws establish and maintain a vigilance mechanism for directors and and regulations. Should the Company challenge such taxes or employees to report their concerns about unethical behaviour, believe them to be without merit, it may nonetheless be required actual or suspected fraud or violation of the Company’s Code of to pay them. These amounts may be materially different from the Conduct or ethics policy under the Company’s whistleblower Company’s expected tax assessments and could additionally result policy, to implement increased disclosure requirements for price in expropriation of assets, attachment of additional securities, sensitive information, to conduct elaborate directors familiarization liens, imposition of royalties or new taxes and requirements for programs and comprehensive disclosures thereof, in accordance local ownership or beneficiation. with the Listing Regulations. The Company may face difficulties in complying with any such overlapping requirements. Furthermore, The Company may have to comply with more stringent foreign the Company cannot currently determine the impact of certain investment regulations in India in the event of an increase in provisions of the Companies Act and the revised SEBI corporate shareholding of non-residents or if the Company is considered as governance norms. Any increase in the Company’s compliance engaged in a sector in which foreign investment is restricted. requirements or in the Company’s compliance costs may have a Indian companies, which are owned or controlled by non-resident material and adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial persons, are subject to investment restrictions specified in the condition and results of operations. Consolidated FDI (Foreign Direct Investment) Policy. Under the 158 Consolidated FDI Policy, an Indian company is considered to be The Company’s business could be significantly influenced by INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) “owned” by non-resident persons if more than 50% of its equity economic policies adopted by the Government of India. Since interest is beneficially owned by non-resident persons. The non1991, successive governments have pursued policies of economic resident equity shareholding in the Company may, in the near liberalization and financial sector reforms. future, exceed 50%, thereby resulting in the Company being The Government of India has at various times announced its considered as being “owned” by non-resident entities under general intention to continue India’s current economic and the Consolidated FDI Policy. In such an event, any investment financial liberalization and deregulation policies. However, by us in existing subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures and protests against such policies, which have occurred in the past, new subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures will be considered could slow the pace of liberalization and deregulation. The rate as indirect foreign investment and shall be subject to various of economic liberalization could change, and specific laws and requirements specified under the Consolidated FDI Policy, policies affecting foreign investment, currency exchange rates including sectoral limits, approval requirements and pricing and other matters affecting investment in India could change as guidelines, as may be applicable. well. While the Company expects any new government to continue Furthermore, as part of the Company’s automotive business, its the liberalization of India’s economic and financial sectors and STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) supply and have in the past supplied, vehicles to Indian military deregulation policies, there can be no assurance that such policies and paramilitary forces and in the course of such activities have will be continued. obtained an industrial license from the Department of Industrial The Government of India has traditionally exercised and continues Policy. The Consolidated FDI policy applies different foreign to exercise influence over many aspects of the economy. The investment restrictions to companies based upon the sector Company’s business and the market price and liquidity of the in which they operate. While the Company believe that it is an Company’s ADSs and Shares may be affected by interest rates, automobile company by virtue of the significance of the Company’s changes in policy, taxation, social and civil unrest and other automobile operations, in the event that foreign investment political, economic or other developments in or affecting India. regulations applicable to the defense sector (including under the Consolidated FDI Policy) are made applicable to us, the Company A change in the Government of India’s economic liberalization may face more stringent foreign investment restrictions and other and deregulation policies could disrupt business and economic compliance requirements compared to those applicable to us conditions in India generally, and specifically the Company’s presently, which, in turn, could materially affect the Company’s business and operations, as a substantial portion of the Company’s FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) business, financial condition and results of operations. assets are located in India. This could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company require certain approvals or licenses in the ordinary course of business, and the failure to obtain or retain them in a Any downgrading of Company’s debt rating by a domestic timely manner, or at all, could materially and adversely affect the or international rating agency could negatively impact the Company’s operations. Company’s business. The Company require certain statutory and regulatory permits, Any adverse revisions to Company’s credit ratings for domestic licenses and approvals to carry out its business operations and and international debt by domestic or international rating agencies applications for their renewal need to be made within certain time could adversely impact the Company’s ability to raise additional frames. For some of the approvals which may have expired, the financing, as well as the interest rates and other commercial Company have either made, or are in the process of making, an terms at which such additional financing is available. This could application for obtaining the approval or its renewal. While the have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial Company have applied for renewal for such approvals, registrations results, business prospects, ability to obtain financing for capital and permits, it cannot assure that the Company will receive them expenditures and the price of the Company’s Shares and ADSs. in a timely manner or at all. The Company can make no assurances The Company may be materially and adversely affected by that the approvals, licenses, registrations and permits issued to us Reserve Bank of India policies and actions. would not be suspended or revoked in the event of non-compliance or alleged non-compliance with any terms or conditions thereof, or The Indian stock exchanges are vulnerable to fluctuations based pursuant to any regulatory action. Furthermore, if the Company on changes in monetary policy formulated by the Reserve Bank are unable to renew or obtain necessary permits, licenses and of India, or RBI. The Company can make no assurances about approvals on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or at all, the future market reactions to RBI announcements and their impact Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations on the price of the Company’s Shares and ADSs. Furthermore, could be materially and adversely affected. the Company’s business could be significantly impacted were the RBI to make major alterations to monetary or fiscal policy. Certain Political changes in the Government of India could delay and/ changes, including the raising of interest rates, could negatively or affect the further liberalization of the Indian economy and affect the Company’s sales and consequently the Company’s materially and adversely affect economic conditions in India, revenue, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the generally, and the Company’s business, in particular. Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 159 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Rights of shareholders under Indian law may be more limited than enforce judgments obtained in courts of the United States against under the laws of other jurisdictions. those persons outside the jurisdiction of their residence, including judgments predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws. The Company’s Articles of Association and Indian law govern Moreover, it is unlikely that a court in India would award damages the Company’s corporate affairs. Legal principles relating to on the same basis as a foreign court if an action were brought in these matters and the validity of corporate procedures, directors’ India or that an Indian court would enforce foreign judgments if it fiduciary duties and liabilities, and shareholders’ rights may differ viewed the amount of damages as excessive or inconsistent with from those that would apply to a company incorporated in another public policy. jurisdiction. Shareholders’ rights under Indian law may not be as extensive as shareholders’ rights under the laws of other countries Section 44A of the Indian Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, as amended, or jurisdictions, including the United States. Investors may also or the Civil Code, provides that where a foreign judgment has been have more difficulty in asserting their rights as a shareholder of rendered by a superior court (within the meaning of the section) in the company than they would as a shareholder of a corporation any country or territory outside of India which the Government of organized in another jurisdiction. India has by notification declared to be a reciprocating territory, such foreign judgment may be enforced in India by proceedings in The market value of the investment may fluctuate due to the execution as if the judgment had been rendered by an appropriate volatility of the Indian securities market. court in India. However, the enforceability of such judgments is Stock exchanges in India, including BSE Limited, or the BSE, have, subject to the exceptions set forth in Section 13 of the Civil Code. in the past, experienced substantial fluctuations in the prices of Section 44A of the Civil Code is applicable only to monetary their listed securities. Such fluctuations, if they continue or recur, decrees not being in the nature of amounts payable in respect of could affect the market price and liquidity of the securities of Indian taxes or other charges of a similar nature or in respect of fines or companies, including the company’s Shares and ADSs. These other penalties and does not include arbitration awards. problems have included temporary exchange closures, broker defaults, settlement delays and strikes by brokers. Volatility in If a judgment of a foreign court is not enforceable under Section other stock exchanges, including, but not limited to, those in the 44A of the Civil Code as described above, it may be enforced in United Kingdom and China, may affect the prices of securities in India only by a suit filed upon the judgment, subject to Section 13 India, including the company’s Shares, which may in turn affect of the Civil Code and not by proceedings in execution. Accordingly, the price of its ADSs. In addition, the governing bodies of the stock as the United States has not been declared by the Government of exchanges in India have from time to time imposed restrictions on India to be a reciprocating territory for the purposes of Section 44A, trading in certain securities, limitations on price movements and a judgment rendered by a court in the United States may not be margin requirements. Furthermore, from time to time, disputes enforced in India except by way of a suit filed upon the judgment. have occurred between listed companies and stock exchanges The suit must be brought in India within three years from the date and other regulatory bodies, which in some cases may have had a of the judgment in the same manner as any other suit filed to negative effect on market sentiment. enforce a civil liability in India. Generally, there are considerable There may be a differing level of regulation and monitoring of the delays in the resolution of suits by Indian courts. Indian securities markets and the activities of investors, brokers A party seeking to enforce a foreign judgment in India is required and other participants, than in the United States. SEBI received to obtain prior approval from the RBI, under the Foreign Exchange statutory powers in 1992 to assist it in carrying out its responsibility Management Act, 1999, or FEMA to repatriate any amount for improving disclosure and other regulatory standards for the recovered pursuant to such enforcement. Any judgment in a Indian securities markets. Subsequently, SEBI has prescribed foreign currency would be converted into Indian rupees on the regulations and guidelines in relation to disclosure requirements, date of judgment and not on the date of payment. insider dealing and other matters relevant to the Indian securities market. There may, however, be less publicly available information Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Indian rupee and about Indian companies than is regularly made available by public the U.S. dollar may have a material adverse effect on the market companies in the United States. value of the Company’s ADSs and Shares, independent of the Company’s operating results. Investors may have difficulty enforcing judgments against the Company or its management. The exchange rate between the Indian rupee and the U.S. dollar has changed materially in the last two decades and may materially The Company is a public limited company incorporated in India. fluctuate in the future. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between The majority of the Company’s directors and executive officers the Indian rupee and the U.S. dollar will affect, among others things, are residents of India and substantially all of the assets of those the U.S. dollar equivalents of the price of the Company’s shares persons and a substantial portion of the Company’s assets are in Indian rupees as quoted on stock exchanges in India and, as a located in India. As a result, it may not be possible for investors result, may affect the market price of the ADSs. Such fluctuations to effect service of process within the United States upon those will also affect the U.S. dollar equivalent of any cash dividends in persons or the Company. In addition, investors may be unable to Indian rupees received on the Shares represented by the ADSs and 160 the U.S. dollar equivalent of the proceeds in Indian rupee of a sale subscribing to these new Shares unless a registration statement INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) of Shares in India. under the Securities Act is effective or an exemption from the registration requirements is available to us. The Company’s decision Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must to file a registration statement would be based on the costs, timing, act through the depository to exercise those rights. potential liabilities and the perceived benefits associated with any Although ADS holders have a right to receive any dividends such registration statement and we do not commit that we would declared in respect of the Shares underlying the ADSs, they file such a registration statement. If any issue of securities is made cannot exercise voting or other direct rights as a shareholder to the Company’s shareholders in the future, such securities may with respect to the Shares underlying the ADSs. Citibank, N.A. as also be issued to the depository, which may sell such securities in depository, or the depository, is the registered shareholder of the the Indian securities market for the benefit of the holders of ADSs. deposited Shares underlying the Company’s ADSs, and only the There can be no assurance as to the value, if any, the depository depository may exercise the rights of shareholders in connection would receive upon the sale of such rights or securities. To the with the deposited Shares. The depository will notify ADS holders extent that ADS holders are unable to exercise preemptive rights, of upcoming votes and arrange to deliver the Company’s voting their proportionate ownership interest in our company would be STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) materials to ADS holders only if requested by the Company. The reduced. depository will try, insofar as practicable, subject to Indian laws The Government of India’s regulation of foreign ownership could and the provisions of the Company’s Articles of Association, to materially reduce the price of the ADSs. vote or have its agents vote the deposited securities as instructed by the ADS holders. If the depository receives voting instructions Foreign ownership of Indian securities is regulated and is partially in time from an ADS holder which fails to specify the manner in restricted. In addition, there are restrictions on the deposit of Shares which the depository is to vote the Shares underlying such ADS into the Company’s ADS facilities. ADSs issued by companies in holder’s ADSs, such ADS holder will be deemed to have instructed certain emerging markets, including India, may trade at a discount the depository to vote in favor of the items set forth in such voting to the market price of the underlying Shares, in part because of the instructions. If the depository has not received timely instructions restrictions on foreign ownership of the underlying Shares and in from an ADS holder, such ADS holder shall be deemed to have part because ADSs are sometimes perceived to offer less liquidity instructed the depository to give a discretionary proxy to a person than underlying Shares that can be traded freely in local markets designated by the Company, subject to the conditions set forth in by both local and international investors. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) the deposit agreement. If requested by the Company, the depository There are restrictions on daily movements in the price of the is required to represent all Shares underlying ADSs, regardless of Shares, which may constrain a shareholder’s ability to sell, or the whether timely instructions have been received from such ADS price at which a shareholder can sell, Shares at a particular point holders, for the sole purpose of establishing a quorum at a meeting in time. of shareholders. In addition, in the capacity as an ADS holder, the holder will not be able to examine the Company’s accounting books The Shares are subject to a daily circuit breaker imposed by stock and records, or exercise appraisal rights. Registered holders of the exchanges in India on publicly listed companies, including the Company’s Shares withdrawn from the depository arrangements Company, which does not allow transactions causing volatility will be entitled to vote and exercise other direct shareholder rights in the price of the Shares above a certain threshold. This circuit in accordance with Indian law. However, a holder may not know breaker operates independently from the index-based marketabout a meeting sufficiently in advance to withdraw the underlying wide circuit breakers generally imposed by SEBI on Indian stock Shares in time. Furthermore, an ADS holder may not receive exchanges. The percentage limit on the Company’s circuit breaker voting materials, if the Company do not instruct the depository to is set by the stock exchanges in India based on the historical distribute such materials, or may not receive such voting materials volatility in the price and trading volume of the Company’s Shares. in time to instruct the depository to vote. The stock exchanges in India are not required to inform us of the percentage limit of the circuit breaker from time to time, and may Moreover, pursuant to Indian regulations, the Company are change it without Company’s knowledge. This circuit breaker required to offer its shareholders preemptive rights to subscribe effectively acts to limit the upward and downward movements for a proportionate number of Shares to maintain their existing in the price of the Company’s Shares. As a result of this circuit ownership percentages prior to the issue of new Shares. These breaker, the Company cannot make any assurance regarding the rights may be waived by a resolution passed by at least 75% of the ability of the Company’s shareholders to sell their Shares or the Company’s shareholders present and voting at a general meeting. price at which such shareholders may be able to sell their Shares. ADS holders may be unable to exercise preemptive rights for 161 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Report on Corporate Governance COMPANY’S PHILOSOPHY ON CORPORATE strategic direction, leadership and guidance to the Company’s GOVERNANCE management as also monitors the performance of the Company with the objective of creating long-term value for the Company’s As a Tata Company, the Company’s philosophy on Corporate stakeholders. The Board currently comprises of 9 Directors, out Governance is founded upon a rich legacy of fair, ethical and of which 7 Directors (78%) are Non-Executive Directors, including transparent governance practices, many of which were in place even 2 Women Directors. The Company has a Non-Executive Chairman before they were mandated by adopting the highest standards of and 5 Independent Directors ('IDs'), comprise more than half of the professionalism, honesty, integrity and ethical behavior. As a global total strength of the Board. All IDs have confirmed in accordance organization, the Corporate Governance practices followed by the with Regulation 25(8) of the SEBI Listing Regulations that they meet Company and its subsidiaries are compatible with international the independence criteria as mentioned under Regulation 16(1)(b) standards and best practices. Through the Governance mechanism of the SEBI Listing Regulations and Section 149(6) of the Act and in the Company, the Board along with its Committees undertakes the rules framed thereunder. The IDs have further stated that they its fiduciary responsibilities to all its stakeholders by ensuring are not aware of any circumstance or situation, which exist or may transparency, fairplay and independence in its decision making. be reasonably anticipated, that could impair or impact their ability to The Company has adopted the Tata Code of Conduct for its discharge their duties with an objective, independent, judgment and employees, including the Managing and Executive Directors, without any external influence. Based on the disclosures received which encompasses an appropriate mechanism to report any from all the IDs and as determined at the meeting held on May 20, concern pertaining to non-adherence to the said Code. In addition, 2019, the Board is of the opinion that the IDs fulfill the conditions of the Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for its Non-Executive Independence as specified in the Act, NYSE listing manual and SEBI Directors which includes a Code of Conduct for Independent Listing Regulations and are independent of the Management. Directors, suitably incorporating therein the duties of independent All the Directors have made necessary disclosures regarding their directors as laid down in the Companies Act, 2013 ('Act'). The directorships as required under Section 184 of the Act and on the Corporate Governance mechanism is further strengthened with Committee positions held by them in other companies. None of the adherence to the Tata Business Excellence Model, as a means Directors on the Company’s Board hold the office of Director in more to drive excellence and the Balanced Scorecard methodology than 20 companies, including 10 public companies and none of the for tracking progress on long-term strategic objectives and the Directors of the Company are related to each other. As per Regulation adoption of the Tata Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading 17A of the SEBI Listing Regulations, None of the Directors held and the Code of Corporate Disclosure Practices. The Company directorship in more than 8 listed entities and none of the IDs serve has adopted the Governance Guidelines on Board Effectiveness as IDs in more than 7 listed entities and in case they are wholebased on current and emerging best practices from both within time directors/managing directors in any listed entity, then they do and outside the Tata Group of companies. The Company is in full not serve as IDs in more than 3 listed entities. In accordance with compliance with the requirements of Corporate Governance under Regulation 26 of the SEBI Listing Regulations none of the Directors the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations are members in more than 10 committees or act as chairperson of and Disclosure Requirements), Regulations, 2015 ('SEBI Listing more than 5 committees [the committees being, Audit Committee Regulations'). The Company’s Depositary Programme is listed and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee] across all public limited on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and the Company also companies in which he/she is a Director. All Non-Independent Noncomplies with US regulations as applicable to Foreign Private Executive Directors ('NINEDs') are liable to retire by rotation. Issuers (non-US companies listed on a US Exchange) which cast upon the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee, onerous The required information, including information as enumerated in responsibilities to improve the Company’s operating efficiencies. Regulation 17(7) read together with Part A of Schedule II of the SEBI Risk management and the internal control process are focus areas Listing Regulations is made available to the Board of Directors, for that continue to meet the progressive governance standards. discussions and consideration at Board Meetings. The Board reviews The Company has instated a comprehensive, robust, IT-enabled the declaration made by the CEO & Managing Director ('CEO & MD') compliance management system for tracking, managing and and the Group Chief Financial Officer ('CFO') regarding compliance reporting on compliances with all laws and regulations applicable with all applicable laws on a quarterly basis, as also steps taken to to the Company. The Management on a quarterly basis presents remediate instances of non-compliance, if any. before the Board of Directors a status report on regulatory Pursuant to Regulation 27(2) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the compliances, as applicable to the Company. Company also submits a quarterly compliance report on Corporate Governance to the Indian Stock Exchanges, including details on all BOARD OF DIRECTORS material transactions with related parties, within 15 days from the The Board of Directors is the apex body constituted by shareholders, close of every quarter. The CEO & MD and the CFO have certified for overseeing the Company’s overall functioning. It provides to the Board on inter alia, the accuracy of the financial statements 162 and adequacy of internal controls for financial reporting, in circulation of printed agenda papers. The following table, INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) accordance with Regulation 17(8) read together with Part B of illustrates the composition of the Board, Director’s attendance Schedule II of the SEBI Listing Regulations, pertaining to CEO and at Board Meetings held during the financial year under review CFO certification for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2019. and at the last Annual General Meeting ('AGM'), number of directorships held in other public companies, total number of During the year under review, 7 Board Meetings were held on committee positions held across all public companies, their May 3, 2018, May 23, 2018, July 31, 2018, October 4, 2018, shareholding in the Company’s shares or other convertible October 31, 2018, February 7, 2019 and March 26, 2019. All instruments and names of other listed entities in which the agenda papers for the Board and Committee meetings are directorship is held, including category of directorships, as at disseminated electronically on a real-time basis, by uploading March 31, 2019: them on a secured online application, thereby eliminating No. of Committee Holding in Directorships(1) Name of Director, Board Attendance positions(2) Company’s Attendance Directorships in other listed entities STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Director Identification Meetings at the shares & other % (Category of Directorship) Number & Category attended last AGM (C) (M) (C) (M) convertible in the year instruments Mr N Chandrasekaran 7 100 Yes 5 Tata Global Beverages Ltd. (NINED) (C) DIN: 00121863 Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (NINED) (C) NINED (C) Tata Steel Ltd. (NINED) (C) The Tata Power Co. Ltd. (NINED) (C) The Indian Hotels Co. Ltd. (NINED) (C) Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc (Bonds listed on Luxembourg Stock Exchange LuxSE) (NINED) (C) Mr Nasser Munjee 7 100 Yes 2 5 5 1 Tata Chemicals Ltd. (ID) DIN: 00010180 Ambuja Cements Ltd. (ID) ID Cummins India Ltd. (ID) ABB India Ltd. (ID) Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) (ID) DCB Bank Ltd. (NINED) (C) Tata Motors Finance Ltd. (Debt listed entity) (NINED) (C) Mr Vinesh Kumar 7 100 No 9 2 7 The Bombay Dyeing and Manufacturing Co. Ltd. Jairath (ID) DIN: 00391684 Wockhardt Ltd. (ID) ID Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd. (NINED) Kirloskar Industries Ltd. (NINED) Bombay Burmah Trading Corporation Ltd. Ms Falguni Nayar 7 100 Yes 5 2 2 Dabur India Ltd. (ID) DIN: 00003633 ACC Ltd. (ID) ID Endurance Technologies Ltd. (CN) (ID) Mr Om Prakash Bhatt 7 100 Yes 3 2 4 Hindustan Unilever Ltd. DIN: 00548091 Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. ID Tata Steel Ltd. Ms. Hanne Sorensen 6 86 Yes 1 1 Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (ID) DIN: 08035439 Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc (Bonds listed ID on LuxSE) (ID) Dr Ralf Speth 7 100 Yes 1 Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc (Bonds listed DIN: 03318908 on LuxSE) (CEO & Director) NINED Mr Guenter Butschek 7 100 Yes 1 1 1 DIN: 07427375 CEO & MD Mr Satish Borwankar 7 100 Yes 1 1 500 DIN: 01793948 Ordinary ED & COO Shares Table Key: (C) Chairperson; (M) – Member; NINED – Non-Independent Non-Executive Director; ID-Independent Director; CEO & MD – Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director; ED & COO – Executive Director & Chief Operating Officer; (1) Excludes directorships in private companies, foreign companies, Section 8 companies and alternate directorships. (2) Pertains only to Audit and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committees 163 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year The Company actively uses the facility of video conferencing, Key Board Skills, Expertise and Competencies: The Board permitted under Section 173(2) of the Act read together with Rule 3 comprises qualified members who bring in the required skills, of the Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) Rules, 2014, competence and expertise to enable them to effectively contribute thereby saving resources and cost to the Company and valued time in deliberations at Board and Committee meetings. The below of the Directors. matrix summarizes a mix of skills, expertise and competencies expected to be possessed by our individual directors, which are Board Effectiveness Evaluation: Pursuant to provisions of key to corporate governance and board effectiveness: Regulation 17(10) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and the provisions of the Act, an annual Board effectiveness evaluation Key Board Skills / Expertise / Competencies was conducted for FY 2018-19 on March 26, 2019, involving Entrepreneur / Extended entrepreneurial / leadership experience the following: Leadership for a significant enterprise, resulting in a practical i. Evaluation of IDs, in their absence, by the entire Board was understanding of organizations, processes, undertaken, based on their performance and fulfillment of the strategic planning, and risk management. independence criteria prescribed under the Act and SEBI Listing Demonstrated strengths in developing talent, planning succession and driving change and Regulations; and long-term growth. ii. Evaluation of the Board of Directors, its Committees and Engineering and Engineering and the development of new individual Directors, including the role of the Board Chairman. Technology technologies involving application of scientific An IDs’ meeting, in accordance with the provisions of Section and mathematical knowledge to design and 149(8) read with Schedule IV of the Act and Regulation 25(3) and operation of objects, systems and processes to help the Company solve problems and reach its 25(4) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, was convened on March 26, goals. 2019, mainly to review the performance of NINEDs, Whole-time Directors ('WTDs') and the Chairman as also the Board as a whole. Financial Education and experience as an auditor or Expertise public accountant or a principal financial officer, All IDs were present at the said meeting. comptroller or principal accounting officer or For further details pertaining to the same, kindly refer to the holding a position involving performance of Board’s Report. similar functions. Global Exposure Experience in driving business success in Board Diversity: To ensure that a transparent Board nomination markets around the world, with an understanding process is in place that encourages diversity of thought, of diverse business environments, economic experience, knowledge, perspective, age and gender, the Board conditions, cultures, and regulatory frameworks has adopted a Diversity Policy, formulated by the Nomination & as well as a broad perspective on global market Remuneration Committee ('NRC'), wherein it is expected that the opportunities. Board has an appropriate blend of functional and industry expertise. Automobile A significant background in automotive or similar While recommending appointment of a director, the NRC considers Industry industries, resulting in knowledge of how to the manner in which the function and domain expertise of the Experience anticipate market trends, generate disruptive individual could contribute to the overall skill-domain mix of the innovation and extend or create new business models. Board. The following chart illustrates the Board diversity on the basis of geography, composition and gender. Diversity Representation of gender, ethnic, geographic cultural, or other perspectives that expand the Board’s understanding of the needs and viewpoints of our customers, partners, employees, governments and other stakeholders worldwide. European 33% Mergers and Experience or record of leading growth through Acquisitions acquisitions and other business combinations, with the ability to assess ‘build or buy’ decisions, NINED WTD 22% Male 22% analyze the fit of a target with the Company’s 78% strategy and culture, accurately value Indian transactions and evaluate operational integration Middle 56% plans. Eastern Female 11% 22% Board Service and Service on other public company boards, to Governance develop insights about maintaining board ID 56% and management accountability, protecting shareholder interests and observing appropriate governance practices. Sales and Experience in developing strategies to grow sales Geography Board Composition Gender Marketing and market share, build brand awareness and equity and enhance brand reputation. 164 Familiarisation Programme: Kindly refer to the Company’s website operate as empowered agents of the Board as per their Charter/ INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) https://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/familiarisation-programmeterms of reference. Targets set / actions directed by them as independent-directors.pdf for details of the familiarisation agreed with the management are reviewed periodically and programme for IDs on their roles, rights, responsibilities in the mid-course corrections are also carried out. The Board of Company, nature of the industry in which the Company operates, Directors and the Committees also take decisions by circular business model of the Company and related matters. resolutions which are noted at the next meeting. The minutes of the meetings of all Committees of the Board are placed GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE before the Board for discussions/noting. An Organisation Chart The Board has constituted a set of Committees with specific depicting the relationship between the Board of Directors, the terms of reference/scope to focus effectively on the issues and Committees and the senior management functions as at March ensure expedient resolution of diverse matters. The Committees 31, 2019 is illustrated below: SHAREHOLDERS STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) BOARD OF DIRECTORS CEO & MD BUSINESS COMMITTEES EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES ExCom(1) BOARD COMMITTEES CV & PV Business Unit Steering Committee(2) Chief Operating Officer (ED & COO) Audit Committee Head, Commercial Vehicles Nomination & Remuneration Committee CV, PV & EV Product Review Committee Head, Passenger Vehicles Stakeholders' Relationship Committee Strategy Review Committee FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Group Chief Financial Officer Technology Review Committee Safety, Health & Sustainability Committee Chief Human Resource Officer Management Oversight Committee Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Chief Technology Officer Sourcing Council(2) Risk Management Committee Chief Purchasing Officer IT Steering Committee Special Need Based Committees Head, E-Mobility Business & Corporate Strategy Corporate Communications(3) Other Direct Reports to the CEO & MD Head, Internal Audit Company Secretary Government Affairs Head, Legal, Ethics, TCoC & Compliance Chief Information Officer Notes: (1) The CEO & MD chairs the ExCom (2) Business Committees are chaired by related ExCom Member where indicated, otherwise by the CEO & MD (3) Associated Member of the ExCom 165 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year THE COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD Given below is the composition of various Board constituted Committees, details of meetings held during the year and attendance thereat: Nomination & Stakeholders’ Corporate Social Risk Safety, Health & Committee Names: Audit Remuneration Relationship Responsibility Management Sustainability Committee Composition 4 IDs, all of whom 2 IDs and 1 2 IDs and the 2 IDs, the ED & 1 ID, the ED & 1 ID, the ED & are financially NINED. CEO & MD COO and the CEO COO, the CEO & COO and the CEO literate and have & MD. MD and the CFO. & MD relevant finance and/or audit exposure. Committee Meeting Dates May 23, 2018 May 23, 2018 Aug. 3, 2018 July 5, 2018 July 5, 2018 May 3, 2018 July 5, 2018 July 31, 2018 Oct. 4, 2018 Oct. 3, 2018 Aug. 1, 2018 Oct. 3, 2018 July 28, 2018 March 26, 2019 March 26, 2019 Oct. 4, 2018 July 31, 2018 March 25, 2019 Sept. 14, 2018 Oct. 3, 2018 Oct. 31, 2018 Jan. 17, 2019 Feb. 7, 2019 March 26, 2019 Total no. of Meetings held during the year 10 3 3 2 4 2 Name of Mr N Chandrasekaran M – 3 (100%) Members, NINED No. of Mr Nasser Munjee ID (C) 10 (100%) M – 3 (100%) Meetings attended Mr Vinesh Kumar Jairath ID M – 10 (100%) (C) 2 (100%) & Attendance Ms Falguni Nayar ID M – 9 (90%) (C) 2 (67%) M – 1 (50%) Percentage Mr Om Prakash Bhatt ID M – 10 (100%) (C) 3 (100%) (C) 2 (100%) Ms Hanne Sorensen ID M 3 (100%) (C) 4 (100%) Dr Ralf Speth NINED Mr Guenter Butschek M – 3 (100%) M – 2 (100%) M – 4 (100%) M – 2 (100%) CEO & MD Mr Satish Borwankar ED M – 2 (100%) M – 4 (100%) M – 2 (100%) & COO Other Mr P B Balaji Group CFO M – 4 (100%) Members Table Key: (C) Chairperson; M – Member; NINED – Non-Independent Non-Executive Director; ID-Independent Director; CEO & MD – Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director; ED & COO – Executive Director & Chief Operating Officer; Group CFO Group Chief Financial Officer The decisions are taken by the Committee, at meetings or by SEBI Listing Regulations and US regulations applicable to the passing circular resolutions. The quorum for the above Committee Company and is reviewed from time to time. Whilst, the full Meetings is two members or one-third of its members, whichever is Charter is available on the Company’s website https://investors. higher. The Company Secretary acts as the secretary for all Board tatamotors.com/pdf/audit_committee _charter.pdf, given below Committees. The Chairperson of each Committee briefs the Board is a gist of the responsibilities of the Audit Committee, after on significant discussions at its meetings. During the financial year incorporating therein the regulatory changes mandated under all recommendations made by the various Committees have been the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) accepted by the Board. (Amendment) Regulations, 2018: AUDIT COMMITTEE i.  Reviewing with the management, quarterly/annual financial statements before submission to the Board, focusing primarily on: The Audit Committee functions according to its Charter  The Company’s financial reporting process and the that defines its composition, authority, responsibility and disclosure of its financial information, including earnings, reporting functions in accordance with Section 177 of the press release, to ensure that the financial statements are Act, Regulation 18(3) read with Part C of Schedule II of the correct, sufficient and credible; 166 Reports on the Management Discussion and Analysis of x. Look into reasons for any substantial defaults in payment to INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) financial condition, results of Operations and the Directors’ the depositors, debenture holders, shareholders (in case of Responsibility Statement; non-payment of declared dividend) and creditors, if any.  Major accounting entries involving estimates based on xi.  Review the effectiveness of the system for monitoring exercise of judgment by Management; compliance with laws and regulations.  Compliance with accounting standards and changes in xii.  Approve the appointment of CFO after assessing the accounting policies and practices as well as reasons qualification, experience and background etc. of the candidate. thereof; xiii.  To approve and review policies in relation to the Draft Audit Report, qualifications, if any and significant implementation of the Tata Code of Conduct for Prevention adjustments arising out of audit; of Insider Trading and Code of Corporate Disclosure Practices (‘Code’) to note the dealings by Designated Persons in Scrutinise inter corporate loans and investments; and securities of the Company and to provide directions on any Disclosures made under the CEO and CFO certification and penal action to be initiated, in case of any violation of the STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Code. Approval or any subsequent modification of transactions with related parties, including omnibus related party During the year, the Committee undertook all its responsibilities transactions. under its Charter. ii. Review with the management, external auditor and internal Mr Munjee is the Financial Expert under the applicable Indian and auditor, adequacy of internal control systems, identify US Regulations. The quorum of the Committee is two members or weakness or deficiencies and recommending improvements to one-third of its members, whichever is higher. The Chairman of the the management. Audit Committee also attended the last AGM of the Company. Each Audit Committee meeting considering financial results is preceded iii.  Recommend the appointment/removal of the statutory by a meeting attended only by the Audit Committee members and auditor, cost auditor, fixing audit fees and approving the Statutory Auditors. non-audit/consulting services provided by the statutory auditors’ firms to the Company and its subsidiaries; The Committee meetings are held at the Company's Corporate FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) evaluating auditors’ performance, qualifications, experience, Headquarters or at its plant locations and are attended by the independence and pending proceedings relating to CEO & MD, COO, CFO, Senior Management, Company Secretary, professional misconduct, if any. Head Internal Audit, Statutory Auditors and Cost Auditors on a need based basis. The Business and Operation Heads are invited iv.  Review the adequacy of internal audit function, including to the meetings, as and when required. The Head Internal Audit the structure of the internal audit department, staffing and reports directly to the Audit Committee to ensure independence of seniority of the chief internal auditor, coverage and frequency the Internal Audit function. of internal audit, appointment, removal, performance and terms of remuneration of the chief internal auditor. The Committee relies on the expertise and knowledge of the management, the internal auditor and the statutory auditor, in v.  Discuss with the internal auditor and senior management, carrying out its oversight responsibilities. It also uses external significant internal audit findings and follow-up thereon. expertise, if required. The management is responsible for the vi. Review the findings of any internal investigation into matters preparation, presentation and integrity of the Company’s financial involving suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal statements, including consolidated statements, accounting and control systems of a material nature and report the matter to financial reporting principles. The management is also responsible the Board. for internal control over financial reporting and all procedures are designed to ensure compliance with accounting standards, vii. Discuss with the statutory auditor before the audit commences, applicable laws and regulations as well as for objectively the nature and scope of audit, as well as conduct post-audit reviewing and evaluating the adequacy, effectiveness and quality discussions to ascertain any area of concern. of the Company’s system of internal controls. viii.  Review the functioning of the Vigil Mechanism under the B S R & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants (ICAI Firm Registration Whistle-Blower policy of the Company. No.101248 W/W – 100022), the Company’s Statutory Auditor, is responsible for performing an independent audit of the Financial ix. Review the financial statements and investments made by Statements and expressing an opinion on the conformity of subsidiary companies and subsidiary oversight relating to those financial statements with accounting principles generally areas such as adequacy of the internal audit structure and accepted in India. function of the subsidiaries, their status of audit plan and its execution, key internal audit observations, risk management The Audit Committee reviews on a quarterly basis the confirmation and the control environment. of independence made by the Auditors, as also approves of the fees 167 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year paid to the Auditors by the Company, or any other company in the  Review matters related to voluntary retirement and early Tata Motors Group as per the Policy for Approval of Services to be separation schemes for the Company. rendered by Auditors. The said Policy is also available on our website Oversee familiarization programmes for Directors. https://www.tatamotors.com/investors/pdf/auditfee-policy.pdf. The Oversee HR philosophy, HR and people strategy and efficacy of Company rotates its Audit partner responsible for its Audit every 5 HR practices including those for leadership development, rewards years, apart from the statutory requirement of rotating the Audit Firm and recognition, talent management and succession planning every 10 years, to ensure independence in the audit function. (specifically for the Board, KMP and Senior Management). NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE  Implement and administer any Employees Stock Option Scheme(s) approved by the Board and to establish, amend and The Nomination and Remuneration Committee ('NRC') of the rescind any rules and regulations relating to the Scheme(s) Company functions according to its Charter, that defines its and to make any other determinations that it deems necessary objective, composition, meeting requirements, authority and power, or desirably in connection with the Scheme. responsibilities, reporting and evaluation functions in accordance with Section 178 of the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations. The Remuneration Policy suitably revised terms of reference enumerated in the Committee The Remuneration Policy of the Company is designed to Charter, after incorporating therein the regulatory changes create a high-performance culture. It enables the Company to mandated under the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure attract, retain and motivate employees to achieve results. Our Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, are as follows: business model promotes customer centricity and requires Recommend the set up and composition of the Board and employee mobility to address project needs. The remuneration its Committees including the “formulation of the criteria policy supports such mobility through pay models that are for determining qualifications, positive attributes and compliant to local regulations. In each country where the independence of a director”. The Committee periodically Company operates, the remuneration structure is tailored to reviews the composition of the Board with the objective of the regulations, practices and benchmarks prevalent in the achieving an optimum balance of size, skills, independence, automotive industry. For further details on Remuneration Policy knowledge, age, gender and experience. for Directors, KMP and other employees, drafted, in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations, Support the Board in matters related to the setup, review and kindly refer to https://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/directorsrefresh of the Committees. appointment-remuneration.pdf. Devise and review a policy on Board diversity. The Company pays remuneration by way of salary, benefits, Recommend the appointment / reappointment or removal perquisites and allowances (fixed component) and commission / of Directors, in accordance with the criteria laid down, incentive remuneration (variable component) to its CEO & MD and including IDs on the basis of their performance evaluation Executive Director & Chief Operating Officer ('ED & COO'). Annual report. increments are recommended by the NRC within the salary scale Recommend on voting on resolutions for appointment and approved by the Board and Members and are effective April 1, remuneration of Directors on the Boards of its material each year. subsidiary companies and provide guidelines for remuneration of Directors on material subsidiaries. The Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the NRC, decides the commission payable to the CEO & MD and the ED & COO out of  Identify and recommend to the Board appointment or the profits for the financial year and within the ceilings prescribed removal of Key Managerial Personnel ('KMP') and Senior under the Act, based on the Board evaluation process considering Management of the Company in accordance with the criteria the criteria such as the performance of the Company as well as laid down. In case of appointment of CFO, the Committee shall that of the CEO & MD and the ED & COO. identify persons, to the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors of the Company. Remuneration of Directors:  Carry out evaluation of every Director’s performance and Non-Executive Directors support the Board, its Committees and individual Directors, • The remuneration by way of commission to the Non-Executive including “formulation of criteria for evaluation of Independent Directors is decided by the Board of Directors and distributed Directors and the Board”. to them based on their participation and contribution at the Oversee the performance review process for the KMP and Board and Committee meetings and performance evaluation Senior Management of the Company with a view that there is an by the Board. A proposal to pay Commission to Non-Executive appropriate cascading of Company’s goals and targets and on Directors of the Company, of a sum not exceeding 1% of the an annual basis, review the performance of the Directors, KMP net profits of the Company for FY 2018-19 and onwards in and Senior Management and recommend their remuneration. terms of Section 197 of Act, computed in accordance with the  Recommend the Remuneration Policy for Directors, KMP, provisions of Section 198 of the Act or such other percentage Senior Management and other employees. as may be specified from time to time, is also included in the 168 Notice of this AGM. The Commission to the Non-Executive Managing and Executive Director INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Independent Directors for FY 2018-19 is payable subject to the The remuneration paid to the CEO & MD and the ED & COO is shareholders’ approval. The performance evaluation criteria commensurate with industry standards and Board level positions for Non-Executive Directors, including IDs, is determined by held in similar sized companies, taking into consideration the the NRC. individual responsibilities shouldered by them and is in accordance An indicative list of factors that were evaluated include with the terms of appointment approved by the Members, at the participation and contribution by a director, commitment, time of their appointment. effective deployment of knowledge and expertise, effective The NRC, reviews and recommends to the Board the changes in management of relationship with stakeholders, integrity and the managerial remuneration, generally being increment in basic maintenance of confidentiality and independence of behaviour salary and commission/incentive remuneration of the CEO & MD and judgement. and the ED & COO on a yearly basis. This review is based on the • A sitting fee of `60,000/for attendance at each meeting Balanced Score Card that includes the performance of the Company of the Board, Audit Committee, NRC and for IDs Meeting; and the individual director on certain defined qualitative and STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) `20,000/for attendance at each meeting of Stakeholders’ quantitative parameters such as volumes, EBITDA, market share, Relationship Committee; Safety, Health & Sustainability cashflows, cost reduction initiatives, safety, strategic initiatives and Committee; the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee; special projects as decided by the Board vis-a-vis targets set in the Risk Management Committee and other special need based beginning of the year. This review also takes into consideration the committees, is paid to its Members (excluding Managing benchmark study undertaken by reputed independent agencies on Director and Executive Director) and also to Directors comparative industry remuneration practices. attending by invitation. The sitting fees paid/payable to the Whereas the basic salary of the CEO & MD is fixed for his entire Non Whole-time Directors is excluded whilst calculating the tenure, the variable portion of the CEO & MD’s remuneration consists limits of remuneration in accordance with Section 197 of the of incentive remuneration in the form of performance linked bonus Act. The Company also reimburses out-of-pocket expenses to and long-term incentive. The target performance linked bonus Directors attending meetings held at a city other than the one would be €550,000/per annum upto a maximum of €825,000/in which the Directors reside. per annum. With the objective of achieving long-term value creation,  iven below are the Commission and Sitting Fees payable / G through retention and continuity in leadership, a long term incentive FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) paid by the Company to Non-Executive Directors during FY plan is also provided with a value intended target of €550,000/per 2018-19: annum upto a maximum of €825,000/per annum. (` in lakhs) The variable portion of the ED & COO remuneration consists of a Name Commission (1) Sitting Fees profit-linked commission and/or merit based incentive remuneration. Mr N Chandrasekaran(2) 6.00 The profit-linked commission is awarded at the discretion of the NRC Mr Nasser Munjee 85 12.60 and the Board of Directors, based on the net profits of the Company Mr Vinesh Kumar Jairath 11.20 for that financial year, subject to the overall ceiling limits stipulated 85 in Section 197 of the Act, but in any case not exceeding 400% of the Ms Falguni Nayar 70 10.80 basic salary. In case the Net Profits of the Company are inadequate Mr Om Prakash Bhatt 85 13.20 for payment of profit-linked commission in any financial year, an Ms Hanne Sorensen 70 8.60 incentive remuneration, not exceeding 200% of the basic salary, Dr Ralf Speth (3) may be paid at the discretion of the Board. Total 395 62.40 Given below are details pertaining to certain terms of appointment and payment of Managerial Remuneration to the CEO & MD and (1) Payable subject to shareholders’ approval. the ED & COO for FY 2018-19: (2) As a policy, Mr N Chandrasekaran has abstained from receiving (` in lakhs) commission from the Company. Mr Guenter Mr Satish Particulars Butschek Borwankar (3) Dr Speth is not paid any commission or sitting fees for attending CEO & MD ED & COO Board meetings of the Company in view of his appointment as Chief Executive Officer and Director of Jaguar Land Rover Automotive PLC. Basic Salary 266.88 66.60 Benefits, Perquisites & Allowance 1,410.46(1) 99.33(2) Some of the aforementioned Directors are also on the Board of the Incentive Remuneration 922.72(3) 66.60(3) Company’s subsidiaries and associates, in a non-executive capacity Retirement Benefits 32.02 17.98 and are paid remuneration and sitting fees. Other than the above Total Remuneration 2,632.08 250.51 and their shareholding in the Company, the Non-Executive Directors (1) Includes reimbursement of pension benefits of `164.98 lakhs. have no pecuniary relationship or transactions with the Company, (2) Includes leave encashment of `2.04 lakhs. its subsidiaries and associates. (3) Incentive remuneration would be payable as per agreement. 169 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year The terms of appointment with respect to severance notice period and fees payable is reproduced below: Mr Guenter Butschek CEO & MD Mr Satish Borwankar ED & COO The Contract with the CEO & MD may be terminated earlier, This appointment may be terminated by either party by giving without any cause by either giving to the other party 6 months’ to the other party 6 months’ notice of such termination or the notice of such termination or the Company paying 6 months’ Company paying 6 months’ remuneration in lieu of the Notice. remuneration which shall be limited to provision of basic The employment of the ED & COO, may be terminated by the salary, benefits, perquisites and allowances (including Living Company without notice or payment in lieu of notice: Allowance) and any pro-rated incentive remuneration, in lieu • if the ED & COO, is found guilty of any gross negligence, of such notice. Additionally, in case of termination initiated by default or misconduct in connection with or affecting the the Company before the end of the term for reasons other than business of the Company or any subsidiary or associated Tata Code of Conduct (“TCoC”), the CEO & MD shall be entitled company to which he is required by the Agreement to render to severance pay for a period of 12 months or balance term of services; or the agreement whichever is less and which shall be limited to • in the event of any serious repeated or continuing breach provision of basic salary, living allowance and any pro-rated (after prior warning) or non-observance by the ED & COO, incentive remuneration. of any of the stipulations contained in the Agreement to be This appointment may not be terminated by the Company executed between the Company and the ED & COO; or without notice or payment in lieu of notice except for reasons • in the event the Board expresses its loss of confidence in the of breach of TCoC. In case of breach of TCoC, the CEO & MD ED & COO. shall not be entitled to severance. In the event the ED & COO is not in a position to discharge his In the event the CEO & MD is not in a position to discharge official duties due to any physical or mental incapacity, the Board his official duties due to any physical or mental incapacity, he shall be entitled to terminate his contract on such terms, as the shall be entitled to receive notice pay and the severance as Board may consider appropriate in the given circumstances. mentioned above and this contract shall stand terminated. The Directors of the Company are not eligible to receive employee STAKEHOLDERS’ RELATIONSHIP COMMITTEE stock options and have accordingly not participated in the The Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee functions in accordance Employee Stock Option Scheme of the Company. with Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 20 read with Part D of Retirement Policy for Directors Schedule II of the SEBI Listing Regulations. The suitably revised terms of reference enumerated in the Committee Charter, after As per the retirement age policy adopted by the Company, the incorporating therein the regulatory changes mandated under CEO & MD and the ED & COO retire at the age of 65 years. The the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) retirement age for NINEDs is 70 years and for IDs is 75 years as per (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, are as follows: the Governance Guidelines on Board Effectiveness. Accordingly,  Approve issue of duplicate certificates for securities and all IDs have a tenure of 5 years or a tenure upto the retirement age transmission of securities. of 75 years, whichever is earlier.  Resolve grievances of security holders of the Company, Succession Planning including complaints related to transfer/transmission of shares, non-receipt of annual report, non-receipt of declared dividends, The NRC works with the Board on the leadership succession issue of new/duplicate certificates, general meetings, etc. plan to ensure orderly succession in appointments to the Board and in the senior management. The Company strives Review measures taken for effective exercise of voting rights to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience, by shareholders. within the organization and the Board, in an endeavor to Review adherence to the service standards adopted by the introduce new perspectives, whilst maintaining experience Company in respect of various services being rendered by the and continuity. Registrar & Share Transfer Agent. Review various measures and initiatives taken by the Company By integrating workforce planning with strategic business planning, for reducing the quantum of unclaimed dividends and ensuring the Company deploys necessary financial and human resources to timely receipt of dividend warrants/annual reports/statutory meet its objectives. Succession planning and elevation within the notices by the shareholders of the Company. organization, fuel the ambitions of its talent force, to earn future  Oversee statutory compliance relating to all securities leadership roles. including dividend payments and transfer of unclaimed Our Board includes 9 directors with broad and diverse skills and amounts to the Investor Education and Protection Fund. viewpoints to aid the Company in formulating and implementing Review movements in shareholding and ownership structures its strategy. of the Company. Conduct a Shareholders’ Satisfaction Survey to ascertain the level of satisfaction amongst shareholders. 170 Suggest and drive implementation of various investor-friendly (1)  These correspondence pertain to court cases involving retrieval INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) initiatives. of case files, co-ordination with the Company/Advocates, partial Carry out any other function as is referred by the Board documents awaited from Investors, cases involving registration of legal documents, executed documents received for issue of duplicate from time to time or enforced by any statutory notification / certificates and transmission of shares without legal representation amendment or modification as may be applicable. which involve checking documents, sending notices to Stock Exchange(s) and issue of duplicate certificates/transmission of Compliance Officer shares after approval from the Company. However, all these cases have been attended to within 30 days. Mr H K Sethna, Company Secretary, who is the Compliance Officer, can be contacted at: Tata Motors Limited, Bombay House, 24, Homi There were no pending share transfers pertaining to the Financial Mody Street, Mumbai 400 001, India. Year ended March 31, 2019. Tel: 91 22 6665 7824; Email: inv_rel@tatamotors.com On recommendations of the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, Complaints or queries relating to the shares and/or debentures the Company has taken various investor friendly initiatives like can be forwarded to the Company’s Registrar and Transfer organising Shareholders’ visit to the Company’s Works at Pune, Agents – M/s TSR Darashaw Consultants Pvt. Limited at csgSTATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) sending reminders to investors who have not claimed their dues, unit@tsrdarashaw.com, whereas complaints or queries relating sending nomination forms, etc. to the public fixed deposits can be forwarded to the Registrars to the Fixed Deposits Scheme – M/s TSR Darashaw Consultants CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ('CSR') Pvt. Limited at tmlfd@tsrdarashaw.com. TSRDL is the focal point COMMITTEE of contact for investor services in order to address various FD The CSR Committee is constituted by the Board in accordance with related matters mainly including repayment / revalidation, issue the Act to: of duplicate FD receipts / warrants, TDS certificates, change in bank details/ address and PAN corrections. In view of increase a. Formulate and recommend to the Board, a Corporate Social in the correspondence, TSRDL have increased their investor Responsibility Policy which shall indicate the activities to be interface strength (telephone and counter departments) and undertaken by the Company as specified in Schedule VII of have taken other steps for rendering speedy and satisfactory the Act; services to the FD holders. b. Recommend the amount of expenditure to be incurred on the activities referred to in clause (a); and FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) The status on the total number of investor complaints during FY 2018-19 is as follows: c.  Monitor the Corporate Social Responsibility Policy of the Company from time to time. Type Nos. The CSR Policy is uploaded on the Company’s website at https:// Complaints regarding non-receipt of dividend, shares 26 investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/csr-policy.pdf as required under the lodged for transfer provisions of Section 135 of the Act and Rule 9 of the Companies Complaints received from the shareholders through 43 (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014. SEBI and other statutory bodies and resolved Complaints redressed out of the above 67 RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE ('RMC') Pending complaints as on 31.03.2019 2* The Committee is constituted and functions as per Regulation 21 Other queries received from shareholders and replied 8,854 of the SEBI Listing Regulations to frame, implement and monitor the risk management plan for the Company. The suitably revised *SEBI complaints have been replied within 4 days, but the same has been reflected as unresolved as on 31.03.2019, as per the condition for complete terms of reference enumerated in the Committee Charter, after resolution defined by SEBI. incorporating therein the regulatory changes mandated under the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) All letters received from the investors are replied to and the (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, are as follows: response time for attending to investors’ correspondence during  Review the Company’s risk governance structure, risk FY 2018-19 is shown in the following table: assessment and risk management policies, practices and Particulars Number % guidelines and procedures, including the risk management plan. Total number of correspondence 8,923 100.00% Review and approve the Enterprise Risk Management ('ERM') received during FY 2018-19 framework. Replied within 1 to 4 days of receipt 3,472 38.91% Review the Company’s risk appetite and strategy relating to key Replied within 5 to 7 days of receipt 1,988 22.28% risks, including product risk and reputational risk, cyber security Replied within 8 to 15 days of receipt 1,069 11.98% risk, commodity risk, risks associated with the financial assets (1) Replied after 15 days of receipt 2,177 24.40% and liabilities such as interest risk, credit risk, liquidity exchange Received in last week of March 2019 217 2.43% rate funding risk and market risk, as well as the guidelines, have been replied in April 2019 policies and processes for monitoring and mitigating such risks. 171 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year  Oversee Company’s process and policies for determining To provide direction to Tata Motors Group in carrying out its risk tolerance and review management’s measurement and safety, health and sustainability function; comparison of overall risk tolerance to established levels.  To frame broad guidelines/policies with regard to safety, Review and analyze risk exposure related to specific issues, health and sustainability; concentrations and limit excesses and provide oversight of risk To oversee the implementation of these guidelines/policies; and across organization.  To review the safety, health and sustainability policies, processes and systems periodically and recommend measures Review compliance with enterprise risk management policy, for improvement from time to time. monitor breaches / trigger trips of risk tolerance limits and direct action. CODE OF CONDUCT Nurture a healthy and independent risk management function Whilst the Tata Code of Conduct is applicable to all Wholein the Company. time Directors and employees of the Company, the Board has Carry out any other function as is referred by the Board from time. also adopted the Tata Code of Conduct for NINEDs and IDs as The Committee operates as per its Charter approved by the Board specified under Schedule IV of the Act and Regulation 26(3) of and within the broad guidelines laid down in it. The Company has a the SEBI Listing Regulations. The detailed Codes of Conduct are Risk Management Policy in accordance with the provisions of the respectively available on the website of the Company at https:// Act and SEBI Listing Regulations. It establishes various levels of www.tatamotors.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/10/09042523/ accountability and overview within the Company, while vesting tata-code-of-conduct1.pdf and https://investors.tatamotors.com/ identified managers with responsibility for each significant risk. pdf/ned-id.pdf. Pursuant to Regulation 26(5) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, all members of senior management have confirmed The Board takes responsibility for the overall process of risk that there are no material, financial and commercial transactions management in the organisation. Through Enterprise Risk wherein they have a personal interest that may have a potential Management Programme, business units and corporate conflict with the interest of the Company at large. Pursuant to functions address opportunities and the attendant risks with an Regulation 26(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, all the Board institutionalized approach aligned to the Company’s objectives. members and senior management of the Company as on March The business risk is managed through cross-functional 31, 2019 have affirmed compliance with their respective Codes involvement and communication across businesses. The results of Conduct. A Declaration to this effect, duly signed by the CEO of the risk assessment are thoroughly discussed with the Senior & MD is annexed to this Report. Furthermore, pursuant to the Management before being presented to the RMC. provisions of Regulations 8 and 9 under the SEBI (Prohibition of THE SAFETY, HEALTH & SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 the Company has adopted and endeavors adherence to the Tata Code of Conduct for Prevention The Committee reviews Safety, Health and Sustainability practices. of Insider Trading and the Code of Corporate Disclosure Practices. The terms of reference of the Committee include the following: Kindly refer to the Company’s website https://investors.tatamotors. To take a holistic approach to safety, health and sustainability com/pdf/CodeCorporateDisclosure.pdf for the detailed Code of matters in decision making; Corporate Disclosure Policy of the Company. GENERAL BODY MEETINGS Annual General Meeting (AGM) Date of AGM Year Special Resolutions passed Venue and Time August 3, 2018 2017-18 • Private  placement of Non-Convertible Debentures / Bonds • Tata Motors Limited Employees Stock Option Scheme 2018 and grant of stock options to the Eligible Employees under the Scheme August 22, 2017 2016-17 Birla Matushri • Re-appointment  of Mr Satish Borwankar as Executive Director and Chief Operating Officer Sabhagar, and payment of remuneration. 19, Sir • Offer or invite for Subscription of Non-Convertible Debentures on private placement basis. Vithaldas August 9, 2016 2015-16 • A  ppointment of Mr Guenter Butschek as the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director Thackersey Marg, and payment of remuneration. Mumbai • Re-appointment of Mr Ravindra Pisharody – Executive Director (Commercial Vehicles) and 400020 payment of remuneration. 3:00 p.m. • Re-appointment of Mr Satish Borwankar – Executive Director (Quality) and payment of remuneration • Offer or invite for Subscription of Non-Convertible Debentures on private placement basis 172 There were no special resolutions proposed to be passed through GENERAL INFORMATION FOR MEMBERS INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Postal Ballot during the last year or at the forthcoming AGM. The Corporate Identity Number (CIN) allotted to the Company by the The Minutes of the aforementioned General Meetings are available Ministry of Corporate Affairs ('MCA') is L28920MH1945PLC004520. on the Company’s website. There were no resolutions passed by ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Postal Ballot by the Company during the year under review. MEANS OF COMMUNICATION Date and Time Tuesday, July 30, 2019 at 3:00 p.m. Venue Birla Matushri Sabhagar, 19, The Quarterly, Half Yearly and Annual Results are regularly Sir Vithaldas Thackersey Marg, submitted to the Stock Exchanges in accordance with the SEBI Mumbai 400020 Listing Regulations and are published in newspapers, namely the Indian Express, Financial Express and the Loksatta (Marathi). FINANCIAL CALENDAR (TENTATIVE) The Company has emailed to the Members who had provided email addresses, the half yearly results of the Company. The Financial Year ending March 31 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) information regarding the performance of the Company is Results for the Quarter ending shared with the shareholders vide the Annual Report. The official June 30, 2019 On or before August 14, 2019 news releases, including the quarterly and annual results and September 30, 2019 On or before November 14, 2019 presentations made to institutional investors and analysts are December 31, 2019 On or before February 14, 2020 also posted on the Company’s website (www.tatamotors.com) in the Investors section. March 31, 2020 On or before May 30, 2020 Date of Book Closure Not applicable. The Annual Report, Quarterly Results, Shareholding Pattern, Date of Dividend payment No dividend is announced and Press Releases, Intimation of Board Meetings and other recommended by the Board for relevant information of the Company are posted in a timely FY 2018-19. manner through BSE Listing Centre, NSE Electronic Application Processing System (NEAPS) portals and the Company’s website LISTINGS for investor information. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) The Company’s shares are listed on the BSE Ltd. (BSE) and the Green Initiative: National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. (NSE). The following are the details of the Company’s shares: In support of the “Green Initiative” undertaken by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the Company had during FY 2018-19 sent Type Ordinary Shares ‘A’ Ordinary Shares various communications by email to those shareholders whose ISIN INE155A01022 IN9155A01020 email addresses were registered with the depositories or the Registrar and Transfer Agents. BSE – Stock Code 500570 570001 NSE – Stock Code TATAMOTORS TATAMTRDVR All agenda papers for the Board and Committee meetings are disseminated electronically on a real-time basis, by uploading BSE Address Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street, them on a secured online application. Mumbai 400 001; www.bseindia.com NSE Address “Exchange Plaza”, Bandra Kurla Complex, In line with the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has emailed Bandra (E), Mumbai 400051; soft copies of its Annual Report to all those shareholders who www.nseindia.com have registered their email address for the said purpose. As in the previous year, an Abridged Annual Report for FY 2018-19 is being The Company has paid Annual Listing fees for FY 2018-19 to all mailed to shareholders, thereby enabling the Company to reduce the Stock Exchanges (both domestic and international) where the costs and save natural resources. A copy of the full Annual Report Company’s securities are listed. is made available to any shareholder on request. We would greatly appreciate and encourage more Members to register their email Attention is also drawn to foreign listing and listing of debt address with their Depository Participant or the Registrar and securities of the Company as mentioned below, under the head Transfer Agent of the Company, to receive soft copies of the Annual Outstanding Securities . Report, Postal Ballot Notices and other information disseminated by the Company, on a real-time basis without any delay. MARKET INFORMATION Live webcast of AGM: The Company voluntarily provided live Market price data monthly high/low of the closing price and webcast facility of the proceedings of the 73rd AGM held on trading volumes on BSE/NSE depicting liquidity of the Company’s August 3, 2018 for those shareholders who chose to attend the Ordinary Shares and ‘A’ Ordinary Shares on the said exchanges is AGM electronically. given hereunder:173 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Ordinary Shares ‘A’ Ordinary Shares BSE NSE BSE NSE Month High Low No. of High Low No. of High Low No. of High Low No. of (`) (`) Shares (`) (`) Shares (`) (`) Shares (`) (`) Shares Apr-18 363.85 328.65 14912163 364.10 328.60 242721771 206.75 185.15 3497113 206.55 184.95 37882947 May-18 341.35 282.90 20860213 341.95 282.50 307237590 198.25 166.90 3754702 198.60 166.95 114435451 Jun-18 310.05 263.90 19914420 309.95 263.35 286077793 186.20 157.65 5799306 186.35 157.40 56379523 Jul-18 275.40 251.55 20149843 275.45 251.85 225617657 158.60 137.95 5900921 158.70 138.35 54216171 Aug-18 269.55 248.55 21224071 270.10 248.70 308334557 144.65 134.60 4506337 144.70 134.50 58283057 Sep-18 277.50 223.45 23177759 277.40 223.70 255084345 148.05 116.50 5379649 147.75 116.55 57239970 Oct-18 229.25 165.40 46670998 229.35 165.35 434206704 121.00 91.35 8491391 120.95 91.20 85149518 Nov-18 195.40 171.95 31998212 195.25 171.95 340509498 105.90 93.95 5392071 105.70 93.75 48117978 Dec-18 175.95 156.85 30692434 176.40 157.10 293362919 96.45 86.10 6231142 96.50 85.90 51743399 Jan-19 185.55 166.20 27499616 185.75 166.05 305923540 98.70 88.95 4452710 98.75 88.90 58397243 Feb-19 182.90 151.30 34756400 182.85 150.70 413626349 94.40 80.10 5135216 94.40 80.35 71472341 Mar-19 194.00 169.90 25646661 194.05 169.85 348311811 95.95 84.70 6265922 95.80 84.50 69382077 The performance of the Company’s average monthly stock price vis-à-vis the Sensex, Auto Index and American Depository Receipt (ADR): Month Ordinary Shares (`) ‘A’ Ordinary Shares (`) BSE Sensex (`) Auto Index (`) ADR Price (US$) April 2018 344.31 194.70 34,145.68 25,393.50 $25.993 May 2018 313.68 181.87 35,079.56 24,782.40 $23.067 June 2018 295.73 176.01 35,405.14 24,606.75 $21.661 July 2018 262.86 148.74 36,406.38 24,353.51 $19.160 August 2018 258.04 140.37 38,061.53 24,405.81 $18.412 September 2018 255.09 136.66 37,397.50 23,521.30 $17.571 October 2018 188.08 102.67 34,518.84 19,981.69 $12.742 November 2018 183.15 99.65 35,298.95 20,566.36 $12.674 December 2018 169.33 92.43 35,868.71 20,692.42 $11.866 January 2019 178.05 94.22 36,053.00 19,580.83 $12.663 February 2019 168.92 87.17 36,138.34 18,702.17 $11.810 March 2019 180.08 89.87 37,634.96 19,217.96 $12.915 The monthly high and low of the Company’s ADRs is given below: (in US $) Month High Low Month High Low April 2018 28.02 24.56 October 2018 15.73 11.28 May 2018 25.53 20.95 November 2018 13.47 12.22 June 2018 22.97 19.14 December 2018 12.65 11.00 July 2018 20.01 18.28 January 2019 13.19 11.83 August 2018 19.37 17.78 February 2019 12.85 10.57 September 2018 19.33 15.43 March 2019 13.76 12.30 Each Depositary Receipt represents 5 underlying Ordinary Shares of face value of ` 2/each. REGISTRAR AND TRANSFER AGENTS For share related matters, Members are requested to correspond with the Company’s Registrar and Transfer Agents – M/s TSR Darashaw Consultants Pvt. Limited quoting their Folio No./DP ID & Client ID at the following addresses: 1. For transfer lodgement, delivery and correspondence: TSR Darashaw Consultants Pvt. Limited, Unit: Tata Motors Limited, 6-10, Haji Moosa Patrawala Industrial Estate, 20, Dr. E Moses Road, (Near Famous Studios) Mahalaxmi, Mumbai – 400 011. Tel: 022-6656 8484; Fax: 0226656 8494; e-mail : csg-unit@tsrdarashaw.com; website:www.tsrdarashaw.com 2. For the convenience of investors based in the following cities, transfer documents and letters will also be accepted at the following branches/agencies of TSR Darashaw Consultants Pvt. Limited: (i) Bangalore: 503, Barton Centre, 5th Floor, 84, Mahatma Gandhi Road, Bangalore – 560 001. Tel: 080 – 25320321, Fax: 080 – 25580019, e-mail: tsrdlbang@tsrdarashaw.com 174 (ii)  Jamshedpur: Bungalow No.1, “E” Road, Northern Town, received from investors and other miscellaneous correspondence INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Bistupur, Jamshedpur – 831 001. on change of address, mandates, etc. are processed by the  Tel: 0657 – 2426616, Fax: 0657 – 2426937, email : Registrars within 15 days. tsrdljsr@tsrdarashaw.com The following compliances pertain to share transfers, grievances, etc. (iii) Kolkata: Tata Centre, 1st Floor, 43, Jawaharlal Nehru Road, Kolkata – 700 071. (1) Pursuant to Regulation 7(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations,  Tel: 033 – 22883087, Fax: 033 – 22883062, e-mail: certificates are filed with the stock exchanges on half yearly tsrdlcal@tsrdarashaw.com basis by the Compliance Officer and the representative of the (iv) New Delhi: Plot No.2/42, Sant Vihar, Ansari Road, Registrar and Share Transfer Agent for maintenance of an Daryaganj, New Delhi – 110 002. appropriate share transfer facility. Tel : 011 – 23271805, Fax : 011 – 23271802, e-mail : (2) Pursuant to Regulation 13(2) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, a tsrdldel@tsrdarashaw.com statement on the pending investor complaints is filed with the (v)  Ahmedabad: Agent of TSRDL – Shah Consultancy stock exchanges and placed before the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Services Pvt. Limited: 3-Sumathinath Complex, Pritam Nagar Akhada Road, Ellisbridge, Ahmedabad -380 006. (3) Pursuant to Regulation 39(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, Tel: 079-2657 6038, e-mail: shahconsultancy8154@gmail. information regarding loss of share certificates and issue of com the duplicate certificates, are submitted to the stock exchanges within 2 days of the Company receiving the information. For Fixed Deposits: The investors are requested to correspond  (4) Pursuant to Regulation 40(9) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the with the Registrars to the Fixed Deposits Scheme – TSR Company obtains a half-yearly certificate from the Practicing Darashaw Consultants Pvt. Limited at the same addresses as Company Secretary certifying that, the RTA has issued all share mentioned above or send an e-mail at tmlfd@tsrdarashaw.com. certificates within 30 days of the date of lodgment for transfer, Tel : 022-66568484 sub-division, consolidation, renewal, exchange or endorsement For Rights Issue related matters: The Company launched a  of calls/allotment monies and this certificate is simultaneously Rights Issue vide Letter of offer dated March 30, 2015 and filed with the Indian Stock Exchanges pursuant to Regulation Members are requested to correspond with Link Intime India 40(10) of the SEBI Listing Regulations. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Private Limited, the Registrar to the Issue, for addressing any (5) A Company Secretary-in-Practice carries out a Reconciliation pre-Issue/ post-Issue related matter, including all grievances of Share Capital Audit on a quarterly basis, as per Regulation relating to the ASBA process. Contact details: C101, 247 Park, 76 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories L.B.S. Marg, Vikhroli (West), Mumbai 400 083; Tel: (91 22) 4918 and Participants) Regulations, 2018, to reconcile the total 6000 / 9167779196/97; Fax: (91 22) 4918 6060; Website: admitted capital with depositories viz National Securities www.linkintime.co.in; Email: tatamotors.rights@linkintime.co.in; Depository Limited ('NSDL') and Central Depository Services Contact Person: Mr Sachin Achar / Mr Sumeet Deshpande. Limited ('CDSL') and the total issued and listed capital. The audit confirms that the total issued/paid up capital is in agreement SHARE TRANSFER SYSTEM with the aggregate of the total number of shares in physical Effective April 1, 2019, SEBI has amended Regulation 40 of the form and the total number of shares in dematerialized form SEBI Listing Regulations, which deals with transfer, transmission (held with NSDL and CDSL). or transposition of securities. According to this amendment, the (6) Pursuant to Regulation 61(4) read together with Regulation requests for effecting the transfer of listed securities shall not be 40(9) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, a Certificate by the processed unless the securities are held in dematerialised form with Company Secretary-in-Practice is filed with the stock exchanges a Depository. Therefore, for effecting any transfer, the securities within one month from the end of each half of the financial year, shall mandatorily be required to be in demat form. certifying that all certificates are issued within 30 days of the date of lodgement for transfer, sub-division, consolidation, Shares in physical form, should be lodged with the office of the renewal, exchange or endorsement of calls/ allotment monies. Company’s Registrar & Share Transfer Agent, TSR Darashaw Consultants Pvt. Limited, Mumbai or at their branch offices or at the Transfer of unclaimed / unpaid amounts / shares to the registered office of the Company for dematerialisation. Investor Education and Protection Fund ('IEPF'): Securities lodged for transfer at the Registrar’s address are (i) Pursuant to Sections 124 and 125 of the Act read with the normally processed within 15 days from the date of lodgment, IEPF (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 if the documents are clear in all respects. All requests for ('IEPF Rules'), all unclaimed/unpaid dividend, application dematerialization of securities are processed and the confirmation money, debenture interest and interest on deposits as well as is given to the depositories within 15 days. The Executives of principal amount of debentures and deposits, sale proceeds the Registrar are empowered to approve transfer of shares of fractional shares, redemption amount of preference shares, and debentures and other investor related matters. Grievances etc. pertaining to the Company remaining unpaid or unclaimed 175 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year for a period of 7 years from the date they became due for payment, have to be transferred to the IEPF Authority, established by the Central Government. Furthermore, the IEPF Rules mandate companies to transfer shares of shareholders whose dividends remain unpaid / unclaimed for a period of 7 consecutive years to the demat account of the IEPF Authority. The said requirement does not apply to shares in respect of which there is a specific order of the Court, Tribunal or Statutory Authority, restraining any transfer of shares. In light of the aforesaid provisions, the Company has during the year, transferred to IEPF the unclaimed dividends, outstanding for 7 consecutive years of the Company. Further, shares of the Company, in respect of which dividends have not been claimed for 7 consecutive years or more, have also been transferred to the demat account of the IEPF Authority. The details of the unclaimed dividends and shares transferred to IEPF during FY 2018-19 are as follows: Number of shares transferred Financial Year Amount of unclaimed dividend transferred (`) Ordinary Shares ‘A’ Ordinary Shares 2010-11 3,59,73,435 4,13,599 2,582 Total 3,59,73,435 4,13,599 2,582 The members who have a claim on the above dividends and shares may claim the same from the IEPF Authority by submitting an online application in the prescribed Form No.IEPF-5 available on the website www.iepf.gov.in and sending a physical copy of the same duly signed to the Company along with requisite documents enumerated in the Form No. IEPF-5. No claims shall lie against the Company in respect of the dividend/shares so transferred. The Members/Claimants can file only one consolidated claim in a financial year as per the IEPF Rules. Considering the above, there are no shares lying in the suspense account of the Company under Regulation 39(4) of the SEBI Listing Regulations. The Company strongly recommends shareholders to encash / claim their respective dividend within the period given below from the Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer Agents: Last date for claiming Unclaimed Dividend (as on 31.03.2019) (`) Financial Year Date of Declaration dividend Ordinary Shares ‘A’ Ordinary Shares 2011-12 August 10, 2012 September 9, 2019 3,36,52,300.00 7,13,162.20 2012-13 August 21, 2013 September 20, 2020 1,60,50,716.00 2,27,990.70 2013-14 July 31, 2014 August 30, 2021 1,60,64,052.00 1,88,790.00 2014-15 No dividend was declared 2015-16 August 9, 2016 September 8, 2023 29,27,290.00 1,28,230.00 2016-17 No dividend was declared 2017-18 No dividend was declared Whilst the Company’s Registrar & Transfer Agent has already written to the Members, Debenture holders and Depositors informing them about the due dates for transfer to IEPF for unclaimed dividends/interest payments, attention of the stakeholders is again drawn to this matter through the Annual Report. The data on unpaid / unclaimed dividend and other unclaimed monies is also available on the Company’s website at https://www.tatamotors.com/investor/iepf/. Investors who have not yet encashed their unclaimed/unpaid amounts are requested to correspond with the Company’s Registrar and Transfer Agents, at the earliest. Members may refer to the Refund Procedure for claiming the aforementioned amounts transferred to the IEPF Authority as detailed on http://www.iepf.gov.in/IEPF/refund.html. (ii) Upto March 31, 2019, the Company has transferred ` 32,11,06,566.34 to IEPF, including the following amounts during the year. Particulars FY 2018-19 (`) Unpaid dividend amounts of the Company 3,59,73,435.00 Application moneys received for allotment of any securities and due for refund Unpaid matured deposit with the Company 2,71,46,083.00 Unpaid matured debentures with the Company Interest accrued on application money due for refund, unpaid matured deposits and debentures with the Company 58,80,174.00 Sale proceeds of fractional shares arising out of issuance of bonus shares, merger and amalgamation Redemption amount of preference shares Grants and donation Others Total 6,89,99,692.00 176 DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDING AS AT MARCH 31, 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Ordinary Shares No. of Shares No. of shareholders Range of Shares No. of Physical Form Demat % of Physical Form Demat No. of Holders % of Capital Shares (%) Form (%) Capital (%) Form (%) 1 – 500 103,026,256 0.13 3.44 3.57 1,000,488 2.09 86.92 89.01 501 – 1,000 45,898,553 0.10 1.49 1.59 61,663 0.37 5.12 5.49 1,001 – 2,000 48,369,797 0.14 1.54 1.68 33,429 0.23 2.74 2.97 2,001 – 5,000 61,127,562 0.17 1.95 2.12 19,765 0.14 1.62 1.76 5,001 -10,000 36,283,056 0.07 1.18 1.25 5,215 0.02 0.44 0.46 Above 10,000 2,592,643,470 0.17 89.62 89.79 3,441 0.02 0.29 0.31 Total 2,887,348,694 0.78 99.22 100.00 1,124,001 2.87 97.13 100.00 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) ‘A’ Ordinary Shares No. of Shares No. of Shareholders Range of Shares No. of Demat % of Physical Form Demat % of Physical Form (%) No. of Holders Shares Form (%) Capital (%) Form (%) Capital 1 – 500 20,553,755 0.02 4.02 4.04 165,400 0.39 81.82 82.21 501 – 1,000 14,085,848 0.01 2.76 2.77 18,583 0.02 9.22 9.24 1,001 – 2,000 13,053,813 0.01 2.56 2.57 9,016 0.01 4.47 4.48 2,001 – 5,000 16,210,576 0.00 3.19 3.19 5,129 0.00 2.55 2.55 5,001 -10,000 11,934,851 0.00 2.35 2.35 1,656 0.00 0.82 0.82 Above 10,000 432,663,528 0.00 85.08 85.08 1,418 0.00 0.70 0.70 Total 508,502,371 0.04 99.96 100.00 201,202 0.42 99.58 100.00 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) For details on the Shareholding pattern and Top 10 shareholders, kindly refer Form MGT-9 appended to the Board’s Report of this Annual Report. DEMATERIALISATION OF SHARES The Company’s Ordinary and ‘A’ Ordinary Shares are tradable compulsorily in electronic form. The electronic holding of the shares as on March 31, 2019 through the National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and the Central Depository Services Limited ('CDSL') are as follows: Ordinary Shares (%) ‘A’ Ordinary Shares (%) Particulars 2019 2018 2019 2018 NSDL 95.45 97.13 93.23 95.72 CDSL 3.77 1.99 6.73 4.24 Total 99.22 99.12 99.96 99.96 OUTSTANDING SECURITIES Outstanding Depositary Receipts/Warrants or Convertible instruments, conversion / maturity date and likely impact on equity as on March 31, 2019 are as follows: • Depositary Receipts: The Company has 6,47,39,272 ADRs listed on the New York Stock Exchange as on March 31, 2019. Each Depository Receipt represents 5 underlying Ordinary Shares of `2/each. Listing on Foreign Stock Exchange New York Stock Exchange ('NYSE') Security Type ADRs ISIN US8765685024 Stock Code / Ticker TTM Address NYSE, 20 Broad Street, New York, NY 10005 Overseas Depositary Citibank N.A., 388 Greenwich Street, 14th Floor, New York, NY 10013 Domestic Custodian Citibank N.A., Trent House, 3rd Floor, G-60, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai 400 051 177 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year • Senior Unsecured Notes: In October 2014, the Company issued a dual tranche of Senior Unsecured Notes, details of which are given hereunder: Issue Size Security Type ISIN Yield per annum (%) Date of Maturity Listing (US$) Senior Unsecured Notes XS1121907676 262,532,000 4.625% April 30, 2020 Singapore Stock Senior Unsecured Notes XS1121908211 250,000,000 5.750% October 30, 2024 Exchange • There are no outstanding warrants or any other convertible instruments issued by the Company. • The following Non-Convertible Debentures ('NCDs') are listed on NSE and BSE under Wholesale Debt Market segment*: Principal Amount Yield to Maturity Series No. Stock Exchange Listing ISIN Date of Maturity (` in crores) (%) E 22 NSE INE155A07219 200 9.95 March 2, 2020 E 23A NSE INE155A08043 150 9.90 May 7, 2020 E 23B NSE INE155A08050 100 9.75 May 24, 2020 E 23C NSE INE155A08068 150 9.70 June 18, 2020 E 24B NSE INE155A08084 110 10.00 May 28, 2019 E26B NSE INE155A08191 300 9.81 August 20, 2024 E26C NSE INE155A08209 200 9.77 September 12, 2024 E26D (Option I) NSE INE155A08217 300 9.71 October 1, 2019 E26D (Option II) NSE INE155A08225 400 9.73 October 1, 2020 E26E NSE & BSE INE155A08233 400 9.60 October 29, 2022 E26F NSE & BSE INE155A08241 400 9.35 November 10, 2023 E26G NSE & BSE INE155A08258 300 9.02 December 10, 2021 E27B NSE & BSE INE155A08282 300 8.40 May 26, 2021 E27D NSE & BSE INE155A08308 400 8.00 August 1, 2019 E27E NSE & BSE INE155A08316 300 7.50 October 20, 2021 E27F NSE & BSE INE155A08324 500 7.71 March 3, 2022 E27G NSE & BSE INE155A08332 500 7.84 September 27, 2021 E27H NSE & BSE INE155A08340 500 7.50 June 22, 2022 E27I (Tranche 1) NSE & BSE INE155A08357 500 7.28 July 29, 2020 E27I (Tranche 2) NSE & BSE INE155A08365 500 7.40 June 29, 2021 *Detailed information on the above debentures is included in the ‘Notes to Accounts’. Debenture Trustee: Vistra ITCL (India) Limited, situated at the IL&FS Financial Centre, 7th Floor, Plot C22, G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (E), Mumbai 400051, are the debenture trustees for all the aforementioned NCD’s issued by the Company. They may be contacted at Tel.: +91 22 2659 3333, Fax : + 91 22 2653 3297, Email id: itclcomplianceofficer@vistra.com. PLANT LOCATIONS Location Range of Products Produced Pimpri, Pune – 411 018; Medium and Heavy Commercial Vehicles (M&HCVs), Light Commercial Chikhali, Pune – 410 501; Vehicles (LCVs), Small Commercial Vehicles (SCVs), Utility Vehicles Chinchwad, Pune – 411 033 (UVs) and Cars Jamshedpur – 831 010 Intermediate Commercial Vehicles (ICVs) and M&HCVs Chinhat Industrial Area, Dewa Road,Chinhat, Lucknow – 226 019 ICVs, M&HCVs and LCVs Plot No. 1, Sector 11 and Plot No. 14, Sector 12, I.I.E., SCVs Pantnagar, District Udhamsingh Nagar, Uttarakhand – 263 145 Revenue Survey No. 1, Village Northkotpura, Tal, Cars Sanand, Dist. Ahmedabad – 380 015 KIADB Block II, Belur Industrial Area, Mummigatti Post, SCVs, LCVs, ICVs and M&HCVs Dharwad – 580 011 178 ADDRESS FOR CORRESPONDENCE The Company adopted a Policy for Determining Material INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Subsidiaries of the Company, pursuant to Regulation 16(1)(c) of the For Investor Queries SEBI Listing Regulations. This policy is available on the Company’s Retail / HNI Investors Institutional Investors website at https://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/material.pdf, Mr H K Sethna, Company Mr V B Somaiya, Head pursuant to Regulation 46(2) of the SEBI Listing Regulations. Secretary (Treasury & Investor Relations) Bombay House,24, Homi Mody 3rd floor, Nanavati Mahalaya, The Audit Committee also has a meeting wherein the CEO and CFO Street, Mumbai 400 001, India 18, Homi Mody Street, of subsidiary companies make a presentation on significant issues Phone : 91-226665 7824; Mumbai 400 001, India in audit, internal control, risk management, etc. Significant issues E-Mail : inv_rel@tatamotors.com Phone : 91-22-66658282; pertaining to subsidiary companies are also discussed at Audit E-Mail : ir_tml@tatamotors.com Committee meetings of the Company. For Fixed Deposit, Rights Issue and other Share related queries Kindly refer details mentioned herein above under the head Registrar and The minutes of the subsidiary companies are placed before Transfer Agents the Board of Directors of the Company and the attention of the Directors is drawn to significant transactions and STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) CREDIT RATINGS arrangements entered into by the subsidiary companies. The performance of its subsidiaries is also reviewed by the Board Credit ratings obtained along with revisions thereto during FY periodically. 2018-19, for all debt instruments in India and abroad: DISCLOSURES Rating Credit Rating Date Agency Short-Term Long-Term i.  Details of transactions with related parties as specified CARE As on April 1, 2018 CARE A1+ CARE AA+ / Stable in Indian Accounting Standards (IND AS 24) have been Ratings Ltd. February 18, 2019 CARE A1+ CARE AA / Stable reported in the financial Statements. During the year under review, there was no transaction of a material nature with CRISIL As on April 1, 2018 CRISIL A1+ CRISIL AA Positive any of the related parties, which was in conflict with the September 19, 2018 CRISIL A1+ CRISIL AA Stable interests of the Company. The Audit Committee takes into February 14, 2019 CRISIL A1+ CRISIL AA Negative consideration the management representation and an ICRA Ltd. As on April 1, 2018 ICRA A1+ ICRA AA Positive independent audit consultant’s report, whilst scrutinizing FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) October 12, 2018 ICRA A1+ ICRA AA Stable and approving all related party transactions, from the February 13, 2019 ICRA A1+ ICRA AA Negative perspective of fulfilling the criteria of meeting arms’ length MOODY’s As on April 1, 2018 Ba1 Stable pricing and being transacted in the ordinary course of Investors July 13, 2018 Ba2 Stable business. During the period, all transactions with related Service November 14, 2018 Ba2 Negative parties entered into by the Company were in the ordinary Standard & As on April 1, 2018 BB+ Stable course of business and on an arm’s length basis, were Poor’s approved by the Audit Committee. The detailed Policy on July 26, 2018 BB Stable Related Party Transactions is available on the website of December 4, 2018 BBWatch the Company at https://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/rptNegative policy.pdf. March 28, 2019 B+ Watch Negative ii. The Company has complied with various rules and regulations SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES prescribed by the Stock Exchanges, Securities and Exchange Board of India ('SEBI') or any other statutory authority relating During FY 2018-19, the Company did not have any material unlisted to the capital markets during the last 3 years. No penalties or Indian subsidiary company and hence, it was not required to have an strictures have been imposed by them on the Company except ID of the Company on the Board of such subsidiary company. as mentioned below: However, the following IDs of the Company are on the Board of The SEBI vide Order dated March 6, 2018 had issued directions below mentioned subsidiary companies: for the Company to conduct an internal inquiry within 3 months into the leakage of information relating to its financial results Presence on the Board of Common IDs for the quarter ended December 2015 and to take appropriate Subsidiary Companies Mr Nasser Munjee Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc and actions against those responsible as well as to submit its report Tata Motors Finance Limited within 7 days thereafter. Accordingly, the Company engaged Ernst & Young LLP (E&Y) on March 15, 2018 to independently Mr Vinesh Kumar Jairath TML Distribution Company Limited and conduct a forensic investigation and prepare a report thereon Tata Motors Finance Solutions Limited in line with SEBI directives. The Company vide its letters Ms Falguni Nayar Tata Technologies Limited dated June 7, 2018 and June 11, 2018 submitted to SEBI, the Ms Hanne Sorensen Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc outcome of the E&Y forensic investigation report as well as the 179 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year measures adopted / proposed to be adopted by the Company v.  The Company has complied with all the mandatory to further strengthen its processes relating to handling of requirements of Corporate Governance as specified in subUnpublished Price Sensitive Information ('UPSI') (especially paras (2) to (10) of Part C of Schedule V of the SEBI Listing related to financial statements) within the organisation, on the Regulations and disclosures on compliance with corporate basis of suggestions/observations made by E&Y in its forensic governance requirements specified in Regulations 17 to 27 investigation report. have been included in the relevant sections of this report. During FY 2017-18 the Company had paid a penalty of `5.60 vi. The Company also fulfills all the non-mandatory lakhs each, levied by BSE and NSE, in respect of delayed filing requirements as specified in Part E of the Schedule II of the of the listing application for 266 Ordinary Shares and 80 ‘A’ SEBI Listing Regulations. Ordinary Shares allotted, out of shares held in abeyance, on settlement of an inter-se dispute amongst the shareholders. vii.  Commodity price risk or foreign exchange risk and hedging activities: During the FY 2018-19, the Company had managed iii. In accordance with the provisions of the Act and Regulation the foreign exchange and commodity price risk and hedged 22 of the SEBI Listing Regulations the Company has in place a to the extent considered necessary. The Company enters into Vigil Mechanism and a Whistle-Blower Policy duly approved forward contracts for hedging foreign exchange and commodity by the Audit Committee which provides a formal mechanism for exposures against exports and imports. The details of foreign all Directors and employees of the Company to approach the currency and commodity exposure are disclosed in Note No.42(c) Management of the Company (Audit Committee in case where the (i)(a) and 42(c)(iv) to the Standalone Financial Statements. concern involves the Senior Management) and make protective disclosures to the Management about unethical behaviour, actual The Risk Management Policy of the Company with respect or suspected fraud or violation of the Company’s Code of Conduct to commodities including hedging: The Company being, a or Ethics policy. The disclosures reported are addressed in the USD 44 billion organization, is a leading global automobile manner and within the time frames prescribed in the Policy. The manufacturer of cars, utility vehicles, buses, trucks and Company affirms that no director or employee of the Company defense vehicles. Material costs incurred result from direct has been denied access to the Audit Committee. and indirect consumption of a wide variety of commodities including Aluminium and its alloys, Copper, Zinc, Lead, Steel The Company has revised the Whistle-Blower policy to insert products, Plastics, Rubber, Platinum, Palladium and Rhodium. “reporting of incidents of leak or suspected leak of UPSI in terms of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition The Original Equipment Manufacturer (‘OEM’) ultimately bears of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, as amended from time to the price risk in the automobile manufacturing value chain due time and the revised policy was approved by the Board at its to escalation clauses with auto-component manufacturers. meeting held on March 26, 2019. Kindly refer to the Company’s Hence, increase in commodity prices directly impacts the website https://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/whistle-bloweroperating margins of the Company. policy.pdf for the detailed Whistle-Blower Policy of Company.  The objective of the commodity price risk management iv.  Prevention of Insider Trading Code: As per SEBI (Prohibition of programs is to offset the price risk by locking in input prices, Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, the Company has adopted a thereby maintaining stability in input prices and reducing revised Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading & Code pricing pressure. The Company currently hedges only base of Corporate Disclosure Practices. All the Directors, employees metals i.e. Aluminum, Copper and Lead for a period of 1 year and third parties such as auditors, consultants etc. who could on a rolling basis with hedge ratios up to 50%. have access to the UPSI of the Company are governed by The Company uses various hedging instruments like premium this code. The trading window is closed during the time of paying and zero cost derivative transactions, including forwards, declaration of results and occurrence of any material events as vanilla options, cost reduction structures, seagulls, etc. per the Code. Mr P B Balaji, the CFO, is the Compliance Officer, is responsible for setting forth procedures and implementation of The Commodities Risk Management Policy is placed before the the Code for trading in the Company’s securities. Audit Committee and the Board of Directors annually for review. a. Total exposure of the Company to commodities: `21,558 crores b. Exposure of the Company to various Commodities : Exposure in towards a Exposure in quantity % of such exposure hedged through commodity derivatives Commodity Name particular terms towards a particular Domestic Market International Market Total commodity(2) commodity OTC Exchange OTC Exchange Raw Material (majorly Steel)(3) `20,266 crores Note 1 Aluminum, Copper & Lead(3) `1,292 crores 0.6 Million Metric Tons 26% 26% Notes: 1. Comprises a mixture of commodities having different Units of measurement 2. Above values are estimates 3. Exposure given above relates to direct materials only 180 c. Commodity risks faced by the Company during the year in their network firm. For details please refer to the Note No. 36 INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) and measures adopted to combat the same: Headwinds in the Consolidated Financial Statements. are noticed in Flat and Long Steel, one alternate source is developed and plans to import, if required, are being xi.  The Company has established an appropriate mechanism chalked out. Strong negotiations indicate recoupment of for dealing with complaints in relation to Sexual Harassment some portion of the increases in FY 2019-20. of Women at Workplace, in accordance with its Policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace (‘POSH’) which viii.  Details of utilization of funds raised through preferential is available on the website of the Company. For disclosure allotment or qualified institutions placement as specified regarding the number of complaints filed, disposed of and under Regulation 32 (7A) – Not applicable. pending, please refer to the Board’s Report. ix. None of the Directors of the Company have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as directors xii. The Company is in compliance with the disclosures required of companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India to be made under this report in accordance with Regulation or the Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory 34(3) read together with Schedule V(c) to the SEBI Listing authority. A Certificate to this effect, duly signed by the Regulations. STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Practicing Company Secretary is annexed to this Report. xiii. Appropriate information has been placed on the Company’s x. The Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis have website pursuant to clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of paid `70.43 crores to the Statutory Auditors and to all entities Regulation 46 of the SEBI Listing Regulations. Information on the Company’s website, regarding key policies, codes and charters, adopted by the Company: Name of Policy, Code or Brief Description Web Link Charter Terms of Appointment Relevant extracts from the appointment letter issued to IDs https://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/Terms-ofof IDs detailing the broad terms and conditions of their appointment. Appointment-ID.pdf Member’s Referencer To facilitate Members to understand the procedures involved in https://www.tatamotors.com/wp-content/ completing various investorrelated transactions in general. uploads/2018/08/03054315/members-referencer. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) pdf Board Committees The composition of various committees of the Board https://www.tatamotors.com/about-us/ leadership/ Tata Code of Conduct Represents the values and core principles that guide the conduct https://www.tatamotors.com/wp-content/ of every Tata business. The Code lays down the ethical standards uploads/2015/10/09042523/tata-code-ofthat Tata colleagues need to observe in their professional lives. conduct1.pdf a) For Whole-time Directors & Employees b) For NINEDs and IDs https://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/ned-id.pdf Whistleblower Policy The Whistleblower policy has been formulated for Directors and https://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/whistle(Vigil Mechanism)(1) employees of the Company to report concerns about unethical blower-policy.pdf behavior, actual or suspected fraud or violation of the Tata Code of Conduct. Policy on Related Party The Company has in place a Policy on Related Party Transactions https://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/rpt-policy.pdf Transactions(2) setting out: (a) the materiality thresholds for related parties; and (b) the manner of dealing with transactions between the Company and related parties, including omnibus approvals by Audit Committee based on the provisions of the Act and Regulation 23 of the SEBI Listing Regulations. Policy for determining This policy is determine material subsidiaries and material https://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/material.pdf Material Subsidiaries(2) non-listed Indian subsidiaries of the Company and to provide governance framework for them. Familiarisation For IDs through various programmes/ presentations. https://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/ Programme familiarisation-programme-independent-directors. pdf Unpaid Dividend Statement of unclaimed and unpaid amounts to be transferred https://www.tatamotors.com/investors/iepf/ Account Details to the IEPF. 181 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Name of Policy, Code or Brief Description Web Link Charter Corporate Social The policy outlines the Company’s strategy to bring about a https://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/csr-policy.pdf Responsibility Policy positive impact on society through programmes focusing on Health, Education, Employability and Environment interventions for relevant target groups, ensuring diversity and giving preference to needy and deserving communities inhabiting urban India. Audit Committee Inter alia outlines the terms of reference, composition, quorum, https://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/audit_ Charter meeting requirements, authority and responsibility of the Audit committee_charter.pdf Committee of the Company. Policy for Approval of For the Audit Committee to oversee the services rendered by https://www.tatamotors.com/investors/pdf/ Services to be rendered the Auditors to the Tata Motors Group and the payment for the auditfee-policy.pdf by the Auditors said services so as to ensure that the Auditors function in an independent manner. Policy on determination This policy applies to disclosures of material events affecting https://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/materiality.pdf of Materiality for the Company and its subsidiaries. This policy is in addition to the Disclosure of Event / Company’s corporate policy. Information Content Archiving Policy The policy provides guidelines for archiving of corporate records https://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/contentand documents as statutorily required by the Company. archiving-policy.pdf Code of Corporate This policy is aimed at providing timely, adequate, uniform and https://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/ Disclosure Practices(1) universal dissemination of information and disclosure of UPSI CodeCorporateDisclosure.pdf outside the Company in order to provide accurate and timely communication to our shareholders and the financial markets. Dividend Distribution This policy outlines the financial parameters and factors that are https://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/dividendPolicy to be considered whilst declaring dividend. distribution-policy.pdf Remuneration Policy This policy formulates the criteria for determining qualifications, https://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/directorscompetencies, positive attributes and independence for the appointment-remuneration.pdf appointment of a director (executive / non-executive) and also the criteria for determining the remuneration of the directors, key managerial personnel, senior management and other employees. (1) Revised in line with the requirements of the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018. (2) Revised in line with the requirements of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018. On behalf of the Board of Directors N Chandrasekaran Chairman (DIN: 00121863) Mumbai, May 20, 2019 182 DECLARATION BY THE CEO & MD UNDER REGULATION 26(3) OF THE SEBI INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015 REGARDING ADHERENCE TO THE CODE OF CONDUCT Pursuant to Regulation 26(3) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, the Board Members and the Senior Management personnel of the Company have affirmed compliance to their respective Codes of Conduct, as applicable to them for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2019. For Tata Motors Limited Guenter Butschek CEO & MD (DIN: 07427375) Mumbai, May 20, 2019 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) PRACTISING COMPANY SECRETARIES’ CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TO THE MEMBERS OF TATA MOTORS LIMITED We have examined the compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance by Tata Motors Limited (‘the Company’) for the year ended on March 31, 2019, as stipulated under Regulations 17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 and para C, D & E of Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”). The compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management. Our examination was limited to a review of procedures and implementation thereof, as adopted by the Company for ensuring compliance to the conditions of Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company. In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, and the representations made by the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Directors and the management, we certify that the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the SEBI Listing Regulations for the year ended on March 31, 2019. We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company. For Parikh & Associates Practising Company Secretaries P. N. Parikh FCS: 327 CP: 1228 Mumbai, May 20, 2019 PRACTISING COMPANY SECRETARIES’ CERTIFICATE ON DIRECTORS NON-DISQUALIFICATION TO THE MEMBERS OF TATA MOTORS LIMITED This certificate is issued pursuant to clause 10 (i) of the Part C of Schedule V of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 as amended vide circular dated May 9, 2018 of the Securities Exchange Board of India. We have examined the compliance of provisions of the aforesaid clause 10 (i) of the Part C of Schedule V of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us by the Company, and the declarations made by the Directors, we certify that none of the directors of Tata Motors Limited (“the Company”) CIN L28920MH1945PLC004520 having its registered office at Bombay House, 24 Homi Mody Street, Mumbai 400001 have been debarred or disqualified as on March 31, 2019 from being appointed or continuing as directors of the Company by SEBI/ Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any other statutory authority. For Parikh & Associates Practising Company Secretaries P. N. Parikh FCS: 327 CP: 1228 Mumbai, May 20, 2019 183 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Business Responsibility Report (Pursuant to Regulation 34(2)(f) of SEBI Listing Regulations) Introduction Please refer to our website www.tatamotors.com for complete The Company is one amongst the globally leading manufacturers list of our products. in the automobile segment and continues to be India’s 9. Total number of locations where business activity is largest automobile Company with a consolidated revenue of undertaken by the Company `304,903.71 Crores in FY 2019. Being the first Indian Company from the engineering sector to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange, i.  Number of International Locations (Provide details of the Company beliefs in the core philosophy of ‘Good Corporate major 5): Through subsidiaries and associate companies, Citizenship’ staying committed to sustainability and the spirit of the Company operates in over 175 markets and has over ‘giving back to society’. The Company is present across all segments 6,600 sales and service touch points. The Company has of the commercial and passenger vehicles, with a widespread manufacturing facilities in the UK, South Korea, Thailand, through over 6,600 dealerships offerings sales and services as well South Africa and Indonesia. as having established spare parts network touch points. ii. Number of National Locations – The Company The Business Responsibility Report highlights the approach of the manufacturing locations in India are situated at Company towards creating long-term value for all its stakeholders. Jamshedpur (Jharkhand), Pune (Maharashtra), Lucknow The Report is aligned with National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, (Uttar Pradesh), Pantnagar (Uttarakhand), Sanand (Gujarat) Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business (NVGand Dharwad (Karnataka). SEE) released by Ministry of Corporate Affairs and is in accordance Please refer Our Geographical Presence section of the with Regulation 34(2)(f) of the Securities and Exchange Board Company’s Annual Report FY 2018-19 for complete list of of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) our” global operations. Regulations 2015 (SEBI Listing Regulations). This Report provides an overview of the activities carried out by the Company under 10.  Markets served by the Company Local/State/National/ each of the nine principles outlined in NVG. International  The Company’s vehicles and services cater to the entire Section A: General Information about the Company Indian market. The commercial and passenger vehicles are 1.  Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company: internationally being marketed in countries like North America, L28920MH1945PLC004520 Central and South America, Africa, Europe, Asia and Oceania. 2. Name of the Company: Tata Motors Limited  Please refer Our Geographical Presence section of the 3. Registered address: Bombay House, 24, Homi Mody Street, Company’s Annual Report FY 2018-19 for complete list of our Mumbai 400001 global operations. 4. Website: http://www.tatamotors.com/ Section B: Financial Details of the Company 5. E-mail id: inv_rel@tatamotors.com 1. Paid up Capital : `679.22 Crores 6. Financial Year reported: 2018-19 7. Sector(s) that the Company is engaged in (industrial activity 2. Total Turnover : `67,611.07 Crores (This is standalone figure) code-wise) 3. Total profit after taxes : Profit of `1,903.94 Crores (This is NIC standalone figure) Description Code 2910 Manufacture of motor vehicles 4. Total Spending on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as percentage of profit after tax (%): Total expenditure reported is 2930 Manufacture of parts and accessories for motor vehicles `22.21 Crores. 4530 Sale of motor vehicle parts and accessories 4510 Sale of motor vehicle 5. List of activities in which expenditure in 4 above has been incurred: 8.  List three key products/services that the Company  The Company has been regularly conducting a community manufactures/provides (as in balance sheet) engagement strategy which revolves around four focus themes: 1. Passenger Cars I. Arogya (Health): The focus is to work on addressing child 2. Commercial Vehicles malnutrition, health awareness for females. This initiative 3. Vehicles sales and service provides preventive & curative health services to the 184 community. In FY 2019, 381,437 members benefited from 3.  Do any other entity/entities (e.g. suppliers, distributors INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) our health initiatives. etc.) that the Company does business with participate in the BR initiatives of the Company? If yes, then indicate the II. Vidyadhanam (Education): This initiative aims to improve percentage of such entity/entities? [Less than 30%, 30-60%, the quality of education in schools by offering scholarship More than 60%] to meritorious and needy secondary school students, organizing special coaching classes to improve academic The Company’s suppliers and distributors are critical aspects performance in Class X Board exam, supporting school in supply chain operations and its sustainability issues can infrastructure and organizing co-curricular activities have glaring impact on overall operations. The Company for well-rounded personality development. In FY 2019, engages with its suppliers and channel partners on BR 146,894 students benefited from our education program. initiatives through Sustainable Value Chain Program. The suppliers and dealers sustainability initiatives serves as a III. Kaushalya (Employability): This program has been platform to raise awareness on sustainability topics such as designed to enhance skill development amongst youth. It health, safety, environmental and community at a large. The includes inculcating marketable skills in school dropout vendors and dealers situated across all locations participate STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) youth in auto sector, non-auto trades, agriculture and in these sustainability initiatives, although, currently around allied activities. It also, strengthens the Industrial Training 30% of value chain entities participate in these BR initiatives Institutes by offering domain expertise of automotive except 100% of our critical suppliers have been covered under skills through knowledge partnership. In FY 2019, the the sustainable supply chain initiative. Company has trained 106,038 youth and farmers. IV. Vasundhara (Environment): The Company’s approach Section D: BR Information to improve the environment included promotion of 1. Details of Director/Directors responsible for BR renewable energy, creation of carbon sinks through large scale sapling plantation, construction of water a)  Details of the Director/Directors responsible for conservation structures and building awareness among implementation of the BR policy/policies. the community members. Under this initiative 1,117,186 Sr. saplings .have been planted through are various program Particulars Details No. and our environmental awareness programs aim to FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) 1. DIN Number 07427375 sensitize young children and we have been able to reach (if applicable) out to 89,263 people. 2. Name Mr Guenter Butschek Please refer ‘CSR Report’ Annexure-2 section of the 3. Designation CEO and Managing Director Company’s Annual Report FY 2018-19 and the Company’s 4 Telephone 022 6665 8282 Annual CSR Report FY2018-19 for detailed community engagement strategy and key initiatives. These reports are 5. E-mail id Guenter.Butschek@tatamotors.com available on our website www.tatamotors.com Sr. Particulars Details Section C: Other Details No. 1.  Does the Company have any Subsidiary Company/ 1. DIN Number 01793948 Companies? (if applicable) 2. Name Mr Satish B Borwankar The Company has 99 direct and indirect subsidiaries in India 3. Designation COO & Executive Director and abroad as on year ended March 31, 2019. 4 Telephone 020-66132257 2. Do the Subsidiary Company/Companies participate in the BR 5. E-mail id sbborwankar@tatamotors.com Initiatives of the parent company? If yes, then indicate the number of such subsidiary company(s) b) Details of the BR head  The Company positively influences and encourages its Sr. Particulars Details subsidiaries to adopt Business Responsibility (BR) initiatives. No. All the Company’s subsidiaries are guided by Tata Code 1. DIN Number N.A of Conduct (TCoC) to conduct their business in an ethical, (if applicable) transparent and accountable manner. It covers suppliers, 2. Name Dr Arun Kale customers and other stakeholders. It also addresses key 3. Designation Head – Safety, Health, Environment BR issues like Quality and Customer value, Corruption and and Sustainability Bribery, Health and Safety, Environment, Human Rights and 4 Telephone 91-20-66132773 Employee well-being. 5. E-mail id arun.kale@tatamotors.com 185 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year 2. Principle-wise (as per NVGs) BR Policy/policies (Reply in Y/N) The National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business (NVG-SEE) released by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs has adopted nine areas of Business Responsibility. These are as follows: P1 – Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with Ethics, Transparency and Accountability. P2 – Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe and contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle. P3 – Businesses should promote the well-being of all employees.  P4 – Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards all stakeholders, especially those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized. P5 – Businesses should respect and promote human rights. P6 – Businesses should respect, protect, and make efforts to restore the environment. P7 – Businesses when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner. P8 – Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development. P9 – Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers in a responsible manner. Sr. Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 No. 1. Do you have policy/policies for? Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 2. Has the policy being formulated in consultation with the relevant Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y stakeholders? 3. Does the policy conform to any national / international standards? If Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y yes, specify? (The policies conformance to the spirit of international standards like ISO 9000, ISO 14000, OHSAS 18000, SA 8000, UNGC guidelines and ILO principles and meet the regulatory requirements such as SEBI Listing Regulations, Sarbanes Oxley Act etc. The policies reflects Tata group’s commitment to improve the quality of life of the communities it serves and practice of returning to society what it earns) 4. Has the policy being approved by the Board? Is yes, has it been signed Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y by MD/owner/CEO/appropriate Board Director?* 5. Does the company have a specified committee of the Board/Director/ Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Official to oversee the implementation of the policy? 6. Has the policy been formally communicated to all relevant internal The policies have been communicated to all internal and external stakeholders? stakeholders. TCoC and other policies are communicated to suppliers, vendors, dealers and channel partners based on their relevance. 7. Does the company have in-house structure to implement the policy/ The Company has established in-house structures to policies implement these policies. 8. Does the Company have a grievance redressal mechanism related to The whistle blower mechanism provides employees to report the policy/policies to address stakeholders’ grievances related to the any concerns or grievances pertaining to any potential or policy/policies? actual violation of TCoC , which covers all aspects of BRR. An Investor grievance mechanism is in place to respond to investor grievances. The Customer Complaints mechanism records the grievances of customers on product and service quality and other issues of interest to them. The supplier, vendor, dealer and channel partner forums and ongoing communication captures their concerns and grievances. The continual community engagement, needs assessments, impact assessments serve as means for communities to represent their concerns and grievances. 9. Has the company carried out independent audit/evaluation of the The implementation of TCoC and other policies are reviewed working of this policy by an internal or external agency? through internal audit function/ethics counsellor. External assessment of Tata Business Excellence Model (TBEM) covers the review of implementation of all the Company policies. The Quality, Safety & Health and Environmental policies are subject to internal and external audits as part of certification process. *All the policies are signed by the Managing Director or an Executive Director. All the policies are carved from its guiding principles and core values. These policies are mapped to each principle hereunder: 186 Principle Applicable Policies Link for policies INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Principle 1: Businesses should conduct and Whistle Blower Policy http://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/whistlegovern themselves with Ethics, Transparency and blower-policy.pdf Accountability Principle 2: Businesses should provide goods and Sustainability Policy https://www.tatamotors.com/about-us/corporateservices that are safe and contribute to sustainability Environment Policy, governance/policies throughout their life cycle. Quality Policy https://www.tatamotors.com/about-us/corporategovernance/policies https://www.tatamotors.com/about-us/corporategovernance/policies Principle 3: Businesses should promote the wellSustainability Policy https://www.tatamotors.com/about-us/corporatebeing of all employees. Safety Policy governance/policies https://www.tatamotors.com/about-us/corporateSTATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) governance/policies Principle 4: Businesses should respect the interests CSR Policy https://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/csr-policy. of, and be responsive towards all stakeholders, Tata Affirmative Action Policy pdf especially those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable Sustainability Policy https://www.tata.com/careers/affirmative-action and marginalized. https://www.tatamotors.com/about-us/corporategovernance/policies Principle 5: Businesses should respect and promote Tata Code of Conduct https://www.tata.com/about-us/tata-code-ofhuman rights. Sustainability Policy conduct Whistle Blower Policy https://www.tatamotors.com/about-us/corporategovernance/policies http://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/whistleblower-policy.pdf FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Principle 6: Businesses should respect, protect, and Environment Policy https://www.tatamotors.com/about-us/corporatemake efforts to restore the environment. Sustainability Policy governance/policies Climate Change Policy https://www.tatamotors.com/about-us/corporategovernance/policies http://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/ClimatePolicy-Eng.pdf Principle 7: Businesses, when engaged in influencing Tata Code of Conduct https://www.tata.com/about-us/tata-code-ofpublic and regulatory policy, should do so in a conduct responsible manner. Principle 8: Businesses should support inclusive Sustainability Policy https://www.tatamotors.com/about-us/corporategrowth and equitable development. CSR Policy governance/policies http://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/csr-policy.pdf Principle 9: Businesses should engage with and Tata Code of Conduct https://www.tata.com/about-us/tata-code-ofprovide value to their customers and consumers in a Quality Policy conduct responsible manner. http://www.tatamotors.com/about-us/corporategovernance/policies 3. Governance related to BR Please refer “Corporate Governance” section of Company’s Annual Report FY2018-19 for various Board Committees Indicate ●  the frequency with which the Board of Directors, and their roles and responsibilities. Committee of the Board or CEO assess the BR performance of the Company. Within 3 months, 3-6 months, annually, ● D  oes the Company publish a BR or a Sustainability more than 1 year Report? What is the hyperlink for viewing this report? How frequently it is published? Executive Committee (ExCom) reviews and assesses the various aspects of BR performance of the  The Company has been publishing Annual Sustainability Company. The frequency of ExCom meetings for BR Reports in accordance with globally recognized Global review is 3-6 months. Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. These reports also 187 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year serve as the Company’s Communication on Progress Written application to Ethics and compliance: (COP) as part of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC)  All concerns can be reported to Chief Ethics Counselor/ signatory reporting obligations and have been aligned Chairman of the Audit Committee in Hindi, English or any with the NVG-SEE released by Ministry of Corporate regional language. Governance. The Company also publishes the Annual CSR Report to highlight the community engagement 2. How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the strategy and performance. The Company’s CSR Report past financial year and what percentage was satisfactorily can be viewed at https://www.tatamotors.com/wpresolved by the management? If so, provide details thereof, in content/uploads/2018/07/06111347/annual-csrabout 50 words or so. report-2017-18.pdf Stakeholders Complaint Received 76 Section E: Principle-wise performance Stakeholders Complaint Resolved 35 Principle 1: Ethics, Transparency and Accountability Percentage of Stakeholders Complaint Resolved 46.05 1. Does the policy relating to ethics, bribery and corruption cover Includes TCoC concerns, investor complaints and customer only the company? Yes/ No. Does it extend to the Group/Joint complaints Ventures/ Suppliers/Contractors/ NGOs/Others? The Company has setup an investor grievance mechanism to The Company has adopted the TCoC to remain consistently respond to investor grievances in a timely and appropriate vigilant and ensure ethical conduct of its operations. All manner. The investor grievances are also reviewed at the internal and external stakeholders of the Tata Group are Board level by an Investors’ Grievance Committee and expected to work within boundaries of the TCoC. The immediate action is taken to resolve the same. The TCoC Company ensures compliance of ethical standards by its concerns are resolved through internal review mechanism vendors and contractors through appropriate clauses in by Ethics Counselor and Senior Management. Both the its work contracts to which they are obligated. Generally, Commercial Vehicles Business Unit and Passenger Vehicles the contract includes clauses in relation to Human Rights Business Unit have established robust customer care Protection, Corruption practices and other things related to systems which track customer complaints and responds to ethics. Training and awareness on TCoC is provided to all them in the minimum time possible. employees and relevant stakeholders are also made aware Principle 2 Product Life Cycle Sustainability of the same from time to time. 1. List up to 3 of your products or services whose design has The Company also has a whistle blower mechanism, which is incorporated social or environmental concerns, risks and/or being governed by the Whistle Blower Policy. Through this it has opportunities. placed mechanisms for ensuring confidentiality and protecting the whistle blower from any harassment/ victimization. The The Company is a leading automobile manufacturer of Policy covers instances pertaining to any unfair practice like India and has played a significant role over the years in retaliation, threat or intimidation of termination/suspension contributing to economic growth through its commercial of service, disciplinary action, transfer, demotion, refusal of and passenger vehicles which transport people, goods and promotion, or the like including any direct or indirect use of help notch time. The Company realizes its responsibility authority to obstruct the Whistle Blower’s right to continue to as a growth enabler and endeavors to create vehicles perform his duties/functions including making further Protected which will promote entrepreneurship. The Company is Disclosure. The policy is directly monitored by the Chairman of also cognizant about environmental impacts caused by the the Audit Committee and the Group Ethics Officer. production and lifecycle of its products and continually strives to innovate measures to reduce such impacts. Ethics Helpline: Keeping up with the momentum around deployment of The Company has an ethics helpline where employees can sustainable vehicles created in 2017-18, during FY 2019, place anonymous complaints against ethics violations as per the Company initiated a supply of 40 units of the ‘Ultra 9m the Policy of the Company. The ethics helpline can be reached AC Electric buses’ to the Lucknow City Transport Services in the following ways: Ltd and 80 Electric buses to the West Bengal Transport Corporation. The Company has also collaborated with Ethics Hotline: 1800 1032931 / 022-2287 1839. Capegemini to deploy Tigor EVs to Bengaluru, Chennai and Oral reports will normally be documented by the Chief Ethics Hyderabad. Below are few of the products which have been Counselor/Chairman of the Audit Committee by accessing the designed to address social or environmental concerns, voice mail by a written transcription of the oral report. risks and/or opportunities. 188 Product Social or environmental benefits INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Buses for Public Transport – Tata Starbus Hybrid Electric Bus Operates on dual power i.e diesel and electric and hence, economically viable, safe and environmentally friendly. In compliance with all UBS-II (Urban Bus Specifications), AIS 052 (Automotive Industry Standards) and CMVR (Central Motor Vehicle Rules). Enhanced NVH (Noise, Vibration & Harshness) system. Chassis with new generation BS-IV Engine Intermediate & Light Commercial Vehicles (ILCV) – Tata ULTRA Adhere to the latest BS-IV emission standards Tubeless radial tyres with low aspect ratio. Less rolling resistance better fuel economy Front and rear end suspension come with rubber bush no hassles of greasing Intelligent Power Steering stability at high speed, low steering effort Strongest chassis in its class with bolted design for increased modularity STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Passenger Cars – Tigor EV Full electric, zero emission vehicle Equipped with a single speed, automatic transmission The electric drive systems allows maximum efficiency and seamless acceleration. 2. For each such product, provide the following details in respect engine epitomizes the Fuel-Next philosophy of the of resource use (energy, water, raw material etc.) per unit of Company. It is developed using a range of eco-friendly product (optional): and future oriented technologies. It also incorporates latest know-how like multi drive modes, allowing the best (a)  Reduction during sourcing/production/ distribution of economy and driving pleasure. The Company’s value achieved since the previous year throughout the value proposition in the commercial vehicles is aimed to create chain? vehicles with lowest overall cost of ownership. The Recon In order to reduce the vehicular weight, the focus of the business, which reconditions aggregates, extends the life FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Company is on the new and improved technologies so of the aggregates and eliminates the use of fresh resources as to achieve higher fuel efficiency as well as to reduce that might have been consumed for new aggregates. the environmental impact created by the vehicles, including its material sourcing, production, use and end3. Does the company have procedures in place for sustainable of-life stages. In order to reduce the fuel consumption, sourcing (including transportation)? If yes, what percentage the Company focuses on researching, developing and of your inputs was sourced sustainably? producing new technologies, such as hybrid engines, The Company continually works with its vendors and suppliers electric cars, fuel-cell vehicles. Various development to reduce the environmental impacts of sourcing activity. programs to reduce the consumption of fuel, like the The Company has an Environment Procurement Policy and use of lightweight materials, reducing parasitic losses Sustainability Policy to engage with its value chain partners through the driveline and improvements in aerodynamics on environmental sustainability. The Company has launched are also studied and implemented by the Company. a sustainable supply chain initiative in FY 2017. Through this At the sourcing stage, the Company work’s with its initiative the Company aims to firstly create awareness on the suppliers to reduce the environmental impacts by using subject, call for suppliers’ sustainability data and subsequently returnable and recyclable packing solutions for majority conduct a site assessment for data verification. This initiative of the components thereby managing the cost and quality, was conducted in 3 phases, where 52 suppliers were covered minimizing material utilization and waste generation. in Phase I, 66 suppliers were covered in Phase II and 115 The Company is extensively working on green and light suppliers were covered in Phase III. weighing technologies in products by going beyond the basic environmental regulatory compliance. The Company  The Company has also extended this initiative to our continuously strives to improve the sustainability downstream and have initiated the Dealers Sustainability performance of its product on life cycle basis. Initiative in FY 2019, 15 workshops and 27 dealers have been assessed where 22 of them have shared data related (b) Reduction during usage by consumers (energy, water) has to Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. A total of 237 dealers been achieved since the previous year? have been covered in the workshop. The Company noted The class leading fuel efficiencies of the Company’s a significant initiatives that have been taken to reduce the vehicles enable the customers to achieve fuel savings packaging impacts in the supply chain by using recycled/ which translate into cost savings as well. The REVOTRON returnable packaging solutions for various components 189 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year sourced. Transportation and logistics optimization is an 4. Please indicate the Number of permanent employees with ongoing activity to reduce the related environmental impacts. disabilities The Pantnagar and Sanand plants have created a vendor park 16 as on 31st March, 2019. These employees represent self model wherein the key vendors are situated surrounding the severe disability plant. This not only enables to optimize the production related 5. Do you have an employee association that is recognized by costs but also significantly reduces the environmental impact management? of transportation of components.  The manufacturing plants at Jamshedpur, Pune, Lucknow, 4. Has the company taken any steps to procure goods and Pantnagar and Sanand have employee unions recognized by services from local & small producers, including communities the Management. The Company enters into long term wage surrounding their place of work? If yes, what steps have been settlements with these recognized unions. taken to improve their capacity and capability of local and small vendors? 6. What percentage of your permanent employees is members of this recognized employee association?  During the year, the Company procured 63.26% of the materials (by value) from local sources, where local is defined Around 97% of the operative employees at Jamshedpur, Pune, as the State in which the manufacturing plant is established. Lucknow, Pantnagar & Sanand plants are members of these employee unions. These employees represent around 55% of The Company takes significant initiatives in enhancing the the total permanent employees at these five plants. We do not capabilities of local and small vendors. have an Employees Union at our Dharwad Plant presently. To ensure reliable and responsible suppliers for automotive 7. Please indicate the Number of complaints relating to child production and service parts, the Company expects all its labour, forced labour, involuntary labour, sexual harassment suppliers to adopt the ISO 9001/IATF Quality Management in the last financial year and pending, as on the end of the System frameworks. The Company also encourage its dealers financial year. to adopt Quality, Environmental and Occupational Health & Safety Management Systems. In addition to this, the Company No of complaints No of complaints has an Environment Procurement Policy and Sustainability Sr. Category filed during the pending as on end Policy to engage with its value chain partners on environmental No. of the financial financial year year sustainability. 1. Child labour/forced NIL NIL 5. Does the company have a mechanism to recycle products and labour/involuntary waste? If yes what is the percentage of recycling of products labour and waste (separately as <5%, 5-10%, >10%). Also, provide 2. Sexual harassment 11 1 3. Discriminatory NIL NIL details thereof, in about 50 words or so. employment Being the Company’s ongoing endeavor, it has a mechanism to 8. What percentage of your under mentioned employees were recycle its products and limit the waste arising from production given safety & skill up-gradation training in the last year of vehicles. The Company has initiated well defined program ‘Prolife’ with objective to reduce waste and minimize the need • Permanent Employees of raw materials to produce a brand new item. In FY 2019, • Permanent Women Employees a total of 32,092 components were reconditioned and the • Casual/Temporary/Contractual Employees reconditioned blocks were exported to international markets. • Employees with Disabilities Hazardous waste is disposed as per regulatory requirements Safety is of paramount importance to the Company. All through the Common Hazardous Waste Treatment, Storage & employees in the Company are provided with safety Disposal Facilities (CHWTSDF), authorized recyclers and cotraining as part of their induction programme. The safety processing in cement plants. induction programme is also a compulsory requirement for contract workforce before they are inducted into the Principle 3 Employee Wellbeing system. The Company has a structured safety training 1. Please indicate the Total number of employees. agenda on an on-going basis to build a culture of safety  52,757 as on 31st March, 2019 (Includes Permanent, across its workforce. Temporary, trainee and contractual employees) The Company believes in continual learning of its employees 2.  Please indicate the Total number of employees hired on and has institutionalized a continual learning model for skill temporary/ contractual/ casual basis. upgradation, especially at the shop-floor level. The learning 44,061 as on 31st March, 2019 and development needs of management cadre employees 3. Please indicate the Number of permanent women employees. are met through the Company’s L&D structure which includes 986 as on 31st March, 2019 various training delivery mechanisms. 190 Principle 4: Stakeholder Engagement stakeholder group of communities, the Company works INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) 1.  Has the company mapped its internal and external towards women empowerment and education of children. stakeholders? Every year, the Company participate in Tata Affirmative Action Program (TAAP) Assessment, developed on the lines of Tata  Yes. The Company has mapped its internal and external Business Excellence Model (TBEM). stakeholders. It uses both formal and informal mechanisms to engage with various stakeholders to understand their 3. Are there any special initiatives taken by the company to concerns and expectations. Individual departments within engage with the disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized the organization have roles and responsibilities identified and stakeholders. If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words defined to engage with various stakeholders. or so. The Company’s CSR programmes and projects are aimed at 2.  Out of the above, has the company identified the serving the needy, deserving, socio-economically backward disadvantaged, vulnerable & marginalized stakeholders? and disadvantaged communities aimed at improving the  Yes. The Company through Tata Affirmative Action (AA) quality of their lives. Under TAAP, the Company continues Policy addresses the socially disadvantaged sections of the to serve the SC/ST communities inter-alia in Education, STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) society i.e. Scheduled Castes and Tribes. Within the broader Employability and Entrepreneurship. Area Stakeholder (SC/ST community) Benefits Education In FY 2019, the Company reached out to 732,732 students of which 40% belong to SC/ST communities. The projects include IIT-JEE & competitive exams coaching; co-curricular activities; Financial Aid Program for Engineering Students at IIT Bombay; Scholarships for Secondary school students and Govt. Engineering College at Pune, School Infra Improvement and Special Coaching classes in Std. 8th, 9th and 10th. Employability The programe has benefited more than 106,038 members across different locations in the Country in FY 2019. The skilling projects include: Novice drivers training, agriculture & allied training, ITI partnership & allied-auto trades; Motor Mechanic Vehicle (MMV) and Training in marketable trades such as retail, tally, white goods repair, etc. Health In FY 2019, 381,437 people benefited from the Company’s health initiatives including those who inhabit in rural/tribal areas. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Principle 5: Human Rights social and ethical principles into the Company’s business 1.  Does the policy of the company on human rights cover and innovate sustainable mobility solutions with passion to only the company or extend to the Group/Joint Ventures/ enhance quality of life of communities. Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/Others? The Company also has Environmental Procurement Policy The Company respects human rights and has established a which is applicable to all its vendors, contractors and service Policy on Human Rights. The Policy details the Company’s providers. approach towards human rights and sets its expectations for its Channel Partners and Contractors, to adhere to principles of 2. Does the company have strategies/initiatives to address human rights. The Company encourages its suppliers, vendors, global environmental issues such as climate change, contractors and other business partners associated to follow global warming, etc.? Y/N. If yes, please give hyperlink for the principles laid out in TCoC. webpage etc. 2. How many stakeholder complaints have been received in Yes, the Company has established a Climate Change Policy the past financial year and what percent was satisfactorily which guides the organizational efforts towards mitigating and resolved by the management? adapting to climate change. The Company's approach towards climate change mitigation and pursuing low carbon growth is In FY 2019, 76 concerns have been received towards actual or three-fold – develop cleaner and more fuel efficient vehicles, potential violation of TCoC, of which 35 of the concerns were reduce environmental impacts of manufacturing operations satisfactorily resolved as at 31.03.2019. and build awareness among stakeholders. The Company Principle 6: Environmental continuously works on alternate fuel technologies like electric vehicles, hybrid vehicles and fuel cell technologies. During FY 1.  Does the policy related to Principle 6 cover only the 2019, the Company initiated a supply of 40 units of the Ultra company or extends to the Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/ 9m AC Electric buses to the Lucknow City Transport Services Contractors/NGOs/others. Ltd (LCTSL) and supply of 80 Electric buses to the West Bengal Sustainability is built into the Company’s business processes Transport Corporation (WBTC). The Company also collaborated through the well-defined Sustainability Policy. This Policy with Capegemini to deploy Tigor EVs to Bengaluru, Chennai reaffirms value system committed to integrate environmental, and Hyderabad. 191 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year The Tata Group is a participant to the Prime Minister’s Low from the grid, in line with regulatory policies / frameworks Carbon Committee as well as was a member in the Steering and tariffs in those States where the Company operates. Committee of ‘Caring for Climate’ initiative of the United Nations (B) Energy Efficiency / Clean Technology Global Compact and United Nations Environment Programme. The Company initiated supply of 40 units of the Ultra 9m 3. Does the company identify and assess potential environmental AC Electric buses to the Lucknow City Transport Services risks? Y/N Ltd (LCTSL) and supplied 80 Electric buses to the West  Yes, the Company has established a Sustainability Policy Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC). The Company and Environmental Policy which guides its efforts in also collaborated with Capegemini to deploy Tigor EVs to minimizing environmental impacts and continually improve Bengaluru, Chennai and Hyderabad. The Tata Group is a its environmental performance throughout the life cycle of participant to the Prime Minister’s Low Carbon Committee the product. All Indian manufacturing plants are certified to as well as was a member in the Steering Committee of Environmental Management Systems (EMS) as per ISO 14001. ‘Caring for Climate’ initiative of the United Nations Global As part of EMS implementation, potential environmental Compact and United Nations Environment Programme. risks are identified and appropriate mitigation strategies are The Company has also implemented significant Energy planned. Conservation projects across its manufacturing plants and 4. Does the company have any project related to Clean offices in FY 2019. Development Mechanism? If so, provide details thereof, in ●  Pune PV Plant refurbished ventilation ASU, PTCED about 50 words or so. Also, if yes, whether any environmental chiller & CED oven and optimized top coat ASU/Exh compliance report is filed? booth frequency at the paint booth. The Plant also  None of our Plants have undertaken Clean Development provided additional fixtures on new headlines at engine Mechanism projects during FY 2019. shop. At the press shop, they optimized line running and provided a single push button for switching the line 5. Has the company undertaken any other initiatives on clean 2 motor off. At the weld shop, UBF and X0 robotic lines technology, energy efficiency, renewable energy, etc.? Y/N. If have been shut down, robots controller AC shutdown yes, please give hyperlink for web page etc. and optimization of running hours of zest closure pump  The Company continued to work on improving energy house. LED lights have been provided and portable efficiency, clean technology and increased consumption tube light trolleys provided as a replacement for of renewable energy in line with its aspiration to RE100 manual switching on of lights. which is a collaborative, global initiative of influential ● Dharwad Plant reduced the blower speed of ASU tag, businesses aspiring to source 100% renewable electricity optimized DC and AHU blower using the speed reducing for operations. facility on HMI, eliminated manual cooling fans at forced (A) Renewable Energy cooling zone. Water consumption reduced at DM plant which led to power saving, ACC oven exit blower running During FY 2019, the Company has set up in-house RE optimized. Water circuit modified for ARM gun by taking generation capacity (solar and wind) which includes: thyristor and gun in series. ● 21.95 MW Captive Wind Power project at Supa and ● Sanand Plant installed LED tube lights, replaced 400 Satara in Maharashtra; Watt metal halide lights with 28*2 watt tube lights in  ●  25KW Solar PV installations in addition to existing 16.5 meter area, ED chiller and Deck Cooling Chiller 2MW Solar PV at Lucknow works set point increased from 7 degree Celsius to 7.5 degree Celsius. Also, the plant runs Work Deck ASU ●  2MW Solar PV installation in addition to the existing in a combined mode when all lines are running and 2.1 MW Solar PV at Pune Works in individual mode when selected lines are running. ● 2 MW Roof-top Solar PV installation at Sanand Works Heat leakages have been arrested in all ovens and waste recovery system installed. Equipment running ● 18.5 kWp Solar PV installation at Pantnagar Works; hours optimized to reduce the fixed load consumption and by close monitoring of equipment startup time and ● 7.2 kW hybrid-wind and solar installation at Dharwad magnetic fuel saver installed. Works ● Lucknow Plant migrated to LED lighting in Line 1 and The Company sources off-site wind power at its Pune, street lights, replaced existing 250W HPSV street light Sanand and Dharwad works through Power Purchase with LED 100W fittings in Test Track, reduced SPC in Agreements (PPA) with Third Party Wind Power Generators. compressed air system, forced draft ventilation system The Company would continue to source renewable power and AC system. Motion sensors have been installed in 192 Line 4, 5 stores and IT Data Centre for ensuring that ●  Expert Committee to define “Heavy Duty Vehicle INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) the lights glow in the presence of persons only. Idle Fuel Economy Norms for India” under Government glowing of the lights was eliminated. of India (GoI) initiatives by MoSRTH and Petroleum Conservation Research Association (PCRA). ● Pantnagar Plant reduced the ASU burner time from 25 minutes to 10 minutes in every startup in surfacer ●  Expert Committee to define “Light & Medium Duty and base booth. VFD panel has been installed in all Vehicle Fuel Economy Norms for India” under GoI three exhaust blowers of 75KW in Clear 2 Booth, initiative by MoSRTH, Ministry of Petroleum & Natural VFD installed for phosphate exit spray pump, 400 Gas (MoPNG) and PCRA. watt high bay lamp replaced with 40 watt led and air ●  Expert Committee on “Fuel Economy and Labeling consumption has reduced at plant level. of Passenger Cars” under GoI initiative by Bureau of ● At Pune CV, conventional tubes were converted to 18W Energy Efficiency, Ministry of Power and MoSRTH. LED tubes in SHL, hydraulic oil chiller unit was removed ●  Inter-ministerial Committee for upcoming emission in C Block, hydraulic motor was downsized in C Block, norms (BS-VI) including Real World Driving Emissions STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) conventional tubes converted to LED lamp in KAPP (RDE) and Portable Emission Measurement System room, polishing exhaust blower VFD set to 40Hz, 15 of (PEMS) for Motor Vehicles under GoI initiative by 36 X 4 Urja lamps replaced with 18W X 4 LED lamps, MoSRTH, Ministry of Heavy Industries and MoPNG. replacement of 3Ph man cooling fan with 1Ph fan in RATP, motion sensor fitment in toilets in C Block. ● Quadricycle Emissions Norms formulated and notified Please refer to Annexure 3 of the Board’s Report in Annual ● Ministry of New & Renewable Energy, GoI, has been Report FY2018-19 for details on the Company’s energy promoting and assisting technology development efficiency and cleaner production initiatives. for GHGs reduction by way of increased usage of biodiesel. In support to this initiative, the Company has 6. Are the Emissions/Waste generated by the company within been currently running number of “Engine and Vehicle the permissible limits given by CPCB/SPCB for the financial programs to commercialize usage of biodiesel”, which year being reported? is made available to the general public by oil marketing The Company is in compliance within the prescribed permissible companies. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) limits as per CPCB/SPCB for air emissions, effluent quality and discharge, solid and hazardous waste generation and disposal. ● Working Group on Energy for sub-group on DST’s XIIth plan on Technology Development Program. 7. Number of show cause/ legal notices received from CPCB/ SPCB which are pending (i.e. not resolved to satisfaction) as ● National Electric Mobility Mission Plan – The Company on end of Financial Year. actively participated in forming hybrid performance criteria along with SIAM-FTG group and helped the There is no show cause /legal notice from CPCB/SPCB pending Government to launch FAME scheme. Presently, the resolution by the Company as on end of FY 2019. Company is engaged in building two types of hybrid and electric vehicles under Technical Advisor Group of Principle 7 Policy Advocacy R&D scheme. 1. Is your company a member of any trade and chamber or assosciation? If Yes, Name only those major ones that your II.  The Company also participate in following National business deals with: committees/Regulatory forums for improving the road safety perspectives including safety of driver, passengers The Company is a member of various trade and chamber or and pedestrians associations. It actively participated in all WP29 UNECE group activities. ● Meetings with Hon Minister, Ministries & Joint Secretary for finalizing/discussing the safety aspects of various I.  The Company participated in the following National vehicle categories like buses, trucks and passenger cars Committees which are working on formulating policies and regulations for improvement of environment including ● Central Motor Vehicle RulesTechnical Standing Green House Gases (GHGs) reduction throughout the Committee (CMVR TSC) Country: ● Automotive Industry Standards Committee (AISC) ● Standing Committee on Emissions (SCOE) ● BIS TEDC /TED Committee Meetings ●  Sub-committee on Idle (CO & HC) emission norms ● Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) of Union Ministry of Shipping, Road Transport and Council & various SIAM Group Meetings (CSR, EnC etc) Highways of India (MoSRTH) along with Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI). ● AISC/TED Panel Meetings on Individual Subjects 193 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year  The Company participated in all the panel meetings The plant specific plan, addresses the local needs while pertaining to emissions, fuel economy, conventional & nonthe corporate cell addresses few company-wide strategic conventional fuels for rules and standards formulation. community development initiatives like driver training, etc. The initiatives primarily focus on Arogya (Health), 2. Have you advocated/lobbied through above associations Vidyadhanam (Education), Kaushalya (Employability) and for the advancement or improvement of public good? Yes/ Vasundhara (Environment). Seva, the employee volunteering No; if yes specify the broad areas (drop box: Governance and initiative provides our employees with a platform to be a part Administration, Economic Reforms, Inclusive Development of our community initiatives. The Company along with its Policies, Energy security, Water, Food Security, Sustainable employees also supports Sumant Moolgaonkar Development Business Principles, Others) Foundation (SMDF) towards implementing Amurtdhara,  The Company through various industry associations a National Drinking Water Project to provide safe drinking participated in advocating matters relating to advancement water to communities. Through adoption of AA Policy, the of the industry and public good. The Company supported Company works toward inclusion of socially disadvantaged various initiatives of SIAM, to name a few included aspects and marginalized sections of society (Scheduled Castes of product safety, alternate fuel vehicles, environment, fuel and Scheduled Tribes), through focus on Education, Health, policies, customer information and education. The Company’s Employability and Entrepreneurship. Sustainability Policy and AA Policy is a progressive step Please refer the Company’s ‘Annual CSR Report FY2018-19’ for towards inclusive development. detailed community engagement strategy and key initiatives. Principle 8 : Inclusive Growth 2. Are the programmes/projects undertaken through in-house 1. Does the company have specified programmes/initiatives/ team/own foundation/external NGO/government structures/ projects in pursuit of the policy related to Principle 8? If yes any other organization? details thereof.  The CSR programmes and projects are deployed by the Inclusive growth is at the core of the Company’s community Company directly; through its own company-promoted development strategy. Ankur, the Company’s community societies/NGOS; partnering with the Government and engagement strategy, is percolated to each manufacturing collaborating with reputed, external non-profit organizations plant through a detailed community development plan. under different models. Area Partners Involved Education Action Aid, Agastya International Foundation, Avanti Fellows, Block Resource Centre EDUCATION DEPT.(SSA), CATHEDRAL CHURCH SANAND, Center for Youth Development & Activities, Children’s Movement for Civic Awareness, College of Engineering Pune, GANATAR, Global Education Trust, Gram Vikas Kendra, IIT Bombay Alumni Association, Manav Seva Education Trust, Moinee Foundation, Nav Jagrat Manav Samaj, Paryawaran Evam Jan Kalyan Samiti, Rotary Club of Nigdi, Samaj Vikas Kendra, Samata Shikshan Sanstha, SANAND LIONS FOUNDATION TRUST, Seva Sahyog Foundation, Shanti Seva Nidhi Trust, Shiksha Prasar Kendra, SHRI SHAKTI KELAVNI UTTEJAK TRUST, Society for Human Environmental Development, Suprabhat Mahila Mandal, Swami Vivekananda Youth Movement, Swaroopwardhinee, Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Tata Motors Gruhini Social Welfare Society, The Jai Narayan Charitable Trust, Urmee Charitable Trust, Vidya Poshak, Vikas Samities Employability Ahmedabad Dist. Cooperative Milk Producers Union Ltd, Ambika Motor Driving School, Centre for Civil Society, CII, Gram Vikas Kendra, LAURUS EDUTECH LIFE SKILLS PVT LTD, Manikbag Automobile Pvt Ltd, MITCON Foundation, Paryawaran Evam Jan Kalyan Samiti, Prasad Chikitsa, Pratham Education Foundation, Ramkrishna Mission Sakwar, Samaj Vikas Kendra, Sambhav Foundation, SANAND EDUCATION TRUST, Shashwat, Skill For Progress, SUVIDHA, Vedanta Foundation, Vigyan Ashram (IIE), Vikas Samities Health Action Aid, CHETNA, Family Planning Association of India, Gram Vikas Kendra, Jan Parivar Kalyan Sansthan, Manav Seva Education Trust, NAMASTE LIFE, Nav Jagrat Manav Samaj, Parivar Kalyan Sansthan, Paryawaran Evam Jan Kalyan Samiti, Prasad Chikitsa, Seth G S Medical College and KEM Hospital, Sneh Foundation, Snehdeep Jankalyan Foundation, Sumant Moolgaonkar Development Foundation, Sterling Hospital, Swadhar, Vikas Samities, Vidhya Poshak Environment Bansilal Ramntath Agarwal Charitable Trust, Bombay Natural History Society, COLLEGE OF SOCIAL WORK (NIRMALA NIKETAN INSTITUTE), GANATAR, Gram Vikas Kendra, Green Thumb, Manav Seva Education Trust, Paryawaran Evam Jan Kalyan Samiti, Samaj Vikas Kendra, Sarvodhaya Maha Sangh, Terre Policy Center, Tree Public Foundation, Vikas Samities, Wildlife Research and Conservation Society, SUVIDHA Rural Development BSILD (erstwhile BAIF) Please refer the Company’s ‘Annual CSR Report FY2018-19’ for details on various community development programme partnerships. 194 3. Have you done any impact assessment of your initiative? various mode such as 24X7 call center toll free no, website, INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Yes. The Company has adopted ‘Tata CS Protocol’ and Tata AA social media, Tata Motors Service Connect App. Framework to assess the impact of the various community  The Company’s services rests on three core ‘Service interventions. Periodic impact assessments are conducted and Promises’ – ‘Responsive’, ‘Reliable’ and ‘Best Value’. A host of the outcome forms a critical input in community development distinctive facilities and services are being offered to deliver plan preparation and implementation. each of these promises to customers in the Company’s Please refer ‘CSR Report’ Annexure-2 section of the Company’s nationwide service network. Annual Report FY 2018-19 for details on community impacts created and assessed. Passenger Commercial Vehicle Vehicle Total 4. What is your company’s direct contribution to community Business Unit Business Unit development projectsAmount in INR and the details of the Percentage of Consumer projects undertaken? Cases Pending as on 0.65 0.55 0.56 Total expenditure reported is `22.21 Crores. 31st March 2019 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) The details of projects: 2. Does the company display product information on the product 1. Arogya (Health) build awareness on malnourishment and label, over and above what is mandated as per local laws? other health problems in the community, provides ferry Yes/No/N.A./ Remarks (additional information) mobile medical van to look into curative and preventive The Company displays all the requisite product information health care. and safety guidance on the product label as required by the 2. Vidyadhanam (Education) supporting for infrastructure, local laws. Over and above the mandatory requirements, the skills development, training and institutionalized need Company also subscribes to guidance by SIAM on various based scholarships. customer information requirements such as the Fuel Economy 3. Kaushalya (Employability) Industrial training to school Customer Information. The vehicle manual is an important dropout youth in auto sector, non-auto trades, agriculture source of information for customers which contains product and allied activities. information, safety guidance, customer support details and 4. Vasundhara (Environment) large scale sapling plantation, tips on efficient use of the vehicle. construction of water conservation structures and building awareness about environment and renewable 3. Is there any case filed by any stakeholder against the company FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) energy sources. regarding unfair trade practices, irresponsible advertising and/or anti-competitive behavior during the last five years Please refer ‘CSR Report’ Annexure-2 section of the Company’s and pending as on end of financial year. If so, provide details Annual Report FY 2018-19 and ‘Community Development’ thereof, in about 50 words or so section in Sustainability Report FY2018-19 for details on various community development programme undertaken. The National Fair Trade Regulator the Competition Commission of India ('CCI') had initiated legal actions for alleged anti competition 5.  Have you taken steps to ensure that this community behavior against 17 manufactures including the Company. The development initiative is successfully adopted by the matter was disposed by the Delhi High Court and currently is subcommunity? Please explain in 50 words, or so. judice before the Supreme Court which has stayed the penalty Yes. The Company adopted a collaborative and participatory imposed by the CCI, till the next date of hearing. approach with communities/beneficiaries in conceiving and deploying CSR projects. Partial beneficiary contribution is 4. Did your company carry out any consumer survey/ consumer sought, wherever feasible, for project deployment / asset satisfaction trends? creation, maintenance for them to have greater ownership of Regular customer satisfaction surveys are conducted to assess the projects which we believe is crucial for sustainability of our customer satisfaction levels and benchmark the Company’s initiatives. Training and capacity building of communities and performance with industry peers. The customer centricity relevant stakeholders to successfully adopt and carry forward has been intrinsic to our culture – develop, deliver, delight. these initiatives is done from time to time. The Company continuously strive to provide best services to Please refer ‘CSR Report’ Annexure-2 section of the Company’s enhance our customer engagement. Customer service quality Annual Report FY 2018-19 and ‘Community Development’ is met through integration of our Customer Relationship section of Sustainability Report FY2018-19 for details on Management and Dealer Management System (CRM – DMS). various community development programme undertaken.  The Passenger Vehicle business uses globally renowned J.D.Power survey scores to assess overall customer satisfaction Principle 9: Customer Value and benchmark with industry peers. The Commercial Vehicle 1. What percentage of customer complaints/consumer cases business conduct customer satisfaction survey (eQ scores) are pending as on the end of financial year. through External Agency AC Nielsen every year. The eQ i.e. CEI The Company has provided customers with the best in class scores conducted by AC Nielsen are in line with our internal after sales service. The Company hears its customers through satisfaction scores. 195 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Independent Auditors' Report To the Members of Description of Key Audit Matter Tata Motors Limited A.  Impairment testing of long-life property, plant and equipment and intangible assets of Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial passenger vehicles cash generating unit Statements The Company has identified passenger vehicle segment as a Opinion separate cash generating unit (‘CGU’). The history of losses in the passenger vehicle business led the Company to perform We have audited the accompanying standalone financial an impairment assessment as at 31 March 2019. statements of Tata Motors Limited (“the Company”), which comprise the standalone balance sheet as at 31 March 2019,  The annual impairment testing of passenger vehicle and the standalone statement of profit and loss (including other CGU involves significant judgements and estimates comprehensive income), standalone statement of changes in in assessing the recoverable value. The recoverable equity and standalone statement of cash flows for the year value is considered to be the higher of the Company’s then ended, and notes to the standalone financial statements, assessment of the value in use (VIU) and fair value less including a summary of the significant accounting policies and cost of disposal (FVLCD). other explanatory information, and includes two joint operations  There is a risk over the Company’s assessment and consolidated on a proportionate basis. measurement of impairment due to: In our opinion and to the best of our information and according • VIU: uncertainties involved in forecasting of cash to the explanations given to us, and based on the consideration flows, including key assumptions such as future sales of report of other auditor on separate financial statements volumes, prices, margins, overheads, growth rates and of one joint operation as was audited by the other auditor, the weighted average cost of capital. aforesaid standalone financial statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) in the manner so • FVLCD: uncertainties involved in identifying appropriate required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the comparable companies, estimating their market accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the state of multiple and estimating the depreciated replacement affairs of the Company as at 31 March 2019, and profit and other cost of fixed assets. comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the (Refer note 2{p} of the standalone financial statements) year ended on that date. How the matter was addressed in the audit Basis for Opinion The audit procedures included: We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under section 143(10) of the Act. –  Identification: Obtained an understanding of Our responsibilities under those SAs are further described in the Company’s evaluation of identification of passenger Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial vehicles segment as a cash generating unit; Statements section of our report. We are independent of the –  Controls: Tested management review controls on the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the assumptions including underlying cash flow forecasts Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with the ethical and impact of macro-economic factors on the forecasts. requirements that are relevant to our audit of the standalone Tested management’s review of the discounted financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules cash flow calculations performed to support the thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities impairment assessment including benchmarking of in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. key assumptions (discount rates, growth rate) and We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient assessment of sensitivities; and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. –  Completeness and accuracy of the VIU model: Key Audit Matters Obtained valuation computation performed by the Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional Company for its impairment assessment and agreed judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the standalone the mathematical accuracy of the VIU by recalculating financial statements of the current period. These matters were the cash flow build up; addressed in the context of our audit of the standalone financial –  Cash flow forecast assumptions: Involved independent statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we valuation specialists to assist in the evaluation of the do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. assumptions (discount rate which included comparing 196 INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) the weighted average cost of capital with sector • o  bserved management’s validation of relevant data averages for the relevant markets in which the CGU elements and benchmarking the assumptions; operates and long-term growth rate) and challenged • e  valuating management’s assessment of whether the key assumptions and judgements within the build costs recorded meet the capitalisation criteria; up of the cash flow forecast (such as future sales volumes and prices, margins, overheads etc.) and • o  bserved management’s assessment of sensitivity methodologies used by the Company and its experts; of the impact of the changes in key assumptions; – Sensitivity analysis: Assessed the sensitivity of the •  iscussed with senior management and d outcome of impairment assessment to changes in key challenged management assumptions including assumptions such as volumes and margins; key inputs such as volumes, expected revenues and associated costs on projects which have STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) FVLCD assumptions: Compared the market multiple –  lower headroom. used in the FVLCD to comparative companies and to market data sources with the assistance of specialists. Test of details: On selected sample of amounts –  capitalised, we tested: Description of Key Audit Matter • costs incurred towards projects; B. Capitalisation of product development cost • inspected the technical team’s approvals for Product development costs incurred on new vehicle platforms, initiation of capitalisation; engines, transaxles and new vehicles are recognised as intangible assets only when technical feasibility has been • r eviewed the central cost allocation for the year established, the Company has committed technical and and determined costs capitalised are ‘directly commercial resources to complete the development and attributable’ including the interest capitalised. use the intangible asset and it is probable that the asset will generate future economic benefits. Other Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) The Company’s management and Board of Directors are The costs capitalised during the year include the cost of responsible for the other information. The other information technical know-how expenses, materials, direct labour, comprises the information included in the Company’s annual inspecting and testing charges, designing cost, software report, but does not include the financial statements and our expenses and directly attributable overhead expenditure auditors’ report thereon. incurred up to the date the intangible asset is available for use including interest capitalised. Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance The capitalisation of product development cost is considered conclusion thereon. to be a key audit matter given that the assessment of the capitalisation criteria set out in Ind AS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’ In connection with our audit of the standalone financial statements, is made at an early stage of product development and there our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, are inherent challenges with accurately predicting the future consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent economic benefit, which must be assessed as ‘probable’ for with the standalone financial statements or our knowledge capitalisation to commence. There is a risk therefore that obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially development cost may get capitalised where the relevant misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude criteria has not been met. that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report  (Refer note 2{m} and note 5 of the standalone in this regard. financial statements) Management's Responsibility for the Standalone How the matter was addressed in the audit Financial Statements The audit procedures included: The Company’s management and Board of Directors are Controls: Tested the Company’s design and –  responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act implementation and operating effectiveness of controls with respect to the preparation of these standalone financial around initiation of capitalisation of the product statements that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs, development cost including: profit/loss and other comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows of the Company including its joint operations, in • m  anagement review controls over calculations of accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted the future economic benefit of the projects; 197 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is specified under section 133 of the Act. The respective Board of higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve Directors of the Company and its joint operations are responsible collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, for maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance or the override of internal control. with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of • O  btain an understanding of internal control relevant to the the Company and its joint operations and for preventing and audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate detecting frauds and other irregularities; the selection and in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the the company has adequate internal financial controls with design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal reference to financial statements in place and the operating financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring effectiveness of such controls. the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the standalone • E  valuate the appropriateness of accounting policies used financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error which disclosures made by management. have been used for the preparation of the standalone financial • C  onclude on the appropriateness of management’s use statements by the Directors of the Company, as aforesaid. of the going concern basis of accounting in preparation In preparing the standalone financial statements, the respective of standalone financial statement and, based on the audit management and Board of Directors of the Company and its evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists joint operations are responsible for assessing the ability of related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt each company to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as on the appropriateness of this assumption. If we conclude applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in liquidate the company or to cease operations, or has no realistic the standalone financial statements or, if such disclosures alternative but to do so. are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our The respective Board of Directors of the Company and its joint auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may operations is responsible for overseeing the financial reporting cause the Company (including its joint operations) to cease to process of each company. continue as a going concern. Auditors' Responsibilities for the Audit of the • E  valuate the overall presentation, structure and content of the Standalone Financial Statements standalone financial statements, including the disclosures, Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether and whether the standalone financial statements represent the standalone financial statements as a whole are free from the underlying transactions and events in a manner that material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue achieves fair presentation. an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance • O  btain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit financial information of such entities or business activities conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material within the Company and its joint operations to express an misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud opinion on the standalone financial statements, of which or error and are considered material if, individually or in the we are the independent auditors. We are responsible for aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the the direction, supervision and performance of the audit of economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these standalone financial information of such entities. For the other entities financial statements. included in the standalone financial statements, which have As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional been audited by other auditor, such other auditor remains judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of audit. We also: the audit carried out by them. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. Our responsibilities in this regard • I dentify and assess the risks of material misstatement of are further described in section titled ‘Other Matter’ in the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud this audit report. or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us along with the appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not consideration of audit report of the other auditor referred to in 198 INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) the Other Matter paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate 2. (A) As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the standalone audit and on the consideration of report of the other financial statements. auditor on separate financial statements of a joint operation, as were audited by the other auditor as noted We communicate with those charged with governance of the in the “Other Matter” paragraph, we report, to the extent Company and such other entities included in the standalone applicable, that: financial statements of which we are the independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of a) We have sought and obtained all the information the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant and explanations which to the best of our deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. knowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements b)  In our opinion, proper books of account as regarding independence, and to communicate with them required by law have been kept by the Company all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be and its joint operations so far as it appears from thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, our examination of those books and the report of related safeguards. the other auditor. From the matters communicated with those charged with c)  The standalone balance sheet, the standalone governance, we determine those matters that were of most statement of profit and loss (including other significance in the audit of the standalone financial statements comprehensive income), the standalone statement of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. of changes in equity and the standalone statement We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or of cash flows dealt with by this Report are in regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, agreement with the relevant books of account in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter d) In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial should not be communicated in our report because the adverse FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) statements comply with the Ind AS specified consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to under section 133 of the Act. outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. e)  On the basis of the written representations Other Matter received from the directors as on 31 March 2019 We did not audit the financial statements of one joint operation taken on record by the Board of Directors and included in the standalone financial statements, whose annual the report of the statutory auditors of the joint financial statements reflect total assets of `6,345.87 crores operations, none of the directors of the Company as at 31 March 2019, total revenue of `6,782.43 crores and and its joint operations is disqualified as on 31 net cash flows amounting to `75.02 crores for the year ended March 2019 from being appointed as a director in 31 March 2019, as considered on a proportionate basis in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act. the standalone financial statements. These annual financial f) With respect to the adequacy of the internal statements have been audited by other auditor whose report financial controls with reference to financial has been furnished to us by the management and our opinion statements of the Company and its joint operations on the standalone financial statements, to the extent they have which are companies incorporated in India and the been derived from such annual financial statements, is based operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to solely on the report of the other auditor. Our opinion on the our separate Report in “Annexure B”. standalone financial statements is not modified in respect of the above matter with respect to our reliance on the work done and (B) With respect to the other matters to be included in the report of the other auditor. the Auditors’ Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements our opinion and to the best of our information and 1. As required by the Companies (Auditors’ Report) Order, 2016 according to the explanations given to us and based on (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government in terms of the consideration of the report of the other auditor on section 143 (11) of the Act, we give in the “Annexure A” a separate financial statements of a joint operation, as statement on the matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of noted in the “Other Matter” paragraph: the Order for the Company (excluding its joint operations), to i. The standalone financial statements disclose the the extent applicable. impact of pending litigations as at 31 March 2019 199 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year on the financial position of the Company and its ( C) With respect to the matter to be included in the Auditors’ joint operations. Refer note 39 to the standalone Report under section 197(16): financial statements; In our opinion and according to the information and ii.  Provision has been made in the standalone explanations given to us and based on the reports of the financial statements, as required under the statutory auditors of such joint operations incorporated applicable law or Ind AS, for material foreseeable in India which were not audited by us, the remuneration losses, on long-term contracts including derivative paid during the current year by the Company and joint contracts. Refer note 49 (iv) to the standalone operations to its directors is in accordance with the financial statements; provisions of Section 197 of the Act, as applicable. The remuneration paid to any director by the Company iii. There has been no delay in transferring amounts and joint operations is not in excess of the limit laid to the Investor Education and Protection down under Section 197 of the Act. The Ministry of Fund by the Company or its joint operations Corporate Affairs has not prescribed other details incorporated in India during the year ended under Section 197(16) which are required to be 31 March 2019. commented upon by us. iv.  The disclosures in the standalone financial For B S R & Co. LLP statements regarding holdings as well as dealings Chartered Accountants in specified bank notes during the period from 8 Firm's Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 November 2016 to 30 December 2016 have not been made in these financial statements since they do not pertain to the financial year Yezdi Nagporewalla ended 31 March 2019. Place : Mumbai Partner Date : 20 May 2019 Membership No: 049265 200 Annexure A to the Independent Auditors' Report 31 March 2019 INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) With reference to the Annexure referred to in paragraph 1 in (a) The terms and conditions of the grant of such loans Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements of the are, in our opinion, prima facie, not prejudicial to the Independent Auditor’s Report to the members of the Company Company’s interest. on the Standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 (b) The schedule of repayment of principal and payment of March 2019, we report that: interest has been stipulated and repayments or receipts (i) (a) The Company has maintained proper records showing of principal amounts and interest have been regular as full particulars, including quantitative details and per stipulations. situation of fixed assets except for certain tools where ( c) There is no amount overdue for more than 90 days at the Company is in the process of updating the location. the Balance Sheet date. (b)  The Company has a regular program of physical (iv) According to the information and explanations given to us, STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) verification of its fixed assets by which its fixed assets the Company has complied with provisions of section 185 are verified in a phased manner over a period of three and 186 of the Companies Act, 2013 in respect of grant of years. In our opinion, this periodicity of physical loans, making investments and providing guarantees and verification is reasonable having regard to the size of the securities, as applicable. Company and the nature of its fixed assets. During the year, the Company has physically verified a substantial (v) According to the information and explanations given to us, portion of the fixed assets as per the program and the Company has not accepted any deposits during the year. has represented that the balance will be verified next In respect of unclaimed deposits, the Company has complied year. According to the information and explanations with the provisions of section 73 to 76 of the Act and the given to us, no material discrepancies were noticed on rules framed thereunder. verification of fixed assets. (vi) The maintenance of cost records has been specified by the ( c) According to the information and explanations given to us, Central Government under Section 148(1) of the Companies the records examined by us and based on the examination Act, 2013 in respect of the products manufactured by the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) of the registered sale deed /transfer deed /conveyance Company. We have broadly reviewed the books of account deed /court orders approving schemes of arrangements maintained by the Company pursuant to the rules prescribed /amalgamations provided to us, we report that, the title by the Central Government for maintenance of cost records deeds, comprising all the immovable properties of land under section 148(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 in respect and buildings which are freehold, are held in the name of manufacture of products and are of the opinion that prima of the Company as at the Balance Sheet date except facie, the prescribed accounts and records have been made for certain title deeds for land amounting to `525.80 and maintained. However, we have not made a detailed crores which are yet to be transferred in the name of the examination of the cost records with a view to determine Company. In respect of immovable properties that have whether they are accurate or complete. been taken on lease and disclosed as property, plant and (vii) (a) According to the information and explanations given to equipment in the standalone financial statements, the us and on the basis of our examination of the records lease agreements are in the name of the Company, where of the Company, amounts deducted / accrued in the the Company is the lessee in the agreement. books of account in respect of undisputed statutory dues (ii) The inventory including inventory lying with third parties, including Provident fund, Employees’ state insurance, except goods-in-transit, has been physically verified by the Income tax, Duty of customs, Goods and services tax management during the year. In our opinion, the frequency and other material statutory dues have generally been of such verification is reasonable and adequate in relation regularly deposited during the year by the Company with to the size of the Company and the nature of its business. the appropriate authorities, except for Provident fund The discrepancies noticed on verification between the dues referred to in note 39 to the financial statements. physical stocks and the book records were not material We are informed by the Company that the Employee’s and have been properly dealt with in the books of account. State Insurance Act, 1948 is applicable only to certain locations of the Company. With regard to the contribution (iii)  According to information and explanations given to us, under the Employee’s Deposit Linked Insurance Scheme, the Company has granted loans, secured or unsecured, to 1976 (the scheme), the Company has sought exemption companies, firms or other parties covered in the Register from making contribution to the scheme since it has maintained under Section 189 of the Companies Act, 2013, in its own Life Cover Scheme. The Company has made respect of which: application on March 28, 2017 seeking an extension of 201 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year exemption from contribution to the Scheme for a period payable. We draw attention to note 39 to the financial of 3 years which is awaited. As explained to us, the statements which more fully explains the matter regarding Company does not have dues on account of Sales Tax, non-payment of provident fund contribution pursuant to Service Tax, Value Added Tax and Duty of Excise. Supreme Court judgement dated 28 February 2019. According to the information and explanations given to us, (b) According to the information and explanations given to no undisputed amounts payable in respect of Provident us, there are no dues of Income tax, Sales tax, Service fund, Employees’ state insurance, Income tax, Duty of tax, Value added tax, Goods and services tax, Duty customs, Goods and services tax and other material of customs and Duty of excise which have not been statutory dues were in arrears as at 31 March 2019, for a deposited by the Company with appropriate authorities period of more than six months from the date they became on account of any disputes except for the following: Name of Nature Amount Amount paid Period to which the Forum where dispute the statute of dues (` Crores) under protest* amount relates is pending (` Crores) Income Tax Act, 1961 Income tax 2.78 2.78 1982-83, 1991-92 and 1995-96 High Court 147.27 147.27 2003-04, 2005-06 to 2011-12 Income Tax Appellate Tribunal and erstwhile Tata Finance Limited 1997-98 to 1999-2000 121.12 121.09 2012-13 to 2014-2015 and erstwhile Commissioner of Income Tax Tata Motors Drivelines Limited 2015-16 Appeals Central Excise Act, Duty of 133.00 45.52 1991-92 to 1993-94, 2002-03, High Court 1944 excise 2005-06 to 2010-11 1,439.53 25.51 1991-92, 1992-93, 1994-95, 1996-97, The Custom, Excise and 1997-98, 1999-2000 to 2017-18 Service Tax Appellate Tribunal 40.19 1.73 1984-85, 1999-2000 to 2017-18 Appellate Authority upto Commissioner’s level Finance Act, 1994 Service tax 1,086.69 10.79 2004-05 to 2013-14 High Court 76.14 4.64 2003-04, 2006-07 to 2008-09, 2010The Custom, Excise and 11, 2013-14, 2014-15, 2017-18 Service Tax Appellate Tribunal 7.43 0.15 2004-05 to 2009-10, 2011-12, Appellate Authority upto 2013-14 to 2017-18 Commissioner’s level Sales Tax Sales tax 13.18 1995-96 Supreme Court 301.93 70.95 1984-85 to 1988-89, 1990-91, High Court 1992-93, 2001-02 to 2005-06, 2007-08 to 2016-17. 92.22 14.07 1983-84, 1985-86, 1989-90, 1998-99, Sales Tax Tribunal 2000-01, 2004-05 to 2015-16 545.03 28.62 1979-80, 1986-87, Appellate Authority upto 1989-90 to 2018-19 Commissioner’s level Customs Act, 1962 Duty of 3.90 3.90 2011-12 Supreme Court customs 7.49 3.11 2008-09 The Custom, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal * includes refunds adjusted by the authorities. 202 INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) (viii)  In our opinion and according to the information and (xiii)  In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not defaulted explanations given to us, all transactions with related parties in repayment of loans or borrowings to banks and dues are in compliance with section 177 and 188 of the Act and the to debenture holders. The Company did not have any details, as required by the applicable accounting standards outstanding dues to any financial institution or government have been disclosed in the standalone financial statements. during the year. (xiv) According to the information and explanations given to us, (ix)  In our opinion and according to the information and the Company has not made any preferential allotment or explanations given to us, the Company has not raised private placement of shares or fully or partially convertible money by way of further public offer (including debt debentures during the year. Accordingly, paragraph 3(xiv) of instruments) during the year and the term loans taken by the Order is not applicable to the Company. the Company have been applied for the purpose for which STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) (xv) According to the information and explanations given to us, they were raised. the Company has not entered into any non-cash transactions (x) According to the information and explanations given to us, no with directors or persons connected with them during fraud by the Company and no material fraud on the Company the year. Accordingly, paragraph 3(xv) of the Order is not by its officers or employees has been noticed or reported applicable to the Company. during the course of our audit. (xvi)  In our opinion and according to the information and (xi) According to the information and explanations given to us and explanations given to us, the Company is not required based on our examination of the records of the Company, the to register under section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of Company has paid / provided for managerial remuneration India Act, 1934. in accordance with the requisite approvals mandated by the provisions of Section 197 read with Schedule V of the Act for For B S R & Co. LLP the year ended 31 March 2019. Chartered Accountants Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) (xii)  In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company is not a Nidhi Yezdi Nagporewalla Company as per the Act. Accordingly, paragraph 3(xii) of the Place : Mumbai Partner Order is not applicable to the Company. Date : 20 May 2019 Membership No: 049265 203 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Annexure B to the Independent Auditors' Report 31 March 2019 Report on the internal financial controls with statements. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that reference to the aforesaid standalone financial we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the statements under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 internal financial controls with reference to financial statements (Referred to in paragraph 2(A)(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and were established and maintained and whether such controls Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date) operated effectively in all material respects. Opinion Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to with reference to financial statements and their operating financial statements of Tata Motors Limited (“the Company”) as effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with of 31 March 2019 in conjunction with our audit of the standalone reference to financial statements included obtaining an financial statements of the Company for the year ended on that understanding of such internal financial controls, assessing the date which includes internal financial controls with reference to risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating financial statements of the Company’s joint operations which are the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based companies incorporated in India. on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the In our opinion, the Company and its joint operations which are auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of companies incorporated in India, have, in all material respects, material misstatement of the standalone financial statements, adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial whether due to fraud or error. statements and such internal financial controls were operating We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the effectively as at 31 March 2019, based on the internal financial audit evidence obtained by the other auditor of a joint operation controls with reference to financial statements criteria established in terms of their report referred in the Other Matter paragraph by the Company and its joint operations considering the essential below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on audit opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting standalone financial statements. issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (the “Guidance Note”). Meaning of Internal Financial controls with Reference to Financial Statements Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls A company’s internal financial controls with reference to financial statements is a process designed to provide The respective Company’s management and the Board of reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial Directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining reporting and the preparation of financial statements for internal financial controls based on the internal financial controls external purposes in accordance with generally accepted with reference to financial statements criteria established by the accounting principles. A company’s internal financial controls respective companies considering the essential components of with reference to financial statements include those policies internal control stated in the Guidance Note. These responsibilities and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the internal financial controls that were operating effectively for transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded including adherence to the respective company’s policies, as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable only in accordance with authorisations of management and financial information, as required under the Companies Act, 2013 directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance (hereinafter referred to as “the Act”). regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised Auditors’ Responsibility acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with reference to financial statements Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial controls based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with with Reference to Financial Statements the Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing, prescribed Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls under section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an with reference to financial statements, including the possibility of audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial 204 INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) collusion or improper management override of controls, material Other Matter misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial with reference to financial statements to future periods are subject controls with reference to standalone financial statements in to the risk that the internal financial controls with reference to so far as it relates to one joint operation, which is a company financial statements may become inadequate because of changes incorporated in India, is based solely on the corresponding report in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or of the other auditor. procedures may deteriorate. For B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 Yezdi Nagporewalla Place : Mumbai Partner Date : 20 May 2019 Membership No: 049265 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) 205 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Balance Sheet (` in crores) As at As at Notes March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 I. ASSETS (1) NON-CURRENT ASSETS (a) Property, plant and equipment 3 18,316.61 18,192.52 (b) Capital work-in-progress 2,146.96 1,371.45 ( c) Goodwill 99.09 99.09 (d) Other intangible assets 5 (a) 3,871.13 3,312.14 (e) Intangible assets under development 5 (b) 4,139.63 3,825.15 (f) Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 6 14,770.81 13,950.60 (g) Financial assets (i) Investments 8 663.38 310.19 (ii) Loans and advances 10 143.13 143.96 (iii) Other financial assets 12 994.39 793.40 (h) Non-current tax assets (net) 715.30 695.75 (i) Other non-current assets 14 1,819.90 1,546.39 47,680.33 44,240.64 (2) CURRENT ASSETS (a) Inventories 16 4,662.00 5,670.13 (b) Investments in subsidiaries and associate (held-for-sale) 7 257.81 681.91 ( c) Financial assets (i) Investments 9 1,175.37 1,820.87 (ii) Trade receivables 17 3,250.64 3,479.81 (iii) Cash and cash equivalents 19 487.40 546.82 (iv) Bank balances other than (iii) above 20 819.21 248.60 (v) Loans and advances 11 200.08 140.27 (vi) Other financial assets 13 1,279.68 646.31 (d) Current tax assets (net) 73.88 (e) Assets classified as held-for-sale 38 ( c) 162.24 223.33 (f) Other current assets 15 934.87 1,439.73 13,229.30 14,971.66 TOTAL ASSETS 60,909.63 59,212.30 II. EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY (a) Equity share capital 21 679.22 679.22 (b) Other equity 21,483.30 19,491.76 22,162.52 20,170.98 LIABILITIES (1) NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES (a) Financial liabilities (i) Borrowings 23 13,919.81 13,155.91 (ii) Other financial liabilities 25 180.80 211.28 (b) Provisions 27 1,281.59 1,009.48 ( c) Deferred tax liabilities (net) 205.86 154.61 (d) Other non-current liabilities 30 218.24 291.09 15,806.30 14,822.37 (2) CURRENT LIABILITIES (a) Financial liabilities (i) Borrowings 24 3,617.72 3,099.87 (ii) Trade payables (a) Total outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises 126.96 141.59 (b) Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro and small enterprises 10,281.87 9,269.46 (iii) Acceptances 3,093.28 4,814.58 (iv) Other financial liabilities 26 2,237.98 4,091.16 (b) Provisions 28 1,148.69 862.92 ( c) Current tax liabilities (net) 78.30 21.77 (d) Other current liabilities 31 2,356.01 1,917.60 22,940.81 24,218.95 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 60,909.63 59,212.30 See accompanying notes to financial statements In terms of our report attached For and on behalf of the Board For B S R & Co. LLP N CHANDRASEKARAN [DIN: 00121863] N MUNJEE [DIN:00010180] GUENTER BUTSCHEK [DIN: 07427375] Chartered Accountants Chairman CEO and Managing Director Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 F S NAYAR [DIN:00003633] S B BORWANKAR [DIN: 01793948] V K JAIRATH [DIN:00391684] ED and Chief Operating Officer YEZDI NAGPOREWALLA Partner O P BHATT [DIN:00548091] P B BALAJI Membership No. 049265 Group Chief Financial Officer R SPETH [DIN:03318908] H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Directors Company Secretary Mumbai, May 20, 2019 Mumbai, May 20, 2019 206 Statement of Profit and Loss INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) (` in crores) Year ended Year ended Notes March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Revenue from operations Revenue 68,764.88 58,234.33 Other operating revenue 437.88 455.48 I. Total revenue from operations 32 69,202.76 58,689.81 II. Other Income 33 2,554.66 2,492.48 III. Total Income (I+II) 71,757.42 61,182.29 IV. Expenses (a) Cost of materials consumed 43,748.77 37,080.45 (b) Purchases of products for sale 6,722.32 4,762.41 ( c) Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and products for sale 144.69 842.05 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) (d) Excise duty 32(2) 793.28 (e) Employee benefits expense 34 4,273.10 3,966.73 (f) Finance costs 35 1,793.57 1,744.43 (g) Foreign exchange loss (net) 215.22 17.14 (h) Depreciation and amortisation expense 3,098.64 3,101.89 (i) Product development/Engineering expenses 571.76 474.98 (j) Other expenses 36 9,680.46 9,234.27 (k) Amount transferred to capital and other accounts 37 (1,093.11) (855.08) Total Expenses (IV) 69,155.42 61,162.55 V. Profit before exceptional items and tax (III-IV) 2,602.00 19.74 VI. Exceptional items (a) Employee separation cost 4.23 3.68 (b) Write off/provision of capital work-in-progress and intangibles under development (net) 38 (a) 180.66 962.98 ( c) Provision for impairment of investments in subsidiary companies 241.86 (d) Profit on sale of investment in a subsidiary company 38 (b) (332.95) (e) Others 38 ( c) 109.27 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) VII. Profit/(loss) before tax (V-VI) 2,398.93 (946.92) VIII. Tax expense/(credit) (net) 29 (a) Current tax (including Minimum Alternate Tax) 294.66 92.63 (b) Deferred tax 83.67 (4.70) Total tax expense 378.33 87.93 IX. Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations (VII-VIII) 2,020.60 (1,034.85) X. Other comprehensive income/(loss): (A) (i) Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss: (a) Remeasurement gains and (losses) on defined benefit obligations (net) (67.14) 18.24 (b) Equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income 55.44 44.04 (ii) Income tax (expense)/credit relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 18.07 (6.27) (B) (i) Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss gains and (losses) in cash flow hedges (45.72) (19.56) (ii) Income tax (expense)/credit relating to items that will be reclassified to profit or loss 15.92 6.77 Total other comprehensive income/(loss), net of taxes (23.43) 43.22 XI. Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year (IX+X) 1,997.17 (991.63) XII. Earnings per equity share (EPS) 40 (A) Ordinary shares (face value of ` 2 each) : (i) Basic ` 5.94 (3.05) (ii) Diluted ` 5.94 (3.05) (B) ‘A’ Ordinary shares (face value of ` 2 each) : (i) Basic ` 6.04 (3.05) (ii) Diluted ` 6.04 (3.05) See accompanying notes to financial statements In terms of our report attached For and on behalf of the Board For B S R & Co. LLP N CHANDRASEKARAN [DIN: 00121863] N MUNJEE [DIN:00010180] GUENTER BUTSCHEK [DIN: 07427375] Chartered Accountants Chairman CEO and Managing Director Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 F S NAYAR [DIN:00003633] S B BORWANKAR [DIN: 01793948] V K JAIRATH [DIN:00391684] ED and Chief Operating Officer YEZDI NAGPOREWALLA Partner O P BHATT [DIN:00548091] P B BALAJI Membership No. 049265 Group Chief Financial Officer R SPETH [DIN:03318908] H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Directors Company Secretary Mumbai, May 20, 2019 Mumbai, May 20, 2019 207 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Cash Flow Statement (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Cash flows from operating activities: Profit/(loss) for the year 2,020.60 (1,034.85) Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation expense 3,098.64 3,101.89 Allowances/ (reversal) for trade and other receivables 170.90 (109.19) Inventory write down/(reversal) (net) 42.13 162.87 Provision for impairment of investments in subsidiary companies 241.86 Write off/Provision of capital work-in-progress and intangibles under development (net) 180.66 962.98 Exceptional itemothers 109.27 Share-based payments 8.44 Marked-to-market on investments measured at Fair value through profit or loss (1.90) (2.03) Loss on sale of assets (net) (including assets scrapped / written off) 223.94 689.17 Profit on sale of investment in a subsidiary company (332.95) Profit on sale of investments at FVTPL (net) (69.27) (103.17) Gain on fair value of below market interest loans (13.37) (6.02) Tax expense 378.33 87.93 Finance costs 1,793.57 1,744.43 Interest income (335.87) (397.71) Dividend income (1,526.25) (1,054.69) Foreign exchange loss (net) 178.26 49.24 4,146.39 5,125.70 Cash flows from operating activities before changes in following assets and liabilities 6,166.99 4,090.85 Trade receivables 164.50 (1,217.44) Loans and advances and other financial assets (276.11) (1,091.81) Other current and non-current assets 204.77 429.86 Inventories 966.00 (277.80) Trade payables and acceptances (725.29) 2,763.65 Other current and non-current liabilities 323.95 (138.51) Other financial liabilities (892.00) (957.23) Provisions 542.04 540.78 Cash generated from operations 6,474.85 4,142.35 Income taxes paid (net) (182.22) (8.41) Net cash from operating activities 6,292.63 4,133.94 Cash flows from investing activities: Payments for property, plant and equipments (2,790.45) (1,378.58) Payments for other intangible assets (1,993.03) (1,444.37) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipments 30.25 28.15 Investments in Mutual Fund purchased (net) 413.74 1,025.59 Investments in subsidiary companies (837.98) (300.00) Purchase of business from a subsidiary company (0.10) Investments in joint ventures (2.50) Loan given to joint ventures (3.75) Loan to subsidiary companies (0.50) Investment in other companies (41.63) Sale of Investment in a subsidiary company 532.96 208 Cash Flow Statement INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Sale of Investment in other companies 5.18 (Increase)/Decrease in short term inter corporate deposit (2.00) 60.00 Deposits with financial institution (500.00) Deposits/restricted deposits with banks (827.72) (768.67) Realisation of deposits/restricted deposits with banks 257.08 657.71 Interest received 327.16 399.34 Dividend received 1,568.61 1,054.69 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Net cash used in investing activities (3,820.55) (710.27) Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from issue of shares held in abeyance 0.00* Proceeds from long-term borrowings 3,119.71 1,621.80 Repayment of long-term borrowings (3,823.69) (587.10) Proceeds from short-term borrowings 6,274.19 3,644.70 Repayment of short-term borrowings (5,153.61) (6,823.28) Net change in other short-term borrowings (with maturity up to three months) (588.97) 1,139.44 Dividend paid (including dividend distribution tax) (2.63) (2.75) Interest paid [including discounting charges paid, `449.04 crores (March 31, 2018 `478.28 crores)] (2,354.70) (2,098.44) Net cash used in financing activities (2,529.70) (3,105.63) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (57.62) 318.04 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Cash and cash equivalents as at April 1, (opening balance) 546.82 228.94 Exchange fluctuation on foreign currency bank balances (1.80) (0.16) Cash and cash equivalents as at March 31, (closing balance) 487.40 546.82 Non-cash transactions: Liability towards property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets purchased on credit/deferred credit 438.19 258.04 Increase / (decrease) in liabilities arising from financing activities on account of non-cash transactions : Exchange differences 341.51 25.66 Amortisation / EIR adjustments of prepaid borrowings 3.21 13.73 * less than ` 50,000/As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board For B S R & Co. LLP N CHANDRASEKARAN [DIN: 00121863] N MUNJEE [DIN:00010180] GUENTER BUTSCHEK [DIN: 07427375] Chartered Accountants Chairman CEO and Managing Director Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 F S NAYAR [DIN:00003633] S B BORWANKAR [DIN: 01793948] V K JAIRATH [DIN:00391684] ED and Chief Operating Officer YEZDI NAGPOREWALLA Partner O P BHATT [DIN:00548091] P B BALAJI Membership No. 049265 Group Chief Financial Officer R SPETH [DIN:03318908] H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Directors Company Secretary Mumbai, May 20, 2019 Mumbai, May 20, 2019 209 210 Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended March 31, 2019 A. Equity Share Capital (` in crores) Particulars Balance as at April 1, 2018 679.22 Proceeds from issue of shares held in abeyance Balance as at March 31, 2019 679.22 B. Other Equity (Refer Note 22) (` in crores) Particulars Securities Share Capital Debenture Capital Retained Other components of equity Total other premium based redemption redemption Reserve earnings Equity Hedging Cost of equity payments reserve reserve instruments reserve hedging reserve through reserve OCI Balance as at April 1, 2018 19,213.93 2.28 1,085.94 (345.30) (491.86) 16.92 (3.14) 12.99 19,491.76 Purchase of business from a subsidiary company (refer note 49 (iii)) (14.07) (14.07) Profit for the year 2,020.60 2,020.60 Other comprehensive income /(loss) for the year (43.90) 50.27 (23.26) (6.54) (23.43) Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year 1,976.70 50.27 (23.26) (6.54) 1,997.17 Realised gain on investments held at fair value through Other comprehensive income 4.93 (4.93) Share-based payments 8.44 8.44 Balance as at March 31, 2019 19,213.93 8.44 2.28 1,085.94 (359.37) 1,489.77 62.26 (26.40) 6.45 21,483.30 See Accompanying notes to financial statements As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board For B S R & Co. LLP N CHANDRASEKARAN [DIN: 00121863] N MUNJEE [DIN:00010180] GUENTER BUTSCHEK [DIN: 07427375] Chartered Accountants Chairman CEO and Managing Director Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 F S NAYAR [DIN:00003633] S B BORWANKAR [DIN: 01793948] V K JAIRATH [DIN:00391684] ED and Chief Operating Officer YEZDI NAGPOREWALLA Partner O P BHATT [DIN:00548091] P B BALAJI Membership No. 049265 Group Chief Financial Officer R SPETH [DIN:03318908] H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Directors Company Secretary Mumbai, May 20, 2019 Mumbai, May 20, 2019 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended March 31, 2018 A. Equity Share Capital (` in crores) Particulars Balance as at April 1, 2017 679.22 Proceeds from issue of shares held in abeyance 0.00* Balance as at March 31, 2018 679.22 * less than ` 50,000/B. Other Equity (refer note 22) (` in crores) Particulars Securities Capital Debenture Capital Retained Other components of equity Total other premium redemption redemption Reserve earnings Equity Hedging Cost of equity reserve reserve (on merger) instruments reserve hedging through reserve OCI Balance as at April 1, 2017 19,213.93 2.28 1,085.94 (345.30) 531.02 (27.12) 11.26 11.38 20,483.39 Loss for the year (1,034.85) (1,034.85) Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year 11.97 44.04 (14.40) 1.61 43.22 Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year (1,022.88) 44.04 (14.40) 1.61 (991.63) Proceeds from issue of shares held in abeyance 0.00* 0.00* Balance as at March 31, 2018 19,213.93 2.28 1,085.94 (345.30) (491.86) 16.92 (3.14) 12.99 19,491.76 * less than ` 50,000/See Accompanying notes to financial statements As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board For B S R & Co. LLP N CHANDRASEKARAN [DIN: 00121863] N MUNJEE [DIN:00010180] GUENTER BUTSCHEK [DIN: 07427375] Chartered Accountants Chairman CEO and Managing Director Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 F S NAYAR [DIN:00003633] S B BORWANKAR [DIN: 01793948] V K JAIRATH [DIN:00391684] ED and Chief Operating Officer YEZDI NAGPOREWALLA Partner O P BHATT [DIN:00548091] P B BALAJI Membership No. 049265 Group Chief Financial Officer R SPETH [DIN:03318908] H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Directors Company Secretary 211 Mumbai, May 20, 2019 Mumbai, May 20, 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 1. Background and operations assets, liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of these financial statements Tata Motors Limited referred to as (“the Company” or “Tata and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses Motors”), designs, manufactures and sells a wide range of for the years presented. Actual results may differ from automotive vehicles. The Company also manufactures engines these estimates. for industrial and marine applications. Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed at The Company is a public limited Company incorporated and each balance sheet date. Revisions to accounting estimates domiciled in India and has its registered office at Mumbai, India. are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised As at March 31, 2019, Tata Sons Private Limited, together with and future periods affected. its subsidiaries owns 38.52% of the Ordinary shares and 0.09% of ‘A’ Ordinary shares of the Company, and has the ability to  In particular, information about significant areas of significantly influence the Company’s operations. estimation uncertainty and critical judgments in applying accounting policies that have the most significant effect These standalone financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on May 20, 2019. on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are included in the following notes: 2. Significant accounting policies i) Note 3 and Note 5 Property, plant and equipment and a. Basis of preparation Intangible assetsuseful life and impairment  These financial statements have been prepared in ii)  Note 29 Recoverability / recognition of deferred accordance with Ind AS as notified under the Companies tax assets (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 read with Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”). iii) Note 27 and 28 Provision for product warranty The financial statements have been prepared on historical iv)  Note 47Assets and obligations relating to cost basis except for certain financial instruments employee benefits measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period as explained in the accounting policies below. c. Revenue recognition The Company generates revenue principally fromJoint operations i) Sale of productscommercial and passenger vehicles Certain of the Company’s activities, are conducted through and spare parts joint operations, which are joint arrangements whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement  The Company recognises revenues on the sale of have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, products, net of discounts, sales incentives, customer relating to the arrangement. As per Ind AS 111 Joint bonuses and rebates granted, when products are arrangements, in its separate financial statements, the delivered to dealers or when delivered to a carrier for Company being a joint operator has recognised its share export sales, which is when control including risks and of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of these joint rewards and title of ownership pass to the customer. operations incurred jointly with the other partners, along  The consideration received in respect of transport with its share of income from the sale of the output and arrangements for delivering of vehicles to the any assets, liabilities and expenses that it has incurred in customers are recognised net of their costs relation to the joint operation. within revenues in the income statement.  Although not required by Ind ASs, the Company has Revenues are recognised when collectability of the provided in note 48 additional information of Tata Motors resulting receivable is reasonably assured. Limited on a standalone basis excluding its interest in its ii) Sale of servicesmaintenance service and extended two Joint Operations viz. Tata Cummins Private Limited and warranties for commercial and passenger vehicles Fiat India Automobiles Private Limited.  Income from sale of maintenance and extended b. Use of estimates and judgments warranties are recognised as income over the relevant  The preparation of financial statements in conformity period of service or extended warranty. with Ind AS requires management to make judgments, When the Company sells products that are bundled estimates and assumptions, that affect the application with maintenance service or extended period of of accounting policies and the reported amounts of 212 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) warranty, such services are treated as a separate e. Cost recognition performance obligation only if the service or warranty Costs and expenses are recognised when incurred and are is optional to the customer or includes an additional classified according to their nature. service component. In such cases, the transaction price allocated towards such maintenance service or Expenditure capitalised represents employee costs, stores extended period of warranty is recognised as a contract and other manufacturing supplies, and other expenses liability until the service obligation has been met. incurred for construction including product development undertaken by the Company.  The Company operates certain customer loyalty programs under which customer is entitled to reward f. Provisions points on the spend towards Company’s products.  A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) The reward points earned by customers can be Company has a present legal or constructive obligation redeemed to claim discounts on future purchase that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an of certain products or services. Transaction price outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the allocated towards reward points granted to customers obligation. Provisions are determined by discounting the is recognised as a deferred income liability and expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects transferred to income when customers redeem current market assessments of the time value of money their reward points. and the risks specific to the liability.  Sale of services include certain performance Product warranty expenses obligations that are satisfied over a period of time. Any amount received in advance in respect of such The estimated liability for product warranties is recorded performance obligations that are satisfied over a period when products are sold. These estimates are established of time is recorded as contract liability and recorded as using historical information on the nature, frequency revenue when service is rendered to customers. and average cost of warranty claims and management FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) estimates regarding possible future incidences based on  Refund liabilities comprise of obligation towards actions on product failures. The timing of outflows will customers to pay for discounts and sales incentives. vary as and when warranty claim will arise, being typically up to six years. d. Government Grants and Incentives Other income includes export and other recurring and  The Company also has back-to-back contractual non-recurring incentives from Government (referred arrangement with its suppliers in the event that a vehicle as “incentives”). fault is proven to be a supplier’s fault. Estimates are made of the expected reimbursement claim based upon historical Incentives are recognised when there is a reasonable levels of recoveries from supplier, adjusted for inflation assurance that the Company will comply with the relevant and applied to the population of vehicles under warranty conditions and the incentive will be received. Incentives are as on Balance Sheet date. recorded at fair value where applicable. Supplier reimbursements are recognised as separate asset. Incentives are recognised in the statement of profit and loss, either on a systematic basis when the company g. Foreign currency recognises, as expenses, the related costs that the These financial statements are presented in Indian rupees, incentives are intended to compensate or, immediately if which is the functional currency of Tata Motors Limited. the costs have already been incurred. Incentives related to assets are shown as government grants and amortised Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the over the useful life of the asset. Incentives related to exchange rate prevailing on the date of transaction. income are presented as an offset against the related Foreign currency denominated monetary assets and expenditure, and government grants that are awarded as liabilities are re-measured into the functional currency at incentives with no ongoing performance obligations to the the exchange rate prevailing on the balance sheet date. Company are recognised as income in the period in which Exchange differences arising on settlement of transactions the grant is received. and translation of monetary items are recognised in the statement of Profit and Loss except to the extent, exchange differences which are regarded as an adjustment to interest 213 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements costs on foreign currency borrowings, are capitalised as dilutive potential shares, except where the result would part of borrowing costs. be anti-dilutive. h. Income taxes k. Inventories Income tax expense comprises of current tax and deferred  Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net tax. Income tax expense is recognised in the statement realisable value. Cost of raw materials, components and of Profit and Loss except when they relate to items that consumables are ascertained on a moving weighted are recognised outside profit and loss (whether in other average basis. Cost, including fixed and variable comprehensive income or directly in equity), in which case production overheads, are allocated to work-in-progress tax is also recognised outside profit and loss. and finished goods determined on a full absorption cost basis. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price Current income taxes are determined based on respective in the ordinary course of business less estimated cost of taxable income of each taxable entity and tax rules completion and selling expenses. applicable in respective tax jurisdictions.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for l. Property, plant and equipment the future tax consequences of temporary differences  Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost of between the carrying values of assets and liabilities and acquisition or construction less accumulated depreciation their respective tax bases, and unutilised business loss and less accumulated impairment, if any. depreciation carry-forwards and tax credits. Such deferred Freehold land is measured at cost and is not depreciated. tax assets and liabilities are computed separately for each taxable entity. Deferred tax assets are recognised Cost includes purchase price, taxes and duties, labour cost to the extent that it is probable that future taxable and direct overheads for self-constructed assets and other income will be available against which the deductible direct costs incurred up to the date the asset is ready for temporary differences, unused tax losses, depreciation its intended use. carry-forwards and unused tax credits could be utilised. Interest cost incurred for constructed assets is capitalised Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured based on up to the date the asset is ready for its intended use, based the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when on borrowings incurred specifically for financing the asset the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax or the weighted average rate of all other borrowings, if no rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively specific borrowings have been incurred for the asset. enacted by the balance sheet date.  Depreciation is provided on the Straight Line Method Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset over the estimated useful lives of the assets considering when there is a legally enforceable right to set off the nature, estimated usage, operating conditions, past current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when history of replacement, anticipated technological changes, they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation manufacturers warranties and maintenance support. authority and the Company intends to settle its current tax Taking into account these factors, the Company has assets and liabilities on a net basis. decided to retain the useful life hitherto adopted for various categories of property, plant and equipments, which are i. Cash and cash equivalents different from those prescribed in Schedule II of the Act. Cash and cash equivalents are short-term (three months or Estimated useful lives of assets are as follows: less from the date of acquisition), highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into cash and which are subject Estimated to an insignificant risk of changes in value. useful life (years) j. Earnings per share Buildings, Roads, Bridge and culverts 4 to 60 Basic earnings per share has been computed by dividing Plant, machinery and equipment 8 to 20 net income by the weighted average number of shares Computers and other IT assets 4 to 6 outstanding during the year. Partly paid up shares are included as fully paid equivalents according to the fraction Vehicles 4 to 10 paid up. Diluted earnings per share has been computed Furniture, fixtures and office appliances 5 to 15 using the weighted average number of shares and 214 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) The useful lives is reviewed at least at each year end. Product development cost is amortised on a straight line Changes in expected useful lives are treated as change in basis over a period of 24 months to 120 months. accounting estimates.  Product development expenditure is measured at Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned impairment, if any. assets or, where shorter, the term of the relevant lease. n. Goodwill Depreciation is not recorded on capital work-in-progress  Cash generating units to which goodwill is allocated are until construction and installation are complete and the tested for impairment annually at each balance sheet asset is ready for its intended use. date, or more frequently when there is an indication that STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) m. Other intangible assets the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount of  Intangible assets purchased are measured at cost the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce less accumulated amortisation and accumulated the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to that impairment, if any. unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on Amortisation is provided on a straight-line basis over the basis of carrying amount of each asset in the unit. estimated useful lives of the intangible assets as per Goodwill impairment loss recognised is not reversed in details below: subsequent period. Estimated o. Leases amortisation At the inception of a lease, the lease arrangement is period classified as either a finance lease or an operating lease, Technological know-how 8 to 10 years based on the substance of the lease arrangement. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Software 4 years Assets taken on finance lease  The amortisation period for intangible assets with A finance lease is recognised as an asset and a liability at finite useful lives is reviewed at least at each year-end. the commencement of the lease, at the lower of the fair Changes in expected useful lives are treated as changes in value of the asset and the present value of the minimum accounting estimates. lease payments. Initial direct costs, if any, are also Internally generated intangible asset capitalised and, subsequent to initial recognition, the asset is accounted for in accordance with the accounting Research costs are charged to the statement of Profit and policy applicable to that asset. Minimum lease payments Loss in the year in which they are incurred. made under finance leases are apportioned between the  Product development costs incurred on new vehicle finance expense and the reduction of the outstanding platform, engines, transmission and new products liability. The finance expense is allocated to each period are recognised as intangible assets, when feasibility during the lease term so as to produce a constant has been established, the Company has committed periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of technical, financial and other resources to complete the the liability. development and it is probable that asset will generate Assets taken on operating lease future economic benefits.  Leases other than finance leases are operating The costs capitalised include the cost of materials, direct leases, and the leased assets are not recognised on labour and directly attributable overhead expenditure the Company’s balance sheet. Payments made under incurred up to the date the asset is available for use. operating leases are recognised in the statement Interest cost incurred is capitalised up to the date the asset of Profit and Loss on a straight-line basis over the is ready for its intended use, based on borrowings incurred term of the lease. specifically for financing the asset or the weighted average rate of all other borrowings if no specific borrowings have been incurred for the asset. 215 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements Assets given on finance lease ii) Superannuation All assets given on finance lease are shown as receivables Tata Motors Limited have two superannuation plans, at an amount equal to net investment in the lease. a defined benefit plan and a defined contribution plan. Initial direct costs in respect of lease are expensed in the An eligible employee on April 1, 1996 could elect to be period in which such costs are incurred. Income from lease a member of either plan. assets is accounted by applying the interest rate implicit in Employees who are members of the defined benefit the lease to the net investment. superannuation plan are entitled to benefits depending on the years of service and salary drawn. The monthly p. Impairment pension benefits after retirement range from 0.75% to  At each balance sheet date, the Company assesses 2% of the annual basic salary for each year of service. whether there is any indication that any property, plant Tata Motors Limited account for superannuation and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives may benefits payable in future under the plan based on an be impaired. If any such impairment exists the recoverable actuarial valuation. amount of an asset is estimated to determine the extent of impairment, if any. Where it is not possible to estimate the With effect from April 1, 2003, this plan was amended recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Company and benefits earned by covered employees have been estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating protected as at March 31, 2003. Employees covered unit to which the asset belongs. by this plan are prospectively entitled to benefits computed on a basis that ensures that the annual cost Intangible assets not yet available for use, are tested for of providing the pension benefits would not exceed impairment annually at each balance sheet date, or earlier, 15% of salary. if there is an indication that the asset may be impaired. During the year ended March 31, 2015, the employees Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs covered by this plan were given a one-time option to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the to exit from the plan prospectively. Furthermore, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present employees who opted for exit were given onetime value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current option to withdraw accumulated balances from the market assessments of the time value of money and the superannuation plan. risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.  The Company maintains a separate irrevocable trust for employees covered and entitled to benefits. If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating The Company contributes up to 15% or `1,50,000 unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the whichever is lower of the eligible employee’s salary carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is to the trust every year. The Company recognises such reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is contribution as an expense when incurred and has no recognised immediately in the statement of Profit and Loss. further obligation beyond this contribution. q. Employee benefits iii) Bhavishya kalyan yojana (BKY) i) Gratuity Bhavishya Kalyan Yojana is an unfunded defined benefit  Tata Motors Limited and its Joint operations have plan for employees of Tata Motors Limited. The benefits an obligation towards gratuity, a defined benefit of the plan include pension in certain cases, payable up retirement plan covering eligible employees. The plan to the date of normal superannuation had the employee provides for a lump-sum payment to vested employees been in service, to an eligible employee at the time of at retirement, death while in employment or on death or permanent disablement, while in service, either termination of employment of an amount equivalent as a result of an injury or as certified by the appropriate to 15 to 30 days salary payable for each completed authority. The monthly payment to dependents of the year of service. Vesting occurs upon completion deceased/disabled employee under the plan equals of five years of service. Tata Motors Limited makes 50% of the salary drawn at the time of death or accident annual contributions to gratuity funds established as or a specified amount, whichever is greater. Tata Motors trusts. Tata Motors Limited account for the liability for Limited account for the liability for BKY benefits payable gratuity benefits payable in the future based on an in the future based on an actuarial valuation. actuarial valuation. 216 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) iv) Provident fund and family pension Actuarial gains and losses relating to long-term In accordance with Indian law, eligible employees employee benefits are recognised in the statement of Tata Motors Limited and its Joint operations are of Profit and Loss in the period in which they arise. entitled to receive benefits in respect of provident fund, viii) Measurement date a defined contribution plan, in which both employees and the Company make monthly contributions at a The measurement date of retirement plans is March 31. specified percentage of the covered employees’ salary ix) The present value of the defined benefit liability and (currently 12% of employees’ salary). The contributions, the related current service cost and past service cost as specified under the law, are made to the provident are measured using projected unit credit method. fund and pension fund set up as an irrevocable trust by Tata Motors Limited for its employees. The interest rate r. Share based payments STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) payable to the members of the trust shall not be lower  The Company recognises compensation expense than the statutory rate of interest declared by the Central relating to share based payments in accordance with Ind Government under the Employees Provident Funds and AS 102 Share-based Payment. Stock options granted by Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 and shortfall, if any, the Company to its employees are accounted as equity shall be made good by the Company. The liability in settled options. Accordingly, the estimated fair value of respect of the shortfall of interest earnings of the Fund options granted that is determined on the date of grant, is determined on the basis of an actuarial valuation. is charged to statement of Profit and Loss on a straight The liability towards interest is a defined benefit. There is line basis over the vesting period of options which no shortfall as at March 31, 2019. is the requisite service period, with a corresponding increase in equity. v) Post-retirement medicare scheme Under this unfunded scheme, employees of Tata s. Dividends FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Motors Limited receive medical benefits subject to Any dividend declared by Tata Motors Limited for any certain limits on amounts of benefits, periods after financial year is based on the profits available for retirement and types of benefits, depending on distribution as reported in the standalone statutory their grade and location at the time of retirement. financial statements of Tata Motors Limited (without Employees separated from the Company as part of an joint operations) prepared in accordance with Generally Early Separation Scheme, on medical grounds or due Accepted Accounting Principles in India, or Ind AS. to permanent disablement are also covered under the Indian law mandates that dividend be declared out scheme. Tata Motors Limited account for the liability of distributable profits, after setting off un-provided for post-retirement medical scheme based on an losses and depreciation of previous years. In case of actuarial valuation. inadequacy or absence of profits in a particular year, a Company may pay dividend out of accumulated vi) Compensated absences profits of previous years transferred to retained  The Company provides for the encashment of leave or earnings, however in the absence of accumulated leave with pay subject to certain rules. The employees profits, Company may declare dividend out of free are entitled to accumulate leave subject to certain reserve subject to certain conditions. Accordingly, in limits, for future encashment. The liability is provided certain years the net income reported in the financial based on the number of days of unutilised leave at statements may not be fully distributable. The amount each balance sheet date on the basis of an independent available for distribution is `Nil as at March 31, 2019 actuarial valuation. (`Nil as at March 31, 2018). vii) Remeasurement gains and losses t. Segments Remeasurement comprising actuarial gains and losses,  The Company primarily operates in the automotive the effect of the asset ceiling and the return on assets segment. The automotive segment comprises two (excluding interest) relating to retirement benefit plans, reportable segments i.e commercial vehicles and are recognised directly in other comprehensive income passenger vehicles. in the period in which they arise. Remeasurement recorded in other comprehensive income is not reclassified to statement of Profit and Loss. 217 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements u. Investments in subsidiaries, Joint Ventures and  Dividends from these equity investments are Associates recognised in the statement of Profit and Loss when Investments in subsidiaries, Joint Ventures and Associates the right to receive payment has been established. are measured at cost as per Ind AS 27 – Separate  When the equity investment is derecognised, the Financial Statements. cumulative gain or loss in equity is transferred to retained earnings. v. Financial instruments Financial assets at fair value through profit and i) Classification, initial recognition and measurement loss: Financial assets are measured at fair value A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to through profit and loss unless it is measured a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or at amortised cost or at fair value through other equity instrument of another entity. Financial assets other comprehensive income on initial recognition. than equity instruments are classified into categories: The transaction costs directly attributable to the financial assets at fair value through profit and loss acquisition of financial assets and liabilities at and at amortised cost. Financial assets that are equity fair value through profit and loss are immediately instruments are classified as fair value through profit recognised in profit and loss. and loss or fair value through other comprehensive income. Financial liabilities are classified into financial Equity instruments: An equity instrument is any liabilities at fair value through profit and loss and other contract that evidences residual interests in the financial liabilities. assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the Company Financial instruments are recognised on the balance are recorded at the proceeds received, net of sheet when the Company becomes a party to the direct issue costs. contractual provisions of the instrument.  Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and Initially, a financial instrument is recognised at its loss: Derivatives, including embedded derivatives fair value. Transaction costs directly attributable separated from the host contract, unless they are to the acquisition or issue of financial instruments designated as hedging instruments, for which hedge are recognised in determining the carrying amount, accounting is applied, are classified into this category. if it is not classified as at fair value through profit These are measured at fair value with changes in fair and loss. Subsequently, financial instruments are value recognised in the statement of Profit and Loss. measured according to the category in which they are classified.  Financial guarantee contracts: These are initially measured at their fair values and, are subsequently Financial assets at amortised cost: Financial assets measured at the higher of the amount of loss allowance having contractual terms that give rise on specified determined or the amount initially recognised less, the dates to cash flows that are solely payments of cumulative amount of income recognised. principal and interest on the principal outstanding and that are held within a business model whose  Other financial liabilities: These are measured at objective is to hold such assets in order to collect such amortised cost using the effective interest method. contractual cash flows are classified in this category. ii) Determination of fair value: Subsequently, these are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any  The fair value of a financial instrument on initial impairment losses. recognition is normally the transaction price (fair value of the consideration given or received). Subsequent to  Equity investments at fair value through initial recognition, the Company determines the fair other comprehensive income: These include value of financial instruments that are quoted in active financial assets that are equity instruments and markets using the quoted bid prices (financial assets are designated as such upon initial recognition held) or quoted ask prices (financial liabilities held) irrevocably. Subsequently, these are measured and using valuation techniques for other instruments. at fair value and changes therein are recognised Valuation techniques include discounted cash flow directly in other comprehensive income, net of method and other valuation models. applicable income taxes. 218 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) iii)  Derecognition of financial assets and financial Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging liabilities: instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, The Company derecognises a financial asset only or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. For forecast when the contractual rights to the cash flows from transactions, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging the asset expires or it transfers the financial asset and instrument recognised in equity is retained there until the substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership forecast transaction occurs. of the asset to another entity. If the Company neither If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is rewards of ownership and continues to control the immediately transferred to the statement of Profit and transferred asset, the Company recognises its retained Loss for the year. interest in the asset and an associated liability for STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) amounts it may have to pay. If the Company retains x. Recent accounting pronouncements substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of i)  ew accounting pronouncements adopted by the N a transferred financial asset, the Company continues Company during the current financial year to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received. Ind AS 115 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers Financial liabilities are decrecognised when these are  The standard outlines a single comprehensive model extinguished, that is when the obligation is discharged, for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising cancelled or has expired. from contracts with customers and supersede most revenue recognition guidance, including iv) Impairment of financial assets: industry-specific guidance applicable for previous The Company recognises a loss allowance for expected periods. The core principle of the new standard is for credit losses on a financial asset that is at amortised cost. companies to recognise revenue to depict the transfer FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Loss allowance in respect of financial assets is measured of goods or services to customers in amounts that at an amount equal to life time expected credit losses and reflect the consideration (that is, payment) to which the is calculated as the difference between their carrying Company expects to be entitled to exchange for those amount and the present value of the expected future cash goods or services. The new standard also requires flows discounted at the original effective interest rate. entities to give enhanced disclosures about revenue and provide guidance for transactions that were not w. Hedge accounting: previously addressed comprehensively (for example, The Company uses foreign currency forward contracts service revenue and contract modifications) and to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency improve guidance for multiple-element arrangements. fluctuations relating to highly probable forecast The Company adopted Ind AS 115 effective from transactions. The Company designates these forward April 1, 2018, with a modified retrospective approach. contracts in a cash flow hedging relationship by applying The figures for the comparative periods are not the hedge accounting principles. restated. There is no significant impact on Company’s profit after tax as a result of adoption of Ind AS 115. These forward contracts are stated at fair value at each reporting date. Changes in the fair value of these forward Adoption of the standard has given rise to new contracts that are designated and effective as hedges of financial statement categories in the statement future cash flows are recognised in other comprehensive of financial position, being “contract assets” and income and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately “contract liabilities.” These items arise through in the statement of Profit and Loss. Amounts accumulated in advance payment received from customers or advance equity are reclassified to the statement of Profit and Loss in delivery of goods and services in excess of or ahead the periods in which the forecasted transactions occurs. of billing at the contract level. In addition, disclosure requirements are extended. Forward premium in forward contract are not considered part of the hedge. These are treated as cost of hedge and Ind AS 21 The Effect of Changes in Foreign Exchange the changes in fair value attributable to forward premium Rates is recognised in the other comprehensive income along  The amendment effective April 1, 2018, clarifies on the with the changes in fair value determined to be effective accounting of transaction that include the receipt or portion of the hedge. 219 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements payment of advance consideration in a foreign currency. use assets and the future obligations in respect of such The appendix explains that the date of the transaction, leases will be recorded as a liability in the Balance sheet for the purpose of determining rate, is the date of initial as at April 1, 2019. recognition of the non-monetary prepayment asset or The Company will use following practical expedients deferred income liability. If there are multiple payments of Ind AS 116 at the date of initial application: or receipts in advance, a date of transaction is established for each payment or receipt. There is no impact in 1)  With leases previously classified as operating the standalone financial statements on adoption of leases according to Ind AS 17, the lease liability this amendment. will be measured at the present value of the outstanding lease payments, discounted by the ii) N  ew accounting standards not yet adopted by the incremental borrowing rate at April 1, 2019. Company The respective right-of-use asset is generally i) New accounting standardInd AS 116 – Leases recognised at an amount equal to the lease liability;  In March 2019, MCA issued Ind AS 116 Leases 2) An impairment review is not performed for right of which sets out the principles for the recognition, use assets. Instead, right-of-use asset is adjusted measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases by the amount of any provision for onerous leases for both parties to a contract and replaces the previous recognised in the Balance sheet; standard on leasing, Ind AS 17 -Leases. Ind AS 116, 3) Regardless of their original lease term, leases for which is not applicable to service contracts, but only which the lease term ends latest on March 31, applicable to leases or lease components of a contract, 2020, are recognised as short-term leases; defines a lease as a contract that conveys to the customer (lessee) the right to use an asset for a period 4) At the date of initial application, the measurement of time in exchange for consideration. Ind AS 116 of a right-to-use asset excludes the initial eliminates the classification of leases for the lessee as direct costs; and either operating leases or finance leases as required 5)  Hindsight is considered when determining the by Ind AS 17 and instead, introduces a single lessee lease term if the contract contains options to accounting model whereby a lessee is required to extend or terminate the leases. recognise assets and liabilities for all leases with a term that is greater than 12 months, unless the ii) Following amendments to certain standards will underlying asset is of low value, and to recognise be effective from financial year beginning April 1, depreciation of leased assets separately from interest 2019. on lease liabilities in the statement of Profit and Loss. 1) Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments As Ind AS 116 substantially carries forward the lessor accounting requirements in Ind AS 17, a lessor will Prepayment of loans continue to classify its leases as operating leases or The amendments notified in Ind AS 109 pertain finance leases and to account for those two types of to classfication of a financial instrument with leases differently. prepayment feature with negative compensation.  The Company will be adopting Ind AS 116 with a Negative compensation arises where the terms modified retrospective approach with effect from of the contract of the financial instrument permit April 1, 2019. The cumulative effect of initially applying the holder to make repayment or permit the lender this Standard will be recorded as an adjustment to or issuer to put the instrument to the borrower for the opening balance of retained earnings. Figures for repayment before the maturity at an amount less comparative periods will not be restated. than the unpaid amounts of principal and interest. Earlier, there was no guidance on classification of The Company will use the exemption option available such instruments. for existing leases and apply the available exemptions regarding the recognition of short term leases and low  According to the amendments, these type of value leasing assets. Basis assessment, the Company instruments can be classified as measured at arrangements under operating leases, which are amortised cost, or measured at fair value through currently off Balance sheet, will be recorded as right to profit and loss, or fair value through other 220 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) comprehensive income by the lender or issuer (ii) It shall assess whether it is probable that if the respective conditions specified under Ind the taxation authority will accept the AS 109 are satisfied. Similarly, the holder may uncertain tax treatment, assuming that classify them either measured at fair value through the authority has full right to examine the profit and loss or measured at amortised cost in treatment and has full knowledge of all accordance with conditions of Ind AS 109. related information. 2) Ind AS 12, Income Taxes (iii)  If it is probable that the taxation authority will accept the tax treatment, (a) Deferred taxes on Dividends there will be no impact on the amount An entity is required to create a corresponding of taxable profits/losses, tax bases, STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) liability for payment of Dividend Distribution unused tax losses/credits and tax rates. Tax (DDT) when it recognises a liability to In vice-versa case, the entity shall show pay a dividend. The liability for DDT shall be the effect of the uncertainty for each recorded in statement of Profit and Loss, other uncertain tax treatment on amount of comprehensive income or equity, as the case related aforesaid items by using either may be. Currently, the Company is recognising the most likely outcome or the expected dividend distribution tax on dividends paid to outcome of the uncertainty. shareholders in the statement of changes in 3) Ind AS 19, Employee Benefits equity. As per the amendment, the Company will recognise dividend distribution tax on When a change to a plan by way of either an dividend distributed to shareholders as income amendment, curtailment or settlement takes place, tax expense in its statement of Profit and Loss. Ind AS 19 requires a company to remeasure its net defined benefit liability or asset. (b) Uncertain tax treatment FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) The amendments to Ind AS 19 require a company  Another amendment relates to tax to use the updated assumptions from this consequence of an item whose tax treatment remeasurement to determine current service cost is uncertain. Tax treatment of an item is and net interest for the remainder of the reporting considered as uncertain when there is period after the change to the plan. Until now, Ind uncertainty whether the relevant taxation AS 19 did not specify how to determine these authority will accept the tax treatment of that expenses for the period after the change to the plan. item or not. For example, if an entity has not included a particular income in taxable profit, 4) Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures it will be considered as uncertain tax treatment Ind AS 109 excludes interest in associates and joint if its acceptability by taxation authority is ventures that are accounted for in accordance with uncertain. The amendment has been brought Ind AS 28, Investments in Associates and Joint by introducing a new Appendix C to Ind AS 12. Ventures from its scope. This amendment to Ind  If there is uncertainty over tax AS 28 clarifies that Ind AS 109 should be applied treatment of an item: to financial instruments, including long-term interests in associates and joint venture, that, in (i) An entity should determine an approach or substance, form part of an entity’s net investment method that predicts the resolution of the in associate or joint venture, to which the equity uncertainty. Based on the approach, the method is not applied. entity shall determine whether to consider each uncertain tax treatment separately or The Company is evaluating impact of above together with one or more other uncertain amendments issued by MCA to existing tax treatments. accounting standards. 221 222 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 3. Property, plant and equipment (` in crores) Owned assets Given on lease Taken on lease Total Land Buildings Plant, Furniture Vehicles Computers Plant, Buildings Buildings Plant, Computers Furniture machinery and & other machinery machinery & other and and fixtures IT assets and and IT assets fixtures equipment equipment equipment Cost as at April 1, 2018 4,574.93 3,523.52 26,178.65 245.92 242.35 660.69 38.04 4.02 31.28 39.95 186.16 4.31 35,729.82 Additions 102.50 1,991.57 6.88 63.40 60.78 2,225.13 Asset acquired on purchase of business 0.31 24.68 1.93 0.09 2.05 29.06 of a subsidiary company (refer note 49 (iii)) Disposal (6.80) (660.05) (0.21) (33.95) (157.50) (858.51) Cost as at March 31, 2019 4,574.93 3,619.53 27,534.85 254.52 271.89 566.02 38.04 4.02 31.28 39.95 186.16 4.31 37,125.50 Accumulated depreciation as at April 1, 2018 (1,103.96) (15,391.09) (143.08) (115.78) (543.28) (21.62) (0.75) (6.78) (35.39) (174.06) (1.51) (17,537.30) Depreciation for the year (121.78) (1,791.99) (13.33) (46.00) (34.36) (1.72) (0.09) (0.51) (0.30) (6.51) (0.86) (2,017.45) Asset acquired on purchase of business (0.27) (18.34) (1.42) (0.05) (1.41) (21.49) of a subsidiary company (refer note 49 (iii)) Assets written off 42.55 0.49 8.02 51.06 Disposal 5.68 540.36 0.16 28.00 142.09 716.29 Accumulated depreciation as at March 31, 2019 (1,220.33) (16,618.51) (157.67) (133.34) (428.94) (23.34) (0.84) (7.29) (35.69) (180.57) (2.37) (18,808.89) Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2019 4,574.93 2,399.20 10,916.34 96.85 138.55 137.08 14.70 3.18 23.99 4.26 5.59 1.94 18,316.61 Cost as at April 1, 2017 4,574.93 3,384.43 24,767.37 243.74 186.75 639.65 38.68 4.05 31.28 36.43 178.88 4.31 34,090.50 Additions 139.65 2,191.50 14.32 95.91 39.64 3.52 7.28 2,491.82 Assets classified as held for sale (2.30) (2.30) Assets written off (536.82) (536.82) Disposal (0.56) (241.10) (12.14) (40.31) (18.60) (0.64) (0.03) (313.38) Cost as at March 31, 2018 4,574.93 3,523.52 26,178.65 245.92 242.35 660.69 38.04 4.02 31.28 39.95 186.16 4.31 35,729.82 Accumulated depreciation as at April 1, 2017 (996.55) (14,184.30) (136.41) (123.72) (526.26) (20.58) (0.68) (6.27) (34.60) (163.36) (0.65) (16,193.38) Depreciation for the year (107.66) (1,777.03) (13.43) (26.93) (34.64) (1.32) (0.07) (0.51) (0.79) (10.70) (0.86) (1,973.94) Assets classified as held for sale 1.14 1.14 Assets written off 389.09 389.09 Disposal 0.25 180.01 6.76 34.87 17.62 0.28 239.79 Accumulated depreciation as at March 31,2018 (1,103.96) (15,391.09) (143.08) (115.78) (543.28) (21.62) (0.75) (6.78) (35.39) (174.06) (1.51) (17,537.30) Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2018 4,574.93 2,419.56 10,787.56 102.84 126.57 117.41 16.42 3.27 24.50 4.56 12.10 2.80 18,192.52 Notes: a) Building include `8,631.00 (as at March 31, 2018 `8,631.00) being value of investments in shares of Co-operative Housing Societies. Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year b) Land includes `525.80 crores (as at March 31, 2018 `525.80 crores)for which transfer of title is pending. Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) 4. Leases The Company has taken land, buildings, plant and equipment, computers and furniture and fixtures under operating and finance leases. The following is the summary of future minimum lease rental payments under non-cancellable operating leases and finance leases entered into by the Company: (` in crores) As at March 31, 2019 As at March 31, 2018 Operating Finance Operating Finance Minimum Minimum Present value Minimum Minimum Present value Lease Lease of minimum Lease Lease of minimum STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Payments Payments lease Payments Payments lease payments payments Not later than one year 0.63 5.40 3.65 0.40 6.56 5.78 Later than one year but not later than five years 2.48 5.59 3.95 1.62 9.61 8.62 Later than five years 29.09 1.26 1.11 29.50 1.70 1.43 Total minimum lease commitments 32.20 12.25 8.71 31.52 17.87 15.83 Less: future finance charges (3.54) (2.04) Present value of minimum lease payments 8.71 15.83 Included in the financial statements as: Other financial liabilities current (refer note 26) 3.64 5.78 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Long-term borrowings (refer note 23) 5.07 10.05 8.71 15.83 Total operating lease rent expenses were ` 61.35 crores and ` 77.45 crores for the year ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The Company has given plant and equipment under finance leases. The following is the summary of future minimum lease payments receivables for assets given on finance leases by the Company: As at March 31, 2019 As at March 31, 2018 Minimum lease Present value Minimum lease Present value payments of minimum payments of minimum receivables lease payments receivables lease payments receivables receivables Not later than one year 32.11 12.24 33.95 12.04 Later than one year but not later than five years 163.63 105.20 117.01 37.44 Later than five years 78.74 80.00 Total minimum lease payments receivables 195.74 117.44 229.70 129.48 Less: unearned finance income (78.30) (100.22) Present value of minimum lease payments receivables 117.44 129.48 Included in the financial statements as: Other financial assets current (refer note 13) 12.24 12.04 Other financial assets non-current (refer note 12) 105.20 117.44 117.44 129.48 223 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 5. (a) Other Intangible assets (` in crores) Technical Computer Product Total know how Software development Cost as at April 1, 2018 391.24 572.92 6,372.64 7,336.80 Additions 36.50 1,603.48 1,639.98 Asset acquired on purchase of business of a 3.02 2.56 5.58 subsidiary company (refer note 49 (iii)) Fully amortised not in use (34.04) (26.68) (749.33) (810.05) Cost as at March 31, 2019 360.22 585.30 7,226.79 8,172.31 Accumulated amortisation as at April 1, 2018 (195.77) (519.28) (3,309.61) (4,024.66) Amortisation for the year (47.55) (26.51) (1,007.13) (1,081.19) Asset acquired on purchase of business of a (1.94) (2.41) (4.35) subsidiary company (refer note 49 (iii)) Fully amortised not in use 34.04 26.68 748.30 809.02 Accumulated amortisation as at March 31, 2019 (211.22) (521.52) (3,568.44) (4,301.18) Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2019 149.00 63.78 3,658.35 3,871.13 Cost as at April 1, 2017 349.15 542.24 4,804.98 5,696.37 Additions 42.09 31.95 1,633.95 1,707.99 Fully amortised not in use (1.27) (1.27) Assets classified as held for sale (66.29) (66.29) Cost as at March 31, 2018 391.24 572.92 6,372.64 7,336.80 Accumulated amortisation as at April 1, 2017 (156.65) (492.10) (2,270.91) (2,919.66) Amortisation for the year (39.12) (28.45) (1,060.38) (1,127.95) Fully amortised not in use 1.27 1.27 Assets classified as held for sale 21.68 21.68 Accumulated amortisation as at March 31, 2018 (195.77) (519.28) (3,309.61) (4,024.66) Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2018 195.47 53.64 3,063.03 3,312.14 (b) Intangible assets under development For the For the year ended year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Balance at the beginning 3,825.15 5,368.38 Additions 2,239.68 1,634.69 Capitalised during the year (1,639.98) (1,644.55) Assets classified as held for sale (177.56) Write off/provision for impairment (285.22) (1,355.81) Balance at the end 4,139.63 3,825.15 224 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) 6. Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates measured at cost non-current (` in crores) Number Face value Description As at As at per unit March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Equity shares i) Subsidiaries Unquoted 3,03,00,600 10 Tata Technologies Limited [note 2 below ] 224.10 6,36,97,694 10 Concorde Motors (India) Ltd [Note 4 below] 109.63 109.63 5,39,98,427 (GBP) 1 Tata Motors EuropeanTechnicalCentre PLC,(UK) [Note 3 below] 474.90 474.90 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) 7,900 Tata Technologies Inc, (USA) 0.63 0.63 1,59,82,83,442 10 Tata Motors Finance Ltd [19,35,48,386 shares acquired during the year] 3,400.00 2,800.00 8,67,00,000 10 Tata Marcopolo Motors Ltd 86.70 86.70 22,50,00,000 10 TML Distribution Company Ltd 225.00 225.00 2,51,16,59,418 TML Holdings Pte Ltd, (Singapore) 10,158.52 10,158.52 1,34,523 (EUR) 31.28 Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera S.A., (Spain) 17.97 17.97 1,220 (IDR) 8,855 PT Tata Motors Indonesia 0.01 0.01 2,02,000 (MAD) 1,000 Tata Hispano Motors Carroceries Maghreb S.A., (Morocco) 49.59 49.59 1,83,59,203 (SGD) 1 Tata Precision Industries Pte. Ltd, (Singapore) 40.53 40.53 Trilix Srl., Turin (Italy) [Note 5 below] 19.91 11.94 1,00,000 (NGN) 1 TMNL Motor Services Nigeria Ltd 0.00 # 0.00 # 14,807.49 13,975.42 Advance towards investments 100.00 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Less: Provision for impairment of longterm investments (456.14) 14,451.35 (214.28) 13,761.14 ii) Associates Quoted 29,82,214 10 Automobile Corporation of Goa Ltd 108.22 108.22 Unquoted 16,000 (TK) 1,000 NITA Co. Ltd (Bangladesh) 1.27 1.27 5,23,33,170 10 Tata AutoComp Systems Ltd 77.47 186.96 77.47 186.96 (iii) Joint Ventures (JV) Unquoted 25,00,000 10 JT Special Vehicle (P) Ltd 2.50 2.50 Cumulative convertible preference shares (unquoted) (iv) Subsidiaries 1,30,00,000 100 TMF Holdings Limited [1,30,00,000 shares acquired during the year] 130.00 Total 14,770.81 13,950.60 # Less than ` 50,000 Notes: (1) Market Value of quoted investments 166.99 332.65 (2) Given the delay in completing the sale, the Company has reassessed the position on “Held for Sale” for the investment in the Company’s subsidiary Tata Technologies Ltd. Accordingly, the Company concluded that these investments no longer meets the criteria of “Held for Sale” as per Ind AS 105. The investments in Tata Technologies Ltd is transferred from current to non-current investments. (3) The Company had given a letter of comfort to ANZ Bank, London for GBP 2 million (` 18.10 crores as at March 31, 2019) against loan extended by the bank to Tata Motors European Technical Centre PLC. UK (TMETC). Also the Company has given an undertaking to ANZ Bank, London to retain 51% ownership of TMETC at all times during the tenor of the loan. (4) The Company has given a letter of comfort to Tata Capital Financial Services Limited amounting to ` 15 crores against credit facility extended to Concorde Motors (India) Limited (CMIL). The Company will not dilute its stake in CMIL below 100% during the tenor of the facility. (5) Trilix Srl., Turin (Italy) is a limited liability Company. The Company has acquired additional 20% shareholding of Trilix Srl, Turin (Italy) during the year. 225 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 7. Investments in subsidiaries and associate (held for sale) carried at lower of cost or net-realisable value current Number Face value Description As at As at per unit March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Equity shares Subsidiaries Unquoted Tata Technologies Limited 224.10 TAL Manufacturing Solutions Ltd 200.00 [11,50,00,000 shares sold during the year] 50,00,000 10 Tata Motors Insurance Broking and Advisory Services Ltd 19.31 19.31 [Note 1 & 2 below] Total 19.31 443.41 Associates Unquoted 4,54,28,572 10 Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery Company Private Ltd 238.50 238.50 [Note 1 below] Total 257.81 681.91 Note: (1) The investment in the Company’s subsidiary Tata Motors Insurance Broking and Advisory Services Ltd and associate Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery Comp any Private Ltd are classified as “Held for Sale” as they meet the criteria laid out under Ind AS 105. (2) The Company has given a letter of comfort to HDFC bank amounting to ` 1 crore against Working Capital Facility to Tata Motors Insurance Broking and Advisory Services Limited (TMIBASL). Also the Company has given an undertaking to HDFC bank that it will not dilute its stake below 51% in TMIBASL during the tenor of the loan. 226 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) 8. Investments-non-current (` in crores) Number Face value Description As at As at per unit March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Investment in equity shares measured at fair value through other comprehensive income Quoted 51,41,696 10 Tata Steel Ltd [Note ( c) below] 267.89 3,54,599 10 Tata Steel Ltd (partly paid) [Note ( c) below] 2.28 270.17 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Unquoted 50,000 1,000 Tata International Ltd. 62.70 28.85 1,383 1,000 Tata Services Ltd. 0.14 0.14 350 900 The Associated Building Company Ltd. 0.01 0.01 1,03,10,242 100 Tata Industries Ltd. 183.19 183.19 33,600 100 Kulkarni Engineering Associates Ltd. 12,375 1,000 Tata Sons Pvt. Ltd. 68.75 68.75 2,25,00,001 10 Haldia Petrochemicals Ltd 56.48 22.50 2,40,000 10 Oriental Floratech (India) Pvt. Ltd. 43,26,651 15 Tata Capital Ltd. 21.89 6.70 50,000 10 NICCO Jubilee Park Ltd. 0.05 393.21 0.05 310.19 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Total 663.38 310.19 Note: a) Investment in equity shares measured at fair value through other comprehensive income also include: (Amount in `) Number Face value Description As at As at per unit March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 50 5 Jamshedpur Co-operative Stores Ltd. 250 250 16,56,517 (M$) 1 Tatab Industries Sdn. Bhd., (Malaysia) 1 1 4 25,000 ICICI Money Multiplier Bond 1 1 100 10 Optel Telecommunications 1,995 1,995 b) (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (1) Book Value of quoted investments 270.17 (2) Book Value of unquoted investments 393.21 310.19 (3) Market Value of quoted investments 270.17 c) Given the delay in completing the sale, the Company has reassessed the position of its investment in Tata Steel Ltd. Accordingly, these investments are transferred from current to non current investments 227 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 9. Investments-current (` in crores) Number Face value Description As at As at per unit March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Investments in Mutual funds measured at Fair value through profit and loss Unquoted Mutual funds 1,174.46 1,517.03 Total 1,174.46 1,517.03 Investment in equity shares measured at fair value through other comprehensive income Quoted Tata Steel Ltd 293.62 Tata Steel Ltd (Partly Paid) 5.46 Tata Chemicals Ltd 4.76 (70,249 shares sold during the year) 80,000 10 Metal Scrap Trade Corporation Ltd. 0.91 0.91 0.00# 303.84 Total 1,175.37 1,820.87 # Less than ` 50,000/Note: a) Investment in equity shares measured at fair value through other comprehensive income also include: (Amount in `) Number Face value Description As at As at per unit March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Punjab Chemicals (200 shares sold 1 during the year) b) (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (1) Book Value of quoted investments 0.91 303.84 (2) Market Value of quoted investments 0.91 303.84 (3) Book Value of unquoted investments 1,174.46 1,517.03 228 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) 10. Loans and advancesnon current (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Unsecured : (a) Loans to employees 24.15 27.23 (b) Loan to subsidiaries STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Considered good 12.04 12.04 Credit impaired 585.75 585.75 597.79 597.79 Less : Allowances for credit impaired balances (585.75) 12.04 (585.75) 12.04 ( c) Loan to Joint Venture considered good (JT Special Vehicles Pvt. Ltd.) 3.75 (d) Dues from subsidiary companies, credit impaired Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera S.A. 53.74 53.74 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Less : Allowances for credit impaired balances (53.74) (53.74) (e) Deposits Considered good 57.96 58.37 Credit impaired 1.84 59.80 58.37 Less : Allowances for credit impaired balances (1.84) 57.96 58.37 (f) Others Considered good 45.23 46.32 Credit impaired 8.45 7.30 53.68 53.62 Less : Allowances for credit impaired balances (8.45) 45.23 (7.30) 46.32 Total 143.13 143.96 229 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 11. Loans and advancescurrent (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Secured : Finance receivables (net of allowances for credit impaired balances of `5.48 crores and `7.22 13.44 15.79 crores as at March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively) Unsecured : (a) Advances and other receivables 129.55 68.03 (net of allowances for credit impaired balances of `126.34 crores and `123.15 crores as at March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively) (b) Intercorporate deposits considered good (JT Special Vehicles Pvt. Ltd) 2.00 ( c) Dues from subsidiary companies (Note below) 16.12 17.23 (d) Loan to subsidiary companies (i) Tata Motors European Technical Centre Plc, (UK) 38.46 39.22 (ii) Tata Precision Industries Pte.Ltd 0.51 38.97 Total 200.08 140.27 Note: (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Dues from subsidiary companies: (a) PT Tata Motors Indonesia 3.41 4.53 (b) Concorde Motors (India) Ltd 2.78 2.78 ( c) Tata Motors Insurance Broking and Advisory Services Ltd 0.05 0.05 (d) Tata Motors (SA) (Proprietary) Ltd 0.79 0.80 (e) Tata Motors Nigeria Ltd 0.20 0.20 (f) PT Tata Motors Distribusi Indonesia 2.36 2.36 (g) Tata Motors (Thailand) Ltd 6.51 6.51 (h) Tata Motors European Technical Centre PLC 0.02 16.12 17.23 12. Other financial assets non-current (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Derivative financial instruments 360.96 200.13 (b) Restricted deposits 4.02 3.98 ( c) Finance lease receivable 105.20 117.44 (d) Government incentives 496.72 467.14 (e) Recoverable from suppliers 26.02 3.53 (f) Others 1.47 1.18 Total 994.39 793.40 230 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) 13. Other financial assets current (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Derivative financial instruments 31.04 42.21 (b) Interest accrued on loans and deposits 9.13 0.59 ( c) Deposit with financial institutions 500.00 (d) Finance lease receivable 12.24 12.04 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) (d) Interim dividend 42.37 (e) Government Incentives 500.31 411.40 (f) Recoverable from suppliers 226.96 137.70 Total 1,279.68 646.31 14. Other non-current assets (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Capital advances 374.95 285.54 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) (b) Taxes recoverable, statutory deposits and dues from government (net of allowances for credit 981.53 931.39 impaired balances of `1.84 crores and `Nil as at March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively ( c) Prepaid lease rental on operating lease 126.61 127.74 (d) Recoverable from Insurance companies 318.81 185.99 (e) Others 18.00 15.73 Total 1,819.90 1,546.39 15. Other current assets (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Advance to suppliers and contractors 193.84 234.65 (net of allowances for credit impaired balances of `43.87 crores and `Nil as at March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively) (b) Taxes recoverable, statutory deposits and dues from government 580.28 1,047.35 (net of allowances for credit impaired balances of `58.06 crores and `1.85 crores as at March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively) ( c) Prepaid expenses 94.93 94.00 (d) Recoverable from Insurance companies 35.75 26.97 (e) Others 30.07 36.76 Total 934.87 1,439.73 231 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 16. Inventories (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Raw materials and components 1,554.32 2,216.20 (b) Work-in-progress 406.77 787.02 ( c) Finished goods 2,257.16 2,014.37 (d) Stores and spare parts 193.21 201.69 (e) Consumable tools 35.98 43.31 (f) Goods-in-transit Raw materials and components 214.56 407.54 Total 4,662.00 5,670.13 During the year ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company recorded inventory write-down expenses of ` 42.13 crores and ` 162.87 crores, respectively. Cost of inventories (including cost of purchased products) recognised as expense during the year ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 amounted to ` 60,158.63 crores and ` 50,328.14 crores, respectively. 17. Trade receivables (unsecured) (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Receivables considered good 3,250.64 3,479.81 Receivables with significant increase in credit risk 600.86 543.50 3,851.50 4,023.31 Less : Allowance for Credit impaired receivables (600.86) (543.50) Total 3,250.64 3,479.81 18. Allowance for trade receivables, loans and other receivables (` in crores) For the For the year ended year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Balance at the beginning 1,322.51 1,447.55 Allowances made/(reversed) during the year 168.52 (109.19) Written off (21.87) (15.85) Acquired on purchase of business of a subsidiary company 12.84 Balance at the end 1,482.00 1,322.51 19. Cash and cash equivalents (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Cash on hand 0.24 0.14 (b) Cheques on hand 4.78 242.77 ( c) Balances with banks (refer note below) 286.88 303.91 (d) Deposits with banks 195.50 487.40 546.82 Note: Includes remittances in transit 210.59 145.17 232 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) 20. Other bank balances (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 With upto 12 months maturity: (a) Earmarked balances with banks (refer note below) 169.21 248.53 (b) Bank deposits 650.00 0.07 Total 819.21 248.60 Note: STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Earmarked balances with banks as at March 31, 2019 of `157.06 crores (as at March 31, 2018 `163.50 crores) is held as security in relation to repayment of borrowings. 21 Equity Share Capital (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Authorised: (i) 400,00,00,000 Ordinary shares of `2 each 800.00 800.00 (as at March 31, 2018: 400,00,00,000 Ordinary shares of `2 each) (ii) 100 ,00,00,000 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of `2 each 200.00 200.00 (as at March 31, 2018: 100 ,00,00,000 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of `2 each) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) (iii) 30,00,00,000 Convertible Cumulative Preference shares of `100 each 3,000.00 3,000.00 (as at March 31, 2018: 30,00,00,000 shares of `100 each) Total 4,000.00 4,000.00 (b) Issued [Note (h)]: (i) 288,78,43,046 Ordinary shares of `2 each 577.57 577.57 (as at March 31, 2018: 288,78,43,046 Ordinary shares of `2 each) (ii) 50,87,36,110 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of `2 each 101.75 101.75 (as at March 31, 2018: 50,87,36,110 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of `2 each) Total 679.32 679.32 ( c) Subscribed and called up: (i) 288,73,48,694 Ordinary shares of `2 each 577.47 577.47 (as at March 31, 2018: 288,73,48,694 Ordinary shares of `2 each) (ii) 50,85,02,371 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of `2 each 101.70 101.70 (as at March 31, 2018: 50,85,02,371 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of `2 each) 679.17 679.17 (d) Calls unpaid Ordinary shares 310 Ordinary shares of `2 each (`1 outstanding on each) and 260 Ordinary shares of `2 (0.00)* (0.00)* each (`0.50 outstanding on each) (as at March 31, 2018: 310 Ordinary shares of `2 each (`1 outstanding on each) and 260 Ordinary shares of `2 each (`0.50 outstanding on each) (e) Paid-up (c+d): 679.17 679.17 (f) Forfeited Ordinary shares 0.05 0.05 Total (e+f) 679.22 679.22 233 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements (g) The movement of number of shares and share capital (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (No. of shares) (` in crores) (No. of shares) (` in crores) (i) Ordinary shares Balance as at April 1 288,73,48,694 577.47 288,73,48,428 577.47 Add: Allotment of shares held in abeyance 266 0.00* Balance as at March 31 288,73,48,694 577.47 288,73,48,694 577.47 (ii) ‘A’ Ordinary shares Balance as at April 1 50,85,02,371 101.70 50,85,02,291 101.70 Add: Allotment of shares held in abeyance 80 0.00 * Balance as at March 31 50,85,02,371 101.70 50,85,02,371 101.70 *less than ` 50,000/(h) The entitlements to 494,352 Ordinary shares of `2 each (as at March 31, 2018 : 494,352 Ordinary shares of `2 each) and 233,739 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of `2 each (as at March 31, 2018: 233,739 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of `2 each) are subject matter of various suits filed in the courts / forums by third parties for which final order is awaited and hence kept in abeyance. (i) Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares : (i) Ordinary shares and ‘A’ Ordinary shares both of ` 2 each : • The Company has two classes of shares – the Ordinary shares and the ‘A’ Ordinary shares both of `2 each (together referred to as shares). In respect of every Ordinary share (whether fully or partly paid), voting rights shall be in the same proportion as the capital paid up on such Ordinary share bears to the total paid up Ordinary share capital of the Company. In case of every ‘A’ Ordinary share, if any resolution is put to vote on a poll or by postal ballot at any general meeting of shareholders, the holder shall be entitled to one vote for every ten ‘A’ Ordinary shares held as per the terms of its issue and if a resolution is put to vote on a show of hands, the holder of ‘A’ Ordinary shares shall be entitled to the same number of votes as available to holders of Ordinary shares. • The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting. Further, the Board of Directors may also declare an interim dividend. The holders of ‘A’ Ordinary shares shall be entitled to receive dividend for each financial year at five percentage point more than the aggregate rate of dividend declared on Ordinary shares for that financial year. • In the event of liquidation, the shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company after distribution of all preferential amounts, in proportion to their shareholdings. (ii) American Depository Shares (ADSs) and Global Depository Shares (GDSs) : • Each ADS and GDS underlying the ADR and GDR respectively represents five Ordinary shares of `2 each. A holder of ADS and GDS is not entitled to attend or vote at shareholders meetings. An ADS holder is entitled to issue voting instructions to the Depository with respect to the Ordinary shares represented by ADSs only in accordance with the provisions of the Company’s ADSs deposit agreement and Indian Law. The depository for the ADSs and GDSs shall exercise voting 234 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) rights in respect of the deposited shares by issue of an appropriate proxy or power of attorney in terms of the respective deposit agreements. • Shares issued upon conversion of ADSs and GDSs will rank pari passu with the existing Ordinary shares of `2 each in all respects including entitlement of the dividend declared. (j) Number of shares held by each shareholder holding more than 5 percent of the issued share capital : (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) % of Issued No. of Shares % of Issued No. of Shares Share Capital Share Capital Share Capital Share Capital (i) Ordinary shares : (a) Tata Sons Private Limited 34.69% 1,01,91,56,523 32.72% 96,13,81,852 (b) Life Insurance Corporation of India 5.02% 14,73,73,493 5.08% 14,92,95,627 ( c) Citibank N.A. as Depository # 32,36,96,360 # 43,70,24,750 (ii) ‘A’ Ordinary shares : FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) (a) ICICI Prudential Balanced Advantage Fund 11.98% 6,09,11,219 9.44% 4,79,98,379 (b) Franklin India Smaller Companies Fund 11.71% 5,95,34,740 8.74% 4,44,31,036 ( c) HDFC Large Cap Fund 5.15% 2,62,02,083 (d) Government Of Singapore 6.51% 3,30,82,933 6.78% 3,44,87,840 # held by Citibank, N.A. as depository for American Depository Receipts (ADRs) and Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) (k) Information regarding issue of shares in the last five years (a) The Company has not issued any shares without payment being received in cash. (b) The Company has not issued any bonus shares. ( c) The Company has not undertaken any buy-back of shares. 235 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 22. A) Other components of equity (a) The movement of Equity instruments through Other Comprehensive Income is as follows: (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Balance at the beginning 16.92 (27.12) Other comprehensive income for the year 55.44 44.04 Income tax relating to gain/loss arising on other comprehensive income where applicable (5.17) Profit on sale of equity investment reclassified to retained earnings (4.93) Balance at the end 62.26 16.92 (b) The movement of Hedging reserve is as follows: (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Balance at the beginning (3.14) 11.26 Gain/(loss) recognised on cash flow hedges (40.58) (4.80) Income tax relating to gain/loss recognised on cash flow hedges 14.17 1.66 (Gain)/loss reclassified to profit or loss 4.80 (17.22) Income tax relating to gain/loss reclassified to profit or loss (1.65) 5.96 Balance at the end (26.40) (3.14) ( c) The movement of Cost of Hedging reserve is as follows: (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Balance at the beginning 12.99 11.38 Gain recognised on cash flow hedges Gain/(Loss) 9.91 19.86 Income tax relating to gain recognised on cash flow hedges Gain/(Loss) (3.46) (6.87) Gain reclassified to profit and loss (Gain)/Loss (19.86) (17.40) Income tax relating to gain/loss reclassified to profit and loss 6.87 6.02 Balance at the end 6.45 12.99 (d) Summary of Other components of equity: (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Equity instruments through other comprehensive income 62.26 16.92 Hedging reserve (26.40) (3.14) Cost of hedging reserve 6.45 12.99 Total 42.31 26.77 236 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) (B) Notes to reserves a) Capital redemption reserve The Indian Companies Act, 2013 (the “Companies Act”) requires that where a company purchases its own shares out of free reserves or securities premium account, a sum equal to the nominal value of the shares so purchased shall be transferred to a capital redemption reserve account and details of such transfer shall be disclosed in the balance sheet. The capital redemption reserve account may be applied by the company, in paying up unissued shares of the company to be issued to shareholders of the company as fully paid bonus shares. Tata Motors Limited established this reserve pursuant to the redemption of preference shares issued in earlier years. b) Debenture redemption reserve STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) The Companies Act requires that where a company issues debentures, it shall create a debenture redemption reserve out of profits of the company available for payment of dividend. The company is required to maintain a Debenture Redemption Reserve of 25% of the value of debentures issued, either by a public issue or on a private placement basis. The amounts credited to the debenture redemption reserve may not be utilised by the company except to redeem debentures. c) Securities premium The amount received in excess of face value of the equity shares is recognised in Securities Premium. d) Retained earnings Retained earnings are the profits that the Company has earned till date. e) Capital reserve The capital reserve represents the excess of the identifiable assets and liabilities over the consideration paid. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) f) Dividends The final dividend is recommended by the Board of Directors and is recorded in the books of accounts upon its approval by the Shareholders. For the year ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 , considering the accumulated losses in the Tata Motors Limited Standalone, no dividend was permitted to be paid to the members, as per the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules framed thereunder. For the year ended March 31, 2019, considering the previous years' losses in Tata Motors Limited (standalone), no dividend is permitted to be paid to members, as per the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules framed thereunder. g) Share-based payments reserve Share-based payments reserve represents amount of fair value, as on the date of grant, of unvested options and vested options not exercised till date, that have been recognised as expense in the statement of profit and loss till date. 237 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 23. Long-term borrowings (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Secured: (a) Privately placed Non-Convertible Debentures (refer note I (i) (a) and I (ii) (a)) 200.00 (b) Term loans: (i) from banks (refer note I (i) ( c)) 587.58 635.45 (ii) others (refer note I (i) (b)) 163.06 144.75 ( c) Finance lease obligations 5.07 10.05 755.71 990.25 Unsecured: (a) Privately placed Non-Convertible Debentures (refer note I (ii) (b)) 5,498.22 6,307.37 (b) Term loan from banks (i) Buyer’s line of credit (at floating interest rate) (refer note I (v)) 2,500.00 1,000.00 (ii) External commercial borrowings (ECB) 1,642.27 (at floating interest rate) (refer note I (iv)) ( c) Senior Notes (note I (iii)) 3,523.61 4,858.29 13,164.10 12,165.66 Total 13,919.81 13,155.91 24. Short-term borrowings (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Secured: Loans from banks (refer note II (i)) 2,110.89 1,454.11 2,110.89 1,454.11 Unsecured: (a) Loans from banks (refer note II (i)) 240.72 13.62 (b) Inter corporate deposits from subsidiaries and associates (refer note II (ii)) 82.25 203.75 ( c) Commercial paper (refer note II (iii)) 1,183.86 1,428.39 1,506.83 1,645.76 Total 3,617.72 3,099.87 I. Information regarding long-term borrowings (i) Nature of security (on loans including interest accrued thereon) : (a) Rated, Listed, Secured, 9.95% Coupon, Non-Convertible Debentures amounting to `200 crores included within Current maturities of Long-term borrowings in note 26 are secured by a pari passu charge by way of an English mortgage of the Company’s freehold land together with immovable properties, plant and machinery and other movable assets (excluding stock and book debts) situated at Sanand in the State of Gujarat. (b) The term loan of `587.08 crores (recorded in books at `146.73 crores) is due for repayment from the quarter ending March 31, 2033 to quarter ending March 31, 2039, along with simple interest at the rate of 0.10% p.a. The loan is secured by a second and subservient charge (creation of charge is under process) over Company’s 238 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) freehold land together with immovable properties, plant and machinery and other movable assets (excluding stock and book debts) situated at Sanand plant in the State of Gujarat. The term loan of `51.36 crores (recorded in books at `16.33 crores) is due for repayment from the quarter ending  June 30, 2030 to March 31, 2034, along with a simple interest of 0.01% p.a. The loan is secured by bank guarantee for the due performance of the conditions as per the terms of the agreement. ( c) Term loan from banks of `587.58 crores included within Long-term borrowings and `88.48 crores included within Current maturities of Long-term borrowings in note 26, bearing floating interest rate of 1 month LIBOR + 1.63% and 1 year MCLR + 0.10% are taken by joint operation Fiat India Automobiles Private Ltd which is due for repayment from June 2019 to May 2023. The loan is secured by first charge over fixed assets procured from its loan/jeep project. STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) (ii) Schedule of repayment and redemption for Non-Convertible Debentures : (` in crores) Non-Convertible Debentures (NCDs) Redeemable on Principal (a) Secured: 9.95% Non-Convertible Debentures (2020) March 2, 2020 * 200.0 (b) Unsecured : 9.77% Non-Convertible Debentures (2024) September 12, 2024 200.0 9.81% Non-Convertible Debentures (2024) August 20, 2024 300.0 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) 9.35% Non-Convertible Debentures (2023) November 10, 2023 400.0 9.60% Non-Convertible Debentures (2022) October 29, 2022 400.0 7.71% Non-Convertible Debentures (2022) March 3, 2022 500.0 7.50% NCD due 2022(E27H Series) June 22, 2022 500.0 9.02% Non-Convertible Debentures (2021) December 10, 2021 300.0 7.50% Non-Convertible Debentures (2021) October 20, 2021 300.0 7.84% Non-Convertible Debentures (2021) September 27, 2021 500.0 8.40% Non-Convertible Debentures (2021) May 26, 2021 300.0 7.40% NCD due 2021(E27I Series Tranche 2) June 29, 2021 500.0 9.73% Non-Convertible Debentures (2020) October 1, 2020 400.0 9.70% Non-Convertible Debentures (2020) June 18, 2020 150.0 9.75% Non-Convertible Debentures (2020) May 24, 2020 100.0 9.90% Non-Convertible Debentures (2020) May 7, 2020 150.0 7.28% NCD due 2020(E27I Series Tranche 1) July 29, 2020 500.0 9.71% Non-Convertible Debentures (2019) October 1, 2019 * 300.0 8.00% Non-Convertible Debentures (2019) August 1, 2019 * 400.0 10.00% Non-Convertible Debentures (2019) May 28, 2019 * 110.0 Debt issue cost (1.80) * Classified as other financial liabilitiescurrent (refer note 26) being maturity before March 31, 2020 239 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements (iii) Schedule of repayment of Senior Notes: (` in crores) Redeemable on Currency Amount As at As at (in million) March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 4.625% Senior Notes April 30, 2020 USD 262.532 1,804.88 3,238.86 5.750% Senior Notes October 30, 2024 USD 250 1,718.73 1,619.43 3,523.61 4,858.29 During the year ended March 31, 2019, the Company prepaid USD 237.47 million (` 1,544.71 crores) of 4.625% Senior Notes at a premium of 2.5%, from fund raised through External Commercial Borrowings of USD 237.47 million. (iv) The external commercial borrowings of USD 237.47 million (` 1,642.27 crores) bearing floating interest rate of 3months LIBOR+128bps is due for repayment in June 2025. (v) The buyer’s line of credit from banks amounting to `2,500 crores, bearing floating interest rate based on marginal cost of funds lending rate (MCLR) of respective bank is repayable within a maximum period of five years from the drawdown dates. All the repayments are due from year ending March 31, 2021 to March 31, 2024. II. Information regarding short-term borrowings  (i) Loans, cash credits, overdrafts and buyers line of credit from banks bearing fixed interest rate from 8.00% to 8.65% are secured by hypothecation of existing current assets of the Company viz. stock of raw materials, stock in process, semi-finished goods, stores and spares not relating to plant and machinery (consumable stores and spares), bills receivable and book debts including receivable from hire purchase / leasing and all other moveable current assets except cash and bank balances, loans and advances of the Company both present and future. (ii) Inter-corporate deposits from subsidiaries and associates are unsecured bearing interest rate at 7.50% (iii) Commercial paper are unsecured short-term papers issued at discount bearing no coupon interest. The yield on commercial paper issued by the Company ranges from 7.21% to 8.28% III. Collateral Inventory, trade receivables, other financial assets, property, plant and equipment with a carrying amount of `4,580.01 crores and `4,415.30 crores are pledged as collateral/security against the borrowings as at March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018, respectively. 240 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) 25. Other financial liabilities – non-current (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Derivative financial instruments 58.43 (b) Liability towards employee separation scheme 79.10 82.26 ( c) Others 43.27 129.02 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Total 180.80 211.28 26. Other financial liabilities – current (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Current maturities of long-term borrowings (refer note below) 1,102.10 2,208.06 (b) Liability for financial guarantee contracts 977.26 ( c) Interest accrued but not due on borrowings 373.04 500.06 (d) Liability for capital expenditure 198.55 129.86 (e) Deposits and retention money 397.06 186.44 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) (f) Derivative financial instruments 10.53 1.29 (g) Liability towards Investors Education and Protection Fund under Section 125 of the Companies Act, 2013 not due (i) Unpaid dividends 8.09 10.73 (ii) Unpaid matured deposits and interest thereon 8.01 11.88 (iii) Unpaid debentures and interest thereon 0.18 0.18 (h) Liability towards employee separation scheme 16.73 20.03 (i) Others 123.69 45.37 Total 2,237.98 4,091.16 Details of Current maturities of long-term borrowings : (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (i) Non Convertible Debentures (Unsecured) (refer I (ii) (b) below note 24) 809.98 1,089.86 (ii) Non Convertible Debentures (Secured) (refer I (i) (a) and I (ii) (a) below note 24) 200.00 500.00 (iii) Finance lease obligations 3.64 5.78 (iv) Loans from Banks (refer I (i) ( c) below note 24) 88.48 112.42 (v) Buyers Credit (Capex) 500.00 Total 1,102.10 2,208.06 241 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 27. Provisions-non current (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Employee benefits obligations 704.91 622.88 (b) Warranty 573.78 364.35 ( c) Annual maintenance contract (AMC) 2.90 9.26 (d) Others 12.99 Total 1,281.59 1,009.48 28. Provisions-current (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Employee benefits obligations 34.62 32.17 (b) Warranty 1,038.59 739.12 ( c) Annual maintenance contract (AMC) 23.95 46.20 (d) Others 51.53 45.43 1,148.69 862.92 Note AMC and Warranty provision movement (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 AMC Warranty Balance at the beginning 55.46 1,103.47 Provision (reversed)/made during the year (5.13) 1,111.22 * Provision used during the year (23.48) (554.32) Impact of discounting (48.35) Acquisition of business of a subsidiary company 0.35 Balance at the end 26.85 1,612.37 Current 23.95 1,038.59 Non-current 2.90 573.78 * includes estimated recovery from suppliers of `111.75 crores recognised during the year ended March 31, 2019. 242 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) 29. Income taxes The reconciliation of estimated income tax to income tax expense is as follows: (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Profit/(loss) before tax 2,398.93 (946.92) Income tax expense at tax rates applicable to individual entities 838.28 (327.71) Additional deduction for patent, research and product development cost (192.72) (198.58) Items (net) not deductible for tax/not liable to tax : foreign currency (gain)/loss relating to loans and deposits (net) 8.12 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) interest and other expenses relating to borrowings for investment 20.95 Dividend from subsidiaries, joint operations, associates and investments measured at fair (86.60) (77.04) value through other comprehensive income Provision for impairment in subsidiary companies/exceptional (others) 122.70 Provision for impairment of capital work in progress 34.61 Undistributed earnings of joint operations 46.55 54.85 Deferred tax assets not recognised as realisation is not probable 268.46 699.49 Utilisation/credit of unrecognised tax losses, unabsorbed depreciation and other tax benefits (544.02) (130.10) Profit on sale of investments in a subsidiary company and other investments (80.01) Reversal of tax provision for previous years (2.45) Others 5.69 5.79 Income tax expense reported 378.33 87.93 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year ended March 31, 2019 are as follows: Opening Recognised in MAT Recognised Closing balance profit and loss Credit utilised in/reclassified balance from OCI Deferred tax assets: Unabsorbed depreciation 2,541.54 (5.42) 2,536.12 Business loss carry forwards 1,556.58 575.92 2,132.50 Expenses deductible in future years: provisions, allowances for doubtful 610.16 (286.27) 323.89 receivables and others Compensated absences and retirement benefits 123.58 11.51 23.24 158.33 Minimum alternate tax carry-forward 2.34 (1.57) 0.77 Intangible assets 6.57 (6.57) Derivative financial instruments 14.64 (9.36) 15.92 21.20 Unrealised profit on inventory 1.58 (0.09) 1.49 Others 72.68 (8.84) 63.84 Total deferred tax assets 4,929.67 270.88 (1.57) 39.16 5,238.14 Deferred tax liabilities: Property, plant and equipment 2,579.75 2.24 2,581.99 Intangible assets 2,364.10 295.07 2,659.17 Undistributed earnings in joint operations 116.26 35.84 * 152.10 Others 24.17 21.40 5.17 50.74 Total deferred tax liabilities 5,084.28 354.55 5.17 5,444.00 Net Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) (154.61) (83.67) (1.57) 33.99 (205.86) * Net off ` 10.71 crores reversed on dividend distribution by joint operation. 243 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements As at March 31, 2019, unrecognised deferred tax assets amount to `2,220.64 crores and `5,116.98 crores which can be carried forward indefinitely and up to a specified period, respectively. These relate primarily to depreciation carry forwards, other deductible temporary differences and business losses. The deferred tax asset has not been recognised on the basis that its recovery is not probable in the foreseeable future. Unrecognised deferred tax assets expire unutilised based on the year of origination as follows: March 31, (` in crores) 2021 10.97 2022 2023 831.70 2024 698.06 Thereafter 3,576.25 Significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year ended March 31, 2018 are as follows: (` in crores) Opening Recognised in MAT Recognised Closing balance profit and loss Credit utilised in/reclassified balance from OCI Deferred tax assets: Unabsorbed depreciation 2,546.16 (4.62) 2,541.54 Business loss carry forwards 1,578.01 (21.43) 1,556.58 Expenses deductible in future years: provisions, allowances for doubtful 977.61 (367.45) 610.16 receivables and others Compensated absences and retirement benefits 116.55 13.30 (6.27) 123.58 Minimum alternate tax carry-forward 29.78 (15.21) (12.23) 2.34 Intangible assets 6.57 6.57 Derivative financial instruments 7.87 6.77 14.64 Unrealised profit on inventory 1.58 1.58 Others 129.44 (56.76) 72.68 Total deferred tax assets 5,384.12 (442.72) (12.23) 0.50 4,929.67 Deferred tax liabilities: Property, plant and equipment 2,676.75 (97.00) 2,579.75 Intangible assets 2,739.64 (375.54) 2,364.10 Undistributed earnings in joint operations 63.24 53.02 * 116.26 Derivative financial instruments 22.61 (22.61) Others 29.46 (5.29) 24.17 Total deferred tax liabilities 5,531.70 (447.42) 5,084.28 Deferred tax liabilities (147.58) 4.70 (12.23) 0.50 (154.61) * Net off ` 1.83 crores reversed on dividend distribution by joint operation. 244 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) 30. Other non-current liabilities (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Contract liabilities (note (a) below) 109.53 64.95 (b) Government incentives (note (b) below) 65.33 188.14 ( c) Employee Benefit Obligations Funded 32.46 20.34 (d) Others 10.92 17.66 Total 218.24 291.09 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) 31. Other current liabilities (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Contract liabilities (note (a) below) 953.83 998.06 (b) Statutory dues (GST,VAT, Excise, Service Tax, Octroi etc) 1,091.92 781.12 ( c) Government incentives (note (b) below) 258.89 86.52 (d) Others 51.37 51.90 Total 2,356.01 1,917.60 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Note: (a) Contract liabilities (` in crores) For the year ending March 31, 2019 Opening contract liabilities (regrouped on transition to Ind AS 115) 1,063.01 Amount recognised in revenue (757.29) Amount received in advance during the reporting year 975.18 Amount refunded to customers (217.54) Closing contract liabilities 1,063.36 Advances received from customers Current 840.40 Deferred revenue Current 113.43 Non-current 109.53 1,063.36 Performance obligations in respect of amount received in respect of future maintenance service and extended warranty will be fulfilled over a period of 6 years from year ending March 31, 2020 till March 31, 2025. Until the previous year, advances received from customers and deferred revenue were seperately presented which currently as per Ind AS 115 are presented as contract liabilities (b) Government incentives include `245.93 crores as at March 31, 2019 (` 187.67 crores as at March 31, 2018) grants relating to property, plant and equipment related to duty saved on import of capital goods and spares under the Exports Promotion Capital Goods (EPCG) scheme. Under such scheme, the Company is committed to export prescribed times of the duty saved on import of capital goods over a specified period of time. In case such commitments are not met, the Company would be required to pay the duty saved along with interest to the regulatory authorities. 245 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 32. Revenue From Operations (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Sale of products (including excise duty) (note 1 and 2 below) (i) Vehicles 61,357.95 52,636.85 (ii) Spare parts 4,579.45 3,635.76 (iii) Miscellaneous products 2,386.29 68,323.69 1,595.43 57,868.04 (b) Sale of services 440.34 365.17 ( c) Finance revenues 0.85 1.12 (d) Other operating revenues 437.88 455.48 Total 69,202.76 58,689.81 Note: (1) Includes exchange gain/(loss) (net) on hedges reclassified from hedge (1.18) (0.93) reserve to statement of profit and loss (2) Consequent to the introduction of Goods and Service Tax (GST) with effect from July 1, 2017, Central Excise, Value Added Tax (VAT), etc have been replaced by GST. In accordance with Ind AS 115/Ind AS 18 on Revenue and Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013, GST, GST Compensation Cess, etc. are not included in sale of products for applicable periods. In view of the aforesaid restructuring of indirect taxes, sale of products for the year ended March 31, 2019 is not comparable with year ended March 31, 2018. Following additional information is being provided to facilitate such comparison: (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Sale of products 68,323.69 57,868.04 (b) Excise duty (1,168.14) ( c) Sale of products (net of excise duty) (a-b) 68,323.69 56,699.90 33. Other income (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Interest income 335.87 397.71 (b) Dividend income (note 1 below) 1,526.25 1,054.69 ( c) Incentives (note 2 below) 621.37 934.88 (d) Profit on sale of investments at FVTPL 69.27 103.17 (e) MTM – Investments measured at FVTPL 1.90 2.03 Total 2,554.66 2,492.48 Note: (1) Includes : (a) Dividend from subsidiary companies and associates 1,516.32 999.25 (b) From investment measured at FVTOCI 15.83 14.49 ( c) Exchange gain / (loss) (5.90) 40.95 (2) Consequent to clarifications published by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India during the year ended March 31, 2019; various Government Grants (incentives) have been reported as “Other Income”. Previously, these were reported as ”Other Operating Revenue” in the Statement of Profit and Loss. The change is retrospectively applied by reclassifying the previous year to conform to current year’s presentation and is not considered material to the Company’s prior period financial statements. 246 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) 34. Employee benefits expense (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Salaries, wages and bonus 3,620.17 3,311.57 (b) Contribution to provident fund and other funds 231.50 236.16 ( c) Staff welfare expenses 421.43 419.00 Total 4,273.10 3,966.73 Share based payments STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) The Company has allotted share based incentives to certain employees during the year ended March 31, 2019, under Tata Motors Limited Employee Stock Options Scheme 2018 approved by Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC). As per the scheme, the number of shares that will vest is conditional upon certain performance measures determined by NRC. The performance is measured over vesting period of the options granted which ranges from 3 to 5 years. The performance measures under this scheme include growth in sales, earnings and free cash flow. The options granted under this scheme is exercisable by employees till one year from date of its vesting. The Company has granted options at an exercise price of `345/-. Option granted will vest equally each year starting from 3 years from date of grant up to 5 years from date of grant. Number of shares that will vest range from 0.5 to 1.5 per option granted depending on performance measures. Year ended March 31, 2019 Options outstanding at the beginning of the year Granted during the year 78,12,427 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Forfeited/Expired during the year Exercised during the year Outstanding at the end of the year 7,812,427 Maximum/Minimum number of shares to be issued for outstanding options (conditional on performance measures) 1,17,18,641/39,06,214 The Company has estimated fair value of options using Black Scholes model. The following assumptions were used for calculation of fair value of options granted during the year ended March 31, 2019. Assumption factor Estimate Risk free rate 7%-8% Expected life of option 4-6 years Expected volatility 33%-37% 35. Finance costs (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Interest 1,743.47 1,650.35 Add: Exchange fluctuation considered as interest cost 38.10 6.24 Less: Transferred to capital account (438.79) (396.11) 1,342.78 1,260.48 (b) Discounting charges 450.79 483.95 Total 1,793.57 1,744.43 Note: The weighted average rate for capitalisation of interest relating to general borrowings was approximately 7.87% and 7.43% for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 247 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 36. Other expenses (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Processing charges 1,567.89 1,240.88 (b) Consumption of stores & spare parts 617.67 639.35 ( c) Power and fuel 598.62 545.12 (d) Freight, transportation, port charges etc. 1,865.62 1,703.15 (e) Publicity 736.13 720.18 (f) Warranty expenses 999.47 766.18 (g) Information technology/computer expenses 714.17 711.95 (h) Allowances made/(reversed) for trade and other receivables (net) 170.90 (109.19) (i) Assets Scrapped/ Written Off 230.28 995.47 (j) Works operation and other expenses (note below) 2,179.71 2,021.18 Total 9,680.46 9,234.27 Note: Works operation and other expenses include: Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Auditors’ Remuneration (excluding service tax)/GST# (i) Audit Fees 6.67 7.34 (ii) Audit Fees to auditors for financial statements as per IFRS (including SOX certification)^ 3.59 3.72 (iii) In other Capacities : Tax Audit / Transfer Pricing Audit 0.53 0.89 Taxation Matters 0.17 0.45 (iv) Other Services * 0.53 4.47 (v) Reimbursement of travelling and out-of-pocket expenses 0.94 0.86 ^ Amount paid to KPMG/Deloitte Haskins and Sells LLP * Includes payment to an affiliate firm of statutory auditors 4.10 # The above amount includes ` 10.84 crores paid to predecessor auditor, Deloitte Haskins and Sells LLP and its affiliates during the year ended March 31, 2018 (b) Cost Auditors’ Remuneration (excluding service tax)/GST (i) Cost Audit Fees 0.23 0.20 (ii) Reimbursement of travelling and out-of-pocket expenses 0.01 0.01 ( c) Works operation and other expenses for the year March 31, 2019 includes ` 22.21 crores (`21.44 crores for the year March 31, 2018) spent by Tata Motors Ltd on standalone basis excluding interest in the joint operations, towards various schemes of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as prescribed under Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013. No amount has been spent on construction / acquisition of an asset of the Company. The prescribed CSR expenditure required to be spent in the year 2018-19 as per the Companies Act, 2013 is `Nil, in view of average net profits of the Company being `Nil (under section 198 of the Act) for last three financial years. 248 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) 37. Amount transferred to capital and other accounts (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Capital work in progress (324.34) (251.47) (b) Intangible asset under development (607.16) (478.65) ( c) Product development/Engineering expenses (161.61) (124.96) Total (1,093.11) (855.08) STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) 38. (a) Exceptional debit of `180.66 crores and `962.98 crores during the year ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively are related to write off/provision for impairment of certain capital work-in-progress and intangibles under development. The company reviewed product development programs and capital work-in-progress and consequently provided for impairment during the year ended March 31, 2018. During the year ended March 31, 2019, the Company has written off intangibles under development of `550 crores, which were provided for during the year ended March 31, 2018. These projects are not viable for future due to changing market conditions and emission regulations. (b) During the year ended March 31, 2019, the Company has sold investment in TAL Manufacturing Solutions Limited to Tata Advanced Systems Ltd (TASL). ( c) The Company has entered into an agreement for transfer of its Defence undertaking, which had a value of `209.27 crores as at December 31, 2017 to Tata Advanced Systems Ltd (transferee company), for an upfront consideration of `100 crores and FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) a future consideration of 3% of the revenue generated from identified Specialised Defence Projects for upto 15 years from the financial year ended FY 2020 subject to a maximum of `1,750 crores. The future consideration of 3% of revenue depends on future revenue to be generated from the said projects by the transferee company. On account of the same, the Company has recognised a provision of `109.27 crores, which may get reversed in future once projects start getting executed from FY 2020 onwards. The assets related to defence undertaking are classified as “Held for Sale” as they meet the criteria laid out under Ind AS 105. 39. Commitments and contingencies In the ordinary course of business, the Company faces claims and assertions by various parties. The Company assesses such claims and assertions and monitors the legal environment on an ongoing basis, with the assistance of external legal counsel, wherever necessary. The Company records a liability for any claims where a potential loss is probable and capable of being estimated and discloses such matters in its financial statements, if material. For potential losses that are considered possible, but not probable, the Company provides disclosure in the financial statements but does not record a liability in its accounts unless the loss becomes probable. The following is a description of claims and assertions where a potential loss is possible, but not probable. The Company believes that none of the contingencies described below would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Litigation The Company is involved in legal proceedings, both as plaintiff and as defendant. There are claims which the Company does not believe to be of material nature, other than those described below. Income Tax The Company has ongoing disputes with income tax authorities relating to tax treatment of certain items. These mainly include disallowed expenses, the tax treatment of certain expenses claimed by the Company as deductions and the computation of, or eligibility of, the Company’s use of certain tax incentives or allowances. 249 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements Most of these disputes and/or disallowances, being repetitive in nature, have been raised by the income tax authorities consistently in most of the years. The Company has a right of appeal to the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals), or CIT (A), the Dispute Resolution Panel, or DRP, and to the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, or ITAT, against adverse decisions by the assessing officer, DRP or CIT (A), as applicable. The income tax authorities have similar rights of appeal to the ITAT against adverse decisions by the CIT (A) or DRP. The Company has a further right of appeal to the Bombay High Court or the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India against adverse decisions by the appellate authorities for matters involving substantial question of law. The income tax authorities have similar rights of appeal. As at March 31, 2019, there are matters and/or disputes pending in appeal amounting to `58.77 crores (`60.89 crores as at March 31, 2018). Customs, Excise Duty and Service Tax As at March 31, 2019, there are pending litigation for various matters relating to customs, excise duty and service taxes involving demands, including interest and penalties, of `907.78 crores (`1,491.36 crores as at March 31, 2018). These demands challenged the basis of valuation of the Company’s products and denied the Company’s claims of Central Value Added Tax, or CENVAT credit on inputs. The details of the demands for more than `20 crores are as follows: The Excise Authorities have raised a demand for `90.72 crores as at March 31, 2019 (`90.72 crores as at March 31, 2018), on account of alleged undervaluation’s of ex-factory discounts given by Company on passenger vehicles through invoices. The matter is being contested by the Company before the Bombay High Court. As at March 31, 2019, the Excise Authorities have raised a demand and penalty of `243.24 crores (`239.95 crores as at March 31, 2018), due to the classification of certain chassis (as dumpers instead of goods transport vehicles) which were sent to automotive body builders by the Company, which the Excise Authorities claim requires the payment of the National Calamity Contingent Duty, or NCCD. The Company has obtained a technical expert certificate on the classification. The appeal is pending before the Custom Excise & Service Tax Appellate Tribunal. The Excise Authorities had denied the Company’s claim of a CENVAT credit of `20.14 crores (`36.03 crores as at March 31, 2018) claimed by the Company from Fiscal 1992 to Fiscal 2013, on technical grounds. The matter is being contested by the Company before the Appellate Authorities. As at March 31, 2019, the Excise Authorities had levied penalties and interest amounting to `90.32 crores (`679.88 crores as at March 31, 2018) with respect to CENVAT credit claimed by the Company from March 2010 to June 2017, on inputs, stating that vehicles manufactured at Uttarakhand plant are “Exempted Products” and the Company may not claim a CENVAT credit on these vehicles. The Company has challenged this demand as NCCD and the automobile cess is assessed on those vehicles, which are “duties of excise”. Therefore, the Company asserts that these vehicles are not “Exempted Products”. The matter is being contested by the Company before the appellate authorities. As at March 31, 2019, the Excise Authorities have raised a demand amounting to `29.54 crores (`29.54 crores as at March 31, 2018)on pre-delivery inspection charges and free after-sales service charges incurred by dealers on Company’s products on the alleged grounds that the pre-delivery inspection charges and free after-sales services are provided by the dealer on behalf of the Company and should be included in excisable value of the vehicle. The case is pending before Tribunal. As at March 31, 2019, the Excise Authorities have confirmed demand & penalty totaling to `90.88 crores (`90.88 crores as at March 31, 2018) towards vehicles allegedly sold below cost of production with an intention to penetrate the market. The matter is being contested by the Company before the appellate authorities. The Excise Authorities had denied the Company’s claim of a CENVAT credit of `81.51 crores as at March 31, 2019 on various inputs services like authorised service station services, erection, commissioning and installation services, common services 250 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) etc. claimed by the Company from financial year 2006 to 2017. The matters are being contested by the Company before the Appellate Authorities. As at March 31, 2019, the Excise Authorities have confirmed the demand and penalty totaling to `92.42 crores alleging undervaluation of products sold by the Company. The matter is being contested by the Company before appellate authorities. As at March 31, 2019, demand and penalty totaling to `23.50 crores has been confirmed for alleged non-payment of service tax on services like event management services, authorised service station services, heat treatment services etc. The matter is being contested by the Company before appellate authorities. Sales Tax / VAT STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) The total sales tax demands (including interest and penalty), that are being contested by the Company amount to `1,123.47 crores as at March 31, 2019 (`949.54 crores as at March 31, 2018). The details of the demands for more than `20 crores are as follows: The Sales Tax Authorities have raised demand of `260.15 crores as at March 31, 2019 (`269.38 crores as at March 31, 2018) towards rejection of certain statutory forms for concessional lower/nil tax rate (Form F and Form C) on technical grounds such as late submission, single form issued against different months / quarters dispatches / sales, etc. and denial of exemption from tax in absence of proof of export for certain years. The Company has contended that the benefit cannot be denied on technicalities, which are being complied with. The matter is pending at various levels. The Sales Tax authorities have denied input tax credit and levied interest and penalty thereon due to varied reasons aggregating to `487.96 crores as at March 31, 2019 (`435.96 crores as at March 31, 2018). The reasons for disallowing credit was mainly due to Taxes not paid by Vendors, incorrect method of calculation of set off as per the department, alleging suppression of sales as per FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) the department etc. The matter is contested in appeal. Sales tax demand aggregating `80.02 crores as at March 31, 2019 (`95.75 as at March 31, 2018) has been raised by Sales Tax Authorities for non submission of Maharashtra Trial Balance. The matter is contested in appeal. The Sales Tax authorities have raised demand for Entry Tax liability at various states amounting to `64.14 crores as at March 31, 2019 (`23.92 as at March 31, 2018). The company is contesting this issue. In case of one of the joint operation, the Sales Tax Authorities have held back the refund of VAT on debit notes raised for Take or Pay arrangements (TOP) totaling to `51.60 crores pertaining to financial years 2009-10 to 2014-2015. The department is of the view that TOP is not part of sale and hence tax to be paid. The matter is contested in appeal. Other Taxes and Dues Other amounts for which the Company may contingently be liable aggregate to `232.54 crores as at March 31, 2019 (`205.19 crores as at March 31, 2018). Following are the cases involving more than `20 crores: The municipal authorities in certain states levy octroi duty (a local indirect tax) on goods brought inside the municipal limits at rates based on the classification of goods. Demands aggregating `61.65 crores as at March 31, 2019 (`61.65 crores as at March 31, 2018) had been raised demanding higher octroi duties on account of classification disputes relating to components purchased for the manufacture of vehicles and retrospective increase in octroi rates relating to past periods. The dispute relating to classification is presently pending before the Bombay High Court and the other dispute is pending before the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India As at March 31, 2019, property tax amounting to `63.81 crores (`56.84 crores as at March 31, 2018) has been demanded by the local municipal authorities in respect of vacant land of the Company in the plant in Pimpri, Chinchwad and Chikhali. The Company has filed Special Leave Petition (SLP) before the Supreme Court against an unfavorable decision of the Bombay High Court. The Hon’ble Supreme Court of India has disposed of the SLP and remanded the matter back to the local municipal corporation for fresh adjudication. 251 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements As at March 31, 2019, Sales tax / VAT amounting to `32.47 crores (`30.54 crores as at March 31, 2018) has been demanded by local authorities on dealers in respect of spare parts used for carrying out warranty repairs. The dispute is pending before the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India. As at March 31, 2019, possession tax amounting to `36.25 crores have been demanded in respect of motor vehicles in the possession of the manufacturer and the authorisation of trade certificate granted under the Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989. The matter is being contested before the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India. Other claims The Hon’ble Supreme Court of India (“SC”) by their order dated February 28, 2019, set out the principles based on which allowances paid to the employees should be identified for inclusion in basic wages for the purposes of computation of Provident Fund contribution. Subsequently, a review petition against this decision has been filed and is pending before the SC for disposal. Further, there are interpretative challenges and considerable uncertainty, including estimating the amount retrospectively. Pending the outcome of the review petition and directions from the EPFO, the impact for past periods, if any, is not ascertainable reliably and consequently no financial effect has been provided for in the financial statements. The Company has made a provision on a prospective basis, from the date of the SC order. The Company has, consequent to an Order of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of R.C. Gupta and Ors. Vs Regional Provident Fund Commissioner, Employees ''Provident Fund Organisation and Ors., evaluated the impact on its employee pension scheme and concluded that this is not applicable to the Company based on external lega opinion and hence it is not probable that there will be an outflow of resources. Post the sale of investments of TAL Manufacturing Solutions Ltd. (TAL) to Tata Advanced Systems Ltd. (TASL), the Company has continued its performance guarantee amounting to `691.49 crores (USD 100 million) in respect of TAL's obligations to its customer to cover the event post the share sale, against a back-to-back indemnity by TASL to the Company. Steps are currently under way to transfer the said guarantee to TASL in due course. Commitments The Company has entered into various contracts with vendors and contractors for the acquisition of plant and machinery, equipment and various civil contracts of a capital nature amounting to `1,929.86 crores at March 31, 2019 (`2,096.64 crores as at March 31, 2018), which are yet to be executed. The Company has entered into various contracts with vendors and contractors for the acquisition of intangible assets of a capital nature amounting to `397.81 crores as at March 31, 2019, (`466.01 crores as at March 31, 2018), which are yet to be executed. 252 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) 40. Earnings per Share (“EPS”) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Profit/(loss) after tax ` crores 2,020.60 (1,034.85) (b) The weighted average number of Ordinary shares for Basic EPS Nos. 2,887,348,474 2,887,348,357 ( c) The weighted average number of ‘A’ Ordinary shares for Basic EPS Nos. 508,502,371 508,502,336 (d) The nominal value per share (Ordinary and ‘A’ Ordinary) ` 2 2 (e) Share of profit / (loss) for Ordinary shares for Basic EPS ` crores 1,713.71 (879.89) (f) Share of profit / (loss) for ‘A’ Ordinary shares for Basic EPS * ` crores 306.89 (154.96) (g) Earnings per Ordinary share (Basic) ` 5.94 (3.05) (h) Earnings per ‘A’ Ordinary share (Basic) ` 6.04 (3.05) (i) Profit after tax for Diluted EPS ` crores 2,020.60 # STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) (j) The weighted average number of Ordinary shares for Basic EPS Nos. 2,887,348,474 # (k) Add: Adjustment for Options relating to warrants and shares held in abeyance Nos. 494,352 # (l) The weighted average number of Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS Nos. 2,887,842,826 # (m) The weighted average number of ‘A’ Ordinary shares for Basic EPS Nos. 508,502,371 # (n) Add: Adjustment for ‘A’ Ordinary shares held in abeyance Nos. 233,739 # (o) The weighted average number of ‘A’ Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS Nos. 508,736,110 # (p) Share of profit for Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS ` crores 1,713.63 # (q) Share of profit for ‘A’ Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS * ` crores 306.97 # ( r) Earnings per Ordinary share (Diluted) ` 5.94 (3.05) (s) Earnings per ‘A’ Ordinary share (Diluted) ` 6.04 (3.05) *‘A’ Ordinary Shareholders are entitled to receive dividend @ 5% points more than the aggregate rate of dividend determined by the Company on Ordinary Shares for the financial year. #Since there is a loss for the year ended March 31, 2018, potential equity shares are not considered as dilutive and hence Diluted EPS is same as Basic EPS. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Note : Employee Stock options are not considered to be dilutive based on the average market price of ordinary shares during the period. 41. Capital Management The Company’s capital management is intended to create value for shareholders by facilitating the meeting of long-term and short-term goals of the Company. The Company determines the amount of capital required on the basis of annual operating plans and long-term product and other strategic investment plans. The funding requirements are met through equity, non-convertible debentures, senior notes and other long-term/short-term borrowings. The Company’s policy is aimed at combination of short-term and long-term borrowings. The Company monitors the capital structure on the basis of total debt to equity ratio and maturity profile of the overall debt portfolio of the Company. Total borrowings includes all long and short-term borrowings as disclosed in notes 23, 24 and 26 (a) to the financial statements. Equity comprises all components excluding (profit)/loss on cash flow hedges. The following table summarises the capital of the Company: (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Equity 22,182.47 20,161.13 Short-term borrowings and current maturities of long-term borrowings 4,719.82 5,307.93 Long-term borrowings 13,919.81 13,155.91 Total borrowings 18,639.63 18,463.84 Total capital (Debt + Equity) 40,822.10 38,624.97 Total equity as reported in balance sheet 22,162.52 20,170.98 Hedging reserve 26.40 3.14 Cost of Hedge reserve (6.45) (12.99) Equity as reported above 22,182.47 20,161.13 253 254 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 42. Disclosures on financial instruments This section gives an overview of the significance of financial instruments for the Company and provides additional information on balance sheet items that contain financial instruments. The details of significant accounting policies, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in note 2 to be financial statements. (a) Financial assets and liabilities The following table presents the carrying amounts and fair value of each category of financial assets and liabilities as at March 31, 2019. (` in crores) Cash, and other Investments Investments Derivatives other Derivatives Total Total financial assets FVTOCI FVTPL than in hedging in hedging carrying fair at amortised cost relationship relationship value value Financial assets (a) Investments non-current 663.38 663.38 663.38 (b) Investments current 0.91 1,174.46 1,175.37 1,175.37 ( c) Trade receivables 3,250.64 3,250.64 3,250.64 (d) Cash and cash equivalents 487.40 487.40 487.40 (e) Other bank balances 819.21 819.21 819.21 (f) Loans and advances non-current 143.13 143.13 143.13 (g) Loans and advances current 200.08 200.08 200.08 (h) Other financial assets non-current 633.43 360.96 994.39 994.39 (i) Other financial assets current 1,248.64 2.73 28.31 1,279.68 1,279.68 Total 6,782.53 664.29 1,174.46 363.69 28.31 9,013.28 9,013.28 Derivatives other Derivatives Other Total Total than in hedging in hedging financial carrying fair relationship relationship liabilities value value Financial liabilities (a) Long-term borrowings (including Current maturities of long-term borrowings) 15,021.91 15,021.91 15,030.12 (b) Short-term borrowings 3,617.72 3,617.72 3,617.72 ( c) Trade payables 10,408.83 10,408.83 10,408.83 (d) Acceptances 3,093.28 3,093.28 3,093.28 (e) Other financial liabilities non-current 0.86 57.57 122.37 180.80 180.80 (f) Other financial liabilities current 9.14 1.39 1,125.35 1,135.88 1,135.88 Total 10.00 58.96 33,389.46 33,458.42 33,466.63 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements The following table presents the carrying amounts and fair value of each category of financial assets and liabilities as at March 31, 2018. (` in crores) Cash, and other Investments Investments Derivatives other Derivatives Total Total financial assets FVTOCI FVTPL than in hedging in hedging carrying fair at amortised cost relationship relationship value value Financial assets (a) Investments non-current 310.19 310.19 310.19 (b) Investments current 303.84 1,517.03 1,820.87 1,820.87 ( c) Trade receivables 3,479.81 3,479.81 3,479.81 (d) Cash and cash equivalents 546.82 546.82 546.82 (e) Other bank balances 248.60 248.60 248.60 (f) Loans and advances non-current 143.96 143.96 143.96 (g) Loans and advances current 140.27 140.27 140.27 (h) Other financial assets non-current 593.27 200.13 793.40 793.40 (i) Other financial assets current 604.10 26.15 16.06 646.31 646.31 Total 5,756.83 614.03 1,517.03 226.28 16.06 8,130.23 8,130.23 Derivatives other Derivatives Other Total Total than in hedging in hedging financial carrying fair relationship relationship liabilities value value Financial liabilities (a) Long-term borrowings (including Current maturities of long-term borrowings) 15,363.97 15,363.97 15,643.29 (b) Short-term borrowings 3,099.87 3,099.87 3,099.87 ( c) Trade payables 9,411.05 9,411.05 9,411.05 (d) Acceptances 4,814.58 4,814.58 4,814.58 (e) Other financial liabilities non-current 211.28 211.28 211.28 (f) Other financial liabilities current 0.30 0.99 1,881.81 1,883.10 1,883.10 Total 0.30 0.99 34,782.56 34,783.85 35,063.17 255 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Level 1 to Level 3, as described below. Quoted prices in an active market (Level 1): This level of hierarchy includes financial assets that are measured by reference to quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. This category consists of quoted equity shares, quoted corporate debt instruments and mutual fund investments. Valuation techniques with observable inputs (Level 2): This level of hierarchy includes financial assets and liabilities, measured using inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e; as prices) or indirectly (i.e; derived from prices). This level of hierarchy include Company’s over-the-counter (OTC) derivative contracts. Valuation techniques with significant unobservable inputs (Level 3): This level of hierarchy includes financial assets and liabilities measured using inputs that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). Fair values are determined in whole or in part, using a valuation model based on assumptions that are neither supported by prices from observable current market transactions in the same instrument nor are they based on available market data. There has been no transfers between level 1, level 2 and level 3 for the year ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. Costs of certain unquoted equity instruments has been considered as an appropriate estimate of fair value because of a wide range of possible fair value measurements and cost represents the best estimate of fair value within that range. These investments in equity instruments are not held for trading. Instead, they are held for medium or long term strategic purpose. Upon the application of Ind AS 109, the Company has chosen to designate these investments in equity instruments at FVTOCI as the directors believes this provides a more meaningful presentation for medium or long term strategic investments, than reflecting changes in fair value immediately in profit or loss. Derivatives are fair valued using market observable rates and published prices together with forecast cash flow information where applicable. (` in crores) As at March 31, 2019 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets measured at fair value (a) Investments 1,445.54 393.21 1,838.75 (b) Derivative assets 392.00 392.00 Total 1,445.54 392.00 393.21 2,230.75 Financial liabilities measured at fair value (a) Derivative liabilities 68.96 68.96 Total 68.96 68.96 As at March 31, 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets measured at fair value (a) Investments 1,820.87 310.19 2,131.06 (b) Derivative assets 242.34 242.34 Total 1,820.87 242.34 310.19 2,373.40 Financial liabilities measured at fair value (a) Derivative liabilities 1.29 1.29 Total 1.29 1.29 256 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) The following table provides an analysis of fair value of financial instruments that are not measured at fair value on recurring basis, grouped into Level 1 to Level 3 categories: (` in crores) As at March 31, 2019 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets not measured at fair value (a) Investments STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Total Financial liabilities not measured at fair value (a) Long-term borrowings (including Current maturities 3,544.16 11,485.96 15,030.12 of long-term borrowings) (b) Short-term borrowings 3,617.72 3,617.72 Total 3,544.16 15,103.68 18,647.84 As at March 31, 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Financial assets not measured at fair value (a) Investments Total Financial liabilities not measured at fair value (a) Long-term borrowings (including Current maturities 4,952.01 10,691.28 15,643.29 of long-term borrowings) (b) Short-term borrowings 3,099.87 3,099.87 Total 4,952.01 13,791.15 18,743.16 The short-term financial assets and liabilities are stated at amortised cost which is approximately equal to their fair value. The fair value of borrowings which have a quoted market price in an active market is based on its market price and for other borrowings the fair value is estimated by discounting expected future cash flows, using a discount rate equivalent to the risk-free rate of return, adjusted for the credit spread considered by the lenders for instruments of similar maturity. Management uses its best judgment in estimating the fair value of its financial instruments. However, there are inherent limitations in any estimation technique. Therefore, substantially for all financial instruments, the fair value estimates presented above are not necessarily indicative of all the amounts that the Company could have realised or paid in sale transactions as of respective dates. As such, the fair value of the financial instruments subsequent to the respective reporting dates may be different from the amounts reported at each year end. 257 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements Offsetting Certain financial assets and financial liabilities are subject to offsetting where there is currently a legally enforceable right to set off recognised amounts and the Company intends to either settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability, simultaneously. Certain derivative financial assets and financial liabilities are subject to master netting arrangements, whereby in the case of insolvency, derivative financial assets and financial liabilities will be settled on a net basis. The following table discloses the amounts that have been offset, in arriving at the balance sheet presentation and the amounts that are available for offset only under certain conditions as at March 31, 2019: (` in crores) Gross Gross amount Net amount Amounts subject to an enforceable Net amount amount recognised as presented master netting arrangement after recognised set off in the in the offsetting Financial Cash balance sheet balance sheet instruments collateral Financial assets (a) Derivative financial instruments 392.00 392.00 (17.47) 374.53 (b) Trade receivables 3,516.06 (265.42) 3,250.64 3,250.64 ( c) Loans and advances-current 209.04 (8.96) 200.08 200.08 Total 4,117.10 (274.38) 3,842.72 (17.47) 3,825.25 Financial liabilities (a) Derivative financial instruments 68.96 68.96 (17.47) 51.49 (b) Trade payables 10,683.21 (274.38) 10,408.83 10,408.83 Total 10,752.17 (274.38) 10,477.79 (17.47) 10,460.32 The following table discloses the amounts that have been offset in arriving at the balance sheet presentation and the amounts that are available for offset only under certain conditions as at March 31, 2018: (` in crores) Gross Gross amount Net amount Amounts subject to an enforceable Net amount amount recognised as presented master netting arrangement after recognised set off in the in the offsetting Financial Cash balance sheet balance sheet instruments collateral Financial assets (a) Derivative financial instruments 242.34 242.34 242.34 (b) Trade receivables 3,670.42 (190.61) 3,479.81 3,479.81 ( c) Loans and advances-current 157.36 (17.09) 140.27 140.27 Total 4,070.12 (207.70) 3,862.42 3,862.42 Financial liabilities (a) Derivative financial instruments 1.29 1.29 1.29 (b) Trade payables 9,618.75 (207.70) 9,411.05 9,411.05 Total 9,620.04 (207.70) 9,412.34 9,412.34 258 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) ( c) Financial risk management In the course of its business, the Company is exposed primarily to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, equity prices, liquidity and credit risk, which may adversely impact the fair value of its financial instruments. The Company has a risk management policy which not only covers the foreign exchange risks but also other risks associated with the financial assets and liabilities such as interest rate risks and credit risks. The risk management policy is approved by the board of directors. The risk management framework aims to: •  reate a stable business planning environment by reducing the impact of currency and interest rate fluctuations on the C Company’s business plan. • Achieve greater predictability to earnings by determining the financial value of the expected earnings in advance. STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) (i) Market risk Market risk is the risk of any loss in future earnings, in realisable fair values or in future cash flows that may result from a change in the price of a financial instrument. The value of a financial instrument may change as a result of changes in the interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity price fluctuations, liquidity and other market changes. Future specific market movements cannot be normally predicted with reasonable accuracy. (i) (a) Foreign currency exchange rate risk: The fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates may have potential impact on the income statement and equity, where any transaction references more than one currency or where assets/liabilities are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency. Considering the countries and economic environment in which the Company operates, its operations are subject to risks arising from fluctuations in exchange rates in those countries. The risks primarily relate to fluctuations in U.S. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) dollar, Euro and Thai Baht against the respective functional currencies of the Company. The Company, as per its risk management policy, uses foreign exchange and other derivative instruments primarily to hedge foreign exchange and interest rate exposure. Any weakening of the functional currency may impact the Company’s cost of exports and cost of borrowings and consequently may increase the cost of financing the Company’s capital expenditures. The Company evaluates the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations by assessing its exposure to exchange rate risks. It hedges a part of these risks by using derivative financial instruments in accordance with its risk management policies. The foreign exchange rate sensitivity is calculated for each currency by aggregation of the net foreign exchange rate exposure of a currency and a simultaneous parallel foreign exchange rates shift in the foreign exchange rates of each currency by 10%. The exposure as indicated below is mitigated by some of the derivative contracts entered into by the Company as disclosed in (iv) derivative financial instruments and risk management below. The following table sets forth information relating to foreign currency exposure (other than risk arising from derivatives disclosed at clause (iv) below) as of March 31, 2019: (` in crores) U.S. dollar Euro GBP ZAR Others1 Total Financial assets 382.70 26.61 96.32 22.64 11.83 540.10 Financial liabilities 6,337.49 270.76 169.38 8.70 36.80 6,823.13 1 Others mainly include currencies such as the Russian ruble, Japanese yen, Swiss franc, Australian dollars, Thai bahts and Korean won. 10% appreciation/depreciation of the respective foreign currencies with respect to functional currency of the Company would result in decrease/increase in the Company’s net profit/(loss) before tax by approximately `54.01 crores and `682.31 crores for financial assets and financial liabilities respectively for the year ended March 31, 2019. 259 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements The following table sets forth information relating to foreign currency exposure (other than risk arising from derivatives disclosed at clause (iv) below) as of March 31, 2018: (` in crores) U.S. dollar Euro GBP THB Others2 Total Financial assets 591.30 18.14 95.09 128.80 27.69 861.02 Financial liabilities 6,157.54 175.97 523.79 3.15 29.87 6,890.32 2 Others mainly include currencies such as the Russian ruble, Japanese yen, Swiss franc, Australian dollars, South African rand and Korean won. 10% appreciation/depreciation of the respective foreign currencies with respect to functional currency of the Company would result in decrease/increase in the Company’s net profit/(loss) before tax by approximately `86.10 crores and `689.03 crores for financial assets and financial liabilities, respectively for the year ended March 31, 2018. (Note: The impact is indicated on the profit/(loss) before tax basis.) (i) (b) Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is measured by using the cash flow sensitivity for changes in variable interest rates. Any movement in the reference rates could have an impact on the Company’s cash flows as well as costs. The Company is subject to variable interest rates on some of its interest bearing liabilities. The Company’s interest rate exposure is mainly related to debt obligations. The Company also uses a mix of interest rate sensitive financial instruments to manage the liquidity and fund requirements for its day to day operations like short term loans. As at March 31, 2019 and 2018, financial liability of `5,176.20 crores and `3,239.35 crores, respectively, was subject to variable interest rates. Increase/decrease of 100 basis points in interest rates at the balance sheet date would result in decrease/increase in profit/(loss) before tax of `51.76 crores and `32.39 crores for the year ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  The model assumes that interest rate changes are instantaneous parallel shifts in the yield curve. Although some assets and liabilities may have similar maturities or periods to re-pricing, these may not react correspondingly to changes in market interest rates. Also, the interest rates on some types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate with changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other types of assets may change with a lag. The risk estimates provided assume a parallel shift of 100 basis points interest rate across all yield curves. This calculation also assumes that the change occurs at the balance sheet date and has been calculated based on risk exposures outstanding as at that date. The period end balances are not necessarily representative of the average debt outstanding during the period. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant. (Note: The impact is indicated on the profit/(loss) before tax basis). (i) ( c) Equity Price risk Equity Price Risk is related to the change in market reference price of the investments in equity securities. The fair value of some of the Company’s investments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income exposes the Company to equity price risks. These investments are subject to changes in the market price of securities. The fair value of Company’s investment in quoted equity securities as of March 31, 2019 and 2018 was `271.07 crores and `303.84 crores, respectively. A 10% change in equity price as of March 31, 2019 and 2018 would result in an impact of `27.11 crores and `30.38 crores, respectively. (Note: The impact is indicated on equity before consequential tax impact, if any). 260 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) (ii) Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss arising from counter-party failure to repay or service debt according to the contractual terms or obligations. Credit risk encompasses both the direct risk of default and the risk of deterioration of creditworthiness as well as concentration risks. Financial instruments that are subject to concentrations of credit risk, principally consist of investments classified as fair value through profit and loss, trade receivables, loans and advances and derivative financial instruments. None of the financial instruments of the Company result in material concentrations of credit risks. Exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk was `8,619.83 crores and `7,819.91 crores as at March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, being the total of the carrying STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) amount of balances with banks, short term deposits with banks, trade receivables, finance receivables, margin money and other financial assets excluding equity investments. Financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired None of the Company’s cash equivalents, including time deposits with banks, are past due or impaired. Regarding trade receivables and other receivables, and other loans or receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there were no indications as at March 31, 2019, that defaults in payment obligations will occur. Credit quality of financial assets and impairment loss The ageing of trade receivables as of balance sheet date is given below. The age analysis has been considered from the due date. (` in crores) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Trade receivables As at March 31, 2019 As at March 31, 2018 Gross Allowance Net Gross Allowance Net Period (in months) (a) Not due 1,260.50 (4.76) 1,255.74 1,674.79 (8.10) 1,666.69 (b) Overdue up to 3 months 1,274.10 (5.60) 1,268.50 1,133.46 (33.60) 1,099.86 ( c) Overdue 3-6 months 183.80 (16.00) 167.80 144.00 (12.50) 131.50 (d) Overdue more than 6 months 1,133.10 (574.50) 558.60 1,071.06 (489.30) 581.76 Total 3,851.50 (600.86) 3,250.64 4,023.31 (543.50) 3,479.81 Trade receivables overdue more than six months include `513.08 crores as at March 31, 2019 (`462.22 crores as at March 31, 2018) outstanding from state government organisations in India, which are considered recoverable. Trade receivables consist of a large number of various types of customers, spread across geographical areas. Ongoing credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of these trade receivables and where appropriate allowance for losses are provided. Further the Company, groups the trade receivables depending on type of customers and accordingly credit risk is determined. 261 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements (iii) Liquidity risk Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Company cannot meet its financial obligations. The objective of liquidity risk management is to maintain sufficient liquidity and ensure that funds are available for use as per requirements. The Company has obtained fund and non-fund based working capital lines from various banks. Further, the Company has access to funds from debt markets through commercial paper programs, non-convertible debentures, senior notes and other debt instruments. The Company invests its surplus funds in bank fixed deposit and liquid and liquid plus schemes of mutual funds, which carry no/low mark to market risks. The Company has also invested 15% of the non-convertible debentures (taken/issued by the Company) falling due for repayment in the next 12 months in bank deposits, to meet the regulatory norms of liquidity requirements. The Company also constantly monitors funding options available in the debt and capital markets with a view to maintaining financial flexibility. The table below provides details regarding the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments as at March 31, 2019: (` in crores) Financial liabilities Carrying Due in Due in Due in 3rd Due after Total amount 1st Year 2nd Year to 5th Year 5th Year contractual cash flows (a) Trade payables 10,408.83 10,408.83 10,408.83 (b) Acceptances 3,093.28 3,093.28 3,093.28 ( c) Borrowings and interest thereon 19,012.67 6,183.66 5,140.86 7,046.68 4,745.97 23,117.17 (d) Other financial liabilities 874.68 752.31 21.41 71.79 56.85 902.36 (e) Derivative liabilities 68.96 10.53 0.86 57.57 68.96 Total 33,458.42 20,448.61 5,163.13 7,118.47 4,860.39 37,590.60 The table below provides details regarding the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments as at March 31, 2018: (` in crores) Financial liabilities Carrying Due in Due in Due in 3rd Due after Total amount 1st Year 2nd Year to 5th Year 5th Year contractual cash flows (a) Trade payables 9,411.05 9,411.05 9,411.05 (b) Acceptances 4,814.58 4,814.58 4,814.58 ( c) Borrowings and 18,963.90 6,238.08 2,006.03 10,638.87 3,570.94 22,453.92 interest thereon (d) Other financial liabilities 1,593.03 1,401.69 83.97 86.30 73.47 1,645.43 (e) Derivative liabilities 1.29 1.29 1.29 34,783.85 21,866.69 2,090.00 10,725.17 3,644.41 38,326.27 262 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) (iv) Derivative financial instruments and risk management The Company has entered into a variety of foreign currency, interest rates and commodity forward contracts and options to manage its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity price risk. The counter-party is generally a bank. These financial exposures are managed in accordance with the Company’s risk management policies and procedures. The Company also enters into interest rate swaps and interest rate currency swap agreements, mainly to manage exposure on its fixed rate or variable rate debt. The Company uses interest rate derivatives or currency swaps to hedge exposure to exchange rate fluctuations on principal and interest payments for borrowings denominated in foreign currencies. Specific transactional risks include risks like liquidity and pricing risks, interest rate and exchange rate fluctuation risks, STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) volatility risks, counter-party risks, settlement risks and gearing risks. Fair value of derivative financial instruments are determined using valuation techniques based on information derived from observable market data. The fair value of derivative financial instruments is as follows: (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Foreign currency forward exchange contracts and options 378.91 245.74 (b) Commodity Derivatives 1.70 (4.69) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) ( c) Interest rate derivatives (57.57) Total 323.04 241.05 The gain/loss due to fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates on derivative contracts, recognised in the income statement was `36.84 crores (gain) and `6.31 crores (loss) for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The gain/(loss) on commodity derivative contracts, recognised in the income statement was `2.46 crores and `6.07 crores for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 263 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 43. Segment reporting The Company primarily operates in the automotive segment. The automotive segment includes all activities relating to development, design, manufacture, assembly and sale of vehicles, as well as sale of related parts and accessories. The Company’s products mainly include commercial vehicles and passenger vehicles. A core initiative of the Company was the implementation of the Organisation Effectiveness (OE) program, a strategic program designed to overhaul and transform the Company pursuant to the changes implemented as a result of the OE program, the Company has drawn separate strategies for commercial vehicles and passenger vehicles from Fiscal 2019 Consequent to these changes, from April 1, 2018, the automotive segment is bifurcated into the following: (i) Commercial vehicles (ii) Passenger vehicles (` in crores) For the year ended/as at March 31, 2019 Commercial Passenger* Corporate/ Total Vehicle Vehicle Unallocable Revenues: External revenue 54,036.54 15,052.30 113.92 69,202.76 Inter-segment/intra-segment revenue Total revenues 54,036.54 15,052.30 113.92 69,202.76 Segment results before other income (excluding incentives), 4,423.50 (1,396.08) (349.92) 2,677.50 finance costs, foreign exchange gain/(loss) (net), exceptional items and tax : Reconciliation to Profit before tax: Other income (excluding incentives) 1,933.29 Finance costs (1,793.57) Foreign exchange gain/(loss) (net) (215.22) Exceptional items gain/(loss) (net) (175.51) (118.04) 90.48 (203.07) Profit before tax 2,398.93 Depreciation and amortisation expense 1,533.86 1,409.40 155.38 3,098.64 Capital expenditure 2,047.89 3,191.75 76.36 5,316.00 Segment assets 22,247.03 17,650.27 39,897.30 Reconciliation to total assets: Assets classified as held for sale 162.24 Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 15,028.62 Other investments 1,838.75 Current and non-current tax assets (net) 715.30 Other unallocated assets 3,267.42 Total assets 60,909.63 Segment liabilities 14,327.47 3,477.23 17,804.70 Reconciliation to total liabilities: Borrowings 18,639.63 Current tax liabilities (net) 78.30 Deferred tax liabilities (net) 205.86 Other unallocated financial liabilities 2,018.62 Total liabilities 38,747.11 * Includes Tata and Fiat brand vehicles. 264 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) (` in crores) For the year ended/as at March 31, 2018 Commercial Passenger* Corporate/ Total Vehicle Vehicle Unallocable Revenues: External revenue 44,875.54 13,644.58 169.69 58,689.81 Inter-segment/intra-segment revenue Total revenues 44,875.54 13,644.58 169.69 58,689.81 Segment results before other income (excluding incentives), STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) finance costs, foreign exchange gain/(loss) (net), exceptional items and tax : 3,474.29 (2,985.13) (265.45) 223.71 Reconciliation to Profit before tax: Other income (excluding incentives) 1,557.60 Finance costs (1,744.43) Foreign exchange loss (net) (17.14) Exceptional items (166.66) (800.00) (966.66) Profit before tax (946.92) Depreciation and amortisation expense 1,485.90 1,470.25 145.74 3,101.89 Capital expenditure 1,276.60 2,220.14 85.98 3,582.72 Segment assets 23,083.79 16,336.60 39,420.39 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Reconciliation to total assets: Assets classified as held for sale 223.33 Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 14,632.51 Other investments 2,131.06 Current & non-current tax assets (net) 769.63 Other unallocable assets 2,035.38 Total assets 59,212.30 Segment liabilities 13,176.50 3,845.67 17,022.17 Reconciliation to total liabilities: Borrowings 18,463.84 Current tax liabilities (net) 21.77 Deferred tax liabilities (net) 154.61 Other unallocated financial liabilities 3,378.93 Total liabilities 39,041.32 * Includes Tata and Fiat brand vehicles. Information concerning principal For the year ended/as at March 31, 2019 For the year ended/as at March 31, 2018 geographic areas is as follows: Within India Outside India Total Within India Outside India Total Net sales to external customers 63,426.04 5,776.72 69,202.76 53,709.49 4,980.32 58,689.81 by geographic area by location of customers NonCurrent Assets (Property, plant 28,654.75 45.28 28,700.03 26,881.26 46.83 26,928.09 and equipment, intangible assets, other non-current assets and Goodwill) by geographic area 265 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 44. Related-party transactions The Company’s related parties principally consist of subsidiaries, joint operations, associates and their subsidiaries, Tata Sons Private Limited, subsidiaries and joint ventures of Tata Sons Private Limited. The Company routinely enters into transactions with these related parties in the ordinary course of business. The Company enters into transactions for sale and purchase of products and services with its related parties. The following table summarises related-party transactions and balances for the year ended / as at March 31, 2019: (` in crores) Subsidiaries Joint Associates and Tata Sons Pvt Ltd, Total Arrangements its subsidiaries its subsidiaries and joint arrangements Purchase of products 1,347.76 3,943.18 2,350.45 202.47 7,843.86 Sale of products 5,532.96 826.43 325.91 504.53 7,189.83 Services received 1,095.42 46.20 244.37 1,385.99 Services rendered 174.10 6.37 14.32 0.53 195.32 Bills discounted 5,493.78 5,493.78 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 11.53 13.45 0.79 25.77 Sale of fixed assets (inclusive of taxes) 0.43 0.43 Purchase of business 0.10 0.10 Sale of investments 533.35 533.35 Finance given (including loans and equity) 708.57 5.75 714.32 Finance taken (including loans and equity) 2,242.50 177.00 2,419.50 Finance taken, paid back (including loans and equity) 2,331.00 210.00 2,541.00 Interest (income)/expense, dividend (income)/paid, net (1,459.92) (26.16) (12.34) 6.62 (1,491.80) Amounts receivable in respect of loans and 637.21 3.75 640.96 interest thereon Amounts payable in respect of loans and 59.25 23.00 0.68 82.93 interest thereon Trade and other receivables 239.14 3.11 52.03 72.71 366.99 Trade payables 637.84 248.47 304.22 38.53 1,229.06 Acceptances 69.13 69.13 Deposit taken as security 3.31 3.31 Provision for amount receivable (including loans) 639.49 639.49 266 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) The following table summarises related-party transactions and balances for the year ended / as at March 31, 2018: (` in crores) Subsidiaries Joint Associates and Tata Sons Pvt Ltd, Total Arrangements its subsidiaries its subsidiaries and joint arrangements Purchase of products 1,217.67 3,163.05 2,595.40 170.71 7,146.83 Sale of products 5,918.05 545.49 199.80 453.26 7,116.60 Services received 2,548.55 8.82 256.29 2,813.66 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Services rendered 221.54 4.31 13.05 1.59 240.49 Bills discounted 4,135.03 4,135.03 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 41.25 62.43 0.18 103.86 Finance given (including loans and equity) 2.50 2.50 Interest (income)/expense, dividend (931.25) (4.56) (9.43) 3.93 (941.31) (income)/paid, net Finance given, taken back (including loans and equity) 60.00 60.00 Finance taken (including loans and equity) 1,773.55 489.00 2,262.55 Finance taken, paid back (including loans and equity) 1,746.80 489.00 2,235.80 Assets/deposits given as security 2.35 2.35 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Amounts receivable in respect of loans and 637.37 637.37 interest thereon Amounts payable in respect of loans and 147.75 56.00 2.10 205.85 interest thereon Trade and other receivables 564.28 61.18 61.59 687.05 Trade payables 1,592.08 184.81 149.57 67.43 1,993.89 Acceptances 220.16 220.16 Assets / deposits given as security 2.54 3.00 5.54 Deposit taken as security 3.31 3.31 Provision for amount receivable (including loans) 639.49 639.49 Note: With the introduction of GST from July 01, 2017, the related party transactions reported does not include indirect tax component. The previous period figures to that extent is not comparable. Details of significant transactions are given below: Name of Related Party Nature of relationship Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 i) Bill discounted Tata Capital Tata Sons Pvt Ltd, 5,493.78 4,135.03 its subsidiaries and joint arrangements ii) Dividend Income TML Holding Pte Ltd, Singapore Subsidiaries 1,336.25 789.85 iii) Sale of investments Tata Advanced Systems Ltd Tata Sons Pvt Ltd, 533.35 its subsidiaries and joint arrangements 267 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements Compensation of key management personnel: (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Short-term benefits 36.35 39.49 Post-employment benefits* 0.68 1.88 Employees stock option plan 0.44 The compensation of CEO and Managing Director is `26.32 crores and `26.42 crores for the year ended March 31,2019 and 2018, respectively. * Excludes provision for encashable leave and gratuity for certain key management personnel as a separate actuarial valuation is not available. Refer note 47 for information on transactions with post employment benefit plans. 45.  Disclosures required by Schedule V of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and Section 186 (4) of the Companies Act, 2013 (a) Amount of loans / advances in nature of loans outstanding from subsidiaries as at March 31, 2019, on a standalone basis. (` in crores) Outstanding as at Maximum March 31, 2019/ amount March 31, 2018 outstanding during the year Name of the Company (i) Subsidiaries: Tata Motors European Technical Centre Plc., UK 38.46 38.46 [Tata Motors European Technical Centre has utilised this loan for investment in 39.22 39.22 National Automotive Innovation Centre set up jointly with University of Warwick and Jaguar Land rover Ltd and carried an interest rate of 12 months LIBOR+ 3% prevailing rate (5.9808% p.a7.1358% p.a] Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera S.A. 539.40 539.40 (Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera S.A. has utilised this loan for meeting its capex 539.40 539.40 requirement and general corporate purposes, which is fully provided) Tata Hispano Motors Carroceries Maghreb SA 58.39 58.39 (Tata Hispano Motors Carroceries Maghreb SA has utilised this loan for general 58.39 58.39 corporate purposes, which is partly provided). Tata Precision Industries Pte Ltd 0.51 0.51 (Tata Precision Industries Ltd has utilised this loan for general corporate purposes and carried an interest rate of 5% p.a.) (ii) Joint arrangement: JT Special Vehicle (P) Ltd 3.75 3.75 (JT Special Vehicle (P) Ltd has utilised this loan for general corporate purposes and carried an interest rate of 9.76% p.a.) JT Special Vehicle (P) Ltd 2.00 2.00 (Inter corporate deposit utilised for working capital finance at the rate of interest of 10% having call/put option) (b) Details of Investments made are given in notes 6, 7, 8 and 9. 268 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) 46. Details of significant investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates Name of the Company Country % direct holding of incorporation/ As at as at Place of business March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Subsidiaries TAL Manufacturing Solutions Ltd (ceased to be subsidiary w.e.f March 29, 2019) India 100.00 Concorde Motors (India) Ltd India 100.00 100.00 Tata Motors Insurance Broking & Advisory Services Ltd India 100.00 100.00 Tata Motors European Technical Centre Plc UK 100.00 100.00 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Tata Technologies Ltd India 72.28 72.29 TMF Holdings Ltd India 100.00 100.00 Tata Marcopolo Motors Ltd India 51.00 51.00 TML Holdings Pte Ltd Singapore 100.00 100.00 TML Distribution Company Ltd India 100.00 100.00 Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera S.A Spain 100.00 100.00 Tata Hispano Motors Carroceries Maghreb S.A Morocco 100.00 100.00 Trilix S.r.l Italy 100.00 80.00 Tata Precision Industries Pte Ltd Singapore 78.39 78.39 Joint Ventures FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) JT Special Vehicle (P) Ltd. India 50.00 50.00 Associates Automobile Corporation of Goa Ltd India 46.44 46.44 Nita Co. Ltd Bangladesh 40.00 40.00 Tata AutoComp Systems Ltd India 26.00 26.00 Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery Company Private Ltd India 39.74 39.74 47. Employee benefits Defined Benefit Plan Pension and post retirement medical plans The following table sets out the funded and unfunded status and the amounts recognised in the financial statements for the pension and the post retirement medical plans in respect of Tata Motors and joint operations: (` in crores) Pension Benefits Post retirement medical Benefits As at As at As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Change in defined benefit obligations : Defined benefit obligation, beginning of the year 898.18 860.35 138.55 169.31 Current service cost 59.49 56.64 6.76 8.89 Interest cost 66.56 60.26 10.33 12.01 Remeasurements (gains) / losses Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in 0.28 (11.28) (11.17) demographic assumptions 269 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements (` in crores) Pension Benefits Post retirement medical Benefits As at As at As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in 15.70 25.21 9.91 (2.65) financial assumptions Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in 55.64 8.70 (14.62) (28.24) experience adjustments Transfer in/(out) of liability 6.88 1.58 2.30 Benefits paid from plan assets (59.37) (105.49) Benefits paid directly by employer (5.54) (5.34) (9.00) (9.60) Past service costplan amendments 0.39 7.55 Defined benefit obligation, end of the year 1,038.21 898.18 144.23 138.55 Change in plan assets: Fair value of plan assets, beginning of the year 799.73 738.53 Interest income 63.23 55.42 Remeasurements gains / (losses) Return on plan assets, (excluding (0.23) (0.59) amount included in net Interest expense) Employer’s contributions 105.36 110.28 Transfer in/(out) of assets 5.89 1.58 Benefits paid (59.37) (105.49) Fair value of plan assets, end of the year 914.61 799.73 (` in crores) Pension Benefits Post retirement medical Benefits As at As at As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Amount recognised in the balance sheet consists of Present value of defined benefit obligation 1,038.21 898.18 144.23 138.55 Fair value of plan assets 914.61 799.73 Net liability (123.60) (98.45) (144.23) (138.55) Amounts in the balance sheet: Non–current assets 0.87 0.82 Non–current liabilities (124.47) (99.27) (144.23) (138.55) Net liability (123.60) (98.45) (144.23) (138.55) 270 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income consists of: (` in crores) Pension Benefits Post retirement medical Benefits As at As at As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Remeasurements (gains) / losses 66.86 (4.99) (44.91) (40.20) 66.86 (4.99) (44.91) (40.20) Information for funded plans with a defined benefit obligation in excess of plan assets: STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) (` in crores) Pension Benefits As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Defined benefit obligation 905.33 44.71 Fair value of plan assets 894.09 41.99 Information for funded plans with a defined benefit obligation less than plan assets: (` in crores) Pension Benefits FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Defined benefit obligation 19.65 756.92 Fair value of plan assets 20.52 757.74 Information for unfunded plans: (` in crores) Pension Benefits Post retirement medical Benefits As at As at As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Defined benefit obligation 113.23 96.55 144.23 138.55 Net pension and post retirement medical cost consist of the following components: (` in crores) Pension Benefits Post retirement medical Benefits As at As at As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Service cost 59.49 56.64 6.76 8.89 Net interest cost / (income) 3.33 4.84 10.33 12.01 Past service costplan amendments 0.39 7.55 Net periodic cost 63.21 69.03 17.09 20.90 271 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligation recognised in other comprehensive income. (` in crores) Pension Benefits Post retirement medical Benefits As at As at As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Remeasurements Return on plan assets, (excluding amount included in 0.23 0.59 net Interest expense) Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in 0.28 (11.28) (11.17) demographic assumptions Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in 15.70 25.21 9.91 (2.65) financial assumptions Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in 55.64 8.70 (14.62) (28.24) experience adjustments on plan liabilities Total recognised in other comprehensive income 71.85 23.22 (4.71) (42.06) Total recognised in statement of profit and loss and other comprehensive income 135.06 92.25 12.38 (21.16) The assumptions used in accounting for the pension and post retirement medical plans are set out below: Pension Benefits Post retirement medical Benefits As at As at As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Discount rate 6.75%-7.70% 6.75%-7.70% 7.60% 7.70% Rate of increase in compensation level of covered employees 6.00% 10.00% 6.00% 8.00% NA NA Increase in health care cost NA NA 6.00% 6.00% Plan Assets The fair value of Company’s pension plan asset as of March 31, 2019 and 2018 by category are as follows: Pension Benefits As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Asset category: Cash and cash equivalents 7.2% 6.5% Debt instruments (quoted) 66.4% 65.2% Debt instruments (unquoted) 0.8% 0.9% Equity instruments (quoted) 2.9% 1.9% Deposits with Insurance companies 22.7% 25.5% 100.0% 100.0% 272 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) The Company’s policy is driven by considerations of maximising returns while ensuring credit quality of the debt instruments. The asset allocation for plan assets is determined based on investment criteria prescribed under the Indian Income Tax Act, 1961, and is also subject to other exposure limitations. The Company evaluates the risks, transaction costs and liquidity for potential investments. To measure plan asset performance, the Company compares actual returns for each asset category with published bench marks. The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation as at March 31, 2019 is 14.4 years ( March 31, 2018 : 14.5 years). The Company expects to contribute `87.58 crores to the funded pension plans during the year ended March 31, 2020. The table below outlines the effect on the service cost, the interest cost and the defined benefit obligation in the event of a decrease/increase of 1% in the assumed rate of discount rate, salary escalation and health care cost: STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Assumption Change in assumption Impact on defined Impact on service cost benefit obligation and interest cost Discount rate Increase by 1% Decrease by ` 89.32 crores Decrease by ` 18.30 crores Decrease by 1% Increase by ` 101.15 crores Increase by ` 19.09 crores Salary escalation rate Increase by 1% Increase by ` 80.52 crores Increase by ` 18.08 crores Decrease by 1% Decrease by ` 71.56 crores Decrease by ` 15.98 crores Health care cost Increase by 1% Increase by ` 17.36 crores Increase by ` 3.64 crores FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Decrease by 1% Decrease by ` 14.69 crores Decrease by ` 3.49 crores The Company’s contribution to defined contribution plan aggregated to `184.80 crores and `182.20 crores for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 respectively. 273 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 48 Additional information The financial statements include the Company’s proportionate share of assets, liabilities, income and expenditure in its two Joint Operations, namely Tata Cummins Private Limited and Fiat India Automobile Private Limited. Below are supplementary details of Tata Motors Limited on standalone basis excluding interest in the aforesaid two Joint Operations: A. Balance Sheet (` in crores) Particulars As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 I. ASSETS (1) NON-CURRENT ASSETS (a) Property, plant and equipment 16,353.39 16,030.88 (b) Capital work-in-progress 2,018.21 1,337.89 ( c) Other intangible assets 3,731.44 3,198.53 (d) Intangible assets under development 4,119.15 3,811.03 (e) Investments in subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates 16,427.86 15,607.64 (f) Financial assets (i) Investments 663.38 310.19 (ii) Loans and advances 142.51 143.36 (iii) Other financial assets 1,015.44 784.46 (g) Non-current tax assets (net) 660.20 650.46 (h) Other non-current assets 1,648.04 1,419.52 46,779.62 43,293.96 (2) CURRENT ASSETS (a) Inventories 4,022.41 4,925.47 (b) Investments in subsidiaries and associates (held-for-sale) 257.81 681.91 (c) Financial assets (i) Investments 1,102.17 1,820.87 (ii) Trade receivables 2,940.49 2,960.93 (iii) Cash and cash equivalents 416.72 499.65 (iv) Bank balances other than (iii) above 763.64 180.38 (v) Loans and advances 161.61 136.37 (vi) Other financial assets 1,112.36 525.36 (d) Current tax assets (net) 73.88 (e) Assets classified as held-for-sale 162.24 223.33 (f) Other current assets 774.25 1,172.45 11,713.70 13,200.60 TOTAL ASSETS 58,493.32 56,494.56 II. EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY (a) Equity share capital 679.22 679.22 (b) Other equity 20,879.27 19,004.01 21,558.49 19,683.23 LIABILITIES (1) NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES (a) Financial liabilities (i) Borrowings 13,330.00 12,517.97 (ii) Other financial liabilities 180.80 211.28 (b) Provisions 1,251.44 983.55 ( c) Other non-current liabilities 142.96 97.90 14,905.20 13,810.70 (2) CURRENT LIABILITIES (a) Financial liabilities (i) Borrowings 3,529.50 2,880.34 (ii) Trade payables (a) Total outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises 123.09 123.27 (b) Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro and small enterprises 9,780.42 8,543.86 (iii) Acceptances 3,093.28 4,814.58 (iv) Other financial liabilities 2,057.07 3,936.77 (b) Provisions 1,149.31 852.93 ( c) Current tax liabilities (net) 55.10 14.76 (d) Other current liabilities 2,241.86 1,834.12 22,029.63 23,000.63 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 58,493.32 56,494.56 274 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) B. Statement of Profit and Loss (` in crores) Particulars Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Revenue from operations Revenue 67,209.22 56,081.36 Other operating revenue 401.85 451.84 I. Total revenue from operations 67,611.07 56,533.20 II. Other Income 2,381.45 2,283.40 III. Total Income (I+II) 69,992.52 58,816.60 IV. Expenses (a) Cost of materials consumed 41,843.32 35,011.52 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) (b) Purchases of products for sale 8,181.65 5,724.01 ( c) Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and products for sale 118.52 845.67 (d) Excise duty 733.95 (e) Employee benefits expense 4,054.14 3,767.86 (f) Finance costs 1,743.64 1,686.59 (g) Foreign exchange loss (net) 180.88 10.99 (h) Depreciation and amortisation expense 2,758.58 2,851.27 (i) Product development/Engineering expenses 571.32 474.55 (j) Other expenses 9,302.16 8,907.44 (k) Amount transferred to capital and other accounts (1,093.54) (855.08) Total Expenses (IV) 67,660.67 59,158.77 V. Profit/(loss) before exceptional items and tax (III-IV) 2,331.85 (342.17) VI. Exceptional items (a) Employee separation cost 4.23 3.68 (b) Write off/provision of capital work-in-progress and intangibles under 180.66 962.98 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) development (net) ( c) Provision for impairment of investments in subsidiary companies 241.86 (d) Profit on sale of investment in a subsidiary company (332.95) (e) Others 109.27 VII. Profit/(loss) before tax (V-VI) 2,128.78 (1,308.83) VIII. Tax expense (net) (a) Current tax (including Minimum Alternate Tax) 190.96 6.00 (b) Deferred tax 33.88 (48.64) Total tax expense 224.84 (42.64) IX. Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations (VII-VIII) 1,903.94 (1,266.19) X. Other comprehensive income/(loss): (A) (i) Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss: (a) Remeasurement gains and (losses) on defined benefit obligations (net) (66.64) 16.71 (b) Quoted equity instruments through other comprehensive income 55.44 44.04 (ii) Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss 17.95 (5.78) (B) (i) Items that will be reclassified to profit and loss gains and (losses) in (45.72) (19.56) cash flow hedges (ii) Income tax relating to items that will be reclassified to profit and loss 15.92 6.77 Total other comprehensive income/(loss), net of taxes (23.05) 42.18 XI. Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year (IX+X) 1,880.89 (1,224.01) XII. Earnings per equity share (EPS) (a) Ordinary shares: (i) Basic ` 5.59 (3.73) (ii) Diluted ` 5.59 (3.73) (b) ‘A’ Ordinary shares: (i) Basic ` 5.69 (3.73) (ii) Diluted ` 5.69 (3.73) 275 276 Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements C. Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended March 31, 2019 i) Equity Share Capital (` in crores) Particulars Balance as at April 1, 2018 679.22 Proceeds from issue of shares held in abeyance Balance as at March 31, 2019 679.22 ii) Other Equity (` in crores) Particulars Securities Share Capital Debenture Capital Retained earnings Other components of equity (OCI) Total other premium based redemption redemption reserve equity payments reserve Undistributable Distributable Equity Hedging Cost of reserve (Ind AS 101) instruments reserve hedging through OCI reserve Balance as at April 1, 2018 19,213.93 2.28 1,085.94 (345.30) 627.03 (1,606.64) 16.92 (3.14) 12.99 19,004.01 Purchase of business from a (14.07) (14.07) subsidiary company Profit for the year 1,903.94 1,903.94 Other comprehensive income (43.52) 50.27 (23.26) (6.54) (23.05) /(loss) for the year Total comprehensive 1,860.42 50.27 (23.26) (6.54) 1,880.89 income/(loss) for the year Realised gain on investments 4.93 (4.93) held at fair value through Other comprehensive income Share-based payments 8.44 8.44 Balance as at March 31, 2019 19,213.93 8.44 2.28 1,085.94 (359.37) 627.03 258.71 62.26 (26.40) 6.45 20,879.27 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements D. Statement of Changes in Equity for the period ended March 31, 2018 i) Equity Share Capital (` in crores) Particulars Equity Share Capital Balance as at April 1, 2017 679.22 Proceeds from issue of 0.00 * shares held in abeyance Balance as at March 31, 2018 679.22 * less than ` 50,000/ii) Other Equity (` in crores) Particulars Securities Capital Debenture Capital Retained earnings Other components of equity (OCI) Total other premium redemption redemption reserve equity reserve reserve Undistributable Distributable Equity Hedging Cost of (Ind AS 101) instruments reserve hedging through OCI reserve Balance as at April 1, 2017 19,213.93 2.28 1,085.94 (345.30) 627.03 (351.38) (27.12) 11.26 11.38 20,228.02 Loss for the year (1,266.19) (1,266.19) Other comprehensive income 10.93 44.04 (14.40) 1.61 42.18 /(loss) for the year Total comprehensive (1,255.26) 44.04 (14.40) 1.61 (1,224.01) income/(loss) for the year Proceeds from issue of 0.00 * 0.00* shares held in abeyance Balance as at March 31, 2018 19,213.93 2.28 1,085.94 (345.30) 627.03 (1,606.64) 16.92 (3.14) 12.99 19,004.01 * less than ` 50,000/277 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Financial Statements 49. Other notes: i) Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 The information as required to be disclosed under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 has been determined to the extent such parties have been identified on the basis of information available with the Company. The amount of principal and interest outstanding during the year is given below : (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Amounts outstanding but not due as at March 31, 126.96 141.59 (b) Amounts due but unpaid as at March 31, Principal 7.16 0.69 ( c) Amounts paid after appointed date during the year Principal 56.06 95.50 (d) Amount of interest accrued and unpaid as at March 31, Interest 3.50 2.55 (e) Amount of estimated interest due and payable for the period from Interest 0.13 0.17 April 1, 2019 to actual date of payment or May 20, 2019 (whichever is earlier) ii) Expenditure incurred on Research and Development by Tata Motors Ltd on standalone basis excluding interest in the joint operations (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Revenue expenditure charged to statement of profit and loss (Product development/ 825.06 923.10 Engineering expenses, exceptional items and works, operations & other expenses) (b) Revenue expenditure capitalised to intangibles under development during the year 1,864.41 1,362.51 ( c) Capital expenditure in relation to tangible fixed assets 275.78 111.91 2,965.25 2,397.52 iii) On March 29, 2019, TAL Manufacturing Solutions Limited (TAL) has transferred the Non-aerospace business to the Company including but not limited to the transfer of (i) all the employees (ii) all assets related to non-aerospace business and (iii) all past, present and future liabilities in respect of the non-aerospace business. The transaction is between entities within the Group (common control business combination). Hence, the financial statements in respect of prior periods should be restated as if the business combination had occurred from the beginning of the earliest period presented in the financial statements. However, as the amounts are not material, previous year financial statements are not restated. (iv) The Company has a process whereby periodically all long term contracts (including derivative contracts) are assessed for material foreseeable losses. At the year end, the Company has reviewed and ensured that adequate provision as required under any law/accounting standards for material foreseeable losses on such long term contracts (including derivative contracts) has been made in books of account. As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board For B S R & Co. LLP N CHANDRASEKARAN [DIN: 00121863] N MUNJEE [DIN:00010180] GUENTER BUTSCHEK [DIN: 07427375] Chartered Accountants Chairman CEO and Managing Director Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 F S NAYAR [DIN:00003633] S B BORWANKAR [DIN: 01793948] V K JAIRATH [DIN:00391684] ED and Chief Operating Officer YEZDI NAGPOREWALLA Partner O P BHATT [DIN:00548091] P B BALAJI Membership No. 049265 Group Chief Financial Officer R SPETH [DIN:03318908] H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Directors Company Secretary Mumbai, May 20, 2019 Mumbai, May 20, 2019 278 Independent Auditors' Report INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) To the Members of Description of Key Audit Matter Tata Motors Limited 1. The impact of uncertainties due to the United Kingdom exiting the European Union (Brexit), reported by the component auditor of Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc (hereinafter Report on the Audit of Consolidated Financial referred to as JLR Group) Statements  All audits assess and challenge the reasonableness of Opinion estimates, in particular as described in the key audit matters on We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Tata the valuation of long-life intangible assets and capitalisation Motors Limited (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Holding Company”) of product engineering costs (together referred to as “the and its subsidiaries (Holding Company and its subsidiaries together key audit matters affected” and explained in section 4 and 5 referred to as “the Group”), its associates and its joint ventures and below) and related disclosures and the appropriateness of the STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) joint operations, which comprise the consolidated balance sheet going concern basis of preparation of the financial statements as at 31 March 2019, and the consolidated statement of Profit (see section 7 below). All of these depend on assessments of and Loss (including other comprehensive income), consolidated the future economic environment and the JLR Group’s future statement of changes in equity and consolidated statement of prospects and performance. cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting Brexit is one of the most significant economic events for the policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to UK and at the date of this report its effects are subject to as “the consolidated financial statements”). unprecedented levels of uncertainty of outcomes, with the full range of possible effects unknown. In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, and based on the consideration How the matter was addressed in the audit of reports of other auditors on separate financial statements of The component auditor developed a standardised approach such subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and joint operations to the consideration of the uncertainties arising from Brexit in as were audited by the other auditors, the aforesaid consolidated planning and performing the audit. Their procedures included: financial statements give the information required by the – Brexit knowledge: The component auditor considered FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) in the manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles the JLR Group’s directors’ assessment of Brexit-related generally accepted in India, of the consolidated state of affairs of sources of risk for the JLR Group’s business and financial the Group, its associates, joint ventures and joint operations as at resources compared with their own understanding of the 31 March 2019, of its consolidated loss and other comprehensive risks. They considered the directors’ plans to take action to income, consolidated changes in equity and consolidated cash mitigate the risks; flows for the year then ended. – Sensitivity analysis: When addressing the key audit matters affected and other areas that depend on forecasts, Basis for Opinion they compared the directors’ analysis to their assessment We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards of the full range of reasonably possible scenarios resulting on Auditing (SAs) specified under section 143(10) of the Act. from Brexit uncertainty and, where forecast cash flows Our responsibilities under those SAs are further described in are required to be discounted, considered adjustments to the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated discount rates for the level of remaining uncertainty; Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by – Assessing transparency: Other than assessing individual the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, and we have disclosures as part of their procedures on the key audit fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with matters affected, the component auditor considered all the provisions of the Act. We believe that the audit evidence we of the Brexit related disclosures together, comparing the have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis overall picture against their understanding of the risks. for our opinion.  However, no audit should be expected to predict the unknowable factors or all possible future implications for a Key Audit Matters company and this is particularly the case in relation to Brexit. Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment and based on the consideration of reports of other Description of Key Audit Matter auditors on separate financial statements of components 2.  Impairment testing of long-life property, plant and audited by them, were of most significance in our audit of equipment and intangible assets of passenger vehicles cash the consolidated financial statements of the current period. generating unit These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming  The Holding Company has identified passenger vehicle our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion segment as a separate cash generating unit (‘CGU’). on these matters. The history of losses in the passenger vehicle business led the 279 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Holding Company to perform an impairment assessment as –  FVLCD assumptions: Compared the market multiple used at 31 March 2019. in the FVLCD to comparative companies and to market data sources with the assistance of specialists. The annual impairment testing of passenger vehicle CGU involves significant judgements and estimates in assessing the Description of Key Audit Matter recoverable value. The recoverable value is considered to be 3. Capitalisation of product development cost by the Holding the higher of the Holding Company’s assessment of the value Company in use (VIU) and fair value less cost of disposal (FVLCD). Product development costs incurred on new vehicle platforms, There is a risk over the Holding Company’s assessment and engines, transaxles and new vehicles are recognised as measurement of impairment due to: intangible assets only when technical feasibility has been • VIU: uncertainties involved in forecasting of cash flows, established, the Holding Company has committed technical including key assumptions such as future sales volumes, and commercial resources to complete the development and prices, margins, overheads, growth rates and weighted use the intangible asset and it is probable that the asset will average cost of capital. generate future economic benefits. • FVLCD: uncertainties involved in identifying appropriate  The costs capitalised during the year include the cost of comparable companies, estimating their market multiple technical know-how expenses, materials, direct labour, and estimating the depreciated replacement cost inspecting and testing charges, designing cost, software of fixed assets. expenses and directly attributable overhead expenditure incurred up to the date the intangible asset is available for use (Refer note 2{r} of the consolidated financial statements) including interest capitalised. How the matter was addressed in the audit The capitalisation of product development cost is considered The audit procedures included: to be a key audit matter given that the assessment of the capitalisation criteria set out in Ind AS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’ –  Identification: Obtained an understanding of Holding is made at an early stage of product development and there Company’s evaluation of identification of passenger are inherent challenges with accurately predicting the future vehicles segment as a cash generating unit; economic benefit, which must be assessed as ‘probable’ for –  Controls: Tested management review controls on the capitalisation to commence. There is a risk therefore that assumptions including underlying cash flow forecasts development cost may get capitalised where the relevant and impact of macro-economic factors on the forecasts. criteria has not been met. Tested management’s review of the discounted cash  (Refer note 2{p} and note 6 of the consolidated financial flow calculations performed to support the impairment statements) assessment including benchmarking of key assumptions (discount rates, growth rate) and assessment of How the matter was addressed in the audit sensitivities; The audit procedures included: –  Completeness and accuracy of the VIU model: Obtained –  Controls: Tested the Holding Company’s design and valuation computation performed by the Holding implementation and operating effectiveness of controls Company for its impairment assessment and agreed the around initiation of capitalisation of the product mathematical accuracy of the VIU by recalculating the development cost including: cash flow build up; •  anagement review controls over calculations of the m –  Cash flow forecast assumptions: Involved independent future economic benefit of the projects; valuation specialists to assist in the evaluation of the assumptions (discount rate which included comparing •  bserved management’s validation of relevant data o the weighted average cost of capital with sector averages elements and benchmarking the assumptions; for the relevant markets in which the CGU operates • e  valuating management’s assessment of whether and long-term growth rate) and challenged the key costs recorded meet the capitalisation criteria; assumptions and judgements within the build up of the cash flow forecast (such as future sales volumes and •  bserved management’s assessment of sensitivity of o prices, margins, overheads etc.) and methodologies used the impact of the changes in key assumptions; by the Holding Company and its experts; • d  iscussed with senior management and challenged –  Sensitivity analysis: Assessed the sensitivity of the management assumptions including key inputs such outcome of impairment assessment to changes in key as volumes, expected revenues and associated costs assumptions such as volumes and margins; on projects which have lower headroom. 280 INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) –  Test of details: On selected sample of amounts – Benchmarking assumptions: Compared the JLR Group’s capitalised, we tested: discount rate and long-term growth rate calculation to external benchmark data and comparative companies’ • costs incurred towards projects; rates and reperformed the discount rate calculation using • inspected the technical team’s approvals for initiation the Capital Asset Pricing Model with the assistance of their of capitalisation; valuation specialists; • r eviewed the central cost allocation for the year and – Sensitivity analysis: Performed a sensitivity analysis determined costs capitalised are ‘directly attributable’ over the reasonably possible combination of changes in including the interest capitalised. the forecasts including the impact of potential downside scenarios including a hard Brexit, US tariffs and a Description of Key audit matter slower-than-expected resurgence in the China market; 4. Impairment testing of long-life intangible assets, reported by STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) – Comparing valuations: Assessed the JLR Group’s the component auditor of JLR Group reconciliation between the estimated share of the Holding The JLR Group holds a significant amount of long-life intangible Company’s market valuation and its VIU and FVLCD; assets in a separate cash generating unit. The weak trading Benchmarking assumptions: Compared the earnings –  performance in China and the falling market capitalisation of multiple used in the FVLCD to comparative companies and the Holding Company, led JLR Group to perform an impairment to market data sources with the assistance of specialists; assessment at both 31 December 2018 and 31 March 2019. – Assessing transparency: Assessed the completeness and The JLR Group recognised an impairment of `27,837.91 crores accuracy of the disclosures in the consolidated financial during the year ended 31 March 2019 in connection with statements and ensured that the disclosure reflects the the aforesaid CGU. impact of reasonably possible downside assumptions on The recoverable value is considered to be the higher of the JLR the amount of impairment. Group’s assessment of the value in use (“VIU”) methodology Description of Key audit matter and fair value less costs of disposal (“FVLCD”) methodology. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) There is a risk over the JLR Group’s assessment and 5. Capitalisation of product engineering costs, reported by the measurement of impairment and therefore the impairment of component auditor of JLR Group long-life intangible assets due to: The application of the capitalisation criteria set out in IAS 38 –  VIU Model using optimistic expectations of key by the JLR Group involves key judgements around the date assumptions such as future sales volumes, gross margins, capitalisation commences. overheads and capital expenditure. As a result of noting that the JLR Group capitalises a high –  FVLCD Model using optimistic adjustments to those proportion of costs related to its product development spend cashflows used within the VIU model to reflect a market compared to its peers and the JLR group recognising an valuation of the JLR Group. impairment charge of `27,837.91 crores over long-life assets during the year, the component auditor assessed that there is  (Refer note 2{r} and note 7 of the consolidated a risk of material misstatement. financial statements) The application of the capitalisation criteria set out in IAS 38 by How the matter was addressed in the audit the JLR Group involves key judgements whether the nature of The audit procedures applied by the auditor of the component costs capitalised are directly attributable. (JLR Group) included: (Refer note 2{p} and note 6 of the consolidated financial statements) Historical accuracy: Evaluated historical forecasting –  How the matter was addressed in the audit accuracy of key inputs, including cash forecasts by comparing the historical forecasts to the actual results; The audit procedures applied by the auditor of the component (JLR Group) included: – Historical comparisons: Assessed appropriateness of JLR Group’s assumptions used in the cash flow projections by – Controls: Tested the control over the JLR Group’s comparing those, where appropriate, to historical trends in retrospective review of historically forecast material volumes and margins. production costs at the point capitalisation commenced against actual costs observed in manufacture, being a – Benchmarking assumptions: Assessed appropriateness key input to management’s assessment of whether future of the JLR Group’s assumptions used in the cash flow economic benefit of development projects is probable; and projections by comparing to externally derived data in the control over the JLR Group’s judgements as to whether relation to key inputs such as sales volumes and cost indirect personnel and overhead costs are considered inflation and where appropriate taking into consideration directly attributable. historical trends in volumes and margins. 281 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year –  Benchmarking assumptions: Compared the assumptions That judgement is based on an evaluation of the inherent applied in JLR Group’s assessment of economic viability risks to the JLR Group’s business model, in particular, risks to externally derived data in relation to key inputs such as associated with political uncertainty, and how those risks projected volume sales; might affect the JLR Group’s financial resources or ability to continue operations over a period of at least a year from the –  Assessing forecasts: Assessed the JLR Group’s economic date of approval of the financial statements of the JLR Group. viability calculation by comparing relevant factors to source documentation, application of downside  The risks most likely to adversely affect the JLR Group’s sensitivities to stress test assumptions; and work over the available financial resources over this period were: JLR Group’s overall forecasts; • The impact of trading disputes between the US and China –  Historical comparison: Performed a retrospective review and the US and EU (leading to potential tariff changes), to compare and assess previous economic viability which are disrupting sales behaviour and consumer assumptions against the actual outturn; confidence in China and the US, and with the potential to cause significant costs to the export of goods; – Comparing valuations: Compared the volumes used in the economic viability forecast produced by the JLR Group to • The impact of Brexit on the JLR Group’s supply chain the value in use model used in the impairment of long-life and on the export of goods by not maintaining free and assets’ assessment for consistency; frictionless trade. Description of Key audit matter How the matter was addressed in the audit 6. Valuation of pension liabilities, as reported by the component The audit procedures applied by the auditor of the component auditor of JLR Group (JLR Group) included: Small changes in the key assumptions applied to the valuation –  Funding assessment: Evaluated JLR Group’s of the liabilities being the discount rate, inflation rate and financing terms; mortality / life expectancy used to value the JLR Group’s –  Key dependency assessment: Assessed sufficiency of pension obligation (before deducting scheme assets) would JLR Group’s resources to repay the debt falling due in have a significant effect on the JLR Group’s net pension deficit. at least the 18 months from the date of approval of the The risk is that these assumptions are inappropriate resulting financial statements. in an inappropriate valuation of scheme liabilities. –  Historical accuracy: Evaluated historical forecasting (Refer note 2{s} and note 37 of the consolidated financial statements) accuracy of key inputs, including cash forecasts by How the matter was addressed in the audit comparing to the actual results. The audit procedures applied by the auditor of the component –  Historical comparisons: Assessed appropriateness (JLR Group) included: of assumptions used in the cash flow projections by comparing those, where appropriate, to historical trends in –  Controls: Tested the controls over the assumptions applied volumes and margins. in the valuation and inspected the JLR Group’s annual validation of the assumptions used by its actuarial expert. –  Benchmarking assumptions: Assessed appropriateness Tested the controls operating over selection and monitoring of assumptions used in the cash flow projections by of its actuarial expert for competence and objectivity; comparing to externally derived data in relation to key inputs such as sales volumes and cost inflation and where –  Benchmarking assumptions: Challenged, with the support appropriate taking into consideration historical trends in of their own actuarial specialists, the key assumptions volumes and margins. applied to the valuation of the liabilities, being the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality/ life expectancy against –  Sensitivity analysis: Considered sensitivities over the externally derived data; level of available financial resources indicated by the JLR Group’s financial forecasts taking account of reasonably –  Assessing transparency: Considered the adequacy of possible (but not unrealistic) adverse effects that could the Group’s disclosures in the consolidated financial arise from these risks individually and collectively, such statements in respect of the sensitivity of the deficit to as increased tariffs as a result of Brexit, the US-EU and these assumptions. US-China trade disputes and tariff challenges; Description of Key audit matter Other Information 7. Going concern, as reported by the component auditor The Holding Company’s management and Board of Directors of JLR Group are responsible for the other information. The other information The financial statements of JLR Group have been prepared on comprises the information included in the Holding Company’s a Going Concern basis. annual report, but does not include the financial statements and our auditors’ report thereon. 282 INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not Auditors' Responsibilities for the Audit of the cover the other information and we do not express any form of Consolidated Financial Statements assurance conclusion thereon. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from and based on the work done/ audit report of other auditors, we fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) to report in this regard. consolidated financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the with Governance for the Consolidated Financial audit. We also: Statements The Holding Company’s management and Board of Directors • I dentify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the are responsible for the preparation and presentation of these consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or consolidated financial statements in term of the requirements of error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to the Act that give a true and fair view of the consolidated state of those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and affairs, consolidated profit/ loss and other comprehensive income, appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is cash flows of the Group including its associates and joint ventures higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve and joint operations in accordance with the accounting principles collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, generally accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting or the override of internal control. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Standards (Ind AS) specified under section 133 of the Act. •  btain an understanding of internal control relevant to the O The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate Group and of its associates and joint ventures and joint operations in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the company has adequate internal financial controls with the assets of each company and for preventing and detecting reference to financial statements in place and the operating frauds and other irregularities; the selection and application of effectiveness of such controls. appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation •  valuate the appropriateness of accounting policies used E and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related operating effectively for ensuring accuracy and completeness of the disclosures made by management. accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of •  onclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the C the consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view going concern basis of accounting in preparation of consolidated and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or financial statements and, based on the audit evidence obtained, error, which have been used for the purpose of preparation of the whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or consolidated financial statements by the Directors of the Holding conditions that may cast significant doubt on the appropriateness Company, as aforesaid. of this assumption. If we conclude that a material uncertainty In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the respective exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to management and Board of Directors of the companies included in the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements the Group and of its associates, joint ventures and joint operations or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. are responsible for assessing the ability of each company to Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or related to going concern and using the going concern basis of conditions may cause the Group (company and subsidiaries) accounting unless management either intends to liquidate as well as associates and joint ventures and joint operations to the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic cease to continue as a going concern. alternative but to do so. •  valuate the overall presentation, structure and content of the E The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, the Group and of its associates, joint ventures and joint operations and whether the consolidated financial statements represent is responsible for overseeing the financial reporting process the underlying transactions and events in a manner that of each company. achieves fair presentation. 283 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year •  btain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the O been audited by us. These financial statements / financial financial information of such entities or business activities information have been audited by other auditors whose within the Group and its associates and joint ventures and joint reports have been furnished to us by the Management and our operations to express an opinion on the consolidated financial opinion on the consolidated financial statements, in so far as statements, of which we are the independent auditors. We are it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of of these subsidiaries, step-down subsidiaries, joint operation, the audit of financial information of such entities. For the other associates and jointly controlled entities is based solely on the entities included in the consolidated financial statements, reports of the other auditors. which have been audited by other auditors, such other Certain of these subsidiaries and step-down subsidiaries are auditors remain responsible for the direction, supervision and located outside India whose financial statements and other performance of the audits carried out by them. We remain financial information have been prepared in accordance with solely responsible for our audit opinion. Our responsibilities in accounting principles generally accepted in their respective this regard are further described in para (a) of the section titled countries and which have been audited by other auditors ‘Other Matters’ in this audit report. under generally accepted auditing standards applicable We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us along with in their respective countries. The Holding Company's the consideration of audit reports of the other auditors referred Management has converted the financial statements of such to in sub-paragraph (a) of the Other Matters paragraph below, is subsidiaries and step-down subsidiaries located outside sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion India from accounting principles generally accepted in their on the consolidated financial statements. respective countries to accounting principles generally accepted in India. We have audited these conversion We communicate with those charged with governance of adjustments made by the Holding Company's Management. the Holding Company and such other entities included in the Our opinion in so far as it relates to the balances and affairs consolidated financial statements of which we are the independent of such subsidiaries and step-down subsidiaries located auditors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope outside India is based on the reports of other auditors and the and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including conversion adjustments prepared by the Management of the any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify Holding Company and audited by us. during our audit. (b)  The financial statements / financial information of four We also provide those charged with governance with a statement subsidiaries and six step-down subsidiaries, whose financial that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding statements / financial information reflect total assets of independence, and to communicate with them all relationships `19,393.52 crores as at 31 March 2019, total revenues and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our of `1,548.83 crores and net cash flows amounting to independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. `181.42 crores for the year ended on that date, as considered From the matters communicated with those charged with in the consolidated financial statements have not been audited governance, we determine those matters that were of most either by us or by other auditors. The consolidated financial significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements statements also include the Group’s share of net profit (and of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. other comprehensive income) of `3.41 crores for the year We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or ended 31 March 2019, as considered in the consolidated regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, financial statements, in respect of one associate and one in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter jointly controlled entity, whose financial statements / financial should not be communicated in our report because the adverse information have not been audited by us or by other auditors. consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to These unaudited financial statements / financial information outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. have been furnished to us by the Management and our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, in so far as Other Matters it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect (a) We did not audit the financial statements / financial information of these subsidiaries, step-down subsidiaries, associate and of three subsidiaries, seventy-seven step-down subsidiaries jointly controlled entity, is based solely on such unaudited and one joint operation, whose financial statements / financial financial statements / financial information. In our opinion information reflect total assets of `225,217.80 crores as at and according to the information and explanations given to 31 March 2019, total revenues of `234,568.66 crores and us by the Management, these financial statements / financial net cash flows amounting to `5,632.82 crores for the year information are not material to the Group. ended on that date, as considered in the consolidated financial Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, and our statements. The consolidated financial statements also include report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements below, is the Group's share of net profit (and other comprehensive not modified in respect of the above matters with respect to our income) of `22.16 crores for the year ended 31 March 2019, reliance on the work done and the reports of the other auditors in respect of six associates and two jointly controlled entities, and the financial statements / financial information certified by whose financial statements / financial information have not the Management. 284 INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements i.  The consolidated financial statements disclose the A. As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit impact of pending litigations as at 31 March 2019 on and on the consideration of reports of the other auditors on the consolidated financial position of the Group, its joint separate financial statements of such subsidiaries, step-down operations, associates and jointly controlled entities. subsidiaries, joint operations, associates, and jointly controlled Refer note 38 to the consolidated financial statements. entities as were audited by other auditors, as noted in the ‘Other ii.  Provision has been made in the consolidated financial Matters’ paragraph, we report, to the extent applicable, that: statements, as required under the applicable law or Ind AS, a)  We have sought and obtained all the information and for material foreseeable losses, on long-term contracts explanations which to the best of our knowledge and including derivative contracts. Refer note 46(j) to the belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit of the consolidated financial statements in respect of such items aforesaid consolidated financial statements. as it relates to the Group, its joint operations, associates and jointly controlled entities. STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated iii. There has been no delay in transferring amounts to the financial statements have been kept so far as it appears Investor Education and Protection Fund by the Holding from our examination of those books and the reports of the Company or its subsidiary companies, joint operations, other auditors. associates and jointly controlled entities incorporated in India during the year ended 31 March 2019. c) The consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of Profit and Loss (including other comprehensive income), iv. The disclosures in the consolidated financial statements the consolidated statement of changes in equity and regarding holdings as well as dealings in specified bank the consolidated statement of cash flows dealt with by notes during the period from 8 November 2016 to 30 this Report are in agreement with the relevant books of December 2016 have not been made in the financial account maintained for the purpose of preparation of the statements since they do not pertain to the financial year consolidated financial statements. ended 31 March 2019. d)  In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial C. With respect to the matter to be included in the Auditors’ report under section 197(16): FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) statements comply with the Ind AS specified under section 133 of the Act. In our opinion and according to the information and explanations e) On the basis of the written representations received from given to us and based on the reports of the statutory auditors the directors of the Holding Company as on 31 March 2019 of such subsidiary companies, joint operations, associates and taken on record by the Board of Directors of the Holding jointly controlled entities incorporated in India which were Company and the reports of the statutory auditors of its not audited by us, the remuneration paid during the current subsidiary companies, joint operations, associates, and year by the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies, jointly controlled entities incorporated in India, none of joint operations, associates and jointly controlled entities to the directors of the Group companies, its joint operations, its directors is in accordance with the provisions of Section associates, and jointly controlled entities incorporated 197 of the Act, as applicable. The remuneration paid to any in India is disqualified as on 31 March 2019 from being director by the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies, appointed as a director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act. joint operations, associates and jointly controlled entities is not in excess of the limit laid down under Section 197 of f)  With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial the Act. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has not prescribed controls with reference to financial statements of other details under Section 197(16) which are required to be the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies, joint commented upon by us. operations, associates and jointly controlled entities incorporated in India and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure A”. For B S R & Co. LLP B.  With respect to the other matters to be included in the Chartered Accountants Auditors’ Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies Firm's Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 (Audit and Auditor’s) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to Yezdi Nagporewalla us and based on the consideration of the reports of the other Place: Mumbai Partner auditors on separate financial statements of the subsidiaries, Date: 20 May 2019 Membership No: 049265 joint operations, associates and jointly controlled entities, as noted in the ‘Other Matters’ paragraph: 285 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Annexure A to the Independent Auditors' Report 31 March 2019 Report on the Internal Financial Controls with Section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of reference to the aforesaid Consolidated Financial internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial Statements under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of statements. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the (Referred to in paragraph A(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date) internal financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements were established and maintained and if such controls Opinion operated effectively in all material respects. In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit statements of the Company as of and for the year ended 31 evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls March 2019, we have audited the internal financial controls with with reference to consolidated financial statements and their reference to consolidated financial statements of Tata Motors operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls Limited (hereinafter referred to as “the Holding Company”) and with reference to consolidated financial statements included such companies incorporated in India under the Companies Act, obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls with 2013 which are its subsidiary companies, its joint operations, its reference to consolidated financial statements, assessing the associates and its jointly controlled entities, as of that date. risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating In our opinion, the Holding Company and such companies the design and operating effectiveness of the internal controls incorporated in India which are its subsidiary companies, its joint based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on operations, its associates and its jointly controlled entities, have, the auditors’ judgment, including the assessment of the risks of in all material respects, adequate internal financial controls material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, with reference to consolidated financial statements and such whether due to fraud or error. internal financial controls were operating effectively as at We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the 31 March 2019, based on the internal financial controls with audit evidence obtained by the other auditors of the relevant joint reference to consolidated financial statements criteria established operation, associates and jointly controlled entity in terms of by such companies considering the essential components of such their reports referred to in the Other Matter paragraph below, is internal controls stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute on the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated of Chartered Accountants of India (the “Guidance Note”). financial statements. Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference Controls to consolidated financial statements The respective Company’s management and the Board of Directors A company’s internal financial control with reference to are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial consolidated financial statements is a process designed to controls with reference to consolidated financial statements based provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial on the criteria established by the respective company considering reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting Note. These responsibilities include the design, implementation principles. A company’s internal financial control with reference and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that to consolidated financial statements includes those policies and were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in conduct of its business, including adherence to the respective reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with financial information, as required under the Companies Act, 2013 generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and (hereinafter referred to as “the Act”). expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company; Auditors’ Responsibility and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal financial timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition controls with reference to consolidated financial statements of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the financial statements. Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing, prescribed under 286 INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls Other matter with reference to consolidated financial statements Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial with reference to consolidated financial statements, including controls with reference to consolidated financial statements in the possibility of collusion or improper management override so far as it relates to one joint operation, two associates and one of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may jointly controlled entity, which are companies incorporated in India, occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation is based solely on the corresponding reports of the auditors of of the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated such companies incorporated in India. Our opinion is not modified financial statements to future periods are subject to the risk that in respect of this matter. the internal financial controls with reference to consolidated For B S R & Co. LLP financial statements may become inadequate because of changes STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Chartered Accountants in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 procedures may deteriorate. Yezdi Nagporewalla Mumbai Partner 20 May 2019 Membership No: 049265 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) 287 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Consolidated Balance Sheet (` in crores) As at As at Notes March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 I. ASSETS (1) NON-CURRENT ASSETS (a) Property, plant and equipment 3 72,619.86 73,867.84 (b) Capital work-in-progress 8,538.17 16,142.94 ( c) Goodwill 5 747.87 116.45 (d) Other intangible assets 6 (a) 37,866.74 47,429.57 (e) Intangible assets under development 6 (b) 23,345.67 23,890.56 (f) Investment in equity accounted investees 8 4,743.38 4,887.89 (g) Financial assets: (i) Other investments 9 1,497.51 763.76 (ii) Finance receivables 17 22,073.17 15,479.53 (iii) Loans and advances 11 407.42 495.41 (iv) Other financial assets 12 2,809.18 4,563.87 (h) Deferred tax assets (net) 21 5,151.11 4,158.70 (i) Non-current tax assets (net) 1,024.56 899.90 (j) Other non-current assets 19 2,938.73 2,681.25 183,763.37 195,377.67 (2) CURRENT ASSETS (a) Inventories 13 39,013.73 42,137.63 (b) Investment in equity accounted investees (held for sale) 8 ( c) 591.50 497.35 ( c) Financial assets: (i) Other investments 10 8,938.33 14,663.75 (ii) Trade receivables 14 18,996.17 19,893.30 (iii) Cash and cash equivalents 15 21,559.80 14,716.75 (iv) Bank balances other than (iii) above 16 11,089.02 19,897.16 (v) Finance receivables 17 11,551.52 8,401.65 (vi) Loans and advances 11 1,268.70 1,451.14 (vii) Other financial assets 12 3,213.56 3,857.64 (d) Current tax assets (net) 184.37 208.91 (e) Assets classified as held-for-sale 46 (b) 162.24 2,585.19 (f) Other current assets 20 6,862.22 7,662.37 123,431.16 135,972.84 TOTAL ASSETS 307,194.53 331,350.51 II. EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY (a) Equity share capital 22 679.22 679.22 (b) Other equity * 23 59,500.34 94,748.69 Equity attributable to owners of Tata Motors Ltd 60,179.56 95,427.91 Non-controlling interests 523.06 525.06 60,702.62 95,952.97 LIABILITIES (1) NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES (a) Financial liabilities: (i) Borrowings 25 70,973.67 61,199.50 (ii) Other financial liabilities 27 2,792.71 2,739.14 (b) Provisions 29 11,854.85 10,948.44 ( c) Deferred tax liabilities (net) 21 1,491.04 6,125.80 (d) Other non-current liabilities 30 13,922.21 11,165.19 101,034.48 92,178.07 (2) CURRENT LIABILITIES (a) Financial liabilities: (i) Borrowings 26 20,150.26 16,794.85 (ii) Trade payables (a) Total outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises 130.69 144.24 (b) Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro and small enterprises 68,382.84 71,894.17 (iii) Acceptances 3,177.14 4,901.42 (iv) Other financial liabilities 28 32,855.65 31,267.49 (b) Provisions 29 10,196.75 7,953.50 ( c) Current tax liabilities (net) 1,017.64 1,559.07 (d) Liabilities directly associated with Assets held-for-sale 46 (b) 1,070.18 (e) Other current liabilities 31 9,546.46 7,634.55 145,457.43 143,219.47 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 307,194.53 331,350.51 * Includes other comprehensive income relating to assets held for sale amounting to ` (6.64) crores as at March 31, 2018. See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements In terms of our report attached For and on behalf of the Board For B S R & Co. LLP N CHANDRASEKARAN [DIN: 00121863] N MUNJEE [DIN:00010180] GUENTER BUTSCHEK [DIN: 07427375] Chartered Accountants Chairman CEO and Managing Director Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 F S NAYAR [DIN:00003633] S B BORWANKAR [DIN: 01793948] V K JAIRATH [DIN:00391684] ED and Chief Operating Officer YEZDI NAGPOREWALLA Partner O P BHATT [DIN:00548091] P B BALAJI Membership No. 049265 Group Chief Financial Officer R SPETH [DIN:03318908] H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Directors Company Secretary Mumbai, May 20, 2019 Mumbai, May 20, 2019 288 Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) (` in crores) Notes Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 I. Revenue from operations 32 (a) Revenue 299,190.59 289,386.25 (b) Other Operating Revenues 2,747.81 2,954.39 Total revenue from operations 301,938.40 292,340.64 II. Other income (includes Government grants) 33 2,965.31 3,957.59 III. Total Income (I+II) 304,903.71 296,298.23 IV. Expenses: (a) Cost of materials consumed (i) Cost of materials consumed 182,254.45 173,371.19 (ii) Basis adjustment on hedge accounted derivatives (1,245.37) (1,378.60) (b) Purchase of products for sale 13,258.83 15,903.99 ( c) Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and products for sale 2,053.28 (2,046.58) (d) Excise duty 790.16 (e) Employee benefits expense 34 33,243.87 30,300.09 (f) Finance costs 35 5,758.60 4,681.79 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) (g) Foreign exchange (gain)/loss (net) 905.91 (1,185.28) (h) Depreciation and amortisation expense 23,590.63 21,553.59 (i) Product development/Engineering expenses 4,224.57 3,531.87 (j) Other expenses 36 62,238.12 60,184.21 (k) Amount transferred to capital and other account (19,659.59) (18,588.09) Total Expenses (IV) 306,623.30 287,118.34 V. Profit before exceptional items and tax (III-IV) (1,719.59) 9,179.89 VI. Exceptional Items: (a) Defined benefit pension plan amendment past service cost/(credit) 46 (d) 147.93 (3,609.01) (b) Employee separation cost 46 (f) 1,371.45 3.68 ( c) Provision for / impairment of capital work-in-progress and intangibles under development (net) 46 ( c) 180.97 1,641.38 (d) Provision for costs of closure of operation of a subsidiary company 46 (e) 381.01 (e) Provision for impairment in Jaguar Land Rover 7 27,837.91 (f) Profit on sale of investment in a subsidiary company 46 (g) (376.98) (g) Others 46 (i) 109.27 (11.19) VII. Profit/(Loss) before tax (V-VI) (31,371.15) 11,155.03 VIII. Tax expense/(credit) (net): 21 (a) Current tax (including Minimum Alternate Tax) 2,225.23 3,303.46 (b) Deferred tax (4,662.68) 1,038.47 Total tax expense/(credit) (2,437.45) 4,341.93 IX. Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations (VII-VIII) (28,933.70) 6,813.10 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) X. Share of profit of joint ventures and associates (net) 8 209.50 2,278.26 XI. Profit/(loss) for the year (IX+X) (28,724.20) 9,091.36 Attributable to: (a) Shareholders of the Company (28,826.23) 8,988.91 (b) Non-controlling interests 102.03 102.45 XII. Other comprehensive income/(loss): (A) (i) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: (a) Remeasurement gains and (losses) on defined benefit obligations (net) (2,561.26) 4,676.51 (b) Equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income (net) 35.60 42.86 ( c) Share of other comprehensive income in equity accounted investees (net) 11.15 (7.16) (d) Gains and (losses) in cash flow hedges of forecast inventory purchases (1,746.24) 1,227.74 (ii) Income tax (expense)/credit relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 697.41 (991.02) (B) (i) Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss: (a) Exchange differences in translating the financial statements of foreign operations (2,010.22) 9,518.15 (b) Gains and (losses) in cash flow hedges 52.82 18,069.71 ( c) Share of other comprehensive income in equity accounted investees (net) (58.61) 429.41 (ii) Income tax (expense)/credit relating to items that will be reclassified to profit or loss 3.58 (3,403.69) Total other comprehensive income/(loss) for the period (net of tax) (5,575.77) 29,562.51 Attributable to: (a) Shareholders of the Company (5,575.50) 29,535.61 (b) Non-controlling interests (0.27) 26.90 XIII. Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the period (net of tax) (XI+XII) (34,299.97) 38,653.87 Attributable to: (a) Shareholders of the Company (34,401.73) 38,524.52 (b) Non-controlling interests 101.76 129.35 XIV. Earnings per equity share (EPS) 44 (a) Ordinary shares (face value of ₹2 each): (i) Basic EPS ` (84.89) 26.46 (ii) Diluted EPS ` (84.89) 26.45 (b) ‘A’ Ordinary shares (face value of ₹2 each): (i) Basic EPS ` (84.89) 26.56 (ii) Diluted EPS ` (84.89) 26.55 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements In terms of our report attached For and on behalf of the Board For B S R & Co. LLP N CHANDRASEKARAN [DIN: 00121863] N MUNJEE [DIN:00010180] GUENTER BUTSCHEK [DIN: 07427375] Chartered Accountants Chairman CEO and Managing Director Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 F S NAYAR [DIN:00003633] S B BORWANKAR [DIN: 01793948] V K JAIRATH [DIN:00391684] ED and Chief Operating Officer YEZDI NAGPOREWALLA Partner O P BHATT [DIN:00548091] P B BALAJI Membership No. 049265 Group Chief Financial Officer R SPETH [DIN:03318908] H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Directors Company Secretary Mumbai, May 20, 2019 Mumbai, May 20, 2019 289 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Consolidated Cash Flow Statement (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Cash flows from operating activities: Profit/(Loss) for the year (28,724.20) 9,091.36 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation expense 23,590.63 21,553.59 Allowances for finance receivables 320.24 43.30 Allowances for trade and other receivables 214.19 14.57 Inventory write-down 608.63 607.42 Provision for costs of closure of operations of a subsidiary company 381.01 Provision for impairment in Jaguar Land Rover 27,837.91 Defined benefit pension plan amendment past service cost/(credit) 147.93 (3,609.01) Employee separation cost 1,367.22 Exceptional itemsOthers 109.27 (11.19) Marked-to-market on investments measured at fair value through profit or loss (238.54) (32.05) Loss on sale of assets/impairment (including assets scrapped/written off) (net) 1,106.56 2,382.55 Profit on sale of investments (net) (128.61) (129.26) Profit on sale of investment in a subsidiary (376.98) Gain on fair value of below market interest loans (13.37) (6.02) Fair value gain on disposal of joint venture (19.06) Share of profit of joint ventures and associates (net) (209.50) (2,278.26) Tax expense (net) (2,437.45) 4,341.93 Finance costs 5,758.60 4,681.79 Interest income (786.46) (711.81) Dividend income (17.28) (15.77) Foreign exchange (gain) / loss (net) 252.63 (2,591.80) Cash flows from operating activities before changes in following assets and liabilities 28,762.43 33,312.28 Finance receivables (10,063.79) (6,361.22) Trade receivables 954.70 (4,326.58) Loans and advances and other financial assets 230.13 (3,343.38) Other current and non-current assets 294.88 151.25 Inventories 2,068.64 (3,560.43) Trade payables and acceptances (4,683.69) 7,320.34 Other current and non-current liabilities 4,365.55 (4,756.95) Other financial liabilities (30.01) 1,541.98 Provisions (348.66) 6,901.29 Cash generated from operations 21,550.18 26,878.58 Income tax paid (net) (2,659.43) (3,021.16) Net cash from operating activities 18,890.75 23,857.42 Cash flows from investing activities: Payments for property, plant and equipment (17,419.55) (19,865.43) Payments for other intangible assets (17,883.97) (15,213.49) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 67.23 30.30 Investments in Mutual Fund (purchased)/sold (net) 5,639.02 2,361.09 Excess of cash acquired on acquisition of subsidiary company 14.45 Investment in equity accounted investees (9.31) (4.21) Investments in others (130.01) (328.78) Loans given to others (3.42) Loans given to joint ventures and associates (3.75) Proceeds from sale of investments in a subsidiary company 532.96 Proceeds from sale of investments in other companies 5.18 19.43 Interest received 760.52 690.47 290 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Dividend received 17.28 15.77 Dividend received from equity accounted investees 214.98 1,781.64 Deposits with financial institution (500.03) Deposits/restricted deposits with banks (24,331.07) (48,260.05) Realisation of deposits/restricted deposits with banks 33,342.59 52,557.20 (Increase) / decrease in short term Inter-corporate deposits (1.98) Payments for acquisition of minority stake of subsidiary (7.76) Net cash used in investing activities (19,711.09) (26,201.61) Cash flows from financing activities: STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Proceeds from issue of shares held in abeyance (net of issue expenses) 0.00* Proceeds from long-term borrowings 26,101.86 15,145.21 Repayment of long-term borrowings (13,345.89) (10,587.25) Proceeds from short-term borrowings 20,112.46 15,008.73 Repayment of short-term borrowings (21,852.13) (19,376.62) Net change in other short-term borrowings (with maturity up to three months) 4,913.90 7,328.24 Dividend paid to non-controlling interests shareholders of subsidiaries (including dividend distribution tax) (94.74) (95.96) Interest paid [including discounting charges paid `1,201.20 crores (March 31, 2018 `918.90 crores)] (7,005.09) (5,410.64) Net cash from financing activities 8,830.37 2,011.71 Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 8,010.03 (332.48) Cash and cash equivalents as at April 01, (opening balance) 14,716.75 13,986.76 Reversal of/(classified as) held for sale 243.94 (243.94) Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents (1,410.92) 1,306.41 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Cash and cash equivalents as at March 31, (closing balance) 21,559.80 14,716.75 Non-cash transactions: Liability towards property, plant and equipment and intangible assets purchased on credit/deferred credit 7,286.32 8,346.54  Increase/(decrease) in liabilities arising from financing activities on account of non-cash transactions: Exchange differences 1,120.15 2,768.03 Classified as held for sale (142.55) Amortisation of prepaid discounting charges 158.19 202.70 See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements * less than `50,000/In terms of our report attached For and on behalf of the Board For B S R & Co. LLP N CHANDRASEKARAN [DIN: 00121863] N MUNJEE [DIN:00010180] GUENTER BUTSCHEK [DIN: 07427375] Chartered Accountants Chairman CEO and Managing Director Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 F S NAYAR [DIN:00003633] S B BORWANKAR [DIN: 01793948] V K JAIRATH [DIN:00391684] ED and Chief Operating Officer YEZDI NAGPOREWALLA Partner O P BHATT [DIN:00548091] P B BALAJI Membership No. 049265 Group Chief Financial Officer R SPETH [DIN:03318908] H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Directors Company Secretary Mumbai, May 20, 2019 Mumbai, May 20, 2019 291 292 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended March 31, 2019 A. Equity Share Capital (` in crores) Particulars Equity Share Capital Balance as at April 1, 2018 679.22 Proceeds from issue of shares held in abeyance Balance as at March 31, 2019 679.22 B. Other Equity (` in crores) Particulars Reserves Other components of equity Securities ShareCapital Debenture Reserve for Special Earned Capital Retained Equity Hedging Cost of Currency Attributable NonTotal Premium based redemption redemption research reserve surplus Reserve earnings instruments Reserve hedging translation to Owners of controlling other payments reserve reserve and human reserve through Other reserve reserve Tata Motors interests equity reserve resource Comprehensive Limited development Income Balance as at April 1, 2018 18,891.93 2.28 1,085.94 200.74 379.43 44.06 1,164.20 71,818.12 22.82 (3,626.04) 143.98 4,621.23 94,748.69 525.06 95,273.75 Effect of transition to Ind AS 115 (41.80) (41.80) (41.80) Profit/(loss) for the year (28,826.23) (28,826.23) 102.03 (28,724.20) Other comprehensive income /(loss) for the year (2,174.01) 44.19 (1,150.98) (225.86) (2,068.84) (5,575.50) (0.27) (5,575.77) Total comprehensive income/ (loss) for the year (31,000.24) 44.19 (1,150.98) (225.86) (2,068.84) (34,401.73) 101.76 (34,299.97) Amounts recognised in inventory (825.60) 11.08 (814.52) (814.52) Acquisition of minority 1.26 1.26 (9.02) (7.76) Realised gain on investments held at fair value through Other comprehensive income 4.93 (4.93) Dividend paid (including dividend tax) (94.74) (94.74) Share-based payments 8.44 8.44 8.44 Transfer (from)/to retained earnings 61.40 1.59 (62.99) Balance as at March 31, 2019 18,891.93 8.44 2.28 1,085.94 200.74 440.83 45.65 1,164.20 40,719.28 62.08 (5,602.62) (70.80) 2,552.39 59,500.34 523.06 60,023.40 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements For and on behalf of the Board In terms of our report attached For B S R & Co. LLP N CHANDRASEKARAN [DIN: 00121863] N MUNJEE [DIN:00010180] GUENTER BUTSCHEK [DIN: 07427375] Chartered Accountants Chairman CEO and Managing Director Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 F S NAYAR [DIN:00003633] S B BORWANKAR [DIN: 01793948] V K JAIRATH [DIN:00391684] ED and Chief Operating Officer YEZDI NAGPOREWALLA Partner O P BHATT [DIN:00548091] P B BALAJI Membership No. 049265 Group Chief Financial Officer R SPETH [DIN:03318908] H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Directors Company Secretary Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Mumbai, May 20, 2019 Mumbai, May 20, 2019 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended March 31, 2018 A. Equity Share Capital (` in crores) Particulars Equity Share Capital Balance as at April 1, 2017 679.22 Proceeds from issue of shares -* held in abeyance Balance as at March 31, 2018 679.22 *less than `50,000/B. Other Equity (` in crores) Particulars Reserves Other components of equity Securities Capital Debenture Reserve for Special Earned Capital Retained Equity Hedging Cost of Currency Attributable NonTotal Premium redemption redemption research reserve surplus Reserve earnings instruments Reserve hedging translation to Owners of controlling other reserve reserve and human reserve through Other reserve reserve Tata Motors interests equity resource Comprehensive Limited development Income Balance as at April 1, 2017 18,891.93 2.28 1,085.94 165.78 292.46 32.18 1,164.20 59,053.14 (19.26) (17,911.63) (74.22) (5,300.13) 57,382.67 453.17 57,835.84 Profit / (loss) for the period 8,988.91 8,988.91 102.45 9,091.36 Other comprehensive income / 3,909.10 42.86 15,444.99 217.30 9,921.36 29,535.61 26.90 29,562.51 (loss) for the year Total comprehensive income/ 12,898.01 42.86 15,444.99 217.30 9,921.36 38,524.52 129.35 38,653.87 (loss) for the year Amounts recognised in inventory (1,159.40) 0.90 (1,158.50) (1,158.50) Proceeds from issue of shares 0.00* 0.00* held in abeyance Minority interest on acquisitions 98.62 98.62 during the year Distribution to Minority (39.99) (39.99) Minority interest changes (60.12) (60.12) during the year Realised gain on investments 0.78 (0.78) held at fair value through Other comprehensive income Dividend paid (including dividend tax) (55.97) (55.97) Transfer (from)/to retained earnings 34.96 86.97 11.88 (133.81) -* Balance as at March 31, 2018 18,891.93 2.28 1,085.94 200.74 379.43 44.06 1,164.20 71,818.12 22.82 (3,626.04) 143.98 4,621.23 94,748.69 525.06 95,273.75 * less than `50,000/See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements For and on behalf of the Board In terms of our report attached For B S R & Co. LLP N CHANDRASEKARAN [DIN: 00121863] N MUNJEE [DIN:00010180] GUENTER BUTSCHEK [DIN: 07427375] Chartered Accountants Chairman CEO and Managing Director Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 F S NAYAR [DIN:00003633] S B BORWANKAR [DIN: 01793948] V K JAIRATH [DIN:00391684] ED and Chief Operating Officer YEZDI NAGPOREWALLA Partner O P BHATT [DIN:00548091] P B BALAJI Membership No. 049265 Group Chief Financial Officer R SPETH [DIN:03318908] H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Directors Company Secretary 293 Mumbai, May 20, 2019 Mumbai, May 20, 2019 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements 1. Background and operations that currently are exercisable are taken into account. Tata Motors Limited and its subsidiaries and joint operations, The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of (collectively referred to as “the Company” or “Tata Motors”), during the year are included in the consolidated financial designs, manufactures and sells a wide range of automotive statements from the effective date of acquisition and up vehicles. The Company provides financing for the vehicles sold to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate. by dealers of the Company in certain markets. The Company Inter-company transactions and balances including also manufactures engines for industrial and marine unrealised profits are eliminated in full on consolidation. applications, aggregates such as axles and transmissions for commercial vehicles and factory automation equipment, and Non-controlling interests in the net assets (excluding provides information technology services. goodwill) of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Company’s equity. The interest of Tata Motors Limited is a public limited Company incorporated non-controlling shareholders may be initially measured and domiciled in India and has its registered office in Mumbai, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests’ India. As at March 31, 2019, Tata Sons Private Limited together proportionate share of the fair value of the acquiree’s with its subsidiaries, owns 38.52% of the Ordinary shares identifiable net assets. The choice of measurement and 0.09% of ‘A’ Ordinary shares of the Company, and has the basis is made on an acquisition-by-acquisition ability to significantly influence the Company’s operation. basis. Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying The Company’s operations include the Jaguar Land Rover amount of non-controlling interests is the amount business (referred to as JLR or Jaguar Land Rover). of those interests at initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests’ share of subsequent changes The consolidated financial statements were approved by the in equity. Total comprehensive income is attributed Board of Directors and authorised for issue on May 20, 2019. to non-controlling interests even if it results in the non-controlling interest having a deficit balance. 2. Significant Accounting Policies Changes in the Company’s interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted a. Statement of compliance for as equity transactions. The carrying amount of the  These financial statements have been prepared in Company’s interests and the non-controlling interests accordance with Ind AS as notified under the Companies are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 read with interests in the subsidiaries. Any difference between Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”). the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or b. Basis of preparation received is recognised directly in equity and attributed  The consolidated financial statements have been to owners of the Company. When the Company loses prepared on historical cost basis except for certain control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on disposal is financial instruments measured at fair value at the end calculated as the difference between (i) the aggregate of each reporting period as explained in the accounting of the fair value of consideration received and the fair policies below. value of any retained interest and (ii) the previous carrying amount of the assets (including goodwill), and c. Basis of consolidation liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling Subsidiaries interests. Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to the subsidiary  The consolidated financial statements include Tata are accounted for (i.e., reclassified to profit or loss) in Motors Limited and its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are the same manner as would be required if the relevant entities controlled by the Company. Control exists when assets or liabilities were disposed of. The fair value of the Company (a) has power over the investee, (b) it is any investment retained in the former subsidiary at the exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its date when control is lost is regarded as the fair value involvement with the investee and (c ) has the ability to on initial recognition for subsequent accounting under affect those returns through its power over the investee. Ind-AS 109 Financial Instruments: Recognition and The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an Measurement or, when applicable, the cost on initial investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there recognition of an investment in an associate or jointly are changes to one or more of the three elements listed controlled entity. above. In assessing control, potential voting rights 294 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Interests in joint arrangements of profits or losses and equity movements of equity A joint arrangement is an arrangement of which accounted investees, from the date that significant two or more parties have joint control. Joint control influence or joint control commences until the date that is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an significant influence or joint control ceases. When the arrangement, which exists only when decisions about Company’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of equity accounted investee, the carrying amount of that the parties sharing control. interest (including any long-term investments in the nature of net investments) is reduced to nil and the Joint operations recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Company has an obligation or has Certain of the Company’s activities, are conducted made payments on behalf of the investee. through joint operations, which are joint arrangements STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) whereby the parties that have joint control of the When the Company transacts with an associate or joint arrangement have rights to the assets, and obligations venture of the Company, unrealised profits and losses for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement. are eliminated to the extent of the Company’s interest in The Company recognises, in the consolidated financial its associate or joint venture. statements, its share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of these joint operations incurred jointly d. Business combination with the other partners, along with its share of income Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are from the sale of the output and any assets, liabilities accounted for using the acquisition method. and expenses that it has incurred in relation to the Acquisition related costs are recognised in profit or loss joint operation. as incurred. The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for Joint ventures recognition are recognised at their fair value at the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the acquisition date, except certain assets and liabilities parties that have joint control of the arrangement have required to be measured as per the applicable standard. rights to the net assets of the arrangement. The results, assets and liabilities of a joint venture are incorporated Purchase consideration in excess of the Company’s in these financial statements using the equity method interest in the acquiree’s net fair value of identifiable of accounting as described below. assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised as goodwill. Excess of the Company’s interest in the Associates net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, Associates are those entities in which the Company has liabilities and contingent liabilities over the purchase significant influence. Significant influence is the power consideration is recognised, after reassessment of fair to participate in the financial and operating policy value of net assets acquired, in the Capital Reserve. decisions of the investee but not control or joint control those policies. Significant influence is presumed to exist e. Use of estimates and judgments when the Company holds between 20 and 50 percent The preparation of financial statements in conformity of the voting power of another entity. The results, with Ind AS requires management to make judgments, assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in estimates and assumptions, that affect the application these financial statements using the equity method of of accounting policies and the reported amounts of accounting as described below. assets, liabilities, income, expenses and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of Equity method of accounting (equity accounted these financial statements and the reported amounts investees) of revenues and expenses for the years presented. An interest in an associate or joint venture is accounted Actual results may differ from these estimates. for using the equity method from the date in which the investee becomes an associate or a joint venture and are Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed recognised initially at cost. The Company’s investment at each balance sheet date. Revisions to accounting includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any estimates are recognised in the period in which accumulated impairment losses. The consolidated the estimate is revised and future periods affected. financial statements include the Company’s share In particular, information about significant areas 295 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements of estimation uncertainty and critical judgments Income from sale of maintenance services and in applying accounting policies that have the most extended warranties, including software services significant effect on the amounts recognised in the are recognised as income over the relevant period financial statements are included in the following notes: of service or extended warranty. i) Note 3 and 6 Property, plant and equipment and When the Company sells products that are intangible assets – Useful lives and impairment bundled with maintenance service or extended period of warranty, such services are treated as ii) Note 5 Impairment of goodwill a separate performance obligation only if the service or warranty is optional to the customer or iii) Note 6 and 7 Impairment of indefinite life includes an additional service component. In such intangible assets cases, the transaction price allocated towards iv)  Note 21 Recoverability/recognition of such maintenance service or extended period of deferred tax assets warranty is recognised as a contract liability until the service obligation has been met. v) Note 29 Provision for product warranty The Company operates certain customer loyalty vi)  Note 37 Assets and obligations relating to programs under which customer is entitled to employee benefits reward points on the spend towards Company’s products. The reward points earned by customers vii) Note 17 Allowances for credit losses for can be redeemed to claim discounts on future finance receivables purchase of certain products or services. Transaction price allocated towards reward points f. Revenue recognition granted to customers is recognised as a deferred The Company generates revenue principally from – income liability and transferred to income when customers redeem their reward points. a) Sale of products – (i) commercial and passenger vehicles and vehicle parts and (ii) Sales of other For certain sale of services wherein performance products certain software products and other obligation is satisfied over a period of time, automotive products any amount received in advance is recorded as contract liability and recognised as revenue when The Company recognises revenues on the sale service is rendered to customers. Any amount of products, net of discounts, sales incentives, of income accrued but not billed to customers in customer bonuses and rebates granted, when respect of such contracts is recorded as a contract products are delivered to dealers or when asset. Such contract assets are transferred to delivered to a carrier for export sales, which is Trade receivables on actual billing to customers. when control including risks and rewards and title of ownership pass to the customer. Sale of Refund liabilities comprise of obligation products is presented net of excise duty where towards customers to pay for discounts and applicable and other indirect taxes. sales incentives. The consideration received in respect of transport Proceeds from sale of vehicles for which the arrangements for delivering of vehicles to the Company or any of its subsidiaries have retained customers are recognised net of their costs within buy back obligation in future is recorded as a revenues in the income statement. liabilities – (i) Proceeds received in excess of agreed buy back price is recognised as Deferred Revenues are recognised when collectability of income liability and (ii) the agreed buy back price is the resulting receivable is reasonably assured. recognised as Buy back liability. Deferred income liability is recognised as operating lease income b)  Sale of services maintenance service and on time proportionate basis over date of sale and extended warranties for commercial and date of buy back. passenger vehicles, software support services and insurance broking services. 296 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) c)  Financing revenues Interest income from i) Product warranty expenses financing transactions and income from leasing of The estimated liability for product warranties are vehicles to customers. recorded when products are sold. These estimates are established using historical information on the d) Finance and service charges are accrued on the nature, frequency and average cost of warranty unpaid principal balance of finance receivables claims and management estimates regarding using the effective interest method. possible future incidences based on actions on product failures. The timing of outflows will vary g. Government grants and incentives as and when warranty claim will arise, being Other income includes export and other recurring and typically up to six years. The Company also has non-recurring incentives from Government (referred back-to-back contractual arrangement with its STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) as “incentives”). suppliers in the event that a vehicle fault is proven to be a supplier’s fault.  Government grants are recognised when there is reasonable assurance that the Company will Estimates are made of the expected reimbursement comply with the relevant conditions and the grant claim based upon historical levels of recoveries will be received. from supplier, adjusted for inflation and applied to the population of vehicles under warranty as on These are recognised in the consolidated statement balance sheet date. Supplier reimbursements are of Profit and Loss, either on a systematic basis when recognised as separate asset. the Company recognises, as expenses, the related costs that the grants are intended to compensate or, ii) Residual risk immediately if the costs have already been incurred. In certain markets, the Company is responsible Government grants related to assets are deferred for the residual risk arising on vehicles sold and amortised over the useful life of the asset. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) by dealers under leasing arrangements. Government grants related to income are presented The provision is based on the latest available as an offset against the related expenditure, and market expectations of future residual value government grants that are awarded as incentives with trends. The timing of the outflows will be at the no ongoing performance obligations to the Company end of the lease arrangements being typically up are recognised as income in the period in which the to three years. grant is received. iii) Legal and product liability h. Cost recognition Legal and product liability provision is recorded Costs and expenses are recognised when incurred and in respect of compliance with regulations and are classified according to their nature. known litigations which impact the Company. The product liability claim primarily relates to Expenditure capitalised represents employee costs, motor accident claims, consumer complaints, stores and other manufacturing supplies, and other dealer terminations, personal injury claims and expenses incurred for construction including product compliance with regulations. development undertaken by the Company. iv) Environmental liability i. Provisions  Environmental liability relates to various A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, environmental remediation cost such as asbestos the Company has a present legal or constructive removal and land clean up. The timing of when obligation that can be estimated reliably, and it is these costs will be incurred is not known probable that an outflow of economic benefits will with certainty. be required to settle the obligation. Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash j. Foreign currency flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market These consolidated financial statements are presented assessments of the time value of money and the risks in Indian rupees, which is the functional currency of specific to the liability. Tata Motors Limited. Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rate prevailing on the 297 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements date of transaction. Foreign currency denominated settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been monetary assets and liabilities are re-measured into enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet the functional currency at the exchange rate prevailing date. Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are on the balance sheet date. Exchange differences are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set recognised in the statement of Profit and Loss except off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and to the extent, exchange differences which are regarded when they relate to income taxes levied by the same as an adjustment to interest costs on foreign currency taxation authority and the Company intends to settle its borrowings, are capitalised as part of borrowing costs. current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.  For the purpose of consolidation, the assets and l. Cash & cash equivalents liabilities of the Company’s foreign operations are  Cash and cash equivalents are short-term (three translated to Indian rupees at the exchange rate months or less from the date of acquisition), highly prevailing on the balance sheet date, and the income liquid investments that are readily convertible into and expenses at the average rate of exchange for the cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of respective months. Exchange differences arising on changes in value. such translation are recognised as currency translation reserve under equity. Exchange differences arising m. Earnings per share from the translation of a foreign operation previously recognised in currency translation reserve in equity are Basic earnings per share has been computed by dividing not reclassified from equity to profit or loss until the profit for the year by the weighted average number disposal of the operation. of shares outstanding during the year. Partly paid up shares are included as fully paid equivalents according k. Income taxes to the fraction paid up. Diluted earnings per share has been computed using the weighted average number of Income tax expense comprises current and deferred shares and dilutive potential shares, except where the taxes. Income tax expense is recognised in the result would be anti-dilutive. statement of Profit and Loss except when they relate to items that are recognised outside profit or loss (whether n. Inventories in other comprehensive income or directly in equity), in which case tax is also recognised outside profit or Inventories (other than those recognised consequent to loss, or where they arise from the initial accounting the sale of vehicles subject to repurchase arrangements) for business combination. In the case of a business are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. combination the tax effect is included in the accounting Cost of raw materials, components and consumables for the business combination. Current income taxes are are ascertained on a first in first out basis. Cost, including determined based on respective taxable income of each fixed and variable production overheads, are allocated taxable entity and tax rules applicable for respective to work-in-progress and finished goods determined tax jurisdictions. on a full absorption cost basis. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for business less estimated cost of completion and selling the future tax consequences of temporary differences expenses. Inventories include vehicles sold subject to between the carrying values of assets and liabilities repurchase arrangements. These vehicles are carried and their respective tax bases, and unutilised business at cost to the Company and are amortised in changes loss and depreciation carry-forwards and tax credits. in inventories of finished goods to their residual values Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are computed (i.e., estimated second hand sale value) over the term of separately for each taxable entity and for each taxable the arrangement. jurisdiction. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable income will o. Property, plant and equipment be available against which the deductible temporary  Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost differences, unused tax losses, depreciation carry of acquisition or construction less accumulated forwards and unused tax credits could be utilised. depreciation less accumulated impairment, if any. Freehold land is measured at cost and is not depreciated.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured Heritage assets, comprising antique vehicles purchased based on the tax rates that are expected to apply in by the Company, are not depreciated as they are the period when the asset is realised or the liability is 298 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) considered to have a residual value in excess of cost. be supportable. If not, the change in the useful-life Residual values are re-assessed on an annual basis. assessment from indefinite to finite is made on a Cost includes purchase price, taxes and duties, labour prospective basis. cost and direct overheads for self-constructed assets and other direct costs incurred up to the date the asset Estimated useful lives of assets are as follows: is ready for its intended use. Type of Asset Estimated Interest cost incurred for constructed assets is useful life capitalised up to the date the asset is ready for its Patents and technological knowhow 2 to 12 years intended use, based on borrowings incurred specifically Computer software 1 to 8 years for financing the asset or the weighted average rate of Customer related intangibles 20 years STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) all other borrowings, if no specific borrowings have dealer network been incurred for the asset. Depreciation is provided Intellectual property rights 3 to 10 years on the Straight Line Method (SLM) over the estimated useful lives of the assets considering the nature, The amortisation period for intangible assets with estimated usage, operating conditions, past history finite useful lives is reviewed at least at each year-end. of replacement, anticipated technological changes, Changes in expected useful lives are treated as changes manufacturer’s warranties and maintenance support. in accounting estimates. Taking into account these factors, the Company and its Internally generated intangible asset domestic group companies have decided to retain the useful life hitherto adopted for various categories of Research costs are charged to the statement of property, plant and equipment, which are different from Profit and Loss in the year in which they are incurred. those prescribed in Schedule II of the Act. Product development costs incurred on new vehicle platform, engines, transmission and new products Estimated useful lives of the assets are as follows: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) are recognised as intangible assets, when feasibility Type of Asset Estimated has been established, the Company has committed useful life technical, financial and other resources to complete Buildings, Roads, Bridge and culverts 4 to 60 years the development and it is probable that asset will generate probable future economic benefits. The costs Plant, machinery and equipment 3 to 30 years capitalised include the cost of materials, direct labour Computers and other IT assets 3 to 6 years and directly attributable overhead expenditure Vehicles 3 to 11 years incurred up to the date the asset is available for use. Furniture, fixtures and office appliances 3 to 21 years Interest cost incurred is capitalised up to the date the The useful lives and method of deprecation is reviewed asset is ready for its intended use, based on borrowings at least at each year-end. Changes in expected useful incurred specifically for financing the asset or the lives are treated as change in accounting estimates. weighted average rate of all other borrowings if no Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over specific borrowings have been incurred for the asset. their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned Product development cost is amortised on a straight assets or, where shorter, the term of the relevant lease. line basis over a period of 24 months to 120 months. Product development expenditure is measured at Depreciation is not recorded on capital work-in-progress cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated until construction and installation are complete and the impairment, if any. asset is ready for its intended use. q. Leases At the inception of a lease, the lease arrangement is p. Other intangible assets classified as either a finance lease or an operating lease,  Intangible assets purchased, including those based on the substance of the lease arrangement. acquired in business combinations, are measured at cost or fair value as of the date of acquisition Assets taken on finance lease where applicable less accumulated amortisation and A finance lease is recognised as an asset and a liability accumulated impairment, if any. Intangible assets with at the commencement of the lease, at the lower of indefinite lives are reviewed annually to determine the fair value of the asset and the present value of whether indefinite-life assessment continues to 299 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements the minimum lease payments. Initial direct costs, if the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value any, are also capitalised and, subsequent to initial in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated recognition, the asset is accounted for in accordance future cash flows are discounted to their present with the accounting policy applicable to that asset. value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects Minimum lease payments made under finance leases current market assessments of the time value are apportioned between the finance expense and of money and the risks specific to the asset for the reduction of the outstanding liability. The finance which the estimates of future cash flows have expense is allocated to each period during the lease not been adjusted. term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash generating unit) is estimated to be less than Assets taken on operating lease its carrying amount, the carrying amount of  Leases other than finance leases are operating the asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced leases, and the leased assets are not recognised on to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss the Company’s balance sheet. Payments made under is recognised immediately in the statement of operating leases are recognised in the statement Profit and Loss. of Profit and Loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. s. Employee benefits i) Pension plans r. Impairment  Jaguar Land Rover operate defined benefit i) Goodwill pension plans for certain of its subsidiaries, which  Cash generating units to which goodwill is are contracted out of the second state pension allocated are tested for impairment annually at scheme until April 5, 2016. The assets of the plan each balance sheet date, or more frequently when are held in separate trustee administered funds. there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. The plans provide for monthly pension after If the recoverable amount of the cash generating retirement as per salary drawn and service period unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, as set out in rules of each fund. the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to that Contributions to the plans by the Jaguar Land unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro Rover subsidiaries take into consideration the rata on the basis of carrying amount of each asset results of actuarial valuations. The plans with in the unit. Goodwill impairment loss recognised is a surplus position at the year-end have been not reversed in subsequent period. limited to the maximum economic benefit available from unconditional rights to refund from ii) Property, plant and equipment and other the scheme or reduction in future contributions. intangible assets Where the subsidiary group is considered to At each balance sheet date, the Company assesses have a contractual obligation to fund the pension whether there is any indication that any property, plan above the accounting value of the liabilities, plant and equipment and intangible assets with an onerous obligation is recognised. A separate finite lives may be impaired. If any such impairment defined contribution plan is available to exists the recoverable amount of an asset is employees of Jaguar Land Rover. Costs in respect estimated to determine the extent of impairment, of this plan are charged to the statement of Profit if any. Where it is not possible to estimate the and Loss as incurred. recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Company estimates the recoverable amount of the ii) Gratuity cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. Tata Motors Limited and its subsidiaries and joint operations in India have an obligation towards Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and gratuity, a defined benefit retirement plan covering intangible assets not yet available for use, are eligible employees. The plan provides for a lump tested for impairment annually at each balance sum payment to vested employees at retirement, sheet date, or earlier, if there is an indication that death while in employment or on termination the asset may be impaired. Recoverable amount is of employment of an amount equivalent to 15 300 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) to 30 days salary payable for each completed plan include pension in certain cases, payable year of service. Vesting occurs upon completion up to the date of normal superannuation had the of five years of service. Tata Motors Limited and employee been in service, to an eligible employee such subsidiaries make annual contributions at the time of death or permanent disablement, to gratuity funds established as trusts or while in service, either as a result of an injury or as insurance companies. Tata Motors Limited and its certified by the appropriate authority. The monthly subsidiaries in India account for the liability for payment to dependents of the deceased/disabled gratuity benefits payable in the future based on employee under the plan equals 50% of the salary an actuarial valuation. drawn at the time of death or accident or a specified amount, whichever is greater. Tata Motors Limited iii) Superannuation and these subsidiaries account for the liability for STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Tata Motors Limited and some of its subsidiaries BKY benefits payable in the future based on an in India have two superannuation plans, a defined actuarial valuation. benefit plan and a defined contribution plan. An eligible employee as on April 1, 1996 could v) Provident fund and family pension elect to be a member of either plan. Employees who In accordance with Indian law, eligible employees are members of the defined benefit superannuation of Tata Motors Limited and some of its subsidiaries plan are entitled to benefits depending on the years and joint operations are entitled to receive of service and salary drawn. The monthly pension benefits in respect of provident fund, a defined benefits after retirement range from 0.75% to 2% contribution plan, in which both employees and of the annual basic salary for each year of service. the Company make monthly contributions at a Tata Motors Limited and such subsidiaries account specified percentage of the covered employees’ for superannuation benefits payable in future salary (currently 12% of employees’ salary). under the plan based on an actuarial valuation. The contributions, as specified under the law, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) are made to the provident fund and pension fund With effect from April 1, 2003, this plan was set up as an irrevocable trust by Tata Motors amended and benefits earned by covered Limited and its subsidiaries or to respective employees have been protected as at Regional Provident Fund Commissioner and March 31, 2003. Employees covered by this plan the Central Provident Fund under the State are prospectively entitled to benefits computed Pension scheme. The interest rate payable to the on a basis that ensures that the annual cost of members of the trust shall not be lower than the providing the pension benefits would not exceed statutory rate of interest declared by the Central 15% of salary. During the year ended March 31, Government under the Employees Provident 2015, the employees covered by this plan were Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 given a one-time option to exit from the plan and shortfall, if any, shall be made good by the prospectively. Furthermore, the employees Company. The embedded interest rate guarantee who opted for exit were given onetime option is considered to be defined benefit. The liability to withdraw accumulated balances from the in respect of the short fall of interest earnings superannuation plan. Separate irrevocable of the Fund is determined on the basis of an trusts are maintained for employees covered and actuarial valuation. There is no shortfall as at entitled to benefits. Tata Motors Limited and its March 31, 2019. subsidiaries contribute up to 15% or ` 150,000, whichever is lower, of the eligible employees’ vi) Severance indemnity salary to the trust every year. Such contributions Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Company are recognised as an expense when incurred. Limited, or TDCV, a subsidiary company Tata Motors Limited and such subsidiaries have incorporated in Korea; has an obligation towards no further obligation beyond this contribution. severance indemnity, a defined benefit retirement plan, covering eligible employees. The plan iv) Bhavishya Kalyan Yojana (BKY) provides for a lump sum payment to all employees Bhavishya Kalyan Yojana is an unfunded defined with more than one year of employment benefit plan for employees of Tata Motors Limited equivalent to 30 days’ salary payable for each and some of its subsidiaries. The benefits of the completed year of service. 301 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements vii) Post-retirement medicare scheme Limited (Standalone) prepared in accordance with  Under this unfunded scheme, employees of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India or Tata Motors Limited and some of its subsidiaries Ind AS. Indian law permits the declaration and payment receive medical benefits subject to certain limits of dividend out of profits for the year or previous on amounts of benefits, periods after retirement financial year(s) as stated in the statutory financial and types of benefits, depending on their statements of Tata Motors Limited (Standalone) grade and location at the time of retirement. prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Employees separated from the Company as Accounting Principles in India, or Ind AS after providing part of an Early Separation Scheme, on medical for depreciation in accordance with the provisions of grounds or due to permanent disablement are Schedule II to the Companies Act. also covered under the scheme.  However, in the absence or inadequacy of the said Tata Motors Limited and such subsidiaries account profits, it may declare dividend out of free reserves, for the liability for post-retirement medical subject to certain conditions as prescribed under the scheme based on an actuarial valuation. Companies (Declaration and Payment of Dividend) Rules, 2014. Accordingly, in certain years the net viii) Compensated absences income reported in these financial statements may Tata Motors Limited and some of its subsidiaries not be fully distributable. The amount available for and joint operations provide for the encashment distribution is ` Nil as at March 31, 2019 (` Nil as at of leave or leave with pay subject to certain rules. March 31, 2018). The employees are entitled to accumulate leave subject to certain limits, for future encashment. u. Segments The liability is provided based on the number of  The Company primarily operates in the automotive days of unutilised leave at each balance sheet segment. The automotive segment comprises of four date on the basis of an actuarial valuation. reportable sub-segments i.e. Tata Commercial Vehicles, Tata Passenger Vehicles, Jaguar Land Rover and ix) Remeasurement gains and losses Vehicle Financing. Other operating segments do not Remeasurement comprising actuarial gains and meet the quantitative thresholds for disclosure and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling and the have been aggregated. return on assets (excluding interest) relating to retirement benefit plans, are recognised directly v. Financial instruments in other comprehensive income in the period in i)  Classification, initial recognition and which they arise. Remeasurement recorded in measurement other comprehensive income is not reclassified to A financial instrument is any contract that gives statement of Profit and Loss. Actuarial gains and rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial losses relating to long-term employee benefits liability or equity instrument of another entity. are recognised in the statement of Profit and Loss Financial assets other than equity instruments in the period in which they arise. are classified into categories: financial assets at x) Measurement date fair value through profit or loss and at amortised cost. Financial assets that are equity instruments  The measurement date of retirement are classified as fair value through profit or loss or plans is March 31. fair value through other comprehensive income. xi) The present value of the defined benefit liability Financial liabilities are classified into financial and the related current service cost and past liabilities at fair value through profit or loss and service cost are measured using projected other financial liabilities. Financial instruments unit credit method. are recognised on the balance sheet when the Company becomes a party to the contractual t. Dividends provisions of the instrument. Any dividend declared by Tata Motors Limited is based Initially, a financial instrument is recognised at its on the profits available for distribution as reported fair value. Transaction costs directly attributable in the statutory financial statements of Tata Motors to the acquisition or issue of financial instruments 302 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) are recognised in determining the carrying its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the amount, if it is not classified as at fair value through Company are recorded at the proceeds received, profit or loss. Subsequently, financial instruments net of direct issue costs. are measured according to the category in which they are classified. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: Derivatives, including embedded derivatives Financial assets at amortised cost: Financial separated from the host contract, unless they are assets having contractual terms that give rise designated as hedging instruments, for which on specified dates to cash flows that are solely hedge accounting is applied, are classified into this payments of principal and interest on the principal category. These are measured at fair value with outstanding and that are held within a business changes in fair value recognised in the statement STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) model whose objective is to hold such assets in of Profit and Loss. order to collect such contractual cash flows are classified in this category. Subsequently, these Other financial liabilities: These are measured at are measured at amortised cost using the effective amortised cost using the effective interest method. interest method less any impairment losses. ii) Determination of fair value Equity investments at fair value through other The fair value of a financial instrument on initial comprehensive income: These include financial recognition is normally the transaction price (fair assets that are equity instruments and are value of the consideration given or received). designated as such upon initial recognition irrevocably. Subsequently, these are measured Subsequent to initial recognition, the Company at fair value and changes therein, are recognised determines the fair value of financial instruments directly in other comprehensive income, net of that are quoted in active markets using the quoted bid prices (financial assets held) or quoted FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) applicable deferred income taxes. Dividends from these equity investments are recognised in the ask prices (financial liabilities held) and using statement of Profit and Loss when the right to valuation techniques for other instruments. receive payment has been established. When the Valuation techniques include discounted cash equity investment is derecognised, the cumulative flow method and other valuation models. gain or loss in equity is transferred to iii)  Derecognition of financial assets and retained earnings. financial liabilities Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: The Company derecognises a financial asset Financial assets are measured at fair value through only when the contractual rights to the cash profit or loss unless it is measured at amortised flows from the asset expires or it transfers the cost or at fair value through other comprehensive financial asset and substantially all the risks and income on initial recognition. The transaction rewards of ownership of the asset to another costs directly attributable to the acquisition of entity. If the Company neither transfers nor financial assets and liabilities at fair value through retains substantially all the risks and rewards profit or loss are immediately recognised in profit of ownership and continues to control the or loss. Derivatives, unless they are designated as transferred asset, the Company recognises its hedging instruments, for which hedge accounting retained interest in the asset and an associated is applied, financial assets which have contractual liability for amounts it may have to pay. If the cash flows which are not in the nature of solely Company retains substantially all the risks and principal and interest payments (like hybrid rewards of ownership of a transferred financial instruments having embedded derivatives) are asset, the Company continues to recognise the classified into this category. These are measured financial asset and also recognises a collateralised at fair value with changes in fair value recognised borrowing for the proceeds received. in the statement of Profit and Loss. Financial liabilities are derecognised when these Equity instruments: An equity instrument is any are extinguished, that is when the obligation is contract that evidences residual interests in the discharged, cancelled or has expired. assets of the Company after deducting all of 303 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements iv) Impairment of financial assets income along with the changes in fair value The Company recognises a loss allowance for determined to be effective portion of the expected credit losses on a financial asset that hedge. Hedge accounting is discontinued when is at amortised cost. Loss allowance in respect the hedging instrument expires or is sold, of financial assets other than finance receivables terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies is measured at an amount equal to life time for hedge accounting. For forecast transactions, expected credit losses and is calculated as the any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging difference between their carrying amount and instrument recognised in equity is retained the present value of the expected future cash there until the forecast transaction occurs. flows discounted at the original effective interest If the forecast transaction is no longer expected rate. Loss allowance for finance receivables is to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss measured at an amount equal to twelve month recognised in equity is immediately transferred expected losses if credit risk on such assets has to the consolidated statement of Profit and not increased significantly since initial recognition. Loss for the year. An allowance equal to life time expected losses is provided if credit risk has increased significantly w. Recent accounting pronouncements from the date of initial recognition. Credit risk is i) New accounting pronouncements adopted by the determined to have increased significantly when a Company during the current financial year finance receivable contract becomes sixty/ninety days past due. Such impairment loss is recognised  Ind AS 115 – Revenue from Contracts with in the statement of Profit and Loss. If the amount Customers of an impairment loss decreases in a subsequent  The standard outlines a single comprehensive period, and the decrease can be related objectively model for entities to use in accounting for revenue to an event occurring after the impairment was arising from contracts with customers and recognised, the previously recognised impairment supersede most revenue recognition guidance, loss is reversed. The reversal is recognised in the including industry-specific guidance applicable statement of Profit and Loss. for previous periods. The core principle of the new standard is for companies to recognise revenue v) Hedge accounting to depict the transfer of goods or services to The Company uses foreign currency forward and customers in amounts that reflect the consideration option contracts to hedge its risks associated with (that is, payment) to which company expects to be foreign currency fluctuations relating to highly entitled to exchange for those goods or services. probable forecast transactions. The Company The new standard also requires entities to give designates these forward and option contracts in enhanced disclosures about revenue and provide a cash flow hedging relationship by applying the guidance for transactions that were not previously hedge accounting principles. These forward and addressed comprehensively (for example, service option contracts are stated at fair value at each revenue and contract modifications) and improve reporting date. Changes in the fair value of these guidance for multiple-element arrangements. forward and option contracts that are designated The Company adopted Ind AS 115 effective and effective as hedges of future cash flows are from April 1, 2018, with a modified retrospective recognised in other comprehensive income (net approach. The figures for the comparative periods of tax) and the ineffective portion is recognised are not restated. There is no significant impact on immediately in the consolidated statement of Company’s profit after tax as a result of adoption Profit and Loss. Amounts accumulated in equity of Ind AS 115. are reclassified to the consolidated statement of Profit and Loss in the periods in which the There is a change in the basis of measurement forecasted transaction occurs. For forwards and of revenue for certain contracts in which options, forward premium and the time value are performance obligation is satisfied over a not considered part of the hedge. period of time and revenue is measured as a percentage to the work completed. For such  These are treated as cost of hedge and the contracts, revenue is measured in accordance changes in fair value attributable to time value with Ind AS 115, when the Company has satisfied is recognised in the other comprehensive 304 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) a performance obligation by transferring the or receipts in advance, a date of transaction is promised good or service (i.e. an asset) to the established for each payment or receipt. There is customer i.e. when the customer obtains control no impact in the consolidated financial statements of the asset and establishes an unconditional on adoption of this amendment. right to receive the consideration. There is impact of `41.80 crores to the opening retained earnings ii) New accounting standards not yet adopted on account of this change in measurement. Ind AS 116 Leases In March 2019, MCA issued Ind AS 116 Leases The Company makes transport arrangements for which sets out the principles for the recognition, delivering its vehicles to the dealers. In accordance measurement, presentation and disclosure of with the principles of Ind AS 115, the Company leases for both parties to a contract and replaces STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) has determined itself to be acting as agent under the previous standard on leasing, Ind AS these arrangements. Freight costs which were 17 -Leases. Ind AS 116, which is not applicable to previously recognised as costs are netted off service contracts, but only applicable to leases or from revenue in accordance with the guidance lease components of a contract, defines a lease as under Ind AS 115. a contract that conveys to the customer (lessee) Certain pay-outs made to dealers such as the right to use an asset for a period of time in infrastructure support payments are treated exchange for consideration. Ind AS 116 eliminates as variable components of consideration and the classification of leases for the lessee as either therefore in accordance with Ind AS 115, are operating leases or finance leases as required by recognised as revenue deductions. These costs Ind AS 17 and instead, introduces a single lessee were previously reported as other expenses. accounting model whereby a lessee is required to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases with These changes in presentation in the income a term that is greater than 12 months, unless the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) statement resulted in decrease in both revenues underlying asset is of low value, and to recognise and expenses by `3,809.03 crores for the year depreciation of leased assets separately from ended March 31, 2019. interest on lease liabilities in the Statement of Profit and Loss. As Ind AS 116 substantially carries Adoption of the standard has given rise to new forward the lessor accounting requirements in Ind financial statement categories in the statement AS 17, a lessor will continue to classify its leases of financial position, being “contract assets” and as operating leases or finance leases and to “contract liabilities.” These items arise through account for those two types of leases differently. advance payment received from customers or advance delivery of goods and services in The Company will be adopting Ind AS 116 with a excess of or ahead of billing at the contract level. modified retrospective approach with effect from In addition, disclosure requirements are extended. April 1, 2019. The cumulative effect of initially applying this Standard will be recorded as an Incentives received from Government are included adjustment to the opening balance of retained under other income, which were previously earnings. Figures for comparative periods will presented under other operating income under not be restated. revenue from operations. The Company will use the exemption option Ind AS 21 The Effect of Changes in Foreign  available for existing leases and apply the Exchange Rates available exemptions regarding the recognition The amendment effective April 1, 2018, clarifies of short term leases and low value leasing assets. on the accounting of transaction that include the Basis assessment, the Company arrangements receipt or payment of advance consideration in under operating leases, which are currently off a foreign currency. The appendix explains that Balance sheet, will be recorded as right to use the date of the transaction, for the purpose of assets and the future obligations in respect of determining rate, is the date of initial recognition of such leases will be recorded as a liability in the the non-monetary prepayment asset or deferred Balance sheet as at April 1, 2019. The Company income liability. If there are multiple payments 305 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements will use following practical expedients of Ind AS profit or loss, or measured at fair value through 116 at the date of initial application: other comprehensive income by the lender or issuer if the respective conditions specified under 1.  With leases previously classified as Ind AS 109 are satisfied. Similarly, the holder operating leases according to Ind AS 17, the may classify them either measured at fair value lease liability will be measured at the present through profit or loss or measured at amortised value of the outstanding lease payments, cost in accordance with conditions of Ind AS 109. discounted by the incremental borrowing rate at April 1, 2019. The respective ii)  Amendments to Ind AS 12, Income right-of-use asset is generally recognised at Taxes Deferred taxes on Dividends and an amount equal to the lease liability; uncertain tax treatment An entity is required to create a corresponding 2. An impairment review is not performed for liability for payment of Dividend Distribution right of use assets. Instead, right-of-use Tax (DDT) when it recognises a liability to pay a asset is adjusted by the amount of any dividend. The liability for DDT shall be recorded in provision for onerous leases recognised in statement of Profit and Loss, other comprehensive the Balance sheet. income or equity, as the case may be. Currently, the 3.  Regardless of their original lease term, Company is recognising dividend distribution tax leases for which the lease term ends latest on dividends paid to shareholders in the statement on March 31, 2020, are recognised as of changes in equity, as per the amendment, the short-term leases; Company will recognise dividend distribution tax on dividend distributed to shareholders as income 4.  At the date of initial application, the tax expense in its statement of Profit and Loss. measurement of a right-to-use asset excludes the initial direct costs; and Another amendment relates to tax consequence of an item whose tax treatment is uncertain. 5. Hindsight is considered when determining Tax treatment of an item is considered as uncertain the lease term if the contract contains when there is uncertainty whether the relevant options to extend or terminate the leases. taxation authority will accept the tax treatment of that item or not. For example, if an entity has Amendments issued by MCA to existing standards not included a particular income in taxable profit,  MCA issued following amendments to certain it will be considered as uncertain tax treatment if standards which will be effective from financial year its acceptability by taxation authority is uncertain. beginning April 1, 2019. The amendment has been brought by introducing a new Appendix C to Ind AS 12. i)  Amendments to Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments: Prepayment of loans If there is uncertainty over tax treatment of an item: The amendments notified in Ind AS 109 pertain 1. An entity should determine an approach or to classification of a financial instruments with method that predicts the resolution of the prepayment feature with negative compensation. uncertainty. Based on the approach, the Negative compensation arises where the terms of entity shall determine whether to consider the contract of the financial instrument permit the each uncertain tax treatment separately or holder to make repayment or permit the lender or together with one or more other uncertain issuer to put the instrument to the borrower for tax treatments. repayment before the maturity at an amount less than the unpaid amounts of principal and interest. 2. It shall assess whether it is probable that the Earlier, there was no guidance on classification of taxation authority will accept the uncertain such instruments. tax treatment, assuming that the authority has full right to examine the treatment and  According to the amendments, these types of has full knowledge of all related information. instruments can be classified as measured at amortised cost, or measured at fair value through 306 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) 3. If it is probable that the taxation authority cost and net interest for the remainder of the will accept the tax treatment, there will reporting period after the change to the plan. be no impact on the amount of taxable Until now, Ind AS 19 did not specify how to profits/losses, tax bases, unused tax determine these expenses for the period after the losses/credits and tax rates. In vice-versa change to the plan. case, the entity shall show the effect of the iv)  Amendments to Ind AS 28, Investments in uncertainty for each uncertain tax treatment Associates and Joint Ventures on amount of related aforesaid items by using either the most likely outcome or the Ind AS 109 excludes interest in associates and joint expected outcome of the uncertainty. ventures that are accounted for in accordance with Ind AS 28, Investments in Associates and Joint STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) iii) Amendment to Ind AS 19, Employee Benefits: Ventures from its scope. This amendment to Ind Changes in Employee benefit plan AS 28 clarifies that Ind AS 109 should be applied When a change to a plan by way of either an to financial instruments, including long-term amendment, curtailment or settlement takes interests in associates and joint venture, that, in place, Ind AS 19 requires a company to remeasure substance, form part of an entity’s net investment its net defined benefit liability or asset. in associate or joint venture, to which the equity method is not applied. The amendments to Ind AS 19 require a company to use the updated assumptions from this The Company is evaluating impact of above amendments remeasurement to determine current service issued by MCA to existing accounting standards. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) 307 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements (x) The following subsidiary companies are considered in the consolidated financial statements: Sr Name of the Subsidiary company Country % of holding either directly No. of incorporation or through subsidiaries As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Direct Subsidiaries 1 TAL Manufacturing Solutions Limited India 100 (ceased to be subsidiary w.e.f. March 29, 2019) 2 Concorde Motors (India) Limited India 100 100 3 Tata Motors Insurance Broking & Advisory Services Limited India 100 100 4 Tata Motors European Technical Centre PLC UK 100 100 5 Tata Technologies Limited India 72.28 72.29 6 TMF Holdings Limited (formerly known as Tata Motors Finance Limited) India 100 100 7 Tata Marcopolo Motors Limited India 51 51 8 TML Holdings Pte. Limited Singapore 100 100 9 TML Distribution Company Limited India 100 100 10 Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera S.A. Spain 100 100 11 Tata Hispano Motors Carrocerries Maghreb SA Morocco 100 100 12 Trilix S.r.l. (Shareholding increased from 80% to 100% Italy 100 80 w.e.f. Deccember 6, 2018) 13 Tata Precision Industries Pte. Limited Singapore 78.39 78.39 Indirect subsidiaries * 14 Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Company Limited South Korea 100 100 15 Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Sales and Distribution Company Limited South Korea 100 100 16 Tata Motors (Thailand) Limited Thailand 95.87 95.49 17 Tata Motors (SA) (Proprietary) Limited South Africa 60 60 18 PT Tata Motors Indonesia Indonesia 100 100 19 Tata Technologies (Thailand) Limited Thailand 72.28 72.29 20 Tata Technologies Pte Limited Singapore 72.28 72.29 21 INCAT International Plc. UK 72.28 72.29 22 Tata Technologies Europe Limited UK 72.28 72.29 23 Escenda Engineering AB UK 72.28 72.29 24 INCAT GmbH. Germany 72.28 72.29 25 Tata Technologies Inc. USA 72.34 72.35 26 Tata Technologies de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 72.34 72.35 27 Cambric Limited USA 72.31 72.32 28 Cambric GmbH Germany 72.34 72.35 29 Tata Technologies SRL Romania Romania 72.31 72.32 308 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Sr Name of the Subsidiary company Country % of holding either directly No. of incorporation or through subsidiaries As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 30 Tata Manufacturing Technologies (Shanghai) Limited China 72.28 72.29 31 Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc UK 100 100 32 Jaguar Land Rover Limited UK 100 100 33 Jaguar Land Rover Austria GmbH Austria 100 100 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) 34 Jaguar Land Rover Belux NV Belgium 100 100 35 Jaguar Land Rover Japan Limited Japan 100 100 36 Jaguar Cars South Africa (Pty) Limited South Africa 100 100 37 JLR Nominee Company Limited UK 100 100 38 The Daimler Motor Company Limited UK 100 100 39 Daimler Transport Vehicles Limited UK 100 100 40 S.S. Cars Limited UK 100 100 41 The Lanchester Motor Company Limited UK 100 100 42 Jaguar Land Rover Deutschland GmbH Germany 100 100 43 Jaguar Land Rover Classic Deutschland GmbH Germany 100 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) (Incorporated w.e.f. August 10, 2018) 44 Jaguar Land Rover Holdings Limited UK 100 100 45 Jaguar Land Rover North America LLC USA 100 100 46 Land Rover Ireland Limited Ireland 100 100 47 Jaguar Land Rover Nederland BV Netherlands 100 100 48 Jaguar Land Rover Portugal Veiculos e Pecas, Lda. Portugal 100 100 49 Jaguar Land Rover Australia Pty Limited Australia 100 100 50 Jaguar Land Rover Italia Spa Italy 100 100 51 Jaguar Land Rover Espana SL Spain 100 100 52 Jaguar Land Rover Korea Company Limited South Korea 100 100 53 Jaguar Land Rover (China) Investment Co. Limited China 100 100 54 Jaguar Land Rover Canada ULC Canada 100 100 55 Jaguar Land Rover France, SAS France 100 100 56 Jaguar Land Rover (South Africa) (pty) Limited South Africa 100 100 57 Jaguar e Land Rover Brasil industria e Comercio de Veiculos LTDA Brazil 100 100 58 Limited Liability Company “Jaguar Land Rover” (Russia) Russia 100 100 59 Jaguar Land Rover (South Africa) Holdings Limited UK 100 100 60 Jaguar Land Rover India Limited India 100 100 61 Jaguar Cars Limited UK 100 100 62 Land Rover Exports Limited UK 100 100 309 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements Sr Name of the Subsidiary company Country % of holding either directly No. of incorporation or through subsidiaries As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 63 Jaguar Land Rover Pension Trustees Limited UK 100 100 64 Jaguar Racing Limited UK 100 100 65 InMotion Ventures Limited UK 100 100 66 InMotion Ventures 1 Limited UK 100 100 67 InMotion Ventures 2 Limited UK 100 100 68 InMotion Ventures 3 Limited UK 100 100 69 InMotion Ventures 4 Limited (Incorporated w.e.f January 4, 2019) UK 100 70 Shanghai Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Services Company Limited China 100 100 71 Jaguar Land Rover Slovakia S.R.O Slovakia 100 100 72 Jaguar Land Rover Singapore Pte. Ltd Singapore 100 100 73 Jaguar Land Rover Columbia S.A.S Columbia 100 100 74 PT Tata Motors Distribusi Indonesia Indonesia 100 100 75 Tata Motors Finance Solutions Limited India 100 100 76 Tata Motors Finance Limited (formerly known as Sheba India 100 100 Properties Limited) 77 TMNL Motor Services Nigeria Limited Nigeria 100 100 78 Jaguar Land Rover Ireland (Services) Limited Ireland 100 100 79 Spark44 (JV) Limited UK 50.50 50.50 80 Spark44 Pty. Ltd. Australia 50.50 50.50 81 Spark44 GMBH Germany 50.50 50.50 82 Spark44 LLC USA 50.50 50.50 83 Spark44 (Shanghai) Limited China 50.50 50.50 84 Spark44 DMCC UAE 50.50 50.50 85 Spark44 Demand Creation Partners Limited India 50.50 50.50 86 Spark44 Limited (London & Birmingham) UK 50.50 50.50 87 Spark44 Pte Ltd Singapore 50.50 50.50 88 Spark44 Communication SL Spain 50.50 50.50 89 Spark44 SRL Italy 50.50 50.50 90 Spark44 Limited (Seoul Ltd) Korea 50.50 50.50 91 Spark44 Japan KK Japan 50.50 50.50 92 Spark44 Canada Inc Canada 50.50 50.50 93 Spark44 South Africa (Pty) Limited South Africa 50.50 50.50 94 Spark44 Colombia S.A.S. (Incorporated w.e.f. May 10, 2018) Columbia 50.50 310 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Sr Name of the Subsidiary company Country % of holding either directly No. of incorporation or through subsidiaries As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 95 Spark44 Taiwan Limited (Incorporated w.e.f. May 7, 2018) Taiwan 50.50 96 Jaguar Land Rover Taiwan Company Limited Taiwan 100 100 97 Jaguar Land Rover Servicios Mexico,S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100 100 98 Jaguar Land Rover Mexico,S.A.P.I. de C.V. Mexico 100 100 99 Jaguar Land Rover Hungary KFT (Incorporated w.e.f. July 30, 2018) Hungary 100 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) 100 Jaguar Land Rover Classic USA LLC (Incorporated w.e.f. June 1, 2018) USA 100 * Effective holding % of the Company directly and through its subsidiaries. The following Jointly controlled companies are considered in the consolidated financial statements: Sr Name of the Subsidiary company Country % of holding either directly No. of incorporation or through subsidiaries As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Joint Operations 1 Fiat India Automobiles Private Limited India 50 50 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) 2 Tata Cummins Private Limited India 50 50 Joint Ventures 3 Tata HAL Technologies Limited ** India 36.14 36.16 4 Chery Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Company Limited China 50 50 5 JT Special Vehicles Pvt. Limited India 50 50 ** Effective holding % of the Company as it is a Joint Venture of Tata Technologies Ltd The following associates companies are considered in the consolidated financial statements: Sr Name of the Subsidiary company Country % of holding either directly No. of incorporation or through subsidiaries As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 1 Automobile Corporation of Goa Limited India 47.19 47.19 2 Nita Company Limited Bangladesh 40.00 40.00 3 Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery Company Private Limited India 39.99 39.99 4 Tata Precision Industries (India) Limited India 39.19 39.19 5 Tata AutoComp Systems Limited India 26.00 26.00 6 Jaguar Cars Finance Limited UK 49.90 49.90 7 Cloud Car Inc USA 26.30 26.30 8 Synaptiv Limited UK 37.50 33.33 9 DriveClubService Pte. Ltd. Singapore 25.07 25.07 10 Loginomic Tech Solutions Private Limited (“TruckEasy”) (Acquired India 26.00 stake w.e.f. July 10, 2018) 311 312 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements 3. Property, plant and equipment (` in crores) Owned assets Given on lease Taken on lease Total Land Buildings Plant and Furniture Vehicles Computers Heritage Land Buildings Plant and Vehicles Buildings Plant and Furniture Computers equipment and Assets equipment equipment and fixtures fixtures Cost as at April 1, 2018 7,338.59 16,492.94 100,067.26 1,425.29 353.12 1,943.15 354.68 23.24 33.41 5.16 31.23 59.09 158.84 4.31 186.15 128,476.46 Additions 6,827.03 16,309.96 225.51 75.63 537.45 24.38 0.49 33.88 8.15 38.11 24,080.59 Currency translation differences (47.36) (474.78) (1,628.70) (19.90) (0.64) (29.94) (4.92) (0.38) (0.62) (0.41) (5.24) (2,212.89) Reversal of assets classified as Held for sale 27.11 45.55 36.89 3.88 156.82 36.78 0.63 307.66 Disposal (4.97) (31.43) (5,571.00) (46.37) (44.68) (272.38) (1.37) (2.36) (6.23) (5,980.79) Cost as at March 31, 2019 7,286.26 22,840.87 109,223.07 1,621.42 387.31 2,335.10 372.77 22.86 33.28 5.16 62.75 97.38 192.34 4.31 186.15 144,671.03 Accumulated depreciation/impairment as at April 1, 2018 3,299.91 49,073.11 718.35 179.83 1,058.69 0.93 4.12 6.06 20.99 71.06 1.51 174.06 54,608.62 Depreciation for the year 908.24 10,815.73 125.50 64.55 247.97 2.66 3.04 9.08 16.28 0.86 6.51 12,200.42 Writeoff/impairment of assets 10,515.08 144.34 6.05 234.82 161.69 56.72 11,118.70 Currency translation differences (49.09) (445.69) (7.02) (0.03) (6.76) (0.01) 0.29 (0.23) (508.54) Reversal of assets classified as Held for sale 12.11 13.12 16.70 2.18 101.50 13.93 0.60 160.14 Disposal (22.91) (5,192.52) (39.05) (38.15) (232.20) (1.13) (2.21) (5,528.17) Accumulated depreciation/impairment as at March 31, 2019 4,148.26 64,778.83 958.82 214.43 1,404.02 161.69 3.58 4.12 7.97 42.08 144.43 2.37 180.57 72,051.17 Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2019 7,286.26 18,692.61 44,444.24 662.60 172.88 931.08 211.08 22.86 29.70 1.04 54.78 55.30 47.91 1.94 5.58 72,619.86 Cost as at April 1, 2017 6,761.98 12,014.30 79,560.14 1,218.13 290.95 1,766.77 423.35 20.11 29.46 8.95 8.14 149.57 416.15 4.31 178.87 102,851.18 Additions 294.61 3,155.56 15,698.18 146.43 109.02 263.54 0.72 25.00 8.50 3.52 7.28 19,712.36 Asset acquired in Business Combination 2.06 0.22 42.73 13.12 0.10 58.23 Assets classified as held for sale (27.11) (366.90) (40.73) (3.88) (160.69) (100.20) (0.63) (700.14) Currency translation differences 282.00 1,355.91 8,374.91 121.91 11.47 143.85 50.00 2.41 3.98 2.68 39.67 10,388.79 Write off of assets (536.82) (110.06 ) (646.88) Disposal (7.78) (2,662.47) (63.18) (54.44) (83.44) (8.61) (0.03 ) (3.79) 1.91 (1.56) (299.87) (3,187.08) Cost as at March 31, 2018 7,338.59 16,492.94 100,067.26 1,425.29 353.12 1,943.15 354.68 23.24 33.41 5.16 31.23 59.09 158.84 4.31 186.15 128,476.46 Accumulated depreciation as at April 1, 2017 2,445.47 38,476.07 600.90 179.59 1,003.48 0.73 3.08 3.66 35.59 344.04 0.65 163.36 43,256.62 Depreciation for the year 652.15 9,838.20 133.52 44.68 176.24 0.13 1.32 3.70 5.60 7.24 0.86 10.70 10,874.34 Write off of assets (389.08) (389.08) Assets classified as held for sale (13.07) (115.43) (13.36 ) (2.58) (95.56) (20.98) (0.60) (261.58) Currency translation differences 218.14 3,718.80 54.38 6.19 51.96 0.07 0.78 20.25 4,070.57 Disposal (2.78) (2,455.45 ) (57.09) (48.05 ) (77.43) (0.28) (1.30) (299.87) (2,942.25) Accumulated depreciation as at March 31,2018 3,299.91 49,073.11 718.35 179.83 1,058.69 0.93 4.12 6.06 20.99 71.06 1.51 174.06 54,608.62 Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2018 7,338.59 13,193.03 50,994.15 706.94 173.29 884.46 354.68 23.24 32.48 1.04 25.17 38.10 87.78 2.80 12.09 73,867.84 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) 4. Leases The Company has taken land, buildings, plant and equipment, computers and furniture and fixtures under operating and finance leases. The following is the summary of future minimum lease rental payments under non-cancellable operating leases and finance leases entered into by the Company: (` in crores) As at March 31, 2019 As at March 31, 2018 Operating Finance Operating Finance Minimum Minimum Present value Minimum Minimum Present value Lease Lease of minimum Lease Lease of minimum Payments Payments lease Payments Payments lease STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) payments payments Not later than one year 1,099.41 33.00 29.59 880.80 25.39 22.23 Later than one year but not later 2,626.12 97.09 79.12 2,152.78 28.25 22.19 than five years Later than five years 2,496.83 249.25 64.76 2,334.29 38.06 24.56 Total minimum lease commitments 6,222.36 379.34 173.47 5,367.87 91.70 68.98 Less: future finance charges (205.87) (22.72) Present value of minimum lease payments 173.47 68.98 Included in the financial statements as: Other financial liabilities current (refer note 28) 17.30 22.23 Long-term borrowings (refer note 25) 156.17 46.75 173.47 68.98 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Total operating lease rent expenses were `1,077.42 crores and `1,022.39 crores for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 5. Goodwill (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Balance at the beginning 116.45 673.32 Impairment (8.11) Classified as held for sale (557.91) Reversal of held for sale 639.92 Currency translation differences (0.39) 1.04 Balance at the end 747.87 116.45 As at March 31, 2019, goodwill of `107.95 crores and `639.92 crores relates to the passenger vehicles automotive and related activity segment (Tata and other brand vehicles) and “others” segment, respectively. As at March 31, 2018, goodwill of `108.10 crores and `8.35 crores relates to the passenger vehicles automotive and related activity segment (Tata and other brand vehicles) and Jaguar Land Rover Segment, respectively. As at March 31, 2019, goodwill of `639.92 crores has been allocated to software consultancy and service cash generating unit. The recoverable amount of the cash generating unit has been determined based on value in use. Value in use has been determined based on future cash flows, after considering current economic conditions and trends, estimated future operating results, growth rates and anticipated future economic conditions. As at March 31, 2019, the estimated cash flows for a period of 5 years were developed using internal forecasts, and a pre-tax discount rate of 12.72% The cash flows beyond 5 years have been extrapolated assuming 2% growth rates. The management believes that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions would not cause the carrying amount to exceed the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit. 313 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements 6. (a) Other intangible assets (` in crores) Software Patents and Customer Intellectual Indefinite Product Total technological related property life trade development know how rights and marks and other patents intangibles Cost as at April 1, 2018 6,301.52 1,522.12 561.28 327.10 5,706.31 70,197.81 84,616.14 Additions 844.69 2.18 44.59 12,053.59 12,945.05 Fully amortised not in use (434.51) (38.20) (8.28) (8,651.82) (9,132.81) Reversal of Assets classified as Held for sale 248.83 1.75 48.69 299.27 Currency translation differences (192.36) (28.35) (11.96) (8.45) (109.70) (1,278.75) (1,629.57) Cost as at March 31, 2019 6,768.17 1,459.50 598.01 354.96 5,596.61 72,320.83 87,098.08 Accumulated amortisation/impairment as 3,235.38 1,383.86 273.12 98.12 32,196.09 37,186.57 at April 1, 2018 Amortisation for the year 1,043.48 76.83 29.35 39.57 10,200.98 11,390.21 Write off/Impairment of assets 669.40 61.73 47.40 1,316.88 8,092.86 10,188.27 Reversal of Assets classified as Held for sale 170.63 0.48 11.00 182.11 Asset fully amortised not in use (434.51) (38.20) (8.28) (8,651.82) (9,132.81) Currency translation differences (53.93) (25.76) (5.23) (2.32) 14.11 (509.89) (583.02) Accumulated amortisation/impairment as 4,630.45 1,397.21 369.97 174.49 1,330.99 41,328.22 49,231.33 at March 31, 2019 Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2019 2,137.72 62.29 228.03 180.47 4,265.62 30,992.61 37,866.74 Cost as at April 1, 2017 5,212.84 1,313.68 516.61 194.99 5,003.50 47,746.09 59,987.71 Additions 847.20 42.75 22.31 61.53 16,464.77 17,438.56 Asset acquired in Business Combination 12.62 33.59 46.21 Assets classified as held for sale (248.83) (1.68) (48.69) (299.20) Currency translation differences 694.31 167.37 71.05 36.99 702.81 7,217.99 8,890.52 Write off assets Fully amortised not in use (216.62) (1,231.04) (1,447.66) Cost as at March 31, 2018 6,301.52 1,522.12 561.28 327.10 5,706.31 70,197.81 84,616.14 Accumulated amortisation as at April 1, 2017 2,214.78 1,096.05 225.43 39.62 20,735.63 24,311.51 Amortisation for the year 997.26 135.07 26.09 53.67 9,467.16 10,679.25 Assets Held for Sale (170.05) (0.64) (10.96) (181.65) Fully amortised not in use (216.62) (1,231.04) (1,447.66) Currency translation differences 297.30 153.38 32.56 4.83 3,224.34 3,712.41 Write off assets 112.71 112.71 Accumulated amortisation as at March 31, 2018 3,235.38 1,383.86 273.12 98.12 32,196.09 37,186.57 Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2018 3,066.14 138.26 288.16 228.98 5,706.31 38,001.72 47,429.57 314 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) 6. (b) Intangible assets under development (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Balance at the beginning 23,890.56 23,512.01 Additions 18,235.26 16,877.22 Transferred to cost of other intangible assets (12,898.28) (17,286.12) Transferred to Held for Sale (190.10) STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Reversal of Held for Sale 12.54 Write off/impairment (5,386.48) (1,596.26) Currency translation impact (507.93) 2,573.81 Balance at the end 23,345.67 23,890.56 ( c) The useful life of trademarks and brands in respect of the acquired Jaguar Land Rover businesses have been determined to be indefinite as the Company expects to generate future economic benefits indefinitely from these assets. (d) During the year ended March 31, 2014, legislation was enacted that allows United Kingdom (UK) companies to elect for the Research and Development Expenditure Credit (RDEC) on qualifying expenditures incurred since April 1, 2013, instead of the existing super-deduction rules. As a result of this election by the Company’s subsidiary in the UK, `835.06 crores and `871.75 crores, for the year ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, the proportion relating to capitalised product FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) development expenditure, have been off set against intangibles under development. 315 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements 7. Impairment of Jaguar Land Rover Business The Company is of the view that the operations of its subsidiary Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) represent a single cash-generating unit (‘CGU’). Management performed an impairment assessment as at March 31, 2019. The recoverable value was determined by Value in Use (‘VIU’), which was marginally higher than the Fair Value less Cost of Disposal (‘FVLCD’) of the relevant assets of the CGU. The recoverable amount was lower than the carrying value of the CGU and this resulted in an impairment charge of `27,837.91 crores recognised within ‘Exceptional items’ as at March 31, 2019. The approach and key (unobservable) assumptions used to determine the CGU’s VIU were as follows: As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Growth rate applied beyond approved forecast period 1.90% 2.00% Pre-tax discount rate 11.80% 8.70% The Company has considered it appropriate to undertake the impairment assessment with reference to the latest business plan which includes a 5 year cash flow forecast. The growth rates used in the value in use calculation reflect those inherent within the JLR’s business plan, which is primarily a function of the JLR’s cycle plan assumptions, past performance and management’s expectation of future market developments through to 2023/24. The future cash flows consider potential risks given the current economic environment and key assumptions, such as volume forecasts and margins. The Company has assessed the potential impacts of changes, if any, in tax and treaty arrangements globally, including proposed exit of the United Kingdom from European Union (Brexit) and the US Tariffs. The potential impact of reasonably possible outcomes of these events has been included in the VIU calculations. The cash flows for the year 2023/24 are extrapolated into perpetuity assuming a growth rate as stated above which is set with reference to weighted-average GDP growth of the countries in which JLR operates. The impairment loss of `27,837.91 crores has been allocated initially against goodwill of `8.11 crores and thereafter the residual amount has been allocated on a pro-rated basis as follows: (` in crores) As at March 31, 2019 Property, plant and equipment 10,857.01 Capital work-in-progress 1,656.08 Goodwill 8.11 Other intangible assets 10,187.34 Intangible assets under development 5,129.37 Total 27,837.91 Sensitivity to key assumptions The change in the following assumptions used in the impairment review would, in isolation, lead to an increase to the aggregate impairment loss recognised as at March 31, 2019 (although it should be noted that these sensitivities do not take account of potential mitigating actions): (` in crores) As at March 31, 2019 Increase in discount rate by 1% 10,082.87 Decrease in long-term growth rate applied beyond approved forecast period by 0.5% 4,371.66 Decrease in projected volume by 5% 38,892.37 Decrease in projected gross margin by 1% 18,898.60 316 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) 8. Investments in equity accounted investees: (a) Associates: The Company has no material associates as at March 31, 2019. The aggregate summarised financial information in respect of the Company’s immaterial associates that are accounted for using the equity method is set forth below. (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Carrying amount of the Company’s interest in associates 1,039.34 933.34 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Company’s share of profit/(loss) in associates* 111.06 118.30 Company’s share of other comprehensive income in associates 8.32 (1.90) Company’s share of total comprehensive income in associates 119.38 116.40 (i) Fair value of investment in an equity accounted associate for which published price quotation is available, which is a level 1 input, was `169.69 crores and `338.04 crores as at March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The carrying amount as at March 31, 2019 and 2018 was `138.70 crores and `141.48 crores, respectively. (ii) During the year ended March 31, 2019, the Group purchased 26% of the share capital of Loginomic Tech Solutions FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Pvt. Limited for `2.66 crores. The investment is accounted for as equity accounted investments as the Group has significant influence. (b) Joint ventures: (i) Details of the Company’s material joint venture is as follows: Name of joint venture Principal Principal place % holding activity of the business As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Chery Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Co. Manufacture China 50% 50% Limited (Chery) and assembly of vehicles Chery is a limited liability company, whose legal form confers separation between the parties to the joint arrangement. There is no contractual arrangement or any other facts and circumstances that indicate that the parties to the joint venture have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities of the joint arrangement. Accordingly, Chery is classified as a joint venture. The summarised financial information in respect of Chery that is accounted for using the equity method is set forth below. (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Current assets 6,770.19 8,231.79 Non-current assets 13,024.47 12,218.49 Current liabilities (9,992.36) (9,929.83) Non-current liabilities (1,104.24) (1,418.41) 317 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 The above amounts of assets and liabilities include the following: Cash and cash equivalents 2,860.13 4,046.68 Current financial liabilities (excluding trade and other payables and provisions) (2,516.19) (388.52) Non-current financial liabilities (excluding trade and other payables and provisions) (1,104.23) (1,399.96) Share of net assets of material joint venture 4,349.03 4,551.02 Other consolidation adjustments (53.49) (101.62) Carrying amount of the Company’s interest in joint venture 4,295.54 4,449.40 (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Revenue 15,571.50 23,787.61 Net income/(loss) 111.95 4,338.13 Other comprehensive income 121.79 Total comprehensive income for the year 111.95 4,459.92 The above net income includes the following: Depreciation and amortisation 1,885.76 1,194.78 Interest income (109.20) (229.87) Interest expense (net) 126.63 60.90 income tax expense/(credit) 57.81 1,163.05 Reconciliation of above summarised financial information to the carrying amount of the interest in the joint venture recognised in the consolidated financial statements: (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Net assets of the joint venture 8,698.06 9,102.04 Proportion of the Company’s interest in joint venture 4,349.03 4,551.02 Other consolidation adjustments (53.49) (101.62) Carrying amount of the Company’s interest in joint venture 4,295.54 4,449.40 During the year ended March 31, 2019, a dividend of GBP 21.69 Million (`199.03 crores) was received by a subsidiary in UK from Chery Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Co. Ltd. (2018 : GBP 206.46 Million, `1,764.49 crores) (ii) The aggregate summarised financial information in respect of the Company’s immaterial joint ventures that are accounted for using the equity method is set forth below. (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Carrying amount of the Company’s interest in joint ventures 2.50 318 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Company’s share of profit/(loss) in immaterial joint ventures* (2.50) 16.25 Company’s share of other comprehensive income in immaterial joint ventures Company’s share of total comprehensive income in immaterial joint ventures (2.50) 16.25 ( c) Summary of carrying amount of the Company’s interest in equity accounted investees: (` in crores) STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Carrying amount in immaterial associates 447.84 435.99 Carrying amount in immaterial associates (held for sale) 591.50 497.35 Carrying amount in material joint venture 4,295.54 4,449.40 Carrying amount in immaterial joint ventures 2.50 Total 5,334.88 5,385.24 Current (held for sale) 591.50 497.35 Non current 4,743.38 4,887.89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Total 5,334.88 5,385.24 (d) Summary of Company’s share of profit/(loss) in equity accounted investees: (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Share of profit/(loss) in immaterial associates 111.06 118.30 Share of profit/(loss) in material joint venture 55.98 2,169.07 Share of profit/(loss) on other adjustments in material joint venture 44.96 (25.36) Share of profit/(loss) in immaterial joint ventures (2.50) 16.25 209.50 2,278.26 (e) Summary of Company’s share of other comprehensive income in equity accounted investees: (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Share of other comprehensive income in immaterial associates 11.15 (10.96) Currency translation differences-immaterial associates (2.83) 9.06 Currency translation differences-material joint venture (55.78) 420.35 (47.46) 418.45 * Company’s share of profit/(loss) of the equity accounted investees has been determined after giving effect for the subsequent amortisation/depreciation and other adjustments arising on account of fair value adjustments made to the identifiable net assets of the equity accounted investee as at the date of acquisition and other adjustment arising under the equity method of accounting. 319 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements 9. Other Investments non-current (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Investments measured at Fair value through Other Comprehensive Income Quoted: Equity shares 303.39 36.64 Unquoted: Equity shares 437.90 371.26 Total 741.29 407.90 (b) Investments measured at Fair value through profit or loss Quoted: (i) Equity shares (refer note below) 423.14 (ii) Mutual funds 28.84 Unquoted: (i) Non-cumulative redeemable preference shares 5.40 0.40 (ii) Cumulative redeemable preference shares 2.50 2.50 (iii) Equity shares (refer note below) 124.28 246.82 (iv) Convertible debentures 149.08 85.40 (v) Others 19.10 16.86 Total 752.34 351.98 ( c) Investments measured at amortised cost Unquoted: Non-convertible debentures 3.88 3.88 Total 3.88 3.88 Total (a+b+c) 1,497.51 763.76 Aggregate book value of quoted investments 726.53 36.64 Aggregate market value of quoted investments 726.53 36.64 Aggregate book value of unquoted investments 770.98 727.12 Note: During the year ended March 31, 2019, the Company’s investments in Lyft Incorporated got listed in NASDAQ stock exchange. The carrying value of these equity shares are `423.14 crores and `204.70 crores as at March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 320 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) 10. Other Investments current (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Investments measured at Fair value through Other Comprehensive Income Quoted: Equity Shares 0.92 303.28 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) (b) Investments measured at Fair value through profit and loss Unquoted: Mutual funds 1,191.90 1,601.00 Total 1,191.90 1,601.00 ( c) Investments measured at amortised cost Unquoted: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Mutual funds 7,745.51 12,759.47 Total 7,745.51 12,759.47 Total (a+b+c) 8,938.33 14,663.75 Aggregate book value of unquoted investments 8,937.41 14,360.47 Aggregate book value of quoted investments 0.92 303.28 Aggregate market value of quoted investments 0.92 303.28 321 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements 11. Loans and advances (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Non-current Secured, considered good: (a) Loans to channel partners (Net of allowances for credit impaired balances `Nil and `7.30 180.49 237.03 crores as at March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively). Unsecured, considered good: (a) Loans to employees 26.29 28.06 (b) Loan to joint arrangements 3.75 ( c) Others (Net of allowances for credit impaired balances `8.46 crores and `41.68 crores as at 196.89 230.32 March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.) Total 407.42 495.41 Current Secured, considered good: (a) Loans to channel partners 74.06 18.84 Unsecured, considered good: (a) Advances to supplier, contractors etc. (Net of allowances for credit impaired balances 1,177.87 1,431.98 `179.86 crores and `165.10 crores as at March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively) (b) Loans to channel partners (Net of allowances for credit impaired balances `9.90 crores and 14.46 `Nil as at March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.) ( c) Inter corporate deposits 2.31 0.32 Total 1,268.70 1,451.14 322 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) 12. Other Financial Assets (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Non-current (a) Derivative financial instruments 911.14 2,846.90 (b) Interest accrued on loans and deposits 9.03 2.60 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) ( c) Restricted deposits 75.11 69.06 (d) Margin money / cash collateral with banks 329.07 104.80 (e) Government grant receivables 508.08 467.14 (f) Recoverable from suppliers 968.23 1,072.19 (g) Other deposits 8.52 1.18 Total 2,809.18 4,563.87 Margin money with banks in restricted cash deposits consists of collateral provided for transfer of finance receivables. Restricted deposits as at March 31, 2019 and 2018 includes `45.26 crores and `50.76 crores, respectively, held as a deposit in relation to ongoing legal cases. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Current (a) Derivative financial instruments 1,235.54 2,476.13 (b) Interest accrued on loans and deposits 17.37 3.89 ( c) Government grant receivable 500.31 411.39 (d) Deposit with financial institutions 500.00 (e) Recoverable from suppliers 959.05 966.23 (f) Lease receivables 1.29 Total 3,213.56 3,857.64 323 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements 13. Inventories* (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Raw materials and components 2,328.44 3,019.28 (b) Work-in-progress 3,891.76 4,043.17 ( c) Finished goods 31,512.70 33,875.53 (d) Stores and spare parts 201.38 208.72 (e) Consumable tools 500.23 375.56 (f) Goods-in-transit Raw materials and components 579.22 615.37 Total 39,013.73 42,137.63 Note: (i) Inventories of finished goods include `4,380.71 crores and `4,023.61 crores as at March 31, 2019 and 2018 respectively, relating to vehicles sold subject to repurchase arrangements. (ii) Cost of inventories (including cost of purchased products) recognised as expense during the year ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 amounted to `228,342.42 crores and `217,338.62 crores, respectively. (iii) During the year ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company recorded inventory write-down expense of `608.63 crores and `607.42 crores, respectively. * Excludes `95.80 crores classified as held for sale as at March 31, 2018. 14. Trade receivables (Unsecured)* (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Receivables considered good 18,996.17 19,893.30 Credit impaired receivables 970.10 1,261.67 19,966.27 21,154.97 Less : Allowance for credit impaired receivables (970.10) (1,261.67) Total 18,996.17 19,893.30 * Excludes `524.58 crores classified as held for sale as at March 31, 2018. 15. Cash and cash equivalents (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Cash on hand 29.21 31.42 (b) Cheques on hand 385.60 399.44 ( c) Balances with banks 7,885.13 8,907.19 (d) Deposit with banks 13,259.86 5,378.70 21,559.80 14,716.75 324 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) 16. Bank Balances (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 With upto 12 months maturity: (a) Earmarked balances with banks (refer note below) 365.23 493.87 (b) Margin money / cash collateral with banks 149.58 41.71 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) ( c) Bank deposits 10,574.21 19,361.58 Total 11,089.02 19,897.16 Note: Earmarked balances with bank includes `250.93 crores and `248.60 crores as at March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively held as security in relation to interest and repayment of bank borrowings. Out of these deposits, `94.27 crores and `85.09 crores as at March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively are pledged till the maturity of the respective borrowings. 17. Finance Receivables (` in crores) As at As at FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Finance receivables 34,457.74 25,070.75 Less: allowance for credit losses (833.05) (1,189.57) Total 33,624.69 23,881.18 Current portion 11,551.52 8,401.65 Non-current portion 22,073.17 15,479.53 Total 33,624.69 23,881.18 Changes in the allowance for credit losses in finance receivables are as follows: (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Balance at the beginning 1,189.57 3,597.51 Allowances made during the year 320.24 43.30 Written off (676.76) (2,451.24) Balance at the end 833.05 1,189.57 325 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements 18. Allowance for trade and other receivables Change in the allowances for trade and other receivables are as follows: (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Balance at the beginning 1,477.62 1,517.03 Assets classified as held for sale (13.05) Allowances made during the year 214.19 14.57 Written off (397.44) (45.49) Foreign exchange translation differences (35.33) 4.56 Reversal of Assets classified as held for sale 13.05 Balance at the end 1,272.09 1,477.62 19. Other non-current assets * (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Capital advances 385.88 284.53 (b) Taxes recoverable, statutory deposits and dues from government (Net of allowances for 1,081.90 1,049.63 credit impaired balances `1.84 crores and `Nil as at March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.) ( c) Prepaid rentals on operating leases 362.57 381.72 (d) Prepaid expenses 768.42 762.59 (e) Recoverable from insurance companies 318.80 185.99 (f) Others 21.16 16.79 Total 2,938.73 2,681.25 * Excludes `83.56 crores classified as held for sale as at March 31, 2018. 20. Other Current Assets * (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Advances and other receivables (Net of allowances for credit impaired balances `43.87 434.07 364.02 crores and `Nil as at March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.) (b) GST/VAT, other Taxes recoverable, statutory deposits and dues from government 5,071.95 5,674.80 (Net of allowances for credit impaired balances `58.06 crores and `1.86 crores as at March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.) ( c) Prepaid expenses 1,210.68 1,440.35 (d) Recoverable from insurance companies 35.75 26.97 (e) Others 109.77 156.23 Total 6,862.22 7,662.37 * Excludes `33.75 crores classified as held for sale as at March 31, 2018. 326 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) 21. Income taxes The domestic and foreign components of profit/(loss) before income tax is as follows: (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Profit/(loss) before income taxes India 2,641.69 (963.60) Other than India (34,012.84) 12,118.63 Total (31,371.15) 11,155.03 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) The domestic and foreign components of income tax expense is as follows: (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Current taxes India 503.43 242.00 Other than India 1,721.80 3,061.46 Deferred taxes India (323.75) 48.49 Other than India (4,338.93) 989.98 Total income tax expense (2,437.45) 4,341.93 The reconciliation of estimated income tax to income tax expense is as follows: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Profit/(Loss) before tax (31,371.15) 11,155.03 Income tax expense at tax rates applicable to individual entities (5,390.45) 2,248.91 Additional deduction for patent, research and product development cost (189.12) (409.98) Items (net) not deductible for tax/not liable to tax : foreign currency (gain)/loss relating to loans and deposits (net) (8.28) 133.62 interest and other expenses relating to borrowings for investment 62.16 33.78 Dividend from subsidiaries, joint operations, equity accounted investees and other investments (1.55) (5.01) Undistributed earnings of subsidiaries, joint operations and equity accounted investees 127.78 917.01 Deferred tax assets not recognised because realisation is not probable 473.87 990.23 Previously recognised deferred tax assets written down on account of impairment of Jaguar 2,698.15 Land Rover business Utilisation/credit of unrecognised tax losses, unabsorbed depreciation and other tax benefits (701.64) (358.33) Impact of change in statutory tax rates 454.04 539.26 Profit on sale of investments-subsidiaries and Others (93.20) Others 130.79 252.44 Income tax expense reported (2,437.45) 4,341.93 The UK Finance Act 2016 was enacted during the year ended March 31, 2017 which included provisions for a reduction in the UK Corporation tax rate to 17% with effect from April 1, 2020. Accordingly, UK deferred tax has been provided at rates applicable when the temporary difference is expected to reverse. Included within ‘Impact of change in statutory tax rates’ is a charge of `464.84 crores for the impact of the change in the US Federal rate from 35% to 21% on deferred tax assets for the year ended March 31, 2018. 327 328 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements Significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year ended March 31, 2019 are as follows: (` in crores) Opening Adjustment Adjusted Reversal of Recognised Recognised MAT Credit Divestment Closing balance on initial Opening items classified in profit or loss in/reclassified Utilised of a balance application Balance as held for Sale from other subsidiary of IFRS 15 in earlier year comprehensive company income Deferred tax assets: Unabsorbed depreciation 2,564.73 2,564.73 2.43 (16.12) (0.01) 12.44 2,563.47 Business loss carry forwards 4,961.49 8.45 4,969.94 (1,925.59) (72.39) 2,971.96 Expenses deductible in future years: provisions, allowances for doubtful 3,021.39 3,021.39 2.12 391.11 0.22 2.45 3,417.29 receivables and others Compensated absences and 842.63 842.63 13.24 3.27 385.85 1.30 1,246.29 retirement benefits Minimum alternate tax carry-forward 38.19 38.19 3.78 81.78 (1.58) (15.55) 106.62 Property, plant and equipment 92.65 92.65 4,825.89 10.82 4,929.36 Derivative financial instruments 755.25 755.25 0.39 (2.24) 471.92 1,225.32 Unrealised profit on Inventory 1,507.92 1,507.92 (381.15) 15.10 1,141.87 Others 1,140.24 1,140.24 1.52 168.14 (51.85) 0.82 1,258.87 Total deferred tax assets 14,924.49 8.45 14,932.94 23.48 3,145.09 759.66 (1.58) 1.46 18,861.05 Deferred tax liabilities: Property, plant and equipment 2,740.07 2,740.07 5.60 (114.26) (11.97) 7.21 2,626.65 Intangible assets 12,183.85 12,183.85 (2.74) (1,242.05) (188.11) 10,750.95 Undistributed earnings in subsidiaries, 1,939.72 1,939.72 (233.04)* (17.46) 1,689.22 joint operations and equity accounted investees Fair valuation of retained interest in a 16.95 16.95 16.95 subsidiary subsequent to disposal of controlling equity interest Others 11.00 11.00 12.10 71.76 22.35 117.21 Total deferred tax liabilities 16,891.59 16,891.59 14.96 (1,517.59) (195.19) 7.21 15,200.98 Net assets/(liabilities) (1,967.10) 8.45 (1,958.65) 8.52 4,662.68 954.85 (1.58) (5.75) 3,660.07 Deferred tax assets ` 5,151.11 Deferred tax liabilities ` 1,491.04 * Net off `360.82 crores reversed on dividend distribution by subsidiaries. Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) As at March 31, 2019, unrecognised deferred tax assets amount to `5,393.93 crores and `5,605.09 crores, which can be carried forward indefinitely and up to a specified period, respectively. These relate primarily to depeciation carry forwards, other deductible temporary differences and business losses. The deferred tax asset has not been recognised on the basis that its recovery is not probable in the foreseeable future. Unrecognised deferred tax assets expire unutilised based on the year of origination as follows: March 31, (` in crores) 2020 52.50 2021 56.10 2022 69.94 2023 885.95 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) 2024 716.14 Thereafter 3,824.46 The Company has not recognised deferred tax liability on undistributed profits of certain subsidiaries amounting to `44,551.06 crores and `74,589.17 crores as at March 31, 2019 and 2018 respectively, because it is able to control the timing of the reversal of temporary differences associated with such undistributed profits and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year ended March 31, 2018 are as follows: (` in crores) Opening Recognised Recognised MAT Credit Classified Closing balance in profit in/reclassified Utilised as held balance or loss from other for Sale comprehensive income FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Deferred tax assets: Unabsorbed depreciation 2,574.50 1.86 1.58 (13.21) 2,564.73 Business loss carry forwards 3,292.38 1,340.70 328.41 4,961.49 Expenses deductible in future years: provisions, allowances for doubtful receivables and others 2,828.72 72.85 123.31 (3.49) 3,021.39 Compensated absences and retirement benefits 2,172.96 (722.47) (594.16) (13.70) 842.63 Minimum alternate tax carry-forward 74.92 1.26 (34.21) (3.78) 38.19 Property, plant and equipment 111.90 (30.83) 11.58 92.65 Derivative financial instruments 4,428.94 (582.98) (3,090.32) (0.39) 755.25 Unrealised profit on inventory 1,609.40 (303.82) 202.34 1,507.92 Others 796.44 200.77 152.37 (9.34) 1,140.24 Total deferred tax assets 17,890.16 (22.66) (2,864.89) (34.21) (43.91) 14,924.49 Deferred tax liabilities: Property, plant and equipment 2,702.20 8.39 45.35 (15.87) 2,740.07 Intangible assets 10,484.89 530.51 1,165.71 2.74 12,183.85 Undistributed earnings of subsidiaries joint 1,337.63 508.16* 93.93 1,939.72 operations and equity accounted investees Fair valuation of retained interest in a subsidiary 16.95 16.95 subsequent to disposal of controlling equity interest Derivative financial instruments 23.12 (23.12) Others 42.03 (8.12) (13.29) (9.62) 11.00 Total deferred tax liabilities 14,606.82 1,015.82 1,291.70 (22.75) 16,891.59 Net assets/(liabilities) 3,283.34 (1,038.48) (4,156.59) (34.21) (21.17) (1,967.10) Deferred tax assets ` 4,158.70 Deferred tax liabilities ` 6,125.80 * Net of ` 408.85 crores reversed on dividend distributions by subsidiaries. 329 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements 22. Equity Share Capital (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Authorised: (i) 400,00,00,000 Ordinary shares of `2 each 800.00 800.00 (as at March 31, 2018: 400,00,00,000 Ordinary shares of `2 each) (ii) 100,00,00,000 A’ Ordinary shares of `2 each 200.00 200.00 (as at March 31, 2018: 100,00,00,000 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of `2 each) (iii) 30,00,00,000 Convertible Cumulative Preference shares of `100 each 3,000.00 3,000.00 (as at March 31, 2018: 30,00,00,000 shares of `100 each) Total 4,000.00 4,000.00 (b) Issued [Note (j)]: (i) 288,78,43,046 Ordinary shares of `2 each 577.57 577.57 (as at March 31, 2018: 288,78,43,046 Ordinary shares of `2 each) (ii) 50,87,36,110 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of `2 each 101.75 101.75 (as at March 31, 2018: 50,87,36,110 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of `2 each) Total 679.32 679.32 ( c) Subscribed and called up: (i) 288,73,48,694 Ordinary shares of `2 each 577.47 577.47 (as at March 31, 2018: 288,73,48,694 Ordinary shares of `2 each) (ii) 50,85,02,371 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of `2 each 101.70 101.70 (as at March 31, 2018: 50,85,02,371 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of `2 each) 679.17 679.17 (d) Calls unpaid Ordinary shares (0.00)* (0.00)* 310 Ordinary shares of `2 each (`1 outstanding on each) and 260 Ordinary shares of `2 each (`0.50 outstanding on each) (as at March 31, 2018: 310 Ordinary shares of `2 each (`1 outstanding on each) and 260 Ordinary shares of `2 each (`0.50 outstanding on each) (e) Paid-up (c+d): 679.17 679.17 (f) Forfeited Ordinary shares 0.05 0.05 Total (e + f) 679.22 679.22 330 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) (g) The movement of number of shares and share capital Year ended March 31, 2019 Year ended March 31, 2018 (No. of shares) (` in crores) (No. of shares) (` in crores) (i) Ordinary shares Balance as at April 1 2,887,348,694 577.47 2,887,348,428 577.47 Add: Allotment of shares held in abeyance 266 0.00* Balance as at March 31 2,887,348,694 577.47 2,887,348,694 577.47 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) (ii) ‘A’ Ordinary shares Balance as at April 1 508,502,371 101.70 508,502,291 101.70 Add: Allotment of shares held in abeyance 80 0.00* Balance as at March 31 508,502,371 101.70 508,502,371 101.70 (h) The entitlements to 4,94,352 Ordinary shares of `2 each (as at March 31, 2018 : 4,94,352 Ordinary shares of `2 each) and 2,33,739 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of `2 each (as at March 31, 2018 : 2,33,739 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of `2 each) are subject matter of various suits filed in the courts / forums by third parties for which final order is awaited and hence kept in abeyance. * less than `50,000/(i) Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares : (i) Ordinary shares and ‘A’ Ordinary shares both of `2 each : FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) • The Company has two classes of shares – the Ordinary shares and the ‘A’ Ordinary shares both of `2 each (together referred to as shares). In respect of every Ordinary share (whether fully or partly paid), voting rights shall be in the same proportion as the capital paid up on such Ordinary share bears to the total paid up Ordinary share capital of the Company. In case of every ‘A’ Ordinary share, if any resolution is put to vote on a poll or by postal ballot at any general meeting of shareholders, the holder shall be entitled to one vote for every ten ‘A’ Ordinary shares held as per the terms of its issue and if a resolution is put to vote on a show of hands, the holder of ‘A’ Ordinary shares shall be entitled to the same number of votes as available to holders of Ordinary shares. • T he dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting. Further, the Board of Directors may also declare an interim dividend. The holders of ‘A’ Ordinary shares shall be entitled to receive dividend for each financial year at five percentage point more than the aggregate rate of dividend declared on Ordinary shares for that financial year. • In the event of liquidation, the shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company after distribution of all preferential amounts, in proportion to their shareholdings. (ii) American Depositary Shares (ADSs) and Global Depositary Shares (GDSs) : • Each ADS and GDS underlying the ADR and GDR respectively represents five Ordinary shares of `2 each. A holder of ADS and GDS is not entitled to attend or vote at shareholders meetings. An ADS holder is entitled to issue voting instructions to the Depositary with respect to the Ordinary shares represented by ADSs only in accordance with the provisions of the Company’s ADSs deposit agreement and Indian Law. The depositary for the ADSs and GDSs shall exercise voting rights in respect of the deposited shares by issue of an appropriate proxy or power of attorney in terms of the respective deposit agreements. • Shares issued upon conversion of ADSs and GDSs will rank pari passu with the existing Ordinary shares of `2 each in all respects including entitlement of the dividend declared. 331 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements (j) Number of shares held by each shareholder holding more than 5 percent of the issued share capital : As at March 31, 2019 As at March 31, 2018 % Issued % Issued Share Capital No. of Shares Share Capital No. of Shares (i) Ordinary shares : (a) Tata Sons Private Limited 34.69% 1,01,91,56,523 32.72% 96,13,81,852 (b) Life Insurance Corporation of India 5.02% 14,73,73,493 5.08% 14,92,95,627 ( c) Citibank N A as Depository # 32,36,96,360 # 43,70,24,750 (ii) ‘A’ Ordinary shares : (a) ICICI PrudentialBalancedAdvantage Fund 11.98% 6,09,11,219 9.44% 4,79,98,379 (b) Franklin India Smaller Companies Fund 11.71% 5,95,34,740 8.74% 4,44,31,036 ( c) HDFC Large Cap Fund 5.15% 2,62,02,083 (d) Government of Singapore 6.51% 3,30,82,933 6.78% 3,44,87,840 # held by Citibank, N.A. as depository for American Depository Receipts (ADRs) and Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) (k) Information regarding issue of shares in the last five years (a) The Company has not issued any shares without payment being received in cash. (b) The Company has not issued any bonus shares. ( c) The Company has not undertaken any buy-back of shares. 23. Other components of equity (a) The movement of Currency translation reserve is as follows: (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Balance at the beginning 4,621.23 (5,300.13) Exchange differences arising on translating the net assets of foreign operations (net) (2,010.23) 9,491.95 Net change in translation reserve equity accounted investees (net) (58.61) 429.41 Balance at the end 2,552.39 4,621.23 (b) The movement of Equity instruments held as fair value through other comprehensive income(FVTOCI) is as follows: (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Balance at the beginning 22.82 (19.26) Other Comprehensive income for the year 43.80 42.86 Income tax relating to gain/(loss) recognised on equity investments, where applicable 0.39 Profit on sale of equity investments reclassified to retained earnings (4.93) (0.78) Balance at the end 62.08 22.82 332 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) ( c) The movement of Hedging reserve is as follows: (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Balance at the beginning (3,626.04) (17,911.63) Gain/(loss) recognised on cash flow hedges (8,485.30) 8,700.95 Income tax relating to gain/(loss) recognised on cash flow hedges 1,606.17 (1,626.88) (Gain)/loss reclassified to profit or loss 7,077.94 10,328.81 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Income tax relating to gain/(loss) reclassified to profit or loss (1,345.20) (1,957.86) Amounts reclassified from hedge reserve to inventory (1,024.92) (1,431.40) Income tax related to amounts reclassified from hedge reserve to inventory 194.73 271.97 Balance at the end (5,602.62) (3,626.04) (d) The movement of Cost of hedging reserve is as follows: (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Balance at the beginning 143.98 (74.22) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Gain/(loss) recognised on cash flow hedges (262.32) 267.69 Income tax relating to gain/(loss) recognised on cash flow hedges 51.03 (50.42) (Gain)/loss reclassified to profit or loss (18.94) Income tax relating to gain/(loss) reclassified to profit or loss 4.40 Amounts removed from hedge reserve and recognised in inventory 13.65 1.15 Income tax related to amounts removed from hedge reserve and recognised in inventory (2.60) (0.22) Balance at the end (70.80) 143.98 (e) Summary of Other components of equity: (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Currency translation reserve 2,552.39 4,621.23 Equity instruments held as FVTOCI 62.08 22.82 Hedging reserve (5,602.62) (3,626.04) Cost of hedging reserve (70.80) 143.98 Total (3,058.95) 1,161.99 333 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements 24. Notes to reserves and dividends (a) Securities premium The amount received in excess of face value of the equity shares is recognised in Securities premium account. (b) Retained earnings Retained earnings are the profits that the Company has earned till date. ( c) Capital redemption reserve The Indian Companies Act, 2013 (the “Companies Act”) requires that where a company purchases its own shares out of free reserves or securities premium account, a sum equal to the nominal value of the shares so purchased shall be transferred to a capital redemption reserve account and details of such transfer shall be disclosed in the Balance Sheet. The capital redemption reserve account may be applied by the company, in paying up unissued shares of the company to be issued to shareholders of the company as fully paid bonus shares. Tata Motors Limited established this reserve pursuant to the redemption of preference shares issued in earlier years. (d) Debenture redemption reserve The Companies Act requires that where a company issues debentures, it shall create a debenture redemption reserve out of profits of the company available for payment of dividend. The company is required to maintain a Debenture Redemption Reserve of 25% of the value of debentures issued, either by a public issue or on a private placement basis. The amounts credited to the debenture redemption reserve may not be utilised by the company except to redeem debentures. (e) Reserve for research and human resource development In terms of Article 9 of the Act on Special Taxation Restriction in Korea, Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Company Limited (TDCV, a subsidiary of Tata Motors Limited) is entitled for deferment of tax in respect of expenditures incurred on product development cost subject to fulfillment of certain conditions, by way of deduction from the taxable income, provided that TDCV appropriates an equivalent amount from “Retained Earnings” to “Reserve for Research and Human Resource Development”. The deferment is for a period of three years and from the fourth year onwards one-third of the reserve is offered to tax and an equal amount is then transferred from the reserve to “Retained earnings available for appropriation”. (f) Special reserve The special reserve represents the reserve created by two subsidiaries of Tata Motors Limited pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (the “RBI Act”) and related regulations applicable to those companies. Under the RBI Act, a non-banking finance company is required to transfer an amount not less than 20% of its net profit to a reserve fund before declaring any dividend. Appropriation from this reserve fund is permitted only for the purposes specified by the RBI. (g) Earned surplus reserve Under the Korean commercial code, TDCV is required to appropriate at least 10% of cash dividend declared each year to a legal reserve until such reserves equal to 50% of capital stock. This reserve may not be utilised for cash dividends, but may only be used to offset against future deficits, if any, or may be transferred to capital stock. (h) Hedge Reserve Effective portion of fair value gain/(loss) on all financial instruments designated in cash flow hedge relationship are accumulated in hedge reserve. (i) Cost of hedge reserve Fair value gain/(loss) attributable to cost of hedge on all financials instruments designated in cash flow hedge relationship are accumulated in cost of hedge reserve. (j) Capital Reserve The capital reserve represents the excess of the Company’s interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the purchase consideration. (k) Dividends The final dividend is recommended by the Board of Directors and is recorded in the books of accounts upon its approval by the Shareholders. For the year ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, considering the accumulated losses in the Tata Motors Limited Standalone, no dividend is permitted to be paid to the Members, as per the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules framed thereunder. (l) Share-based payments reserve Share-based payments reserve represents amount of fair value, as on the date of grant, of unvested options and vested options not exercised till date, that have been recognised as expense in the statement of Profit and Loss till date. (m) Reserve for Equity instruments through other comprehensive income Fair value gain loss arising on equity investment that are designated as held at fair value through Other comprehensive income is included here. 334 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) 25. Long-term borrowings (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Secured: (a) Privately placed Non-Convertible Debentures 1,765.40 2,005.58 (b) Collateralised debt obligations 1,564.91 592.49 ( c) Term loans: (i) from banks 9,744.57 4,909.55 (ii) other parties 196.93 201.31 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) (d) Finance lease obligations 156.17 46.75 Unsecured: (a) Privately placed Non-Convertible Debentures 7,187.29 8,694.50 (b) Term loans: (i) from banks 18,182.90 8,753.12 (ii) other parties 44.07 55.67 ( c) Senior notes 31,344.61 35,045.72 (d) Others 786.82 894.81 Total 70,973.67 61,199.50 26. Short-term borrowings (` in crores) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Secured: (a) Loans from banks 7,990.00 5,104.30 (b) Loans from other parties 187.87 171.11 Unsecured: (a) Loans from banks 946.83 851.89 (b) Inter corporate deposits from associates 73.00 86.00 ( c) Commercial paper 10,952.56 10,581.55 Total 20,150.26 16,794.85 Collaterals Inventory, trade receivables, finance receivables, other financial assets, property, plant and equipment with a carrying amount of `30,885.05 crores and `18,196.91 crores are pledged as collateral/security against the borrowing as at March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Notes : Nature of Security (on loans including interest accrued thereon) : Long Term Borrowings (A) Non convertible debentures (i) Rated, Listed, Secured, 9.95% Coupon, Non-Convertible Debentures amounting to `200 crores included within Current maturities of Long-term borrowings in note 28 are secured by a pari passu charge by way of an English mortgage of the Company’s freehold land together with immovable properties, plant and machinery and other movable assets (excluding stock and book debts) situated at Sanand in the State of Gujarat. 335 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements (ii) Privately placed non-convertible debentures amounting to `1,765.40 crores included within Long-term borrowings in note 25 and `1,956.01 crores included within Current maturities of long-term borrowings in note 28 are fully secured by : (a) First pari passu charge on residential flat of Tata Motors Finance Limited (TMFL) an indirect subsidiary of the Company (b) Pari passu charge is created in favour of debenture trustee on : All receivables of TMFL arising out of loan and lease transactions, All book debts, trade advances forming part of movable property of TML. ( c) Any other security as identified by TMFL and acceptable to the debenture trustee. (B) Collateralised debt obligations Collateralised debt obligation represent amount received against finance receivables securitised/assigned, which does not qualify for derecognition.The repayments are due from financial year ending March 31, 2020 to March 31, 2024. ( C) Long-term loan from banks/financial institution and Government (i)  Term loans from banks amounting to `7,877.31 crores included within long-term borrowings in note 25 and `1,557.81 crores included within current maturities of long-term borrowings in note 28 are secured by a pari-passu charge in favour of the security trustee on all receivables of TMFL arising out of loan, lease transactions and trade advances, all other book debts, receivables from pass through certifictes in which company has invested and such other current assets as may be identified by TMFL from time to time and accepted by the relevant lender/security trustee. (ii) Term loans from banks amounting to `1,279.68 crores included within long-term borrowings in note 25 and `214.59 crores included within current maturities of long-term borrowings in note 28 are secured by way of a charge created on all receivables of Tata Motors Finance Solutions Limited (TMFSL) arising out of loan, trade advances; and all other book debts, receivables from pass through certificates in which company has invested; and such other current assets as may be identified by TMFSL from time to time and accepted by the relevant lender. (iii) Term loan from banks of `587.58 crores included within Long-term borrowings in note 25 and `88.48 crores included within Current maturities of Long-term borrowings in note 28 is taken by joint operation Fiat India Automobiles Private Ltd which is due for repayment from June 2019 to May 2023. The loan is secured by first charge over fixed assets procured from its loan/jeep project. (iv) The term loan from others of `587.08 crores (recorded in books at `146.73 crores) is due for repayment from the quarter ending March 31, 2033 to quarter ending March31, 2039, along with simple interest at the rate of 0.10% p.a.The loan is secured by a second and subservient charge (creation of charge is under process) over Company’s free hold land together with immovable properties, plant and machinery and other movable assets (excluding stock and book debts) situated at Sanand plant in the State of Gujarat. (v) The term loan from others of `69.34 crores (recorded in books at `24.70 crores) is due for repayment from the quarter ending June 30, 2030 to March 31, 2033, along with a simple interest of 0.01% p.a. The loan is secured by bank gurantee for the due performance of the conditions as per the terms of the agreement. (vi) The term loan from others of `25.50 crores included within Long -term borrowings in note 25 and `9.00 crores included within current maturity of long-term borrowings in note 28 are secured by pari passu first charge on fixed assets of Tata Marcopolo Motors Limited. (D) Short-term borrowings Loans, cash credits, overdrafts and buyers line of credit from banks are secured by hypothecation of existing current assets of the Company viz. stock of raw materials, stock in process, semi-finished goods, stores and spares not relating to plant and machinery (consumable stores and spares), bills receivable and book debts including receivable from hire purchase / leasing and all other moveable current assets except cash and bank balances, loans and advances of the Company both present and future. 336 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) LONG-TERM BORROWINGS: TERMS (A) Senior notes (Euro MTF listed debt) The senior notes of Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc (JLR) are listed on the Euro MTF market, which is a listed market regulated by the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. Details of the tranches of the senior notes outstanding are as follows: (` in crores) Particulars Currency Amount As at As at (in million) March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) 5.625% Senior Notes due 2023 USD 500 3,446.40 3,248.52 3.875% Senior Notes due 2023 GBP 400 3,600.58 3,666.48 5.000% Senior Notes due 2022 GBP 400 3,596.98 3,659.84 3.500% Senior Notes due 2020 USD 500 3,468.65 * 3,271.36 4.125% Senior Notes due 2018 USD 700 4,584.47 4.250% Senior Notes due 2019 USD 500 3,471.30 * 3,273.84 2.750% Senior Notes due 2021 GBP 300 2,703.68 2,750.46 2.200% Senior Notes due 2024 EUR 650 5,036.70 5,211.24 4.500% Senior Notes due 2027 USD 500 3,458.55 3,156.93 4.500% Senior Notes due 2026 USD 500 3,898.95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) 32,681.79 32,823.13 * Classified as other current liabilities being maturity before March 31, 2020. (B) Senior notes (SGX-ST listed debt) The senior notes of Tata Motors Limited and TML Holdings Pte Ltd are listed on the SGX-ST market, which is a listed market regulated by the Singapore Stock Exchange. Details of the tranches of the senior notes outstanding at March 31, 2019 are as follows: (` in crores) Particulars Currency Amount As at As at (in million) March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 5.750% Senior Notes due 2024 USD 250 1,718.73 1,619.43 5.750% Senior Notes due 2021 USD 300 2,079.16 1,948.77 4.625% Senior Notes due 2020 USD 262.532 1,804.88 3,238.86 5,602.77 6,807.06 ( C) Non convertible debentures amounting to `8,952.69 crores included within long-term borrowing in note 25 and `3,826.69 crores included within current maturities of long term borrowings in note 28 bear interest rate ranging from 7.28% to 11.50% and maturity ranging from April 2019 to March 2029. (D) Loan from banks/ financial institutions consists of: (i) Term loans amounting to `12,981.94 crores included within long-term borrowings in note 25 and `2,402.28 crores included within current maturities of long term borrowings in note 28 bearing floating interest rate based on marginal cost of funds lending rate (MCLR) of respective bank having maturity ranging from April, 2019 to March 2023. 337 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements (ii) External commercial borrowings in foreign currencies amounting to `2,229.85 crores included within long-term borrowing in note 25 and `82.70 crores included within current maturities of long term borrowings in note 28 bearing floating interest rate based on LIBOR having maturity ranging from May 2023 to June 2025. (iii) Foreign currency term loan amounting to `5,908.63 crores included within long-term borrowing in note 25 bearing floating interest rate that are linked to LIBOR maturity ranging from July 2020 to July 2023. (iv) Foreign currency syndicate loan amounting to `6,834.37 crores included within long-term borrowing in note 25 bearing floating interest rate that are linked to LIBOR maturity ranging from October 2022 to January 2025. Short Term Borrowings : Terms (i) Short-term loan from banks and other parties(financial institutions) consists of cash credit, overdrafts, short term loan, bill discounting amounting to `2,511.92 crores bearing fixed rate of interest ranging from 8.00% to 10.25% and `6,610.13 crores bear floating rate of interest based on MCLR of respective banks and other bench mark rates. (ii) Commercial paper are unsecured short term papers issued at discount bearing no coupon interest. The yield on commercial paper issued by the Company ranges from 7.21% to 9.10%. 27. Other financial liabilities – non-current (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Derivative financial instruments 2,662.44 2,450.20 (b) Liability towards employee separation scheme 79.10 85.22 ( c) Others 51.17 203.72 Total 2,792.71 2,739.14 28. Other financial liabilities – current (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Current maturities of long-term borrowings 15,051.41 10,956.12 (b) Interest accrued but not due on borrowings 1,059.58 1,095.72 ( c) Liability towards vehicles sold under repurchase arrangements 4,243.65 4,423.58 (d) Liability for capital expenditure 7,046.74 8,219.45 (e) Deposits and retention money 407.87 202.29 (f) Derivative financial instruments 4,742.53 6,207.66 (g) Liability towards Investors Education and Protection Fund under Section 125 of the Companies Act, 2013 (IEPF) not due 21.08 22.79 (h) Others 282.79 139.88 Total 32,855.65 31,267.49 Notes: Current maturities of long term borrowings consist of : (i) Privately placed Non-Convertible Debentures (Secured) 2,156.01 2,524.28 (ii) Privately placed Non-Convertible Debentures (Unsecured) 1,670.68 1,586.43 (iii) Collateralised debt obligation 1,482.42 728.09 (iv) Finance lease obligation 17.30 22.23 (v) Senior Notes 6,939.95 4,584.47 (vi) Term loans from banks and others (Secured) 1,869.88 635.62 (vii) Term loans from banks and others (Unsecured) 615.17 875.00 (viii) Others 300.00 Total 15,051.41 10,956.12 338 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) 29. Provisions (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Non-current (a) Employee benefits obligations 826.35 738.00 (b) Product warranty 10,097.01 9,453.60 ( c) Legal and product liability 391.31 219.95 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) (d) Provision for residual risk 277.62 254.76 (e) Provision for environmental liability 138.12 150.05 (f) Annual maintenance contract 2.90 9.26 (g) Other provisions 121.54 122.82 Total 11,854.85 10,948.44 Current (a) Employee benefit obligations 1,107.87 106.64 (b) Product warranty 7,404.25 6,481.50 ( c) Legal and product liability 1,395.12 1,099.92 (d) Provision for residual risk 85.12 62.20 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) (e) Provision for environmental liability 125.47 97.88 (f) Annual maintenance contract 23.95 46.20 (g) Other provisions 54.97 59.16 Total 10,196.75 7,953.50 (` in crores) Year ended March 31, 2019 Product Legal and Provision Provision for warranty product Liability for residual risk environmental liability Balance at the beginning 15,935.10 1,319.87 316.96 247.93 Adjustment on initial application of Ind AS 115 (137.65) Provision made during the year * 10,422.26 1,465.48 72.49 100.94 Provision used during the year (8,608.77) (985.73) (23.95) (79.93) Impact of discounting 191.25 Impact of foreign exchange translation (300.93) (13.19) (2.76) (5.35) Balance at the end 17,501.26 1,786.43 362.74 263.59 Current 7,404.25 1,395.12 85.12 125.47 Non-current 10,097.01 391.31 277.62 138.12 * Provision made during the year includes estimated recovery from suppliers ` (2.96) crores. 339 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements 30. Other non-current liabilities * (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Contract liabilities (refer note below) 4,673.09 4,111.62 (b) Government grants 3,019.48 2,890.14 ( c) Employee benefits obligations 6,110.12 4,100.76 (d) Others 119.52 62.67 Total 13,922.21 11,165.19 * Excludes `246.57 crores classified as held for sale as at March 31, 2018. 31. Other current liabilities * (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Contract liabilities (refer note below) 4,577.38 3,756.27 (b) Government grants 258.89 86.51 ( c) Statutory dues (VAT, Excise, Service Tax, GST, Octroi etc) 3,913.94 3,176.86 (d) Others 796.25 614.91 Total 9,546.46 7,634.55 Note: (` in crores) Year ended March 31, 2019 (a) Opening contract liabilities (regrouped on transition to Ind AS 115) 7,867.89 Transition impact of Ind AS 115 276.69 Amount recognised in revenue during the year (3,578.39) Amount received in advance during the year 4,958.05 Amount refunded to customers during the year (217.55) Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale 71.77 Currency translation (127.99) Closing contract liabilities 9,250.47 Performance obligations in respect of amount received for future maintenance service and extended warranty will be fulfilled over a period of 6 years from year ending March 31, 2020 till March 31, 2025. (` in crores) As at March 31, 2019 (b) Contract liabilities comprise of the following: Advances received from customers current 1,739.61 Deferred revenue current 2,837.77 Deferred revenue -Non-current 4,673.09 Total contract liabilities 9,250.47 Until the previous year, Advance received from customers and deferred revenue were separately presented which currently as per Ind AS 115 are presented as contract liabilities. Government grants include: (i)  `245.93 crores as at March 31, 2019 and `187.67 crores as at March 31, 2018 grants relating to property, plant and equipment relate to duty saved on import of capital goods and spares under the EPCG scheme. Under such scheme, the Company is committed to export prescribed times of the duty saved on import of capital goods over a specified period of time. In case such commitments are not met, the Company would be required to pay the duty saved along with interest to the regulatory authorities. (ii) `2,963.01 crores as at March 31, 2019 (`2,702.00 crores as at March 31, 2018) relating to Research and Development Expenditure Credit (RDEC) on qualifying expenditure incurred since April 1, 2013. * Excludes `174.89 crores classified as held for sale as at March 31, 2018. 340 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) 32. Revenue from Operations (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Sale of products (refer note 1 & 2 below) (i) Sale of vehicles 258,566.52 250,891.18 (ii) Sale of spare parts 24,031.89 19,936.23 (iii) Sale of miscellaneous products 10,383.46 12,920.91 Total Sale of products 292,981.87 283,748.32 (b) Sale of services 2,809.17 3,033.90 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) ( c) Finance revenues 3,399.55 2,604.03 299,190.59 289,386.25 (d) Other operating revenues 2,747.81 2,954.39 Total 301,938.40 292,340.64 Note: (1) Includes exchange gain/(loss) (net) on hedges reclassified from hedge (6,956.21) (10,274.11) reserve to statement of Profit and Loss (2) Consequent to the introduction of Goods and Service Tax (GST) with effect from July 1, 2017, Central Excise, Value Added Tax (VAT), etc have been replaced by GST. In accordance with Ind AS 18/Ind AS 115 on Revenue/Revenue from contracts with customers and Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013, GST, GST Compensation Cess, etc. are not included in Sale of products for applicable periods. In view of the aforesaid restructuring of indirect taxes, Sale of products for the year ended March 31, 2019 are not comparable with the previous period. Following additional information is being provided to facilitate such comparison: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Previous Period (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Sale of products 292,981.87 283,748.32 (b) Excise duty (1,166.77) ( c) Sale of products (net of excise duty) (a)(b) 292,981.87 282,581.55 33. Other income (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Interest income 786.46 711.81 (b) Dividend income 17.28 15.77 ( c) Profit on sale of investments measured at FVTPL 128.61 129.26 (d) Incentives (refer note 1 & 2 below) 1,794.42 3,068.70 (e) MTM on investments measured at FVTPL 238.54 32.05 Total 2,965.31 3,957.59 Note: (1) Incentives include exports and other incentives of `621.38 crores and `934.88 crores, for the year ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively and `812.61 crores and `387.67 crores, for the year ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively received by foreign subsidiaries on Tax credit on qualifying expenditure for research and development. (2) Consequent to clarifications published by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India during the year ended March 31, 2019; various Government Grants (incentives) have been reported as “Other Income”. Previously, these were reported as ”Other Operating Revenue” in the Statement of Profit and Loss. The change is retrospectively applied by reclassifying the previous year to confirm to current year’s presentation and is not considered material to the Company’s prior period financials statements. 341 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements 34. Employee benefits expense (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Salaries, wages and bonus 26,508.97 23,686.45 (b) Contribution to provident fund and other funds 2,885.55 3,218.30 ( c) Staff welfare expenses 3,849.35 3,395.34 Total 33,243.87 30,300.09 Share based payments Long Term Incentive Plan A subsidiary of the Company operates a Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) arrangement for certain employees. The scheme provides a cash payment to the employee based on a specific number of phantom shares at grant and the share price of Tata Motors Limited at the vesting date. The cash payment is dependent on the performance of the underlying shares of Tata Motors Limited shares over the 3 year vesting period and continued employment at the end of the vesting period. The fair value of the awards is calculated using a Black-Scholes model at the grant date. The fair value is updated at each reporting date as the awards are accounted for as cash-settled plan. The inputs into the model are based on the Tata Motors Limited historic data, the risk-free rate and the weighted average fair value of shares, in the scheme at the reporting date. During the year ended March 31, 2016, the subsidiary company issued its final LTIP based on the share price of Tata Motors Limited. The amount released in relation to the LTIP was `9.18 crores and `8.55 crores for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The Company considers these amounts as not material and accordingly has not provided further disclosures as required by Ind AS 102 Share -based payment During the year ended March 31, 2017, the subsidiary launched a new long-term employment benefit scheme which provides cash payment to certain employees based on subsidiary’s performance against long-term business metrics. This new LTIP scheme has been accounted for in accordance with Ind AS 19 “Employee benefits”. Employee Stock Options The Company has alloted share based incentives to certain employees during the year ended March 31, 2019, under Tata Motors Limited Employee Stock Options Scheme 2018, approved by Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC). As per the scheme, the number of shares that will vest is conditional upon certain performance measures determined by NRC. The performance conditions are measured over vesting period of the options granted which ranges from 3 to 5 years. The performance measures under this scheme include growth in sales, earnings and free cash flow. The options granted under this scheme is exercisable by employees till one year from date of its vesting. The Company has granted 78,12,427 number of options during the year ended March 31, 2019 at an exercise price of `345/-. Option granted will vest equally each year starting from 3 years from date of grant up to 5 years from date of grant. Number of shares that will vest range from 0.5 to 1.5 per option granted depending on performance measures. (` in crores) Year ended March 31, 2019 Options outstanding at the beginning of the year Granted during the year 7,812,427 Forfeited/Expired during the year Exercised during the year Outstanding at the end of the year 7,812,427 Maximum/Minimum number of shares to be issued for outstanding options 11,718,641/ (conditional on performance measures) 3,906,214 The Company has estimated fair value of options granted during the year using Black Scholes model. The following assumptions were used for calculation of fair value of options granted during the year ended March 31, 2019. Assumption factor Estimates Risk free rate 7%-8% Expected life of option 4-6 years Expected volatility 33%-37% 342 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) 35. Finance costs (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Interest 5,970.80 4,987.93 Less: Interest capitalised* (1,512.85) (1,294.32) Add: Exchange fluctuation considered as interest cost 38.10 6.19 4,496.05 3,699.80 (b) Discounting charges 1,262.55 981.99 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Total 5,758.60 4,681.79 * Represents borrowing costs capitalised during the year on qualifying assets (property plant and equipment and product development). The weighted average rate for capitalisation of interest relating to general borrowings was approximately 5.45% and 4.26% for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 36. Other expenses (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Processing charges 1,634.36 1,339.08 (b) Consumption of stores & spare parts 2,444.15 2,210.56 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) ( c) Power & fuel 1,585.93 1,308.08 (d) Information Technology (IT) related/Computer expenses 2,340.45 2,143.18 (e) Engineering expense 5,275.58 5,278.84 (f) MTM (gain)/loss on commodity derivatives (84.75) 214.63 (g) Warranty and product liability expenses 11,890.70 7,700.07 (h) Freight, transportation, port charges etc. 7,804.47 10,742.12 (i) Publicity 8,729.63 8,968.59 (j) Allowances for trade and other receivables 214.19 14.57 (k) Allowances for finance receivables 320.24 43.30 (l) Works operation and other expenses (note below) 20,083.17 20,221.19 Total 62,238.12 60,184.21 Note : Works operation and other expenses : (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (i) Auditors’ remuneration (i) Audit fees 67.78 55.59 (ii) Tax Audit fees 1.07 1.62 (iii) All other fees 1.58 4.72 TOTAL 70.43 61.93 343 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements 37 Employee benefits Defined Benefit Plan Pension and post retirement medical plans The following table sets out the funded and unfunded status and the amounts recognised in the financial statements for the pension and the post retirement medical plans in respect of Tata Motors, its Indian subsidiaries and joint operations: (` in crores) Pension benefits Post retirement medical Benefits 2019 2018 2019 2018 Change in defined benefit obligations : Defined benefit obligation, beginning of the year 1,024.79 980.76 154.05 183.86 Current service cost 74.63 72.25 8.04 10.20 Interest cost 75.70 68.76 11.51 13.06 Remeasurements (gains) / losses Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in (1.19) (16.03) (11.40) demographic assumptions Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in 14.19 22.88 8.11 (2.70) financial assumptions Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in 59.27 10.50 (15.03) (28.96) experience adjustments Benefits paid from plan assets (71.31) (116.85) Benefits paid directly by employer (5.82) (5.98) (9.42) (10.01) Past service cost Plan amendment 0.39 8.50 (1.99) Acquisition/(Divestment) (2.39) (1.87) Defined benefit obligation, end of the year 1,168.26 1,024.79 153.40 154.05 Change in plan assets: Fair value of plan assets, beginning of the year 906.04 841.78 Acquisition/(Divestment) (1.25) Interest income 71.60 63.33 Remeasurements gains / (losses) Return on plan assets, (excluding 2.70 (2.69) amount included in net Interest cost) Employer’s contributions 117.26 120.47 Benefits paid (71.31) (116.85) Fair value of plan assets, end of the year 1,025.04 906.04 Amount recognised in the balance sheet consists of: Present value of defined benefit obligation 1,168.26 1,024.79 153.40 154.05 Fair value of plan assets 1,025.04 906.04 Net liability (143.22) (118.75) (153.40) (154.05) Amounts in the balance sheet: Non–current assets 1.64 1.57 Non–current liabilities (144.86) (106.98) (153.40) (142.01) Liabilities for asset classified as held for sale (13.34) (12.04) Net liability (143.22) (118.75) (153.40) (154.05) 344 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income consists of: (` in crores) Pension benefits Post retirement medical benefits As at As at As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Remeasurements (gains)/losses 62.91 (6.66) (45.14) (38.22) 62.91 (6.66) (45.14) (38.22) Information for funded plans with a defined benefit obligation in excess of plan assets: STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) (` in crores) Pension benefits As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Defined benefit obligation 983.70 141.08 Fair value of plan assets 961.23 126.29 Information for funded plans with a defined benefit obligation less than plan assets: (` in crores) Pension benefits FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Defined benefit obligation 62.17 778.18 Fair value of plan assets 63.81 779.75 Information for unfunded plans: (` in crores) Pension benefits Post retirement medical benefits As at As at As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Defined benefit obligation 122.39 105.53 153.40 154.05 Net pension and post retirement medical cost consist of the following components: (` in crores) Pension benefits Post retirement medical benefits Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Service cost 74.63 72.25 8.04 10.20 Net interest cost/(income) 4.10 5.43 11.51 13.06 Past service cost Plan amendment 0.39 8.50 (1.99) Net periodic cost 79.12 86.18 17.56 23.26 345 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligation recognised in other comprehensive income. (` in crores) Pension benefits Post retirement medical benefits Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Remeasurements Return on plan assets, (excluding amount included (2.70) 2.69 in net Interest expense) Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in (1.19) (16.03) (11.40) demographic assumptions Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in 14.19 22.88 8.11 (2.70) financial assumptions Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in 59.27 10.50 (15.03) (28.96) experience adjustments on plan liabilities Total recognised in other comprehensive income 69.57 20.04 (6.92) (43.06) Total recognised in statement of operations and other comprehensive income 148.69 106.22 10.64 (19.80) The assumptions used in accounting for the pension and post retirement medical plans are set out below: Pension benefits Post retirement medical benefits As at As at As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Discount rate 6.75% 7.70% 7.5% 8.0% 7.6% 8.0% Rate of increase in compensation level of covered employees 5.75% 12.0% 5.0% 12.0% NA NA Increase in health care cost NA NA 6.0% 6.0% Plan Assets The fair value of Company’s pension plan asset as of March 31, 2019 and 2018 by category are as follows: Pension benefits Plan assets as of March 31 2019 2018 Asset category: Cash and cash equivalents 6.5% 6.0% Debt instruments (quoted) 66.9% 68.4% Debt instruments (unquoted) 0.9% 0.3% Equity instruments (quoted) 2.6% 1.7% Deposits with Insurance companies 23.1% 23.6% 100.0% 100.0% The Company’s policy is driven by considerations of maximising returns while ensuring credit quality of the debt instruments. The asset allocation for plan assets is determined based on investment criteria prescribed under the Indian Income Tax Act, 1961, and is also subject to other exposure limitations. The Company evaluates the risks, transaction costs and liquidity for potential investments. To measure plan asset performance, the Company compares actual returns for each asset category with published bench marks. The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation as at March 31, 2019 is 14.41 years (2018 : 14.51 years) The Company expects to contribute `96.67 crores to the funded pension plans in FY 2019-20. 346 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) The table below outlines the effect on the service cost, the interest cost and the defined benefit obligation in the event of a decrease/increase of 1% in the assumed rate of discount rate, salary escalation and health care cost: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on defined Impact on service cost benefit obligation and interest cost Discount rate Increase by 1% Decrease by `84.55 crores Decrease by `19.34 crores Decrease by 1% Increase by `95.12 crores Increase by `20.62 crores Salary escalation rate Increase by 1% Increase by `91.31 crores Increase by `21.66 crores Decrease by 1% Decrease by `81.02 crores Decrease by `19.03 crores STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Health care cost Increase by 1% Increase by `19.34 crores Increase by `4.27 crores Decrease by 1% Decrease by `16.26 crores Decrease by `3.97 crores Severance indemnity plan Severance indemnity is a funded plan of Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicles Limited (TDCV), a subsidiary of Tata Motors Limited. The following table sets out, the amounts recognised in the financial statements for the severance indemnity plan. (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Change in defined benefit obligation: Defined benefit obligation, beginning of the year 425.63 348.26 Service cost 52.52 45.26 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Interest cost 11.13 7.90 Remeasurements (gains) / losses Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 36.83 (0.14) Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in experience adjustments on plan liabilities (21.34) 14.70 Benefits paid from plan assets (73.89) (7.08) Benefits paid directly by employer (8.95) (3.49) Foreign currency translation 0.40 20.22 Defined benefit obligation, end of the year 422.33 425.63 Change in plan assets: Fair value of plan assets, beginning of the year 405.36 324.53 Interest income 10.97 8.15 Remeasurements gain / (loss) Return on plan assets, (excluding amount included in net Interest expense) (5.99) (5.13) Employer’s contributions 30.92 65.64 Benefits paid (82.84) (7.08) Foreign currency translation 1.65 19.25 Fair value of plan assets, end of the year 360.07 405.36 Amount recognised in the balance sheet consist of: (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Present value of defined benefit obligation 422.32 425.63 Fair value of plan assets 360.07 405.36 Net liability (62.25) (20.27) Amounts in the balance sheet: Noncurrent liabilities (62.25) (20.27) 347 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income for severance indemnity consists of: (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Remeasurements (gains) / losses (55.64) (77.12) (55.64) (77.12) Net severance indemnity cost consist of the following components: (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Service cost 52.52 45.26 Net interest cost 0.16 (0.25) Net periodic pension cost 52.68 45.01 Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligation recognised in other comprehensive income for severance indemnity plan: (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Remeasurements (gains) / losses Return on plan assets, (excluding amount included in net Interest expense) 5.99 5.13 Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 36.83 (0.14) Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in experience adjustments on plan liabilities (21.34) 14.70 Total recognised in other comprehensive income 21.48 19.69 Total recognised in statement of operations and other comprehensive income 74.16 64.70 The assumptions used in accounting for the Severance indemnity plan is set out below: (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Discount rate 2.0% 2.8% Rate of increase in compensation level of covered employees 3.5% 3.5% The table below outlines the effect on the service cost, the interest cost and the defined benefit obligation in the event of a decrease/increase of 1% in the assumed rate of discount rate, salary escalation rate: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities Impact on service cost and interest cost Discount rate Increase by 1% Decrease by ` 44.01 crores Decrease by ` 12.32 crores Decrease by 1% Increase by ` 51.62 crores Increase by ` 13.56 crores Salary escalation rate Increase by 1% Increase by ` 50.30 crores Increase by ` 14.86 crores Decrease by 1% Decrease by ` 43.82 crores Decrease by ` 12.84 crores 348 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Severance indemnity plans asset allocation by category is as follows: (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Deposit with banks 100% 100% The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation as at March 31, 2019 is 11.01 years (2018 : 10.65 years) The Company expects to contribute ` 17.91 crores to the funded severance indemnity plans in FY 2019-20. Jaguar Land Rover Pension plan STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Jaguar Land Rover Ltd UK, have pension arrangements providing employees with defined benefits related to pay and service as set out in the rules of each fund. The UK defined benefit schemes are administered by a separate fund that is legally separated from the Company. The trustees of the pension schemes are required by law to act in the interest of the fund and of all relevant stakeholders in the scheme is responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the schemes and all other governance matters. The board of trustees must be composed of representatives of the Company and plan participants in accordance with the plan’s regulations. Through its defined benefit pension plans the Company is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below : Asset volatility The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with references to corporate bond yields; if plan assets under perform FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) compared to the corporate bonds discount rate, this will create or increase a deficit. The defined benefit plans hold a significant proportion of equity type assets, which are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long-term while providing volatility and risk in the short-term. As the plans mature, the Company intends to reduce the level of investment risk by investing more in assets that better match the liabilities. However, the Company believes that due to the long-term nature of the plan liabilities and the strength of the supporting group, a level of continuing equity type investments is an appropriate element of the Company’s long term strategy to manage the plans efficiently. Changes in bond yields A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this is expected to be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans’ bond holdings and interest rate hedging instruments. Inflation risk Some of the Company’s pension obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities (although, in most cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect the plan against high inflation). The plans hold a significant proportion of assets in index linked gilts, together with other inflation hedging instruments and also assets which are more closely correlated with inflation. However an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit to some degree. Life expectancy The majority of the plan’s obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the plan’s liabilities. This is particularly significant in the UK defined benefit plans, where inflationary increases result in higher sensitivity to changes in life expectancy. 349 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements The following table sets out the disclosure pertaining to employee benefits of Jaguar Land Rover Limited (` in crores) Pension benefits As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Change in defined benefit obligation: Defined benefit obligation, beginning of the year 76,780.04 80,667.69 Service cost 1,449.05 1,856.13 Interest cost 1,981.47 2,058.43 Remeasurements (gains)/losses Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions (453.31) (1,799.04) Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 4,965.37 (3,017.78) Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in experience adjustments on plan liabilities 327.69 (848.75) Past service cost /(credit) 379.90 (3,609.01) Plan settlement (180.76) Benefits paid (5,657.37) (8,444.13) Member contributions 13.58 32.48 Foreign currency translation (1,519.93) 10,064.78 Defined benefit obligation, end of the year 78,266.49 76,780.04 Change in plan assets: Fair value of plan assets, beginning of the year 72,737.89 68,845.49 Interest Income 1,904.02 1,866.13 Remeasurements gains/(losses) Return on plan assets, (excluding amount included in net Interest expense) 2,362.62 (997.46) Employer’s contributions 2,407.81 2,455.42 Members contributions 13.58 32.48 Plan settlement (174.95) Benefits paid (5,657.37) (8,444.13) Expenses paid (118.65) (77.77) Foreign currency translation (1,409.80) 9,232.68 Fair value of plan assets, end of the year 72,240.10 72,737.89 Amount recognised in the balance sheet consist of: (` in crores) Pension benefits Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Present value of defined benefit obligation 78,266.49 76,780.04 Fair value of plan Assets 72,240.10 72,737.89 Net liability (6,026.39) (4,042.15) 350 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) (` in crores) Pension benefits Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Amount recognised in the balance sheet consist of: Noncurrent assets Non -current liabilities (6,026.39) (4,042.15) Net liability (6,026.39) (4,042.15) Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income (` in crores) STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Pension benefits As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Remeasurements (gains)/losses 827.34 (1,649.79) 827.34 (1,649.79) Net pension and post retirement cost consist of the following components: (` in crores) Pension benefits As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Current service cost 1,449.05 1,856.13 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Past service cost/(credit) 379.90 (3,609.01) Administrative expenses 118.65 77.77 Plan settlement (5.81) Net interest cost/(income) (Including onerous obligations) 77.45 192.30 Net periodic pension cost 2,025.05 (1,488.62) Amount recognised in other comprehensive income (` in crores) Pension benefits As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions (453.31) (1,799.04) Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 4,965.37 (3,017.78) Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in experience adjustments on plan liabilities 327.69 (848.75) Return on plan assets, (excluding amount included in net Interest expense) (2,362.62) 997.46 Total recognised in other comprehensive income 2,477.13 (4,668.11) Total recognised in statement of Profit and Loss and other comprehensive income 4,502.18 (6,156.73) The assumptions used in accounting for the pension plans are set out below: Pension benefits Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Discount rate 2.4% 2.7% Expected rate of increase in compensation level of covered employees 2.4% 2.3% Inflation increase 3.2% 3.1% For the valuation as at March 31, 2019, the mortality assumptions used are the SAPS table, in particular S2PxA tables and the Light Table for members of the Jaguar Executive Pension Plan. 351 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements For the Jaguar Pension Plan, scaling factor of 112% to 118% have been used for male members and scaling factor of 101% to 112% have been used for female members. For the Land Rover Pension Scheme, scaling factor of 107% to 112% have been used for male members and scaling factor of 101% to 109% have been used for female members. For the Jaguar Executive Pension Plan, an average scaling factor of 94% has been used for male members and an average scaling factor of 84% has been used for female members. For the valuation as at March 31, 2018, the mortality assumptions used are the SAPS table, in particular S2PxA tables and the Light Table for members of the Jaguar Executive Pension Plan. A scaling factor of 113% to 119% have been used for male members and scaling factor of 102% to 114% have been used for female members for the Jaguar Pension Plan, scaling factor of 108% to 113% have been used for male members and scaling factor of 102% to 111% have been used for female members for the Land Rover Pension Scheme and 95% for males and 85% for females for Jaguar Executive Pension Plan. There is an allowance for future improvements in line with the CMI (2018) projections and an allowance for long-term improvements of 1.25% per annum (2018, CMI (2017) projections with 1.25% per annum improvements). The assumed life expectations on retirement at age 65 are (years) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Retiring today : Males 21.0 21.3 Females 23.2 23.4 Retiring in 20 years : Males 22.4 22.5 Females 25.1 25.1 Pension plans asset allocation by category is as follows: (` in crores) As at March 31, 2019 As at March 31, 2018 Quoted* Unquoted Total Quoted* Unquoted Total Equity Instruments Information Technology 716.65 716.65 1,218.16 1,218.16 Energy 304.75 304.75 516.79 516.79 Manufacturing 522.30 522.30 885.93 885.93 Financials 822.41 822.41 1,393.50 1,393.50 Others 2,272.41 2,272.41 3,848.27 3,848.27 4,638.52 4,638.52 7,862.65 7,862.65 Debt Instruments Government 22,709.35 22,709.35 35,169.67 35,169.67 Corporate Bonds (Investment Grade) 1,351.98 15,328.05 16,680.03 184.57 16,943.46 17,128.03 Corporate Bonds (Non Investment Grade) 5,547.26 5,547.26 5,389.42 5,389.42 24,061.33 20,875.31 44,936.64 35,354.24 22,332.88 57,687.12 Property Funds UK 2,211.26 2,211.26 1,522.70 1,522.70 Other 2,076.36 2,076.36 1,476.55 1,476.55 4,287.62 4,287.62 2,999.25 2,999.25 Cash and Cash equivalents 1,904.79 1,904.79 2,010.94 2,010.94 352 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) (` in crores) As at March 31, 2019 As at March 31, 2018 Quoted* Unquoted Total Quoted* Unquoted Total Other Hedge Funds 2,803.29 2,803.29 3,285.33 3,285.33 Private Markets 38.17 3,039.29 3,077.46 18.46 2,325.57 2,344.03 Alternatives 139.46 7,337.30 7,476.76 4,337.38 1,974.89 6,312.27 177.63 13,179.88 13,357.51 4,355.84 7,585.79 11,941.63 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Derivatives Foreign exchange contracts 147.82 147.82 9.23 9.23 Interest Rate and inflation 2,967.20 2,967.20 2,104.10 2,104.10 3,115.02 3,115.02 2,113.33 2,113.33 Collateralised debt obligations (11,877.03) (11,877.03) Total 30,782.27 41,457.83 72,240.10 49,583.67 23,154.22 72,737.89 * determined on the basis of quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) The split of Level 1 assets is 62% (2018: 71%), Level 2 assets 24% (2018: 20%) and Level 3 assets 14% (2018: 9%). Private market holdings are classified as Level 3 instruments. Included in the value for Government bonds, Interest Rate and Inflation derivatives are Repo transactions, as noted above. The sensitivity analysis below is based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method (present value of the defined benefit obligation calculated with the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period) has been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognised within the consolidated balance sheet. Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities Impact on service cost Discount rate Increase/decrease by 0.25% Decrease/increase by `3,852.13 crores Decrease/increase by `76.16 crores Inflation rate Increase/decrease by 0.25% Increase/decrease by `3,339.84 crores Increase/decrease by `72.49 crores Mortality rate Increase/decrease by 1 year Increase/decrease by `2,773.24 crores Increase/decrease by `46.80 crores Jaguar Land Rover contributes towards the UK defined benefit schemes. The April 5, 2018 valuations were completed in December 2018, As a result of these valuations it is intended to eliminate the pension scheme funding deficits over the 10 years to March 31, 2028. There is currently no additional liability over the Projected benefit obligation. The current agreed contribution rate for defined benefit accrual is 22% of pensionable salaries in the UK reflecting the 2017 benefit structure. The average duration of the benefit obligation at March 31, 2019 is 19.00 years (2018: 20.04 years). With the new benefit structure effective April 6, 2017, the expected net periodic pension cost for the year ended March 31, 2020 is `1,502.48 crores. The Company expects to pay `2,018.73 crores to its defined benefit schemes in the year ended March 31, 2020. Defined contribution plan The Company’s contribution to defined contribution plans aggregated `1,186.21 crores, `899.59 crores for years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 353 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements 38. Commitments and contingencies In the ordinary course of business, the Company faces claims and assertions by various parties. The Company assesses such claims and assertions and monitors the legal environment on an ongoing basis, with the assistance of external legal counsel, wherever necessary. The Company records a liability for any claims where a potential loss is probable and capable of being estimated and discloses such matters in its financial statements, if material. For potential losses that are considered possible, but not probable, the Company provides disclosure in the financial statements but does not record a liability in its accounts unless the loss becomes probable. The following is a description of claims and assertions where a potential loss is possible, but not probable. The Company believes that none of the contingencies described below would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Litigation The Company is involved in legal proceedings, both as plaintiff and as defendant. There are claims which the Company does not believe to be of material nature, other than those described below. Income Tax The Company has ongoing disputes with income tax authorities relating to tax treatment of certain items. These mainly include disallowed expenses, the tax treatment of certain expenses claimed by the Company as deductions and the computation of, or eligibility of, the Company’s use of certain tax incentives or allowances. Most of these disputes and/or disallowances, being repetitive in nature, have been raised by the income tax authorities consistently in most of the years. The Company has a right of appeal to the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals), or CIT (A), the Dispute Resolution Panel, or DRP, and to the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, or ITAT, against adverse decisions by the assessing officer, DRP or CIT (A), as applicable. The income tax authorities have similar rights of appeal to the ITAT against adverse decisions by the CIT (A) or DRP. The Company has a further right of appeal to the Bombay High Court or the Hon’ble Supreme Court against adverse decisions by the appellate authorities for matters involving substantial question of law. The income tax authorities have similar rights of appeal. As at March 31, 2019, there are matters and/or disputes pending in appeal amounting to `520.48 crores, which includes `75.53 crores in respect of equity accounted investees (`303.09 crores, which includes `2.18 crores in respect of equity accounted investees as at March 31, 2018). Customs, Excise Duty and Service Tax As at March 31, 2019, there are pending litigations for various matters relating to customs, excise duty and service tax involving demands, including interest and penalties, of `1,025.45 crores, which includes `5.41 crores in respect of equity accounted investees (`1,671.71 crores, which includes `5.02 crores in respect of equity accounted investees as at March 31, 2018). These demands challenged the basis of valuation of the Company’s products and denied the Company’s claims of Central Value Added Tax, or CENVAT, credit on inputs. The details of the demands for more than `20 crores are as follows: The Excise Authorities have raised a demand for `90.72 crores as at March 31, 2019 (`90.72 crores as at March 31, 2018), on account of alleged undervaluation’s of ex-factory discounts given by Company on passenger vehicles through invoices. The matter is being contested by the Company before the Bombay High Court. As at March 31, 2019, the Excise Authorities have raised a demand and penalty of `243.24 crores, (`239.95 crores as at March 31, 2018), due to the classification of certain chassis (as dumpers instead of goods transport vehicles) which were sent to automotive body builders by the Company, which the Excise Authorities claim requires the payment of the National Calamity Contingent Duty, or NCCD. The Company has obtained a technical expert certificate on the classification. The appeal is pending before the Custom Excise & Service Tax Appellate Tribunal. The Excise Authorities had denied the Company’s claim of a CENVAT credit of `20.14 crores (`36.03 crores as at March 31, 2018) claimed by the Company from Fiscal 1992 to Fiscal 2013, on technical grounds. The matter is being contested by the Company before the Appellate Authorities. 354 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) As at March 31, 2019, the Excise Authorities had levied penalties and interest amounting to `90.32 crores (`679.88 crores as at March 31, 2018) with respect to CENVAT credit claimed by the Company from March 2010 to June 2017, on inputs, stating that vehicles manufactured at Uttarakhand plant are “Exempted Products” and the Company may not claim a CENVAT credit on these vehicles. The Company has challenged this demand as NCCD and the automobile cess is assessed on those vehicles, which are “duties of excise”. Therefore, the Company asserts that these vehicles are not “Exempted Products”. The matter is being contested by the Company before the Appellate Authorities. As at March 31, 2019, the Excise Authorities have raised a demand amounting to `29.54 crores (`29.54 crores as at March 31, 2018) on pre-delivery inspection charges and free after-sales service charges incurred by dealers on Company’s products on the alleged grounds that the pre-delivery inspection charges and free after-sales services are provided by the dealer on behalf of the Company and should be included in excisable value of the vehicle. The case is pending before Tribunal. STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) As at March 31, 2019, the Exicse Authorities have confirmed demand & penalty totalling to `90.88 crores (`90.88 crores as at March 31, 2018) towards vehicles allegedly sold below cost of production with an intention to penetrate the market. The matter is being contested by the Company before the Appellate Authorities. The Excise Authorities had denied the Company’s claim of a CENVAT credit of `81.51 crores as at March 31, 2019 on various inputs services like Authorised Service Station Services, Erection, Commissioning & Installation Services, Common Services etc. claimed by the Company from financial year 2006 to 2017. The matters are being contested by the Company before the Appellate Authorities. As at March 31, 2019, the Excise Authorities have confirmed the demand and penalty totalling to `92.42 crores alleging undervaluation of products sold by the Company. The matter is being contested by the Company before Appellate Authorities. As at March 31, 2019, demand and penalty totalling to `23.50 crores has been confirmed for alleged non-payment of service tax on services like Event Management Services (RCM), Authorised Service Station Services, Heat Treatment Services etc. The matter FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) is being contested by the Company before Appellate Authorities. Sales Tax The total sales tax demands (including interest and penalty), that are being contested by the Company amount to `1,168.89 crores, which includes `12.40 crores in respect of equity accounted investees as at March 31, 2019 (`1,096.18 crores, which includes `10.85 crores in respect of equity accounted investees, as at March 31, 2018). The details of the demands for more than `20 crores are as follows: The Sales Tax Authorities have raised demand of `260.15 crores (`269.38 crores as at March 31, 2018) towards rejection of certain statutory forms for concessional lower/nil tax rate (Form F and Form C) on technical grounds such as late submission, single form issued against different months / quarters dispatches / sales, etc. and denial of exemption from tax in absence of proof of export for certain years. The Company has contended that the benefit cannot be denied on technicalities, which are being complied with. The matter is pending at various levels. The Sales Tax authorities have denied input tax credit and levied interest and penalty thereon due to varied reasons aggregating to `487.96 crores as at March 31, 2019 (`435.96 crores as at March 31, 2018). The reasons for disallowing credit was mainly due to taxes not paid by vendors, incorrect method of calculation of set off as per the department, alleging suppression of sales as per the department etc. The matter is contested in appeal. Sales Tax demand aggregating `80.02 crores as at March 31, 2019 (`95.75 crores as at March 31, 2018) has been raised by Sales Tax Authorities for non submission of Maharashtra Trial Balance. The matter is contested in appeal. The Sales Tax Authorities have raised demand for Entry Tax liability at various states amounting to `64.14 crores as at March 31, 2019 (`23.92 crores as at March 31, 2018). The Company is contesting this issue. In case of one of the joint operation, Fiat India Automobiles Pvt. Ltd. (FIAPL) the Sales Tax Authorities have held back the refund of VAT on debit notes raised for Take or Pay arrangements (TOP) totaling to `51.60 crores pertaining to financial years 2009-10 to 2014-15. The department is of the view that TOP is not part of sale and hence tax to be paid. The matter is contested in appeal. 355 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements Other Taxes and Dues Other amounts for which the Company may contingently be liable aggregate to `436.08 crores, which includes `21.54 crores in respect of equity accounted investees as at March 31, 2019 (`367.02 crores, which includes `1.76 crores in respect of equity accounted investees, as at March 31, 2018). Following are the cases involving more than `20 crores: The municipal authorities in certain states levy octroi duty (a local indirect tax) on goods brought inside the municipal limits at rates based on the classification of goods. Demands aggregating `61.65 crores as at March 31, 2019 (`61.65 crores as at March 31, 2018) had been raised demanding higher octroi duties on account of classification disputes relating to components purchased for the manufacture of vehicles and retrospective increase in octroi rates relating to past periods. The dispute relating to classification is presently pending before the Bombay High Court and the other dispute is pending before the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India. As at March 31, 2019, property tax amounting to `63.81 crores (`56.84 crores as at March 31, 2018) has been demanded by the local municipal authorities in respect of vacant land of the Company in the plant in Pimpri, Chinchwad and Chikali Pune. The Company has filed Special Leave Petition (SLP) before the Supreme Court against an unfavorable decision of the Bombay High Court. The Hon’ble Supreme Court has disposed of the SLP and remanded the matter back to the local municipal corporation for fresh adjudication. As at March 31, 2019, Sales tax / VAT amounting to `32.47 crores (`30.54 crores as at March 31, 2018) has been demanded by local authorities on dealers in respect of spare parts used for carrying out warranty repair. The dispute is pending before the Hon’ble Supreme Court. As at March 31, 2019, possession tax amounting to `36.25 crores have been demanded in respect of motor vehicles in the possession of the manufacturer and the authorisation of trade certificate granted under the Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989. The matter is being contested before the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India. Other claims There are other claims against the Company, the majority of which pertain to government body investigations with regards to regulatory compliances, motor accident claims, product liability claims and consumer complaints. Some of the cases also relate to the replacement of parts of vehicles and/or the compensation for deficiencies in the services by the Company or its dealers. The Hon’ble Supreme Court of India (“SC”) by their order dated February 28, 2019, set out the principles based on which allowances paid to the employees should be identified for inclusion in basic wages for the purposes of computation of Provident Fund contribution. Subsequently, a review petition against this decision has been filed and is pending before the SC for disposal. Further, there are interpretative challenges and considerable uncertainty, including estimating the amount retrospectively. Pending the outcome of the review petition and directions from the EPFO, the impact for past periods, if any, is not ascertainable reliably and consequently no financial effect has been provided for in the consolidated financial statements. The Company has made a provision on a prospective basis, from the date of the SC order. The Company has, consequent to an Order of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in the case of R.C. Gupta and Ors. Vs Regional Provident Fund Commissioner, Employees Provident Fund Organisation and Ors., evaluated the impact on its employee pension scheme and concluded that this is not applicable to the Company based on external legal opinion and hence it is not probable that there will be an outflow of resources. Post the sale of investments of TAL Manufacturing Solutions Ltd. (TAL) to Tata Advanced Systems Ltd. (TASL), the Company has continued its performance guarantee amounting to `691.49 crores (USD 100 million) in respect of TAL's obligations to its customer to cover the event post the share sale, against a back-to-back indemnity by TASL to the Company. Steps are currently under way to transfer the said guarantee to TASL in due course. Commitments The Company has entered into various contracts with vendors and contractors for the acquisition of plant and machinery, equipment and various civil contracts of a capital nature amounting to `11,529.23 crores, as at March 31, 2019 (`10,018.66 crores as at March 31, 2018), which are yet to be executed. The Company has entered into various contracts with vendors and contractors for the acquisition of intangible assets of a capital nature amounting to `567.57 crores as at March 31, 2019, (`581.39 crores as at March 31, 2018), which are yet to be executed. 356 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Under the joint venture agreement with Chery Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Co. Limited, the Company is committed to contribute `3,606.40 crores as at March 31, 2019 (`3,622.12 crores as at March 31, 2018) towards its share in the capital of the joint venture of which `2,962.40 crores (`2,975.31 crores as at March 31, 2018) has been contributed as at March 31, 2019. As at March 31, 2019, the Company has an outstanding commitment of `644.00 crores (`646.81 crores as at March 31, 2018). The Company has contractual obligation towards Purchase Commitment for `20,159.77 crores (`13,222.63 crores as on March 31, 2018). 39. Capital Management The Company’s capital management is intended to create value for shareholders by facilitating the meeting of long-term and short-term goals of the Company. STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) The Company determines the amount of capital required on the basis of annual operating plans and long-term product and other strategic investment plans. The funding requirements are met through equity, convertible and non-convertible debt securities, senior notes and other long-term/short-term borrowings. The Company’s policy is aimed at combination of short-term and long-term borrowings. The Company monitors the capital structure on the basis of total debt to equity ratio and maturity profile of the overall debt portfolio of the Company. Total debt includes all long and short-term debts as disclosed in notes 25, 26 and 28 to the consolidated financial statements. Equity comprises all components excluding (profit)/loss on cash flow hedges and foreign currency translation reserve. The following table summarises the capital of the Company: (` in crores) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Equity* 63,803.79 94,794.02 Short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term debt 35,201.67 27,750.97 Long-term debt 70,973.67 61,199.50 Total debt 106,175.34 88,950.47 Total capital (Debt + Equity) 169,979.13 183,744.49 * Details of equity : (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Total equity as reported in balance sheet 60,702.62 95,952.97 Currency translation reserve attributable to Shareholders of Tata Motors Limited (2,552.39) (4,621.23) Non-controlling interests (19.86) (19.78) Hedging reserve 5,673.42 3,482.06 Equity as reported above 63,803.79 94,794.02 357 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements 40. Disclosure on financial instruments This section gives an overview of the significance of financial instruments for the Company and provides additional information on balance sheet items that contain financial instruments. The details of significant accounting policies, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. (a) Financial assets and liabilities The following table presents the carrying amounts and fair value of each category of financial assets and liabilities as at March 31, 2019. (` in crores) Financial assets Cash and Investments Investments Investments Derivatives Derivatives Total Total other FVTOCI FVTPL Amortised other than in hedging carrying fair financial cost in hedging relationship value value assets at relationship amortised cost (a) Other investments non-current 741.29 752.34 3.88 1,497.51 1,497.51 (b) Investments current 0.92 1,191.90 7,745.51 8,938.33 8,938.33 ( c) Trade receivables 18,996.17 18,996.17 18,996.17 (d) Cash and cash equivalents 21,559.80 21,559.80 21,559.80 (e) Other bank balances 11,089.02 11,089.02 11,089.02 (f) Loans and advances non-current 407.42 407.42 407.42 (g) Loans and advances current 1,268.70 1,268.70 1,268.70 (h) Finance receivable current 11,551.52 11,551.52 11,551.52 (i) Finance receivable non-current 22,073.17 22,073.17 21,877.53 (j) Other financial assets non-current 1,898.04 523.23 387.91 2,809.18 2,809.18 (k) Other financial assets current 1,978.02 344.57 890.97 3,213.56 3,213.56 Total 90,821.86 742.21 1,944.24 7,749.39 867.80 1,278.88 103,404.38 103,208.74 (` in crores) Financial liabilities Derivatives Derivatives Other Total Total other than in hedging financial carrying fair in hedging relationship liabilities value value relationship (a) Long-term borrowings (including current maturities of long-term borrowings) 86,025.08 86,025.08 82,960.03 (note below) (b) Short-term borrowings 20,150.26 20,150.26 20,150.26 ( c) Trade payables 68,513.53 68,513.53 68,513.53 (d) Acceptances 3,177.14 3,177.14 3,177.14 (e) Other financial liabilities non-current 195.90 2,466.54 130.27 2,792.71 2,792.71 (f) Other financial liabilities current 982.39 3,760.14 13,061.71 17,804.24 17,804.24 Total 1,178.29 6,226.68 191,057.99 198,462.96 195,397.91 Note: 1 Includes USD denominated bonds designated as cash flow hedges against forecasted USD revenue amounting to `6,914.88 crores (USD 1,000 million) 2 Includes `3,458.55 crores designated as hedged item in fair value hedge relationship. This includes a loss of `44.56 crores on account of fair value changes attributable to the hedged interest rate risk. 358 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) The following table presents the carrying amounts and fair value of each category of financial assets and liabilities as at March 31, 2018. (` in crores) Financial assets Cash and Investments Investments Investments Derivatives Derivatives Total Total other FVTOCI FVTPL Amortised other than in hedging carrying fair financial cost in hedging relationship value value assets at relationship amortised cost (a) Other investments non-current 407.90 351.98 3.88 763.76 763.76 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) (b) Investments current 303.28 1,601.00 12,759.47 14,663.75 14,663.75 ( c) Trade receivables 19,893.30 19,893.30 19,893.30 (d) Cash and cash equivalents 14,716.75 14,716.75 14,716.75 (e) Other bank balances 19,897.16 19,897.16 19,897.16 (f) Loans and advances non-current 495.41 495.41 495.41 (g) Loans and advances current 1,451.14 1,451.14 1,451.14 (h) Finance receivable current 8,401.65 8,401.65 8,401.65 (i) Finance receivable non-current 15,479.53 15,479.53 15,421.94 (j) Other financial assets non-current 1,716.97 489.03 2,357.87 4,563.87 4,563.87 (k) Other financial assets current 1,381.51 878.80 1,597.33 3,857.64 3,857.64 Total 83,433.42 711.18 1,952.98 12,763.35 1,367.83 3,955.20 104,183.96 104,126.37 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) (` in crores) Financial liabilities Derivatives Derivatives Other Total Total other than in hedging financial carrying fair in hedging relationship liabilities value value relationship (a) Long-term borrowings (including current maturities of long-term borrowings) 72,155.62 72,155.62 72,871.82 (note below) (b) Short-term borrowings 16,794.85 16,794.85 16,794.85 ( c) Trade payables 72,038.41 72,038.41 72,038.41 (d) Acceptances 4,901.42 4,901.42 4,901.42 (e) Other financial liabilities non-current 177.23 2,272.97 288.94 2,739.14 2,739.14 (f) Other financial liabilities current 1,329.43 4,878.23 14,103.71 20,311.37 20,311.37 Total 1,506.66 7,151.20 180,282.95 188,940.81 189,657.01 Note: 1 Includes USD denominated bonds designated as cash flow hedges against forecasted USD revenue amounting to `11,166.44 crores (USD 1,700 million) 2 Includes `3,156.00 crores designated as hedged item in fair value hedge relationship. This includes a loss of `92.80 crores on account of fair value changes attributable to the hedged interest rate risk. The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Level 1 to Level 3, as described below. Quoted prices in an active market (Level 1): This level of hierarchy includes financial assets that are measured by reference to quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. This category consists quoted equity shares, quoted corporate debt instruments and mutual fund investments. 359 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements Valuation techniques with observable inputs (Level 2): This level of hierarchy includes financial assets and liabilities, measured using inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e; as prices) or indirectly (i.e; derived from prices). This level of hierarchy includes Company’s over-the-counter (OTC) derivative contracts. Valuation techniques with significant unobservable inputs (Level 3): This level of hierarchy includes financial assets and liabilities measured using inputs that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). Fair values are determined in whole or in part, using a valuation model based on assumptions that are neither supported by prices from observable current market transactions in the same instrument nor are they based on available market data. The main items in this category are investments in certain unquoted debentures and equity. (` in crores) As at March 31, 2019 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets measured at fair value (a) Investments 1,948.19 738.26 2,686.45 (b) Derivative assets 2,146.68 2,146.68 Total 1,948.19 2,146.68 738.26 4,833.13 Financial liabilities measured at fair value (a) Derivative liabilities 7,404.97 7,404.97 Total 7,404.97 7,404.97 (` in crores) As at March 31, 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets measured at fair value (a) Investments 1,940.92 723.24 2,664.16 (b) Derivative assets 5,323.03 5,323.03 Total 1,940.92 5,323.03 723.24 7,987.19 Financial liabilities measured at fair value (a) Derivative liabilities 8,657.86 8,657.86 Total 8,657.86 8,657.86 The following table provides an analysis of fair value of financial instruments that are not measured at fair value on recurring basis, grouped into Level 1 to Level 3 categories: (` in crores) As at March 31, 2019 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets not measured at fair value (a) Investments 7,745.51 3.88 7,749.39 (b) Finance receivables 33,429.05 33,429.05 Total 7,745.51 33,432.93 41,178.44 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value (a) Long-term borrowings 35,285.15 47,674.88 82,960.03 (including current maturities of long term borrowing) (b) Short-term borrowings 20,150.26 20,150.26 Total 35,285.15 67,825.14 103,110.29 360 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) (` in crores) As at March 31, 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets not measured at fair value (a) Investments 12,759.47 3.88 12,763.35 (b) Finance receivables 23,823.59 23,823.59 Total 12,759.47 23,827.47 36,586.94 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) (a) Long-term borrowings 39,949.70 32,922.12 72,871.82 (including current maturities of long term borrowing) (b) Short-term borrowings 16,794.85 16,794.85 Total 39,949.70 49,716.97 89,666.67 The short-term financial assets and liabilities are stated at amortised cost which is approximately equal to their fair value. Derivatives are fair valued using market observable rates and published prices together with forecast cash flow information where applicable. The fair value of finance receivables has been estimated by discounting expected cash flows using rates at which loans of similar credit quality and maturity would be made and internal assumptions such as expected credit losses and estimated collateral value for repossessed vehicles as at March 31, 2019 and 2018. Since significant unobservable inputs are applied FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) in measuring the fair value, finance receivables are classified in Level 3. The fair value of borrowings which have a quoted market price in an active market is based on its market price and for other borrowings the fair value is estimated by discounting expected future cash flows, using a discount rate equivalent to the risk-free rate of return, adjusted for the credit spread considered by the lenders for instruments of similar maturity and credit quality. Costs of certain unquoted equity instruments has been considered as an appropriate estimate of fair value because of a wide range of possible fair value measurements and cost represents the best estimate of fair value within that range. These investments in equity instruments are not held for trading. Instead, they are held for medium or long-term strategic purpose. Upon the application of Ind AS 109, the Company has chosen to designate these investments in equity instruments as at FVTOCI as the management believe that this provides a more meaningful presentation for medium or long-term strategic investments, than reflecting changes in fair value immediately in profit or loss. Management uses its best judgment in estimating the fair value of its financial instruments. However, there are inherent limitations in any estimation technique. Therefore, for substantially all financial instruments, the fair value estimates presented above are not necessarily indicative of all the amounts that the Company could have realised or paid in sale transactions as of respective dates. As such, the fair value of the financial instruments subsequent to the respective reporting dates may be different from the amounts reported at each year end. Offsetting Certain financial assets and financial liabilities are subject to offsetting where there is currently a legally enforceable right to set off recognised amounts and the Company intends to either settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability, simultaneously. Certain derivative financial assets and financial liabilities are subject to master netting arrangements, whereby in the case of insolvency, derivative financial assets and financial liabilities with the same countries will be settled on a net basis. 361 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements The following table discloses the amounts that have been offset, in arriving at the balance sheet presentation and the amounts that are available for offset only under certain conditions as at March 31, 2019: (` in crores) Gross amount Gross amount Net amount Amounts subject to an Net amount recognised recognised as presented enforceable master after set off in the in the netting arrangement offsetting balance sheet balance sheet Financial Cash instruments collateral Financial assets (a) Derivative financial instruments 2,146.68 2,146.68 (1,717.37) 429.31 (b) Trade receivables 19,105.24 (109.07) 18,996.17 18,996.17 ( c) Cash and cash equivalents 25,433.47 (3,873.67) 21,559.80 21,559.80 Total 46,685.39 (3,982.74) 42,702.65 (1,717.37) 40,985.28 Financial liabilities (a) Derivative financial instruments 7,404.97 7,404.97 (1,717.37) 5,687.60 (b) Trade payable 68,622.60 (109.07) 68,513.53 68,513.53 ( c) Loans from banks/financial institutions (short39,075.34 (3,873.67) 35,201.67 35,201.67 term & current maturities of long term debt) Total 115,102.91 (3,982.74) 111,120.17 (1,717.37) 109,402.80 The following table discloses the amounts that have been offset in arriving at the balance sheet presentation and the amounts that are available for offset only under certain conditions as at March 31, 2018: (` in crores) Gross amount Gross amount Net amount Amounts subject to an Net amount recognised recognised as presented enforceable master after set off in the in the netting arrangement offsetting balance sheet balance sheet Financial Cash instruments collateral Financial assets (a) Derivative financial instruments 5,323.03 5,323.03 (4,905.82) 417.21 (b) Trade receivables 19,990.57 (97.27) 19,893.30 19,893.30 ( c) Cash and cash equivalents 16,384.33 (1,667.58) 14,716.75 14,716.75 Total 41,697.93 (1,764.85) 39,933.08 (4,905.82) 35,027.26 Financial liabilities (a) Derivative financial instruments 8,657.86 8,657.86 (4,905.82) 3,752.04 (b) Trade payable 72,135.68 (97.27) 72,038.41 72,038.41 ( c) Loans from banks/financial institutions (short29,418.55 (1,667.58) 27,750.97 27,750.97 term & current maturities of long term debt) Total 110,212.09 (1,764.85) 108,447.24 (4,905.82) 103,541.42 (b) Transfer of financial assets The Company transfers finance receivables in securitisation transactions and direct assignments. In such transactions the Company surrenders control over the receivables, though it continues to act as an agent for the collection of receivables. Generally in such transactions, the Company also provides credit enhancements to the transferee. Because of the existence of credit enhancements in such transactions, the Company continues to have the obligation to pay to the transferee, limited to the extent of credit enhancement provided, even if it does not collect the equivalent 362 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) amounts from the original asset and hence continues to retain substantially all risks and rewards associated with the receivables, and as a result of which such transfer or assignment does not meet the derecognition criteria, resulting in the transfer not being recorded as sale. Consequently, the proceeds received from such transfers are recorded as collateralised debt obligations. Further the Company transfers certain trade receivables under the debt factoring arrangements. These do not qualify for derecognition, if the recourse arrangement is in place. Consequently the proceeds received from such transfers with a recourse arrangements are recorded as loans from banks / financial institutions and classified under short-term borrowings. The carrying amount of trade receivables and finance receivables along with the associated liabilities is as follows: STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Nature of Asset As at March 31, 2019 As at March 31, 2018 Carrying amount Carrying amount Carrying amount Carrying amount of asset sold of associated of asset sold of associated liabilities liabilities (a) Trade receivables 1,031.46 1,031.46 1,507.44 1,507.44 (b) Finance receivables 3,033.83 1 3,047.33 1,306.91 1 1,320.58 1 Net of provision of `38.03 crores and `22.62 crores as at March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. ( c) Cash flow hedges As at March 31, 2019, the Company and its subsidiaries have a number of financial instruments designated in a hedging relationship. The Company and its subsidiaries use both foreign currency forward and option contracts, cross currency FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) interest rate swaps and other currency options to hedge changes in future cash flows as a result of foreign currency and interest rate risk arising from sales and purchases and repayment of foreign currency bonds. The Company and its subsidiaries have also designated some of its U.S. dollar denominated bonds as hedging instruments in a cash flow hedging relationship to hedge the changes in future cash flows as a result of foreign currency risk arising from future anticipated sales. The Company and its subsidiaries also have a number of foreign currency options and other currency options, which are entered into as an economic hedge of the financial risks of the Company. These contracts do not meet the hedge accounting criteria of Ind AS 109, hence the change in fair value of these derivatives are recognised in the statement of Profit and Loss. Options are designated on spot discounted basis. The time value of options are identified as cost of hedge. Changes in the time value of options are recognised in Cost of Hedge reserve. Changes in the spot intrinsic value of options is recognised in Hedge reserve. Changes in fair value arising from own and counter-party credit risk in options and forward exchange contracts are considered ineffective in the hedge relationship and thus the change in fair value of forward exchange contracts attributable to changes in credit spread are recognised in the statement of Profit and Loss. Cross currency basis spread was historically included in the hedging relationship. Any ineffectiveness arising out of cross currency basis spread is recognised in the statement of Profit and Loss as it arises. Cross currency basis spread arising from forward exchange contracts entered after 1st January 2018 is identified as cost of hedge and accordingly changes in fair value attributable to this is recognised in cost of hedge reserve. Changes in fair value of foreign currency derivative and bonds, to the extent determined to be an effective hedge, is recognised in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion of the fair value change is recognised in statement of Profit and Loss. The fair value gain/losses recorded in Hedge reserve and Cost of Hedge reserve is recognised in the statement of Profit and Loss when the forecasted transactions occur. The accumulated gain/losses in hedge reserve and cost of hedge reserve are expected to be recognised in statement of Profit or Loss during the years ending March 31, 2020 to 2024. 363 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements (` in crores) As at As at March 31,2019 March 31,2018 Fair value gain/(loss) of foreign currency derivative contracts entered for cash flow hedges of forecast sales recognised in hedging reserve (6,045.46) 6,533.29 Fair value gain/(loss) of foreign currency derivative contracts entered for cash flow hedges of forecast inventory purchases recognised in hedging reserve (1,746.28) 1,227.74 Fair value gain/(loss) of foreign currency bonds designated as cash flow hedges of forecast sales recognised in hedging reserve (942.91) 1,243.52 Fair value gain/(loss) of cross currency interest rate swaps entered for cash flow hedges of repayment of foreign currency denominated borrowings recognised in hedging reserve 44.60 (35.91) Fair value gain/(loss) of interest rate swaps entered for cash flow hedges of payment of interest on borrowings benchmarked to LIBOR (57.57) Fair value gain/(loss) recognised in Hedging reserve (8,747.62) 8,968.64 Gain/(loss) reclassified from Hedging reserve and recognised in ‘Revenue from operations’ in the statement of Profit and Loss on occurance of forecast sales (6,956.21) (10,274.11) Gain/(loss) reclassified out of Hedging reserve and recorded in Inventory in the Balance sheet on occurance of forecast purchases 1,011.27 1,430.25 Gain/(loss) reclassified from Hedging reserve and recognised in ‘Foreign exchange (gain)/ loss (net)’ in the statement of Profit and Loss on account of forecast transactions no longer expected to occur (102.79) (54.70) Gain/(loss) reclassified from Hedging reserve (6,047.73) (8,898.56) Gain/(loss) on foreign currency derivatives not hedge accounted, recognised in ‘Foreign exchange (gain)/loss (net)’ in the statement of Profit and Loss (749.80) 1,176.20 Fair value gain/(loss) recognised in ‘Foreign exchange (gain)/loss (net)’ in the statement of Profit and Loss on account of ineffectiveness arising from foreign currency basis spread on forward contracts designated in cash flow hedge relationship (133.64) 381.64 (883.44) 1,557.84 (d) Financial risk management In the course of its business, the Company is exposed primarily to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, equity prices, liquidity and credit risk, which may adversely impact the fair value of its financial instruments. The Company has a risk management policy which not only covers the foreign exchange risks but also other risks associated with the financial assets and liabilities such as interest rate risks and credit risks. The risk management policy is approved by the board of directors. The risk management framework aims to: • C  reate a stable business planning environment by reducing the impact of currency and interest rate fluctuations on the Company’s business plan. • Achieve greater predictability to earnings by determining the financial value of the expected earnings in advance. (i) Market risk Market risk is the risk of any loss in future earnings, in realisable fair values or in future cash flows that may result from a change in the price of a financial instrument. The value of a financial instrument may change as a result of changes in the interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity price fluctuations, liquidity and other market changes. Future specific market movements cannot be normally predicted with reasonable accuracy. (a) Foreign currency exchange rate risk: The fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates may have potential impact on the income statement and equity, where any transaction references more than one currency or where assets/liabilities are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective consolidated entities. 364 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Considering the countries and economic environment in which the Company operates, its operations are subject to risks arising from fluctuations in exchange rates in those countries. The risks primarily relate to fluctuations in U.S. dollar, GBP, Chinese renminbi, Japanese yen, Singapore dollar and Euro, against the respective functional currencies of Tata Motors Limited and its subsidiaries. The Company, as per its risk management policy, uses foreign exchange and other derivative instruments primarily to hedge foreign exchange and interest rate exposure. Furthermore, any movement in the functional currencies of the various operations of the Company against major foreign currencies may impact the Company’s revenues from its international operations. Any weakening of the functional currency may impact the Company’s cost of imports and cost of borrowings and consequently may increase the cost of financing the Company’s capital expenditures. The Company evaluates the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations by assessing its exposure to exchange STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) rate risks. It hedges a part of these risks by using derivative financial instruments in accordance with its risk management policies. The foreign exchange rate sensitivity is calculated for each currency by aggregation of the net foreign exchange rate exposure of a currency and a simultaneous parallel foreign exchange rates shift in the foreign exchange rates of each currency by 10%. The following analysis is based on the gross exposure as of the relevant balance sheet dates, which could affect the income statement. There is no exposure to the income statement on account of translation of financial statements of consolidated foreign entities. Furthermore, the exposure as indicated below is mitigated by natural hedges resulting from anticipated revenue and cost in foreign currency expected to arise in future as well as certain derivative contracts entered into by the Company. The following table sets forth information relating to foreign currency exposure other than risk arising from FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) derivatives contract as of March 31, 2019: (` in crores) U.S. dollar Euro Chinese GBP Japanese Others1 Total Renminbi Yen (a) Financial assets 22,765.97 12,594.09 1,985.31 1,600.67 339.86 2,718.46 42,004.36 (b) Financial liabilities 39,089.20 32,226.04 3,850.11 5,926.98 440.59 2,828.53 84,361.45 Others mainly include currencies such as the Russian rouble, Singapore dollars, Swiss franc, Australian dollars, 1 South African rand, Thai baht and Korean won. 10% appreciation/depreciation of the respective foreign currencies with respect to functional currency of the Company would result in increase/decrease in the Company’s net income before tax by approximately `4,200.44 crores for financial assets and decrease/increase in Company’s net income before tax by approximately `7,744.66 crores for financial liabilities respectively for the year ended March 31, 2019 and decrease/increase in the Company’s other comprehensive income by approximately `691.49 crores in respect of financial liabilities designated in cash flow hedges for the year ended March 31, 2019. The following table set forth information relating to foreign currency exposure (other than risk arising from derivatives) as of March 31, 2018: (` in crores) U.S. dollar Euro Chinese GBP Japanese Others Total Renminbi Yen (a) Financial assets 13,531.07 12,817.17 4,997.72 1,511.50 475.02 4,165.24 37,497.72 (b) Financial liabilities 36,909.10 31,192.69 5,398.91 6,371.66 545.65 3,538.95 83,956.96 (Note: The impact is indicated on the income/loss before tax basis). 365 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements (b) Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is measured by using the cash flow sensitivity for changes in variable interest rates. Any movement in the reference rates could have an impact on the Company’s cash flows as well as costs. The Company is subject to variable interest rates on some of its interest bearing liabilities. The Company’s interest rate exposure is mainly related to debt obligations. The Company also uses a mix of interest rate sensitive financial instruments to manage the liquidity and fund requirements for its day to day operations like short term non-convertible bonds and short term loans. In its financing business, the Company enters into transactions with customers which primarily result in receivables at fixed rates. In order to manage this risk, the Company has a policy to match funding in terms of maturities and interest rates and also for certain part of the portfolio, the Company does not match funding with maturities, in order to take advantage of market opportunities. The Company also enters into arrangements of securitisation of receivables in order to reduce the impact of interest rate movements. Further, Company also enters into interest rate swap contracts with banks to manage its interest rate risk. As at March 31, 2019 and 2018 financial liability of `30,284.89 crores and `21,018.28 crores respectively, was subject to variable interest rates. Increase/decrease of 100 basis points in interest rates at the balance sheet date would result in an impact (decrease/increase in case of net income) of `302.85 crores and `210.18 crores on income for the year ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The model assumes that interest rate changes are instantaneous parallel shifts in the yield curve. Although some assets and liabilities may have similar maturities or periods to re-pricing, these may not react correspondingly to changes in market interest rates. Also, the interest rates on some types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate with changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other types of assets may change with a lag. The risk estimates provided assume a parallel shift of 100 basis points interest rate across all yield curves. This calculation also assumes that the change occurs at the balance sheet date and has been calculated based on risk exposures outstanding as at that date. The period end balances are not necessarily representative of the average debt outstanding during the period. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant. (Note: The impact is indicated on the income/loss before tax basis). The Company uses cross currency interest rate swaps to hedge some of its exposure to interest rate arising from variable rate foreign currency denominated debt. The Company and its subsidiaries also uses cross currency interest rate swaps to convert some of its foreign currency denominated fixed rate debt to floating rate debt. ( c) Equity Price risk Equity Price Risk is related to the change in market reference price of the investments in equity securities. The fair value of some of the Company’s investments in equity securities exposes the Company to equity price risks. In general, these securities are not held for trading purposes. These investments are subject to changes in the market price of securities. The fair value of some of the Company’s investment in quoted equity securities measured at FVOCI as of March 31, 2019 and 2018, was `304.31 crores and `340.48 crores, respectively. A 10% change in prices of these securities held as of March 31, 2019 and 2018, would result in an impact of `30.43 crores and `34.05 crores on equity, respectively. The fair value of some of the Company’s investments in quoted equity securities measured at FVTPL as of March 31, 2019 and 2018, was `423.14 crores and `Nil , respectively. A 10% change in prices of these securities measured at FVTPL held as of March 31, 2019 and 2018, would result in an impact of `42.31 crores and `Nil on statement of Profit and Loss, respectively. (Note: The impact is indicated on equity and profit and loss before consequential tax impact, if any). 366 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) (ii) Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss arising from counter-party failure to repay or service debt according to the contractual terms or obligations. Credit risk encompasses both the direct risk of default and the risk of deterioration of creditworthiness as well as concentration risks. Financial instruments that are subject to concentrations of credit risk, principally consist of investments in debt instruments, trade receivables, finance receivables, loans and advances and derivative financial instruments. None of the financial instruments of the Company result in material concentrations of credit risks. Exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk was `1,02,812.99 crores as at March 31, 2019 and `1,03,506.52 crores as at March 31, 2018, being the total of the STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) carrying amount of balances with banks, short term deposits with banks, trade receivables, finance receivables, margin money and other financial assets excluding equity investments. Financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired None of the Company’s cash equivalents, including time deposits with banks, are past due or impaired. Regarding trade receivables and other receivables, and other loans or receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there were no indications as at March 31, 2019, that defaults in payment obligations will occur. Credit quality of financial assets and impairment loss The ageing of trade receivables and finance receivables as of balance sheet date is given below. The age analysis have been considered from the due date. Trade receivables (` in crores) As at March 31, 2019 As at March 31, 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Gross Allowance Net Gross Allowance Net Period (in months) (a) Not due 15,089.88 (32.41) 15,057.47 15,951.89 (21.56) 15,930.33 (b) Overdue up to 3 months 3,108.65 (13.10) 3,095.55 3,281.94 (37.15) 3,244.79 ( c) Overdue 3-6 months 251.69 (18.37) 233.32 224.36 (35.48) 188.88 (d) Overdue more than 6 months 1,516.05 (906.22) 609.831 1,696.78 (1,167.48) 529.30 Total 19,966.27 (970.10) 18,996.17 21,154.97 (1,261.67) 19,893.30 Trade receivables consist of a large number of various types of customers, spread across geographical areas. Ongoing credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of these trade receivables and where appropriate, allowance for losses are provided. Trade receivables overdue more than six months include `513.08 crores as at March 31, 2019 (`462.22 crores as at 1 March 31, 2018, outstanding from state government organisations in India, which are considered recoverable. The Company makes allowances for losses on its portfolio of finance receivable on the basis of expected future collection from receivables. The future collection are estimated on the basis of past collection trend which are adjusted for changes in current circumstances as well as expected changes in collection on account of future with respect to certain macro economic factor like GDP growth, fuel price and inflation. Finance receivables2 (` in crores) As at March 31, 2019 As at March 31, 2018 Gross Allowance Net Gross Allowance Net Period (in months) (a) Not due3 33,634.95 (608.20) 33,026.75 23,914.24 (762.15) 23,152.09 (b) Overdue up to 3 months 429.47 (19.44) 410.03 452.63 (15.45) 437.18 ( c) Overdue more than 3 months 393.32 (205.41) 187.91 703.88 (411.97) 291.91 Total 34,457.74 (833.05) 33,624.69 25,070.75 (1,189.57) 23,881.18 2 Finance receivables originated in India.  3 Allowance in the “Not due” category includes allowance against installments pertaining to impaired finance receivables which have not yet fallen due. 367 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements (iii) Liquidity risk Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Company cannot meet its financial obligations. The objective of liquidity risk management is to maintain sufficient liquidity and ensure that funds are available for use as per requirements. The Company has obtained fund and non-fund based working capital lines from various banks. Furthermore, the Company has access to funds from debt markets through commercial paper programs, non-convertible debentures, fixed deposits from public, senior notes and other debt instruments. The Company invests its surplus funds in bank fixed deposit and liquid and liquid plus schemes of mutual funds, which carry no/low mark to market risks. The Company has also invested 15% of the public deposits/non-convertible debentures (taken by the Company) falling due for repayment in the next 12 months in bank deposits, to meet the regulatory norms of liquidity requirements. The Company also constantly monitors funding options available in the debt and capital markets with a view to maintaining financial flexibility. The table below provides details regarding the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments as at March 31, 2019: Financial liabilities (` in crores) Carrying Due in Due in Due in 3rd Due after Total amount 1st Year 2nd Year to 5th Year 5th Year contractual cash flows (a) Trade payables and acceptances 71,690.67 71,690.67 71,690.67 (b) Borrowings and interest thereon 107,234.92 40,893.54 18,470.53 44,033.57 19,818.26 123,215.90 ( c) Derivative liabilities 7,404.97 5,369.66 2,834.10 1,364.31 300.14 9,868.21 (d) Other financial liabilities 12,132.40 12,002.13 52.55 49.40 55.64 12,159.72 Total 198,462.96 129,956.00 21,357.18 45,447.28 20,174.04 216,934.50 Contractual maturities of borrowings includes cash flows relating to collateralised debt obligations. This represents the amount received against the transfer of finance receivables in securitisation transactions and/or direct assignments, which do not qualify for derecognition. The liability of the Company in such cases is limited to the extent of credit enhancements provided. The contractual maturities of such collateralised debt obligations are as follows: Financial liabilities (` in crores) Carrying Due in Due in Due in 3rd Total amount 1st Year 2nd Year to 5th Year contractual cash flows Collateralised debt obligations 3,047.33 1,482.42 1,013.40 551.51 3,047.33 The table below provides details regarding the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments as at March 31, 2018: Financial liabilities (` in crores) Carrying Due in Due in Due in 3rd Due after Total amount 1st Year 2nd Year to 5th Year 5th Year contractual cash flows (a) Trade payables and acceptances 76,939.83 76,939.83 76,939.83 (b) Borrowings and interest thereon 90,046.19 31,349.98 14,909.70 40,002.72 16,401.49 102,663.89 ( c) Derivative liabilities 8,657.86 6,207.66 2,968.80 1,218.82 120.76 10,516.04 (d) Other financial liabilities 13,296.93 13,026.82 153.23 87.48 79.64 13,347.17 Total 188,940.81 127,524.29 18,031.73 41,309.02 16,601.89 203,466.93 368 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) The contractual maturities of such collateralised debt obligations are as follows: Financial liabilities (` in crores) Carrying Due in Due in Due in 3rd Total amount 1st Year 2nd Year to 5th Year contractual cash flows Collateralised debt obligations 1,320.58 728.09 592.49 1,320.58 (iv) Derivative financial instruments and risk management The Company has entered into variety of foreign currency, interest rates and commodity forward contracts and options to manage its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity price risk. The counterparty is generally a STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) bank. These financial exposures are managed in accordance with the Company’s risk management policies and procedures. The Company also enters into interest rate swaps and interest rate currency swap agreements, mainly to manage exposure on its fixed rate or variable rate debt. The Company uses interest rate derivatives or currency swaps to hedge exposure to exchange rate fluctuations on principal and interest payments for borrowings denominated in foreign currencies. Specific transactional risks include risks like liquidity and pricing risks, interest rate and exchange rate fluctuation risks, volatility risks, counter-party risks, settlement risks and gearing risks. Fair value of derivative financial instruments are determined using valuation techniques based on information derived from observable market data. The fair value of derivative financial instruments is as follows: (` in crores) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Foreign currency forward exchange contracts and options (5,242.65) (3,708.93) (b) Commodity Derivatives 101.95 (0.24) ( c) Others including interest rate and currency swaps (117.59) 374.34 Total (5,258.29) (3,334.83) The gain/(loss) on commodity derivative contracts, recognised in the statement of Profit and Loss was `84.74 crores gain and `214.63 crores gain for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Foreign exchange sensitivity in respect of company’s exposure to forward and option contract: (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 10% depreciation of foreign currency: Gain/(loss) in hedging reserve 2,316.97 4,532.90 Gain/(loss) in statement of Profit and loss (675.27) 213.42 10% Appreciation of foreign currency: Gain/(loss) in hedging reserve (2,629.28) (5,335.38) Gain/(loss) in statement of Profit and loss 2,179.83 (134.65) In respect of the Company’s commodity derivative contracts, a 10% depreciation/appreciation of all commodity prices underlying such contracts, would have resulted in an approximate (loss)/gain of `(479.79) crores/`479.79 crores and `(461.42)/`461.42 crores in the statement of Profit and Loss for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Exposure to gain/loss on derivative instruments offset to some extent the exposure to foreign currency risk, interest rate risk as disclosed above. (Note: The impact is indicated on the income/loss before tax basis). 369 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements 41. Disclosure on Financials instruments designated as hedging instrument in cashflow hedge The details of cash flow hedges entered by the Company to hedge interest rate risk arising on floating rate borrowings and by one of the Company's subsidiaries to hedge the currency fluctuation of its functional currency (GBP) against foreign currencies to hedge future cash flow arising from revenue and cost of materials is as follows: Outstanding contracts Average strike rate Nominal amounts Carrying value (£ in million) (` in crores) As at As at As at As at As at As at March 31 2019 March 31 2018 March 31 2019 March 31 2018 March 31 2019 March 31 2018 Foreign currency forwards Cash flow hedges USD Sell USD/ Buy GBP <1 year 0.674 0.659 1,356.8 1,724.9 (1,584.84) (1,148.02) Between 1-5 years 0.699 0.676 1,679.3 2,659.9 (1,003.76) (581.39) Cash flow hedges Chinese Yuan Sell Chinese Yuan / Buy GBP <1 year 0.105 0.102 2,131.9 2,974.0 (1,381.19) (2,774.27) Between 1-5 years 0.108 0.105 1,298.7 2,581.9 (394.63) (767.81) Cash flow hedges -Euro Buy Euro / Sell GBP <1 year 0.863 0.817 2,691.4 1,602.1 133.96 1,200.62 Between 1-5 years 0.907 0.868 3,180.6 2,818.8 (642.62) 1,108.34 Cash flow hedges Other <1 year 0.002 1,799.7 1,748.3 17.20 (567.55) Between 1-5 years 0.004 881.1 1,559.7 101.37 370.98 Foreign currency options Cash flow hedges USD Sell USD/ Buy GBP <1 year 0.716 0.743 157.6 48.3 (9.96) 25.84 Between 1-5 years 0.698 0.706 265.8 258.4 (28.06) 113.51 Cash flow hedges Chinese Yuan Sell Chinese Yuan / Buy GBP <1 year 0.000 0.103 10.3 Between 1-5 years Cash flow hedges -Euro Buy Euro / Sell GBP <1 year 0.966 0.963 806.7 534.3 (71.50) (23.07) Between 1-5 years 0.970 0.969 849.3 1,560.4 (21.72) 105.20 Cash flow hedges of foreign exchange risk on recognised debt Cross currency interest rate swaps USD <1 year Between 1-5 years >5 years 0.759 0.759 379.6 379.6 100.47 (258.40) 370 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Outstanding contracts Average strike rate Nominal amounts Carrying value (£ in million) (` in crores) As at As at As at As at As at As at March 31 2019 March 31 2018 March 31 2019 March 31 2018 March 31 2019 March 31 2018 EURO <1 year Between 1-5 years >5 years 0.891 445.6 (133.05) Total foreign currency derivative instruments 17,924.1 20,460.9 (4,918.34) (3,196.0) STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Debt instruments denominated in foreign currency USD < 1 year 0.736 0.673 735.8 471.0 (6,950.58) (4,614.23) Between 1-5 years 0.000 0.736 735.8 (6,561.44) Total debt instruments denominated in foreign currency 735.8 1,206.8 (6,950.58) (11,175.67) Cash flow hedges of interest rate risk arising on floating rate borrowings Average strike rate Nominal amounts Carrying value (USD in million) (` in crores) As at As at As at As at As at As at March 31 2019 March 31 2018 March 31 2019 March 31 2018 March 31 2019 March 31 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Interest rate swaps linked to LIBOR >5 years 2.86% 237.5 (57.57) Total derivatives designated in hedge relationship (4,975.9) (3,196.0) Total debt instruments designated in hedge relationship (6,950.6) (11,175.7) 42. Segment reporting The Company primarily operates in the automotive segment. The automotive segment includes all activities relating to development, design, manufacture, assembly and sale of vehicles including financing thereof, as well as sale of related parts and accessories. The Company provides financing for vehicles sold by dealers in India. The vehicle financing is intended to drive sale of vehicles by providing financing to the dealers’ customers and as such is an integral part of automotive business. The operating results for Vehicle Financing has been adjusted only for finance cost for the borrowings sourced by this segment. A core recent initiative of the Company was the implementation of the Organisation Effectiveness (OE) program, a strategic program designed to overhaul and transform the Company. Pursuant to the changes implemented as a result of the OE program, the Company has drawn separate strategies for commercial vehicles, passenger vehicles and financing business from Fiscal 2019. Consequent to these changes, the automotive segments has the following four reportable segments commencing Fiscal 2019: a) Automotive: The Automotive segment consists of four reportable sub-segments: Tata Commercial Vehicles, Tata Passenger Vehicles, Jaguar Land Rover and Vehicle Financing. b) Others: Others consist of IT services and machine tools and factory automation solutions. This segment information is provided to and reviewed by Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM). The reportable segment information for the corresponding previous preiod reported has been updated to make it comparable. 371 372 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements (`in crores) Particulars For the year ended/as at March 31, 2019 Automotive and related activity Others InterTotal Tata and other brand vehicles1 Vehicle Jaguar IntraTotal segment Commercial Passenger Unallocable Total Financing Land segment eliminations Vehicles Vehicles Rover eliminations Revenues: External revenue 58,137.10 14,390.34 110.60 72,638.04 3,503.99 223,513.58 299,655.61 2,282.79 301,938.40 Inter-segment/intra-segment revenue 79.46 79.46 196.19 (275.65) 1,343.28 (1,343.28) Total revenues 58,137.10 14,469.80 110.60 72,717.50 3,700.18 223,513.58 (275.65) 299,655.61 3,626.07 (1,343.28) 301,938.40 Earnings before other income (excluding incentives), finance costs, foreign exchange gain/(loss) (net), exceptional items and tax: 4,116.16 (1,387.79) (362.97) 2,365.40 2,301.84 (1,278.47) 3,388.77 505.44 (120.18) 3,774.03 Finance costs pertaining to borrowings sourced by vehicle financing segment (2,615.65) (2,615.65) (2,615.65) Segment results 4,116.16 (1,387.79) (362.97) 2,365.40 (313.81) (1,278.47) 773.12 505.44 (120.18) 1,158.38 Reconciliation to Profit before tax: Other income(excluding incentives) 1,170.89 Finance costs (excluding pertaining to borrowings sourced by vehicle financing segment) (3,142.95) Foreign exchange gain/(loss) (net) (905.91) Exceptional items gain/(loss) (net) (556.53) (118.04) 376.07 (298.50) (29,353.06) (29,651.56) (29,651.56) Profit before tax (31,371.15) Depreciation and amortisation expense 1,664.87 1,416.15 152.43 3,233.45 18.65 20,212.58 23,464.68 161.71 (35.76) 23,590.63 Capital expenditure 2,120.38 3,032.46 76.35 5,229.19 71.96 31,268.07 36,569.22 66.45 36,635.67 Share of profit/(loss) of equity accounted investees (net) 41.67 41.67 (0.72) 75.37 116.32 93.18 209.50 Segment assets 26,927.43 19,446.38 1,648.49 48,022.30 38,261.58 170,433.61 256,717.49 2,003.74 (1,225.25) 257,495.98 Assets classified as held for sale 162.24 162.24 162.24 162.24 Investment in equity accounted investees 422.54 422.54 2.67 4,318.17 4,743.38 4,743.38 Investment in equity accounted investees (held for sale) 591.50 591.50 Reconciliation to total assets: Other Investments 10,435.84 Current and non-current tax assets (net) 1,208.93 Deferred tax assets (net) 5,151.11 Other unallocated financial assets2 27,405.55 Total assets 307,194.53 Segment liabilities 15,937.65 3,687.73 1,752.13 21,377.51 711.43 107,296.26 (337.65) 129,047.55 529.07 (252.06) 129,324.56 Liabilities classified as held-for-sale Reconciliation to total liabilities: Borrowings 106,175.34 Current tax liabilities (net) 1,017.64 Deferred tax liabilities (net) 1,491.04 Other unallocated financial liabilities3 8,483.33 Total liabilities 246,491.91 1 Tata and other brand vehicles include Tata Daewoo and Fiat brand vehicles. 2 Includes interest-bearing loans and deposits and accrued interest income. Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year 3 Includes interest accrued and other interest bearing liabilities. Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements (`in crores) Particulars For the year ended/as at March 31, 2018 Automotive and related activity Others InterTotal Tata and other brand vehicles1 Vehicle Jaguar IntraTotal segment Commercial Passenger Unallocable Total Financing Land segment eliminations Vehicles Vehicles Rover eliminations Revenues: External revenue 49,373.55 13,190.78 169.69 62,734.02 2,800.22 224,831.05 290,365.29 1,975.35 292,340.64 Inter-segment/intra-segment revenue 151.26 151.26 (131.91) 19.35 1,277.01 (1,296.36) Total revenues 49,373.55 13,342.04 169.69 62,885.28 2,800.22 224,831.05 (131.91) 290,384.64 3,252.36 (1,296.36) 292,340.64 Earnings before other income (excluding incentives), finance costs, foreign exchange gain/(loss) (net), exceptional items and tax: 3,595.32 (3,045.92) (254.13) 295.27 1,808.31 9,408.80 11,512.38 422.32 (147.19) 11,787.51 Finance costs pertaining to borrowings sourced by vehicle financing segment (1,905.30) (1,905.30) (1,905.30) Segment results 3,595.32 (3,045.92) (254.13) 295.27 (96.99) 9,408.80 9,607.08 422.32 (147.19) 9,882.21 Reconciliation to Profit before tax: Other income(excluding incentives) 888.89 Finance costs (excluding pertaining to borrowings sourced by vehicle financing segment) (2,776.49) Foreign exchange gain/(loss) (net) 1,185.28 Exceptional items gain/(loss) (net) (166.66) (800.00) (966.66) 2,941.80 1,975.14 1,975.14 Profit before tax 11,155.03 Depreciation and amortisation expense 1,589.97 1,486.33 145.74 3,222.04 18.34 18,257.09 21,497.47 56.12 21,553.59 Capital expenditure 1,402.40 1,977.39 85.98 3,465.77 47.15 39,093.99 42,606.91 84.16 (18.78) 42,672.29 Share of profit/(loss) of equity accounted investees (net) 30.18 30.18 2,138.92 2,169.10 109.16 2,278.26 Segment assets 27,903.07 16,400.05 2,583.51 46,886.63 27,653.16 199,513.67 (1,140.94) 272,912.52 13.26 (886.02) 272,039.76 Assets classified as held for sale 223.33 223.33 223.33 2,756.91 (395.05) 2,585.19 Investment in equity accounted investees 385.50 385.50 4,502.39 4,887.89 4,887.89 Investment in equity accounted investees (held for sale) 497.35 497.35 Reconciliation to total assets: Other investments 15,427.51 Current and non-current income tax assets 1,108.81 Deferred income taxes 4,158.70 Other unallocated financial assets2 30,645.30 Total assets 331,350.51 Segment liabilities 14,714.92 3,137.17 2,719.83 20,571.92 724.40 107,864.26 (997.60) 128,162.98 84.01 (315.22) 127,931.77 Liabilities classified as held-for-sale 1,070.18 1,070.18 Reconciliation to total liabilities: Borrowings 88,950.47 Current income tax liabilities 1,559.07 Deferred income taxes 6,125.80 Other unallocated financial liabilities3 9,760.25 Total liabilities 235,397.54 1 Tata and other brand vehicles include Tata Daewoo and Fiat brand vehicles. 2 Includes interest-bearing loans and deposits and accrued interest income. 373 3 Includes interest accrued and other interest bearing liabilities. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements Entity-wide disclosures Information concerning principal geographic areas is as follows: Net sales to external customers by geographic area by location of customers: (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) India 68,087.44 58,659.18 (b) United States of America 52,472.91 44,991.88 ( c) United Kingdom 49,113.81 50,456.60 (d) Rest of Europe 49,814.17 46,393.27 (e) China 30,414.75 42,635.26 (f) Rest of the World 52,035.32 49,204.45 Total 301,938.40 292,340.64 Non-current assets (Property, plant and equipment, Intangible assets, other non-current assets and Goodwill) by geographic area: (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) India 29,626.94 27,222.38 (b) United States of America 291.99 299.00 ( c) United Kingdom 101,436.47 124,201.80 (d) Rest of Europe 9,470.80 7,242.06 (e) China 140.92 166.11 (f) Rest of the World 2,513.76 2,697.73 Total 143,480.88 161,829.08 Information about product revenues: (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Tata and Fiat vehicles 68,870.87 58,093.58 (b) Tata Daewoo commercial vehicles 3,911.66 4,828.79 ( c) Finance revenues 3,399.55 2,604.03 (d) Jaguar Land Rover vehicles 223,513.58 224,831.05 (e) Others 2,242.74 1,983.19 Total 301,938.40 292,340.64 374 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) 43. Related-party transactions The Company’s related parties principally consist of Tata Sons Private Limited, subsidiaries and joint ventures of Tata Sons Private Limited, the Company’s associates and their subsidiaries, joint operations and joint ventures of the Company. The Company routinely enters into transactions with these related parties in the ordinary course of business. The Company enters into transactions for sale and purchase of products and services with its associates, joint operations and joint ventures. Transactions and balances with its own subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation. The following table summarises related-party transactions and balances included in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended/as at March 31, 2019: (` in crores) STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Particulars Associates and Joint Joint Tata Sons Total its subsidiaries ventures operations Pvt Ltd, its subsidiaries and joint arrangements Purchase of products 2,369.10 2.46 3,940.77 202.80 6,515.13 Sale of products 328.40 2,946.55 825.32 828.10 4,928.37 Services received 46.20 1.13 1,866.80 1,914.13 Services rendered 21.70 765.32 6.04 116.30 909.36 Bills discounted 5,493.78 5,493.78 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Purchase of property, plant and equipment 13.50 0.80 14.30 Purchase of Investments 7.20 7.20 Sale of Investments 533.35 533.35 Interest (income)/expense, dividend (income)/paid, (net) (12.40) (199.13) (26.22) 23.10 (214.65) Finance given (including loans and equity) 5.75 5.75 Finance taken (including loans and equity) 177.00 177.00 Finance taken, paid back (including loans and equity) 210.00 210.00 Amounts receivable in respect of loans and interest thereon 3.75 3.80 7.55 Amounts payable in respect of loans and interest thereon 23.00 3.60 26.60 Trade and other receivables 55.60 132.15 198.80 386.55 Trade payables 304.30 2.59 246.10 372.90 925.89 Acceptances 69.13 69.13 375 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements The following table summarises related-party transactions included in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended/as at March 31, 2018: (` in crores) Particulars Associates and Joint Joint Tata Sons Total its subsidiaries ventures operations Pvt Ltd, its subsidiaries and joint arrangements Purchase of products 2,605.70 3,163.10 171.30 5,940.10 Sale of products 201.60 6,008.21 545.49 709.10 7,464.40 Services received 8.90 550.09 0.16 1,735.30 2,294.45 Services rendered 19.00 1,207.72 4.34 24.10 1,255.16 Bills discounted 4,135.03 4,135.03 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 62.40 0.20 62.60 Purchase of Investments 2.50 2.50 Interest (income)/expense, dividend (income)/paid, (net) (9.50) (1,764.49) (4.60) 26.30 (1,752.29) Finance taken (including loans and equity) 489.00 489.00 Finance taken, paid back (including loans and equity) 489.00 489.00 Amounts receivable in respect of loans and interest thereon 4.00 4.00 Amounts payable in respect of loans and interest thereon 56.00 4.80 60.80 Trade and other receivables 63.30 1,037.14 (0.07) 151.10 1,251.47 Trade payables 149.60 0.25 184.88 335.70 670.43 Acceptances 220.16 220.16 Deposits given as security 3.00 3.00 Note: With the introduction of GST from July 1, 2017, the related party transactions reported does not include indirect tax component. The previous year figures to that extent is not comparable. Details of significant transactions are given below: Particulars Nature of relationship Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 i) Services rendered Chery Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Joint ventures 765.32 1,207.72 Company Limited ii) Bill discounted Tata Capital Tata Sons Pvt Ltd, its subsidiaries and 5,493.78 4,135.03 joint arrangements iii) Sale of Investment in a Subsidiary company Tata Advanced Systems Ltd. (TASL) Tata Sons Pvt Ltd, its subsidiaries and 533.35 joint arrangements 376 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Compensation of key management personnel: (` in crores) Particulars Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Short-term benefits 63.39 79.84 Post-employment benefits* 5.46 1.76 Share based payment 0.44 The compensation of CEO and Managing Director is `26.32 crores and `26.42 crores for the year ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) The compensation of CEO at Jaguar Land Rover is `31.82 crores and `40.08 crores for the year ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. * Excludes provision for encashable leave and gratuity for certain key management personnel as a separate actuarial valuation is not available. Refer note 37 of information on transactions with post-employment benefit plans. 44. Earnings per Share (“EPS”) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (a) Profit / (Loss) for the period ` crores (28,826.23) 8,988.91 (b) The weighted average number of Ordinary shares for Basic EPS Nos. 2,887,348,474 2,887,348,357 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) ( c) The weighted average number of ‘A’ Ordinary shares for Basic EPS Nos. 508,502,371 508,502,336 (d) The nominal value per share (Ordinary and ‘A’ Ordinary) ` 2.00 2.00 (e) Share of profit / (loss) for Ordinary shares for Basic EPS ` crores (24,509.73) 7,638.57 (f) Share of profit / (loss) for ‘A’ Ordinary shares for Basic EPS* ` crores (4,316.50) 1,350.34 (g) Earnings Per Ordinary share (Basic) ` (84.89) 26.46 (h) Earnings Per ‘A’ Ordinary share (Basic) ` (84.89) 26.56 (i) Profit after tax for Diluted EPS ` crores # 8,988.91 (j) The weighted average number of Ordinary shares for Basic EPS Nos. # 2,887,348,357 (k) Add: Adjustment for Options relating to warrants and shares held in abeyance Nos. # 494,469 (l) The weighted average number of Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS Nos. # 2,887,842,826 (m) The weighted average number of ‘A’ Ordinary shares for Basic EPS Nos. # 508,502,336 (n) Add: Adjustment for ‘A’ Ordinary shares held in abeyance Nos. # 233,774 (o) The weighted average number of ‘A’ Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS Nos. # 508,736,110 (p) Share of profit for Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS ` crores # 7,638.23 (q) Share of profit for ‘A’ Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS* ` crores # 1,350.68 ( r) Earnings Per Ordinary share (Diluted) ` (84.89) 26.45 (s) Earnings Per ‘A’ Ordinary share (Diluted) ` (84.89) 26.55 * ‘A’ Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive dividend at 5 percentage points more than the aggregate rate of dividend determined by the Company on Ordinary shares for the financial year. # Since there is a loss for the year ended March 31, 2019 potential equity shares are not considered as dilutive and hence Diluted EPS is same as Basic EPS. Note : Employee Stock options are not considered to be dilutive based on the average market price of ordinary shares during the period. 377 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements 45. Additional information as required under Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013, of enterprises consolidated as subsidiary / Associates / Joint Ventures (` in crores) Name of enterprises As % of Net Assets As % of Share of As % of Share As % of Amount consolidated (total assets consolidated profit or (loss) consolidated of OCI comprehensive net assets minus total (profit) or loss OCI income liabilities) Parent Tata Motors Ltd 35.82% 21,558.50 (6.60)% 1,903.94 0.41% (23.05) (5.47)% 1,880.89 Subsidiaries Indian TAL Manufacturing Solutions Ltd 0.00% (0.20)% 56.60 0.00% (0.16)% 56.60 (Till March 29, 2019) Concorde Motors (India) Ltd 0.01% 6.43 0.37% (105.69) (0.00)% 0.11 0.31% (105.58) Tata Motors Finance Ltd 4.93% 2,966.77 (0.71)% 203.88 (0.10)% 5.53 (0.61)% 209.41 Tata Technologies Ltd 1.26% 759.25 (0.66)% 191.18 (0.04)% 2.15 (0.56)% 193.33 Tata Motors Insurance Broking & 0.06% 33.12 (0.06)% 17.89 (0.00)% 0.20 (0.05)% 18.09 Advisory Services Ltd TML Distribution Company Ltd 0.67% 400.96 (0.16)% 46.50 (0.00)% 0.03 (0.14)% 46.53 TMF Holdings Limited 7.00% 4,213.78 (0.01)% 3.69 0.00% (0.03) (0.01)% 3.66 Tata Motors 1.92% 1,158.21 (0.34)% 99.43 (0.01)% 0.51 (0.29)% 99.94 Financial Solutions Ltd Tata Marcopolo Motors Ltd 0.22% 132.03 (0.04)% 12.97 0.03% (1.83) (0.03)% 11.14 Jaguar Land Rover India Limited 0.43% 259.96 0.08% (23.00) (0.31)% 17.02 0.02% (5.98) Foreign Tata Daewoo Commercial 3.80% 2,284.59 0.62% (179.12) 0.17% (9.50) 0.55% (188.62) Vehicle Co. Ltd Tata Motors European 0.51% 308.20 0.10% (27.81) 0.00% 0.08% (27.81) Technical Centre Plc Tata Motors (SA) (Proprietary) Ltd 0.02% 14.43 (0.00)% 1.34 (0.02)% 1.37 (0.01)% 2.71 Tata Motors (Thailand) Ltd (1.09)% (658.14) 1.74% (501.18) 0.49% (27.05) 1.54% (528.23) TML Holdings Pte Ltd, Singapore 15.85% 9,540.38 (4.65)% 1,339.07 (6.81)% 379.80 (5.00)% 1,718.87 Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera S.A (1.26)% (755.61) 0.07% (20.12) 0.00% 0.06% (20.12) Tata Hispano Motors (0.06)% (36.25) 0.00% (0.55) 0.00% 0.00% (0.55) Carroceries Maghreb Trilix S.r.l 0.04% 26.37 0.07% (21.26) 0.00% 0.06% (21.26) Tata Precision Industries Pte Ltd (0.00)% (0.21) 0.00% (1.08) 0.00% 0.00% (1.08) PT Tata Motors Indonesia 0.35% 213.03 0.01% (2.11) 0.00% 0.01% (2.11) INCAT International Plc. 0.07% 44.18 (0.00)% 0.84 0.02% (0.87) 0.00% (0.03) Tata Technologies Inc. 0.64% 386.62 (0.04)% 11.39 (0.37)% 20.87 (0.09)% 32.26 Tata Technologies de 0.01% 5.80 0.00% (0.56) 0.01% (0.48) 0.00% (1.04) Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 378 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) (` in crores) Name of enterprises As % of Net Assets As % of Share of As % of Share As % of Amount consolidated (total assets consolidated profit or (loss) consolidated of OCI comprehensive net assets minus total (profit) or loss OCI income liabilities) Cambric Limited, Bahamas 0.03% 19.35 0.00% (0.89) 0.00% 0.00% (0.89) Cambric GmbH 0.00% 1.83 0.00% (0.06) 0.00% (0.20) 0.00% (0.26) (in process of liquidation) Tata Technolgies SRL, Romania 0.07% 39.61 (0.05)% 14.31 0.06% (3.09) (0.03)% 11.21 Tata Manufacturing Technologies 0.10% 60.50 (0.08)% 22.06 0.01% (0.45) (0.06)% 21.61 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Consulting (Shanghai) Limited Tata Technologies Europe Limited 1.35% 813.07 (0.40)% 114.94 0.36% (19.92) (0.28)% 95.02 Escenda Engineering AB 0.00% 0.48 0.01% (2.45) (0.05)% 2.76 (0.00)% 0.31 INCAT GmbH 0.03% 17.68 (0.00)% 0.28 0.01% (0.71) 0.00% (0.44) (in process of liquidation) Tata Technologies 0.02% 11.90 (0.00)% 1.28 (0.01)% 0.52 (0.01)% 1.80 (Thailand) Limited TATA Technologies Pte Ltd. 1.28% 771.88 (0.01)% 1.78 (0.79)% 43.93 (0.13)% 45.71 Jaguar Land Rover Automotive plc 31.84% 19,162.09 (0.14)% 40.02 0.00% (0.12)% 40.02 Jaguar Land Rover Limited 119.88% 72,146.08 108.05% (31,146.30) 64.61% (3,602.44) 101.01% (34,748.74) (formerly knwon as Land Rover Holdings Ltd.) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Jaguar Land Rover 67.91% 40,868.11 (0.72)% 206.76 0.00% (0.60)% 206.76 Holdings Limited JLR Nominee Company Limited 0.00% 0.00 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Jaguar Land Rover (South Africa) 3.02% 1,819.27 (0.43)% 123.09 0.00% (0.36)% 123.09 Holdings Limited Jaguar Cars Limited 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Land Rover Exports Limited 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% (Business transferred to Jaguar Land Rover Exports Ltd) The Lanchester Motor 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Company Limited The Daimler Motor 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Company Limited S S Cars Limited 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Daimler Transport 0.02% 13.58 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Vehicles Limited The Jaguar Collection Limited 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% (Dissolved June 19, 2018) Jaguar Land Rover Pension 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Trustees Limited Jaguar Cars (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Jaguar Land Rover Slovakia s.r.o. 8.44% 5,079.43 (0.60)% 173.81 1.89% (105.12) (0.20)% 68.69 Jaguar Racing Limited 0.02% 14.30 (0.01)% 4.31 0.00% (0.01)% 4.31 InMotion Ventures Limited 0.18% 107.50 (0.60)% 171.72 0.00% (0.50)% 171.72 InMotion Ventures 1 Limited (0.00)% (1.35) 0.00% (1.33) 0.00% 0.00% (1.33) 379 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements (` in crores) Name of enterprises As % of Net Assets As % of Share of As % of Share As % of Amount consolidated (total assets consolidated profit or (loss) consolidated of OCI comprehensive net assets minus total (profit) or loss OCI income liabilities) InMotion Ventures 2 Limited (0.03)% (16.00) 0.05% (15.53) 0.00% 0.05% (15.53) InMotion Ventures 3 Limited 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% InMotion Ventures 4 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Limited (Incorporated w.e.f January 4, 2019) Land Rover Ireland 0.01% 6.25 (0.02)% 4.44 (0.00)% 0.21 (0.01)% 4.65 (Services) Limited Spark44 (JV) Ltd 0.41% 248.89 0.02% (4.43) 0.00% 0.01% (4.43) Spark44 Limited 0.00% (0.10)% 29.70 0.00% (0.09)% 29.70 (London & Birmingham) Spark44 Pty Ltd (Sydney) 0.00% (0.01)% 2.32 (0.01)% 0.44 (0.01)% 2.76 Spark44 GmbH (Frankfurt) 0.00% (0.02)% 5.90 (0.02)% 1.12 (0.02)% 7.02 Spark44 GLLC (LA & NYC) 0.00% (0.02)% 6.68 (0.02)% 1.27 (0.02)% 7.95 Spark44 Limited (Shanghai) 0.00% (0.03)% 7.35 (0.03)% 1.40 (0.03)% 8.75 Spark44 Middle 0.00% (0.05)% 15.11 (0.05)% 2.87 (0.05)% 17.98 East DMCC (Dubai) Spark44 Demand Creation 0.00% 0.00% (0.26) 0.00% (0.05) 0.00% (0.31) Partners Pte Ltd (Mumbai) Spark44 Pte Ltd (Singapore) 0.00% (0.00)% 1.17 (0.00)% 0.22 (0.00)% 1.39 Spark44 0.00% (0.01)% 2.08 (0.01)% 0.40 (0.01)% 2.48 Communications SL (Madrid) Spark44 SRL (Rome) 0.00% 0.00% (0.85) 0.00% (0.16) 0.00% (1.01) Spark44 Limited (Seoul) 0.00% (0.00)% 1.33 (0.00)% 0.25 (0.00)% 1.58 Spark44 K.K. (Tokyo) 0.00% (0.00)% 1.18 (0.00)% 0.22 (0.00)% 1.40 Spark44 Canada Inc (Toronto) 0.00% (0.00)% 0.43 (0.00)% 0.08 (0.00)% 0.51 Spark44 South 0.00% (0.00)% 0.40 (0.00)% 0.08 (0.00)% 0.48 Africa (Pty) Limited Spark44 Colombia S.A.S (0.00)% (0.20) 0.00% (0.20) 0.00% (0.23) 0.00% (0.43) (Colombia) (Incorporated w.e.f. May 10,2018) Spark44 Taiwan Limited (Taiwan) 0.00% 0.19 (0.00)% 0.19 (0.00)% 0.22 (0.00)% 0.41 (Incorporated w.e.f. May 7,2018) Limited Liability Company Jaguar 1.01% 610.74 (0.67)% 193.52 0.00% (0.56)% 193.52 Land Rover (Russia) Jaguar Land Rover (China) 24.85% 14,954.59 (2.60)% 750.16 0.00% (2.18)% 750.16 Investment Co Ltd (previously Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Trading (Shanghai) Co. Ltd ) Shanghai Jaguar Land Rover (0.01)% (4.84) (0.04)% 11.61 0.00% (0.03)% 11.61 Automotive Service Co. Ltd Jaguar Land Rover Colombia SAS (0.03)% (20.94) 0.01% (2.61) 0.00% 0.01% (2.61) Jaguar Landrover 0.07% 43.85 (0.03)% 7.21 0.00% (0.02)% 7.21 Mexico S.A.P I de C.V 380 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) (` in crores) Name of enterprises As % of Net Assets As % of Share of As % of Share As % of Amount consolidated (total assets consolidated profit or (loss) consolidated of OCI comprehensive net assets minus total (profit) or loss OCI income liabilities) Jaguar Landrover 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Services Mexico S.A C.V Jaguar Land Rover France SAS 0.09% 52.52 (0.05)% 14.82 0.00% (0.04)% 14.82 Jaguar Land Rover Portugal0.07% 42.10 (0.08)% 24.17 0.00% (0.07)% 24.17 Veiculos e Pecas, Lda. STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Jaguar Land Rover Espana SL 0.67% 405.44 (0.09)% 25.82 (0.03)% 1.53 (0.08)% 27.35 (merged company following the absorption of Jaguar Hispania, S.L.U by Land Rover Espana, S.L.U) Jaguar Land Rover Italia SpA 0.40% 242.34 (0.09)% 24.81 0.00% (0.07)% 24.81 Land Rover Ireland Limited (no 0.01% 6.02 0.00% (0.43) (0.03)% 1.86 (0.00)% 1.43 longer a trading NSC) Jaguar Land Rover Korea Co. Ltd. 0.37% 220.16 (0.30)% 87.56 0.00% (0.25)% 87.56 Jaguar Land Rover 0.93% 556.98 (0.30)% 86.03 0.00% (0.25)% 86.03 Deutschland GmbH Jaguar Land Rover Austria GmbH 0.09% 54.53 (0.06)% 17.27 0.00% (0.05)% 17.27 Jaguar Land Rover 0.41% 249.36 (0.37)% 106.99 0.00% (0.31)% 106.99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Australia Pty Limited Jaguar Land Rover 3.89% 2,342.29 (2.64)% 760.11 (0.00)% 0.02 (2.21)% 760.13 North America, LLC. Jaguar Land Rover Japan Limited 0.47% 282.16 (0.24)% 68.53 0.00% (0.20)% 68.53 Jaguar Land Rover Canada, ULC 0.41% 247.31 (0.19)% 54.24 0.00% (0.16)% 54.24 Jaguar e Land Rover Brasil 0.86% 518.73 (0.18)% 50.91 0.00% (0.15)% 50.91 Indústria e Comércio de Veículos LTDA Jaguar Land Rover Belux N.V. 0.08% 48.51 (0.08)% 24.26 0.00% (0.07)% 24.26 (following the merger of Jaguar Belux and Land Rover Belux) Jaguar Land Rover Nederland BV 0.05% 30.06 (0.08)% 24.30 0.00% (0.07)% 24.30 Jaguar Land Rover (South 0.07% 40.41 0.05% (14.67) 0.00% 0.04% (14.67) Africa) (Pty) Limited Jaguar Land Rover 0.03% 20.22 (0.05)% 15.10 0.00% (0.04)% 15.10 Singapore Pte. Ltd Jaguar Land Rover Taiwan (0.04)% (22.60) 0.10% (29.17) 0.00% 0.08% (29.17) Company Pte. Ltd Jaguar Land Rover Hungary KFT 0.00% 0.58 (0.00)% 0.46 (0.00)% 0.03 (0.00)% 0.49 (Incorporated w.e.f July 30, 2018) Jaguar Land Rover Classic 0.03% 16.76 0.01% (2.81) 0.01% (0.57) 0.01% (3.38) Deutschland GmbH (Incorporated w.e.f. August 10,2018) Jaguar Land Rover Classic 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% USA LLC ( Incorporated w.e.f June 1, 2018) 381 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements (` in crores) Name of enterprises As % of Net Assets As % of Share of As % of Share As % of Amount consolidated (total assets consolidated profit or (loss) consolidated of OCI comprehensive net assets minus total (profit) or loss OCI income liabilities) Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle 0.03% 20.88 0.00% (1.07) (0.04)% 2.16 (0.00)% 1.09 Sales and Distribution Co. Ltd. PT Tata Motors (0.01)% (8.03) 0.09% (25.09) 0.00% 0.07% (25.09) Distribusi Indonesia TMNL Motor Services Nigeria Ltd (0.00)% (0.18) 0.00% (0.14) 0.00% 0.00% (0.14) Minority Interests in all subsidiaries Indian Tata Marcopolo Motors Ltd (0.11)% (64.54) 0.02% (6.36) (0.02)% 0.89 0.02% (5.47) Tata Technologies Ltd (0.74)% (442.56) 0.29% (82.79) 0.05% (2.59) 0.25% (85.38) Foreign Tata Motors (SA) (Proprietary) Ltd (0.01)% (5.78) 0.00% (0.53) (0.02)% 0.84 (0.00)% 0.31 Tata Precision Industries Pte Ltd 0.00% 0.03 (0.00)% 0.23 0.00% (0.00)% 0.23 Spark 44 Ltd (0.10)% (59.77) 0.12% (33.28) 0.00% 0.10% (33.28) Tata Motors (Thailand) Limited 0.08% 49.56 (0.07)% 20.70 (0.02)% 1.13 (0.06)% 21.83 Joint operations Indian Fiat India Automobiles 2.96% 1,782.30 (0.33)% 95.10 0.01% (0.32) (0.28)% 94.78 Private Limited Tata Cummins Private Ltd 0.87% 523.25 (0.44)% 127.80 0.00% (0.05) (0.37)% 127.75 Adjustments arising out (252.47)% (151,934.59) 14.62% (4,215.09) 39.84% (2,221.38) 18.71% (6,436.47) of consolidation Sub total ( a ) 54,844.68 (29,035.73) (5,528.04) (34,563.77) Joint ventures (as per proportionate consolidation / investment as per the equity method Indian JT Special Vehicle (P) Ltd 0.00% 0.01% (2.50) 0.00% 0.01% (2.50) Tata HAL Technologies Ltd. 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Foreign Chery Jaguar Land Rover 7.14% 4,295.54 (0.35)% 100.94 1.00% (55.78) (0.13)% 45.16 Automotive Co Ltd Sub total ( b ) 4,295.54 98.44 (55.78) 42.66 382 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) (` in crores) Name of enterprises As % of Net Assets As % of Share of As % of Share As % of Amount consolidated (total assets consolidated profit or (loss) consolidated of OCI comprehensive net assets minus total (profit) or loss OCI income liabilities) Associates (Investment as per the equity method) Indian Tata AutoComp Systems Ltd 0.41% 243.88 (0.11)% 31.90 (0.19)% 10.54 (0.12)% 42.44 Automobile Corporation of Goa Ltd 0.24% 144.60 (0.03)% 9.06 0.01% (0.35) (0.03)% 8.71 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Tata Hitachi Construction 0.98% 591.50 (0.32)% 93.18 (0.02)% 0.96 (0.27)% 94.14 Machinery Company Private Ltd Loginomic Tech Solutions Private 0.00% 1.94 0.00% (0.72) 0.00% 0.00% (0.72) Limited (TruckEasy) (Acquired stake w.e.f. July 10, 2018) Foreign Nita Company Ltd 0.06% 34.80 (0.01)% 3.22 (0.04)% 2.30 (0.02)% 5.52 Tata Precision Industries (India) Ltd 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Synaptiv Limited 0.00% 1.41 0.00% 0.00% (0.03) 0.00% (0.03) CloudCar Inc 0.03% 16.35 0.09% (25.69) 0.09% (5.01) 0.09% (30.70) DriveClubService Pte. Ltd. 0.00% 1.74 (0.00)% 0.11 0.00% (0.03) (0.00)% 0.08 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Jaguar Cars Finance Limited 0.01% 3.12 0.00% 0.00% (0.06) 0.00% (0.06) Sub total ( c ) 1,039.34 111.06 8.32 119.38 Total ( b + c ) 5,334.88 100.00% 209.50 100.00% (47.46) 100.00% 162.04 Total ( a + b + c) 100.00% 60,179.56 100.00% (28,826.23) 100.00% (5,575.50) 100.00% (34,401.73) 383 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements 46. Other Notes (a)  The following subsidiaries have been considered on unaudited basis. Details for the same as per individual entity’s financials are as under : (` in crores) Particulars Net Total Revenue Net Increase/ Worth for the (Decrease) in Cash As at year ended & Cash equivalent March 31, 2019 March 31, 2019 during 2018-2019 Subsidiaries : Trilix S.r.l 26.37 56.26 (17.65) TML Holding Pte Ltd 9,540.38 97.28 Concorde Motors India Limited 6.43 1,215.08 94.58 Tata Motors European Technical Centre PLC 308.20 183.46 (1.38) Tata Technologies de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 5.80 18.96 (1.42) INCAT International Plc. 44.18 (0.03) INCAT GmbH. 17.68 (0.07) Cambric Limited 19.35 1.37 Tata Technologies SRL Romania 39.61 75.06 8.86 Cambric GmbH 1.83 (0.12) Total 10,009.83 1,548.82 181.42 For the year ended / as at March 31, 2018 9,714.24 1,305.66 568.38 ( b) As at March 31, 2019, certain assets of the Company related to defence business and investment in Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery Company Private Limited (equity accounted investees) are classified as “Held for Sale” as they meet the criteria laid out under Ind AS 105. Given the delay in completing the sale, the Company has reassessed the position on “Held for Sale” for the assets and liabilities of Tata Technologies Ltd. Accordingly, the Company concluded that these assets and liabilities no longer meets the criteria of “Held for Sale” as per Ind AS 105. ( c) Exceptional debit of `180.97 crores and `1,641.38 crores for the year ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, relates to provision for impairment of certain intangibles under development and capital work-in-progress. (d) (i) The exceptional credit of `3,609.01 crores (GBP 437.40 million) for the year ended March 31, 2018, relates to the amendment of the Defined Benefit scheme of Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc. On April 3, 2017, Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc approved and communicated to its Defined Benefit scheme members that the Defined Benefit Scheme rules were to be amended with effect from April 6, 2017 so that amongst other changes, retirement benefit will be calculated on a career average basis rather than based upon a member’s final salary at retirement. These changes were effective from April 6, 2017 and as a result of the re-measurement of the scheme’s liabilities, the past service credit has been recognised in year ended March 31, 2018. (ii) During quarter ended December 31, 2018, the High Court in United Kingdom ruled that pension scheme are required to equalise male and female member’s benefit for the inequalities within guaranteed minimum pension (GMP) earned between May 17, 1990 and April 5, 1997. Based on this, the Company reassessed its obligations under its existing Jaguar Land Rover pension plans and recorded an additional liability of an amount of `147.93 crores (GBP 16.5 million) as past services during the year ended March 31, 2019. (e) On July 31, 2018, the Company decided to cease its current manufacturing operations of Tata Motors Thailand Ltd. Accordingly, the relevant restructuring costs of `381.01 crores have been accounted in the year ended March 31, 2019. 384 Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) (f) During the year ended March 31, 2019, Jaguar Land Rover has announced a voluntary redundancy programme and accordingly had an exceptional charge of `1,367.22 crores (GBP 149.40 million). (g) During the year ended March 31, 2019, the Company has sold investment in TAL Manufacturing Solutions Limited to Tata Advanced Systems Ltd (TASL). (h)  Warranty cost recoverable from suppliers has been reclassified as other financial asset from Loans and Advances. Accordingly, previous year comparative amount of `828.52 crores have also been reclassified. This change is not considered material and does not affect the accompanying statement of Profit and Loss, total comprehensive income and cash flows of the Company. ( i) The Company has entered into an agreement for transfer of its Defence undertaking, which had a value of `209.27 crores as at December 31, 2017 to Tata Advanced Systems Ltd (transferee company), for an upfront consideration of `100 crores and STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) a future consideration of 3% of the revenue generated from identified Specialised Defence Projects for upto 15 years from the financial year ended FY 2020 subject to a maximum of `1,750 crores. The future consideration of 3% of revenue depends on future revenue to be generated from the said projects by the transferee company. On account of the same, the Company has recognised a provision of `109.27 crores, which may get reversed in future once projects start getting executed from FY 2020 onwards. The assets related to defence undertaking are classified as “Held for Sale” as they meet the criteria laid out under Ind AS 105 (j) The Company has a process whereby periodically all long term contracts (including derivative contracts) are assessed for material foreseeable losses. At the year end, the Company has reviewed and ensured that adequate provision as required under any law/accounting standards for material foreseeable losses on such long term contracts (including derivative contracts) has been made in the books of account. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) In terms of our report attached For and on behalf of the Board For B S R & Co. LLP N CHANDRASEKARAN [DIN: 00121863] N MUNJEE [DIN:00010180] GUENTER BUTSCHEK [DIN: 07427375] Chartered Accountants Chairman CEO and Managing Director Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 F S NAYAR [DIN:00003633] S B BORWANKAR [DIN: 01793948] V K JAIRATH [DIN:00391684] ED and Chief Operating Officer YEZDI NAGPOREWALLA Partner O P BHATT [DIN:00548091] P B BALAJI Membership No. 049265 Group Chief Financial Officer R SPETH [DIN:03318908] H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Directors Company Secretary Mumbai, May 20, 2019 Mumbai, May 20, 2019 385 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Summarised Statement of Assets and Liabilities (CONSOLIDATED) (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 WHAT THE COMPANY OWNED (1) Property, plant and equipment and Other intangible assets 1,42,370.44 161,330.91 (2) Goodwill 747.87 116.45 (3) Non-current Investments 6,240.89 5,651.65 (4) Non-current Finance receivables 22,073.17 15,479.53 (5) Non-current tax assets (net) 6,175.67 5,058.60 (6) Other non-current assets 6,155.33 7,740.53 (7) Current assets 1,23,431.16 135,972.84 TOTAL ASSETS 3,07,194.53 331,350.51 (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 WHAT THE COMPANY OWED (1) Net worth Equity share capital 679.22 679.22 Other equity 59,500.34 94,748.69 (2) Non-controlling interests 523.06 525.06 (3) Non-current borrowings 70,973.67 61,199.50 (4) Non-current provisions 11,854.85 10,948.44 (5) Deferred tax liabilities (net) 1,491.04 6,125.80 (6) Other non-current liabilities 16,714.92 13,904.33 (7) Current liabilities 1,45,457.43 143,219.47 TOTAL LIABILITIES 3,07,194.53 331,350.51 386 Summarised Statement of Profit and Loss INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) (CONSOLIDATED) (` in crores) 2018-2019 2017-2018 1 INCOME Revenue from operations 3,01,938.40 292,340.64 Other income 2,965.31 3,957.59 Total 3,04,903.71 296,298.23 2 EXPENDITURE STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Cost of materials consumed 1,81,009.08 171,992.59 Purchase of products for sale 13,258.83 15,903.99 Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and products for sale 2,053.28 (2,046.58) Excise duty 790.16 Employee benefits expense 33,243.87 30,300.09 Finance costs 5,758.60 4,681.79 Foreign exchange (gain)/loss (net) 905.91 (1,185.28) Depreciation and amortisation expense 23,590.63 21,553.59 Product development/Engineering expenses 4,224.57 3,531.87 Other expenses 62,238.12 60,184.21 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Amount transferred to capital and other account (19,659.59) (18,588.09) Total Expenses 3,06,623.30 287,118.34 Profit/(loss) before exceptional items and tax (1,719.59) 9,179.89 Defined benefit pension plan amendment past service cost / (credit) 147.93 (3,609.01) Employee separation cost 1,371.45 3.68 Provision for / impairment of capital work-in-progress and intangibles under development (net) 180.97 1,641.38 Provision for costs of closure of operation of a Subsidiary Company 381.01 Provision for impairment in Jaguar Land Rover 27,837.91 Profit on sale of Investment in as Subsidiary Company (376.98) Others 109.27 (11.19) 3 PROFIT / (LOSS) BEFORE TAX FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (31,371.15) 11,155.03 4 Tax expense/(credit) (net) (2,437.45) 4,341.93 5 PROFIT / (LOSS) AFTER TAX FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (3-4) (28,933.70) 6,813.10 6 Share of profit of joint ventures and associates (net) 209.50 2,278.26 7 PROFIT / (LOSS) FOR THE YEAR (28,724.20) 9,091.36 8 TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME/(LOSS) (5,575.77) 29,562.51 9 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME/(LOSS) FOR THE YEAR (34,299.97) 38,653.87 387 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year FINANCIAL STATISTICS CONSOLIDATED Year CAPITAL ACCOUNTS (` in lakhs) REVENUE ACCOUNTS (` in lakhs) RATIOS Capital Reserves Borrowings Gross Block Accumulated Net Block Turnover Depreciation Profit/ Taxes Profit/ Dividend PAT to Earnings Per Dividend Net and Depreciation (Loss) (Loss) including Sales Share (Basic)* (`) Per Share*# (`) Worth Surplus Before After tax Ordinary ‘A’ Ordinary ‘A’ Per Taxes Taxes Share Ordinary Share Ordinary Share* Share Share (`) 2001-02 31,982 183,617 282,031 634,984 252,475 382,509 932,220 39,222 (18,015) (6,740) (10,719) 45 (1.1%) (3.95) 66 @ 2002-03 31,983 190,018 178,965 648,959 284,038 364,921 1,144,801 40,190 54,350 22,640 29,712 14,497 2.6% 9.29 4.00 66 2003-04 35,683 329,884 169,842 728,468 323,749 404,719 1,634,104 42,556 144,487 53,077 91,529 32,099 5.6% 27.88 8.00 104 @ 2004-05 36,179 403,537 271,420 834,162 375,933 458,229 2,284,217 53,101 184,809 49,062 138,534 52,346 6.1% 38.50 12.50! 121 @ 2005-06 38,287 574,860 337,914 1,027,949 484,356 543,593 2,750,725 62,331 234,898 64,000 172,809 58,439 6.3% 45.86 13.00 160 @ 2006-07 38,541 733,626 730,190 1,294,083 542,665 751,418 3,707,579 68,809 308,800 88,321 216,999 68,822 5.9% 56.43 15.00 200 @ 2007-08 38,554 831,198 1,158,487 1,892,393 606,049 1,286,344 4,060,827 78,207 308,629 85,154 216,770 67,674 5.3% 56.24 15.00 225 @ 2008-09 51,405 542,659 3,497,385 6,900,238 3,326,905 3,573,333 7,489,227 250,677 (212,925) 33,575 (250,525) 36,458 (3.3%) (56.88) (56.88) 6.00 6.50 114 ++ 2009-10 57,060 763,588 3,519,236 7,291,985 3,441,352 3,850,633 9,736,054 388,713 352,264 100,575 257,106 100,185 2.6% 48.64 49.14 15.00 15.50 144 ^ 2010-11 63,771 1,853,376 3,281,055 8,291,975 3,969,870 4,322,105 12,684,370 465,551 1,043,717 121,638 927,362 148,130 7.3% 155.25 155.75 20.00 20.50 302 ^^ 2011-12 63,475 3,206,375 4,714,896 10,572,497 4,951,247 5,621,250 17,133,935 562,538 1,353,387 (4,004) 1,351,650 148,862 7.9% 42.58** 42.68** 4.00** 4.10** 103 ^^ 2012-13 63,807 3,699,923 5,371,571 12,158,556 5,172,265 6,986,291 19,451,406 760,128 1,364,733 377,666 989,261 75,614 5.1% 31.02 31.12 2.00 2.10 118 @ 2013-14 64,378 6,495,967 6,064,228 16,619,078 6,881,538 9,737,540 23,745,502 1,107,816 1,886,897 476,479 1,399,102 69,008# 5.9% 43.51 43.61 2.00 2.10 204 @ 2014-15 64,378 5,561,814 7,361,039 18,684,665 7,442,406 11,242,259 26,760,664 1,338,863 2,170,256 764,291 1,398,629 (3,319) 5.2% 43.44 43.54 175 2015-16 67,918 8,010,349 7,046,849 21,639,756 8,754,689 12,885,067 28,107,844 1,701,418 1,398,087 287,260 1,102,375 11,052 3.9% 32.61 32.71 0.20 0.30 238 +++ 2016-17 67,922 5,738,267 7,860,398 19,653,773 6,756,813 12,896,960 27,524,666 1,790,499 931,479 325,123 745,436 2.7% 21.94 22.04 171 ^^^ 2017-18 67,922 9,474,869 8,895,047 25,312,610 9,179,519 16,133,091 29,629,823 2,155,359 1,115,503 434,193 898,891 3.0% 26.46 26.56 281 2018-19 67,922 5,950,034 10,617,534 26,365,294 12,128,250 14,237,044 30,490,371 2,359,063 (3,137,115) (243,745) (2,882,623) (9.5%) (84.89) (84.89) 177 Notes : @ On increased capital base due to conversion of Bonds / Convertible Debentures / Warrants / FCCN into shares. * To a face value of `10/per share upto 2011-12. # Includes Interim Dividend where applicable. ! Includes a special dividend of ` 2.50 per share for the Diamond Jubilee Year. ++ On increased capital base due to Rights issue and conversion of FCCN into shares. ^ On increased capital base due to GDS issue and conversion of FCCN into shares. ^^ On increased capital base due to QIP issue and conversion of FCCN into shares. ** Consequent to sub-division of shares, figures for previous years are not comparable ^^^ The figures of FY 2016-17 onwards is as per Ind AS +++ On increased capital base due to rights issue Summarised Statement of Assets and Liabilities (STANDALONE) (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 WHAT THE COMPANY OWNED (1) Property, plant and equipment and Other intangible assets 28,474.33 26,701.26 (2) Goodwill 99.09 99.09 (3) Non-current Investments 15,434.19 14,260.79 (4) Non-current tax assets (net) 715.30 695.75 (5) Other non-current assets 2,957.42 2,483.75 (6) Current assets 13,229.30 14,971.66 TOTAL ASSETS 60,909.63 59,212.30 WHAT THE COMPANY OWED (1) Net worth Equity share capital 679.22 679.22 Other equity 21,483.30 19,491.76 (2) Non-current borrowings 13,919.81 13,155.91 (3) Non-current provisions 1,281.59 1,009.48 (4) Deferred tax liabilities (net) 205.86 154.61 (5) Other non-current liabilities 399.04 502.37 (6) Current liabilities 22,940.81 24,218.95 TOTAL LIABILITIES 60,909.63 59,212.30 388 Summarised Statement of Profit and Loss INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) (STANDALONE) (` in crores) 2018-2019 2017-2018 1 INCOME Revenue from operations 69,202.76 58,689.81 Other income 2,554.66 2,492.48 Total 71,757.42 61,182.29 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) 2 EXPENDITURE Cost of materials consumed 43,748.77 37,080.45 Purchase of products for sale 6,722.32 4,762.41 Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and products for sale 144.69 842.05 Excise duty 793.28 Employee benefits expense 4,273.10 3,966.73 Finance costs 1,793.57 1,744.43 Foreign exchange loss (net) 215.22 17.14 Depreciation and amortisation expense 3,098.64 3,101.89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) Product development/Engineering expense 571.76 474.98 Other expenses 9,680.46 9,234.27 Amount transferred to capital and other account (1,093.11) (855.08) Total Expenses 69,155.42 61,162.55 Profit before exceptional items and tax 2,602.00 19.74 Employee seperation cost 4.23 3.68 Write off / Provision of capital work-in-progress and intangibles under development (net) 180.66 962.98 Provision for impairment of investments in subsidiary companies 241.86 Profit on sale of investment in a subsidiary company (332.95) Others 109.27 3 PROFIT / (LOSS) BEFORE TAX FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 2,398.93 (946.92) 4 Tax expense (net) 378.33 87.93 5 PROFIT/(LOSS) AFTER TAX FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (3-4) 2,020.60 (1,034.85) 6 TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME/(LOSS) (23.43) 43.22 7 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME/(LOSS) FOR THE YEAR 1,997.17 (991.63) 389 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year FINANCIAL STATISTICS STANDALONE Year CAPITAL ACCOUNTS (` in lakhs) REVENUE ACCOUNTS (` in lakhs) RATIOS Capital Reserves Borrowings Gross Block Depreciation Net Block Turnover Depreciation Profit/ Taxes Profit/ Dividend PAT to Earnings Per Dividend Net and (Loss) (Loss) including Sales Share (Basic)* (`) Per Share*# (`) Worth Surplus Before After tax Ordinary ‘A’ Ordinary ‘A’ Per Taxes Taxes Share Ordinary Share Ordinary Share* (`) Share Share 1945-46 100 1 31 2 29 12 2 1 1 8.3% 0.07 10 1949-50 200 11 94 233 44 189 167 15 11 5 6 3.6% 0.03 10 1953-54 500 27 412 731 270 461 321 97 3 3 0.9% 0.11 11 1954-55 627 27 481 792 303 489 445 35 0.0% 0.00 11 1955-56 658 120 812 1,010 407 603 1,198 105 125 32 93 59 7.8% 1.32 0.60 12 1956-57 700 149 1,382 1,352 474 878 2,145 70 116 27 89 44 4.1% 1.64 0.80 13 1957-58 700 117 1,551 1,675 668 1,007 2,694 129 99 6 93 52 3.5% 1.72 0.90 12 1958-59 1,000 206 1,245 2,050 780 1,270 2,645 113 155 13 142 56 5.4% 1.68 0.90 12 1959-60 1,000 282 1,014 2,201 940 1,261 2,825 161 222 93 129 108 4.6% 1.50 1.25 13 1960-61 1,000 367 1,263 2,593 1,118 1,475 3,735 180 313 122 191 126 5.1% 2.26 1.45 14 1961-62 1,000 432 1,471 2,954 1,336 1,618 4,164 220 378 188 190 124 4.6% 2.28 1.45 15 1962-63 1,000 450 1,758 3,281 1,550 1,731 4,364 223 327 185 142 124 3.3% 1.68 1.45 15 1963-64 1,198 630 2,470 3,920 1,802 2,118 5,151 260 404 200 204 144 4.0% 1.97 1.45 16 1964-65 1,297 787 3,275 4,789 2,144 2,645 6,613 345 479 208 271 157 4.1% 2.39 1.45 17 1965-66 1,640 995 3,541 5,432 2,540 2,892 7,938 398 477 189 288 191 3.6% 2.20 1.45 18 1966-67 1,845 1,027 4,299 6,841 3,039 3,802 9,065 505 620 192 428 235 4.7% 2.80 1.45+ 17 1967-68 1,845 1,121 5,350 7,697 3,608 4,089 9,499 572 395 66 329 235 3.5% 2.10 1.45 18 1968-69 1,845 1,295 5,856 8,584 4,236 4,348 10,590 630 582 173 409 235 3.9% 2.66 1.45 19 1969-70 1,845 1,333 6,543 9,242 4,886 4,356 9,935 662 274 274 221 2.8% 1.72 1.35 19 1970-71 1,845 1,516 6,048 10,060 5,620 4,440 13,624 749 673 270 403 251 3.0% 2.49 1.45 20 1971-72 1,949 2,020 6,019 10,931 6,487 4,444 15,849 758 885 379 506 273 3.2% 3.04 1.50 23 1972-73 1,949 2,194 5,324 12,227 7,491 4,736 15,653 820 832 360 472 266 3.0% 2.87 1.50 24 1973-74 1,949 2,394 6,434 13,497 8,471 5,026 16,290 902 1,007 450 557 180 3.4% 3.43 0.93 26 1974-75 1,949 2,827 9,196 15,838 9,593 6,245 22,510 1,134 677 136 541 266 2.4% 3.32 1.50 28 1975-76 2,013 3,691 9,399 18,642 10,625 8,017 27,003 1,054 855 91 764 276 2.8% 4.60 1.50 33 1976-77 2,328 3,833 11,816 20,709 11,685 9,024 28,250 1,145 1,056 1,056 323 3.7% 5.38 1.50+ 30 1977-78 2,118 4,721 11,986 22,430 12,723 9,707 28,105 1,101 1,044 1,044 313 3.7% 5.37 1.50 35 1978-79 3,151 5,106 11,033 24,900 13,895 11,005 37,486 1,200 1,514 1,514 467 4.0% 5.36 1.60+ 27 1979-80 3,151 6,263 17,739 28,405 15,099 13,306 44,827 1,300 1,762 1,762 605 3.9% 5.96 2.00 31 1980-81 3,151 8,095 15,773 33,055 16,496 16,559 60,965 1,616 2,437 2,437 605 4.0% 8.27 2.00 38 1981-82 4,320 10,275 25,476 38,819 18,244 20,575 79,244 1,993 4,188 4,188 839 5.3% 10.18 2.00+ 35 @ 1982-83 4,226 12,458 23,361 43,191 20,219 22,972 86,522 2,187 3,481 460 3,021 827 3.5% 7.34 2.00 40 1983-84 5,421 14,103 25,473 46,838 23,078 23,760 85,624 2,923 2,163 235 1,928 923 2.3% 3.61 2.00 37 @ 1984-85 5,442 15,188 30,226 52,819 26,826 25,993 93,353 3,895 2,703 390 2,313 1,241 2.5% 4.32 2.30 39 1985-86 5,452 16,551 44,651 61,943 29,030 32,913 102,597 3,399 1,832 215 1,617 1,243 1.6% 3.00 2.30 41 1986-87 5,452 15,886 53,476 68,352 30,914 37,438 119,689 2,157 293 293 552 0.2% 0.51 1.00 40 1987-88 6,431 17,491 44,406 75,712 34,620 41,092 140,255 3,822 3,205 510 2,695 1,356 1.9% 4.25 2.30 38 @ 1988-89 10,501 30,740 32,396 83,455 38,460 44,995 167,642 4,315 8,513 1,510 7,003 2,444 4.2% 6.74 2.50 40 @ 1989-90 10,444 37,870 48,883 91,488 43,070 48,418 196,910 4,891 14,829 4,575 10,254 3,126 5.2% 9.87 3.00 47 1990-91 10,387 47,921 48,323 100,894 48,219 52,675 259,599 5,426 23,455 9,250 14,205 4,154 5.5% 13.69 4.00 56 1991-92 11,765 61,863 105,168 123,100 54,609 68,491 317,965 6,475 20,884 7,800 13,084 4,389 4.1% 12.45 4.00 67 @ 1992-93 12,510 64,207 144,145 153,612 61,710 91,902 309,156 7,456 3,030 26 3,004 3,642 1.0% 2.47 3.00 63 1993-94 12,867 70,745 141,320 177,824 70,285 107,539 374,786 9,410 10,195 20 10,175 5,020 2.7% 7.91 4.00 65 1994-95 13,694 128,338 115,569 217,084 81,595 135,489 568,312 11,967 45,141 13,246 31,895 8,068 5.6% 23.29 6.00 104 1995-96 24,182 217,400 128,097 294,239 96,980 197,259 790,967 16,444 76,072 23,070 53,002 14,300 6.7% 21.92 6.00 100 1996-97 25,588 339,169 253,717 385,116 117,009 268,107 1,012,843 20,924 100,046 23,810 76,236 22,067 7.5% 30.40 8.00 143 1997-98 25,588 349,930 330,874 487,073 141,899 345,174 736,279 25,924 32,880 3,414 29,466 15,484 4.0% 11.51 5.50 147 1998-99 25,590 350,505 344,523 569,865 165,334 404,531 659,395 28,132 10,716 970 9,746 8,520 1.5% 3.81 3.00 147 1999-00 25,590 349,822 300,426 581,233 182,818 398,415 896,114 34,261 7,520 400 7,120 7,803 0.8% 2.78 2.50 147 2000-01 25,590 299,788 299,888 591,427 209,067 382,360 816,422 34,737 (50,034) (50,034) (18.45) 127 2001-02 31,982 214,524 230,772 591,006 243,172 347,834 891,806 35,468 (10,921) (5,548) (5,373) (1.98) 77 @ 2002-03 31,983 227,733 145,831 608,114 271,307 336,807 1,085,874 36,213 51,037 21,026 30,011 14,430 2.8% 9.38 4.00 81 2003-04 35,683 323,677 125,977 627,149 302,369 324,780 1,555,242 38,260 129,234 48,200 81,034 31,825 5.2% 24.68 8.00 102 @ 2004-05 36,179 374,960 249,542 715,079 345,428 369,651 2,064,866 45,016 165,190 41,495 123,695 51,715 6.0% 34.38 12.50! 114 @ 2005-06 38,287 515,420 293,684 892,274 440,151 452,123 2,429,052 52,094 205,338 52,450 152,888 56,778 6.3% 40.57 13.00 145 @ 2006-07 38,541 648,434 400,914 1,128,912 489,454 639,458 3,206,467 58,629 257,318 65,972 191,346 67,639 6.0% 49.76 15.00 178 @ 2007-08 38,554 745,396 628,052 1,589,579 544,352 1,045,227 3,357,711 65,231 257,647 54,755 202,892 65,968 6.0% 52.64 15.00 203 @ 2008-09 51,405 1,171,610 1,316,556 2,085,206 625,990 1,459,216 2,949,418 87,454 101,376 1,250 100,126 34,570 3.4% 22.70 23.20 6.00 6.50 238 ++ 2009-10 57,060 1,439,487 1,659,454 2,364,896 721,292 1,643,604 4,021,755 103,387 282,954 58,946 224,008 99,194 5.6% 42.37 42.87 15.00 15.50 262 ^ 2010-11 63,771 1,937,559 1,591,543 2,568,235 846,625 1,721,610 5,160,692 136,077 219,652 38,470 181,182 146,703 3.5% 30.28 30.78 20.00 20.50 315 ^^ 2011-12 63,475 1,899,126 1,588,057 2,902,206 996,587 1,905,619 5,979,502 160,674 134,103 9,880 124,223 146,372 2.5% 3.90** 4.00** 4.00** 4.10** 62 2012-13 63,807 1,849,677 1,679,895 3,181,998 1,161,144 2,020,854 5,140,793 181,762 17,493 (12,688) 30,181 72,423 0.6% 0.93 1.03 2.00 2.10 60 @ 2013-14 64,378 1,853,287 1,505,280 3,514,652 1,355,088 2,159,564 4,159,103 207,030 (102,580) (136,032) 33,452 66,627 0.8% 1.03 1.13 2.00 2.10 60 @ 2014-15 64,378 1,421,881 2,113,441 3,785,500 1,603,098 2,182,402 4,141,264 260,322 (397,472) 76,423 (473,895) (9,340) (14.72) (14.72) 46 2015-16 67,918 2,168,890 1,588,725 4,077,235 1,852,749 2,224,486 4,877,959 245,375 15,039 (8,384) 23,423 7,300 0.5% 0.68 0.78 0.20 0.30 66 +++ 2016-17 67,922 2,012,993 1,957,398 4,591,464 1,853,922 2,737,542 5,007,925 296,939 (242,077) 5,922 (247,999) (5.0%) (7.30) (7.30) 61 ^^^ 2017-18 67,922 1,949,176 1,846,384 4,826,322 2,156,196 2,670,126 6,118,229 310,189 (94,692) 8,793 (103,485) (1.7%) (3.05) (3.05) 59 2018-19 67,922 2,148,330 1,863,963 5,158,440 2,311,007 2,847,433 7,175,742 309,864 239,893 37,833 202,060 2.8% 5.94 6.04 65 Notes : @ On increased capital base due to conversion of Bonds / Convertible Debentures / Warrants / FCCN into shares. * Equivalent to a face value of `10/per share. # Includes Interim Dividend where applicable. + Including on Bonus Shares issued during the year. ! Includes a special dividend of `2.50 per share for the Diamond Jubilee Year. ++ On increased capital base due to Rights issue and conversion of FCCN into shares. ^ On increased capital base due to GDS issue and conversion of FCCN into shares. ^^ On increased capital base due to QIP issue and conversion of FCCN into shares. ** Consequent to sub-division of shares, figures for previous years are not comparable. +++ On increased capital base due to rights issue. ^^^ The figures of FY 2016-17 is as per Ind AS with Joint operation 390 Statement pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act 2013, read with rule 5 of Companies INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) (Accounts) Rules, 2014 in the prescribed Form AOC-1 relating to subsidiary companies Part A (` in crores) Sr. Subsidiary Country Reporting Exchange Share capital Reserves Total Total Turnover Profit/ Tax Profit/ Profit/ Proposed Investments % of No currency Rate (incl. advances and Assets Liabilities (Loss) Expense/ (Loss) (Loss) dividend (except in shareholding towards Surplus Before (Credit) after tax for the and tax case of capital where Tax period/ thereon investment applicable) year * in the subsidiaries) 1 Concorde Motors (India) Ltd India INR 1.00 144.18 (137.75) 1,040.87 1,034.45 1,233.01 (105.69) (105.69) (105.69) 100.00 (subsidiary w.e.f July 3, 1999) 2 Tata Motors Finance Ltd (Name India INR 1.00 583.85 1,904.27 32,910.17 30,422.05 3,108.85 41.17 (66.00) 107.17 107.17 92.04 100.00 changed from Sheba Properties Limited w.e.f. June 30, 2017) (subsidiary w.e.f January 24, 1989) 3 Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Co. South KRW 0.06 57.57 2,227.02 3,964.84 1,680.25 4,089.89 (220.37) (41.26) (179.11) (179.11) 100.00 STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Ltd (subsidiary Korea w.e.f March 30, 2004) 4 Tata Technologies Ltd (subsidiary India INR 1.00 43.05 1,698.39 2,261.60 521.12 2,978.39 417.00 118.34 298.66 298.66 31.79 72.28 w.e.f September 10, 1997) 5 Tata Motors Insurance Broking & India INR 1.00 5.00 28.12 71.01 37.89 196.86 25.36 7.46 17.90 17.90 17.45 100.00 Advisory Services Ltd (subsidiary w.e.f October 21, 2004) 6 Tata Motors European Technical UK GBP 90.51 474.57 (166.37) 408.63 100.44 198.46 (24.94) 2.87 (27.81) (27.81) 100.00 Centre Plc (subsidiary w.e.f September 1, 2005) 7 TML Distribution Company Ltd India INR 1.00 225.00 175.96 495.01 94.05 3,389.66 73.60 27.10 46.50 46.50 100.00 (subsidiary w.e.f March 28, 2008) 8 Tata Motors (SA) (Proprietary) Ltd South ZAR 4.78 12.98 1.45 188.85 174.42 145.91 2.04 0.70 1.34 1.34 60.00 (subsidiary w.e.f December 5, 2007) Africa 9 TMF Holdings Ltd (Name changed India INR 1.00 1,728.28 2,244.86 7,100.14 3,126.99 76.68 5.16 (0.19) 5.35 5.35 50.08 100.00 from Tata Motors Finance Limited w.e.f. June 30, 2017) (subsidiary FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) w.e.f June 1, 2006) 10 Tata Motors Financial Solutions Ltd India INR 1.00 1,700.50 (459.22) 7,031.95 5,790.67 522.12 91.44 91.44 91.44 1,291.32 100.00 (subsidiary w.e.f January 19, 2015) 11 Tata Marcopolo Motors Ltd India INR 1.00 170.00 (37.97) 386.25 254.22 700.33 13.89 0.92 12.97 12.97 51.00 (subsidiary w.e.f September 20, 2006) 12 Tata Motors (Thailand) Ltd (subsidiary Thailand THB 2.18 615.30 (1,273.44) 101.02 759.16 72.16 (501.18) (501.18) (501.18) 95.87 w.e.f February 28, 2008) 13 TML Holdings Pte Ltd, Singapore Singapore GBP 90.51 12,691.10 (3,150.72) 17,663.54 8,123.16 1,345.96 6.89 1,339.07 1,339.07 100.00 (subsidiary w.e.f February 4, 2008) 14 Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera S.A Spain EUR 77.67 2.88 (758.49) 19.97 775.58 0.60 (20.12) (20.12) (20.12) 100.00 (subsidiary w.e.f October 16, 2009) 15 Tata Hispano Motors Morocco MAD 7.15 146.30 (182.55) 41.56 77.81 (0.55) (0.55) (0.55) 100.00 Carroceries Maghreb (subsidiary w.e.f June 23, 2014) 16 Trilix S.r.l (subsidiary w.e.f Italy EUR 77.67 0.61 25.76 74.34 47.96 56.26 (26.08) (4.82) (21.26) (21.26) 100.00 October 4, 2010) 17 Tata Precision Industries Pte Ltd Singapore SGD 51.04 41.56 (41.77) 0.40 0.60 (1.08) (1.08) (1.08) 78.39 (subsidiary w.e.f February 15, 2011) 18 PT Tata Motors Indonesia (subsidiary Indonesia IDR 0.00 269.25 (56.22) 218.70 5.67 (2.81) (2.81) (2.81) 100.00 w.e.f December 29, 2011) 19 INCAT International Plc. (subsidiary UK GBP 90.51 2.07 42.11 46.06 1.88 1.23 0.84 0.84 0.84 72.28 w.e.f October 3, 2005) 20 Tata Technologies Inc. (Including USA USD 69.15 827.74 (441.12) 488.01 101.39 726.54 17.30 5.91 11.39 11.39 72.34 Midwest Managed Services Inc.which got merged into Tata Technologies Inc. w.e.f. Feb 28, 2018) (subsidiary w.e.f October 3, 2005) 21 Tata Technologies de Mexico, S.A. de Mexico MXN 3.57 1.07 5.28 13.66 7.31 21.05 (0.56) (0.56) (0.56) 72.34 C.V. (subsidiary w.e.f October 3, 2005) 22 Cambric Limited, Bahamas Bahamas USD 69.15 18.67 0.68 19.35 0.04 (0.89) (0.89) (0.89) 72.31 (subsidiary w.e.f May 1, 2013) 23 Cambric GmbH (subsidiary Germany EUR 77.67 0.21 1.62 1.84 0.01 (0.06) (0.06) (0.06) 72.34 w.e.f May 1, 2013) 24 Tata Technolgies SRL, Romania Romania RON 17.23 9.37 30.24 41.07 1.46 74.98 16.49 2.18 14.31 14.31 72.31 (erstwhile Cambric Consulting SRL was renamed w.e.f February 4, 2015) (subsidiary w.e.f May 1, 2013) 391 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year (` in crores) Sr. Subsidiary Country Reporting Exchange Share capital Reserves Total Total Turnover Profit/ Tax Profit/ Profit/ Proposed Investments % of No currency Rate (incl. advances and Assets Liabilities (Loss) Expense/ (Loss) (Loss) dividend (except in shareholding towards Surplus Before (Credit) after tax for the and tax case of capital where Tax period/ thereon investment applicable) year * in the subsidiaries) 25 Tata Manufacturing Technologies China CNY 10.30 3.05 57.45 83.33 22.84 155.00 30.18 8.12 22.06 22.06 72.28 Consulting (Shanghai) Limited .(subsidiary w.e.f March 10, 2014) 26 Tata Technologies Europe Limited UK GBP 90.51 0.09 812.98 1,052.44 239.37 976.33 143.40 28.46 114.94 114.94 72.28 (subsidiary w.e.f October 3, 2005) 27 Escenda Engineering AB (Tata Sweden SEK 7.44 0.16 0.32 86.33 85.85 157.93 (4.91) (2.46) (2.45) (2.45) 72.28 Technologies Europe Limited acquired 100% stake in the company w.e.f. May 1, 2017) 28 INCAT GmbH (subsidiary w.e.f Germany EUR 77.67 0.95 16.73 17.93 0.25 0.30 0.29 0.02 0.27 0.27 72.28 October 3, 2005) 29 Tata Technologies (Thailand) Limited Thailand THB 2.18 4.58 7.33 18.70 6.80 32.98 2.43 1.15 1.28 1.28 72.28 (subsidiary w.e.f October 10, 2005) 30 TATA Technologies Pte Ltd. Singapore USD 69.15 251.56 520.32 782.60 10.72 62.43 1.91 0.14 1.77 1.77 72.28 (subsidiary w.e.f December 7, 2005) 31 Jaguar Land Rover Automotive plc UK GBP 90.51 13,582.39 5,579.69 59,396.74 (40,234.66) 41.00 41.00 41.00 100.00 (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) 32 Jaguar Land Rover Limited UK GBP 90.51 32,226.66 36,305.97 218,030.32 (149,497.70) 192,759.69 (21,096.97) 94.17 (21,191.14) (21,191.14) 13,022.66 100.00 (previously Jaguar Cars Limited) (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) 33 Jaguar Land Rover Holdings UK GBP 90.51 45.26 41,417.62 49,898.46 (8,435.58) 248.68 37.62 211.06 211.06 100.00 Limited(formally known as Land Rover) (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) 34 JLR Nominee Company Limited UK GBP 90.51 100.00 (Formally known as Jaguar Land Rover Exports Limited, formerly Jaguar Cars Exports Limited) (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) (dormant) 35 Jaguar Land Rover (South Africa) UK ZAR 4.78 933.04 332.55 1,296.21 (30.62) 164.43 4.58 159.85 159.85 100.00 Holdings Limited (subsidiary w.e.f February 2, 2009) 36 Jaguar Cars Limited (subsidiary w.e.f UK GBP 90.51 100.00 June 2, 2008) (dormant) 37 Land Rover Exports Limited (Business UK GBP 90.51 100.00 transferred to Jaguar Land Rover Exports Ltd) (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) (dormant) 38 The Lanchester Motor Company UK GBP 90.51 100.00 Limited (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) (dormant) 39 The Daimler Motor Company UK GBP 90.51 13.58 13.58 100.00 Limited (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) (dormant) 40 S S Cars Limited (subsidiary w.e.f UK GBP 90.51 100.00 June 2, 2008) (dormant) 41 Daimler Transport Vehicles UK GBP 90.51 100.00 Limited (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) (dormant) 42 The Jaguar Collection Limited UK GBP 90.51 100.00 (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) (Dissolved June 19, 2018) 43 Jaguar Land Rover Pension Trustees UK GBP 90.51 100.00 Limited (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) (dormant) 44 Jaguar Cars (South Africa) (Pty) South ZAR 4.78 100.00 Ltd (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, Africa 2008) (dormant) 45 Jaguar Land Rover Slovakia s.r.o. Slovakia EUR 77.67 4,168.86 190.02 7,993.95 (3,635.07) 1,383.58 160.90 3.89 157.01 157.01 100.00 (JLRHL 0.01% and JLRL 99.99%) 46 Jaguar Racing Limited (Incorporated UK GBP 90.51 11.80 50.74 (38.94) 93.12 4.41 (0.25) 4.66 4.66 100.00 w.e.f. February 2, 2016) (subsidiary w.e.f February 2, 2016) 47 InMotion Ventures Limited UK GBP 90.51 0.00 107.50 572.68 (465.19) 175.92 175.92 175.92 100.00 (Incorporated w.e.f. March 18, 2016) (subsidiary w.e.f March 18, 2016) 392 (` in crores) INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Sr. Subsidiary Country Reporting Exchange Share capital Reserves Total Total Turnover Profit/ Tax Profit/ Profit/ Proposed Investments % of No currency Rate (incl. advances and Assets Liabilities (Loss) Expense/ (Loss) (Loss) dividend (except in shareholding towards Surplus Before (Credit) after tax for the and tax case of capital where Tax period/ thereon investment applicable) year * in the subsidiaries) 48 InMotion Ventures 1 Limited UK GBP 90.51 (1.35) 0.01 (1.36) (1.36) (1.36) (1.36) 100.00 49 InMotion Ventures 2 Limited UK GBP 90.51 (16.00) 0.44 (16.44) 1.15 (15.91) (15.91) (15.91) 100.00 50 InMotion Ventures 3 Limited UK GBP 90.51 100.00 51 InMotion Ventures 4 Limited UK GBP 90.51 100.00 (Incorporated w.e.f January 4, 2019) 52 Land Rover Ireland (Services) Limited UK EUR 77.67 5.60 102.03 (96.43) 109.49 4.89 0.61 4.28 4.28 100.00 53 Spark44 (JV) Ltd (Shareholding UK GBP 90.51 0.02 0.23 0.59 (0.34) 0.00 0.09 0.02 0.07 0.07 50.50 changed from 50% to 50.50% w.e.f. August 31, 2017) 54 Spark44 Limited UK GBP 90.51 50.50 (London & Birmingham) STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) 55 Spark44 Pty Ltd (Sydney) Australia AUD 49.03 50.50 56 Spark44 GmbH (Frankfurt) Germany EUR 77.67 50.50 57 Spark44 LLC (LA & NYC) USA USD 69.15 50.50 58 Spark44 Limited (Shanghai) China CNY 10.30 50.50 59 Spark44 Middle East DMCC (Dubai) UAE USD 69.15 50.50 60 Spark44 Demand Creation Partners India INR 1.00 50.50 Pte Ltd (Mumbai) 61 Spark44 Pte Ltd (Singapore) Singapore SGD 51.04 50.50 62 Spark44 Spain EUR 77.67 50.50 Communicacions SL (Madrid) 63 Spark44 SRL (Rome) Italy EUR 77.67 50.50 64 Spark44 Limited (Seoul) Korea KRW 0.06 50.50 65 Spark44 K.K. (Tokyo) Japan JPY 62.46 50.50 66 Spark44 Canada Inc (Toronto) Canada CAD 51.54 50.50 67 Spark44 South Africa (Pty) Limited South ZAR 4.78 50.50 Africa 68 Spark44 Colombia S.A.S (Colombia) Colombia COP 0.02 50.50 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) (Incorporated w.e.f. May 10,2018) 69 Spark44 Taiwan Limited (Taiwan) Taiwan TWD 2.24 50.50 (Incorporated w.e.f. May 7,2018) 70 Limited Liability Company Jaguar Russia RUB 1.06 5.10 586.46 1,225.38 (633.81) 6,020.22 250.05 56.65 193.40 193.40 100.00 Land Rover (Russia) (incorporated on 25-5-2008) (subsidiary w.e.f May 15, 2009) 71 Jaguar Land Rover (China) China CNY 10.30 1,702.48 2,266.45 (563.97) 3,412.49 106.38 19.12 87.26 87.26 100.00 Investment Co Ltd (previously Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Trading (Shanghai) Co. Ltd ) (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) 72 Shanghai Jaguar Land Rover China LRE CNY 10.30 1.58 (2.30) 2.00 (2.72) 1.97 2.04 1.16 0.88 0.88 100.00 Automotive Service Co. Ltd (subsidiary w.e.f March 10, 2014) 73 Jaguar Land Rover Colombia SAS Colombia COP 0.02 7.87 (28.07) 141.80 (162.00) 150.65 (23.12) (7.15) (15.97) (15.97) 100.00 (subsidiary w.e.f August 22, 2016) 74 Jaguar Landrover Mexico MXN 3.57 100.00 Mexico S.A.P I de C.V 75 Jaguar Landrover Mexico MXN 3.57 100.00 Services Mexico S.A C.V 76 Jaguar Land Rover France SAS France EUR 77.67 33.90 18.80 1,521.67 (1,468.96) 6,299.84 53.05 37.42 15.63 15.63 100.00 (subsidiary w.e.f February 1, 2009) 77 Jaguar Land Rover PortugalPortugal EUR 77.67 10.33 31.60 210.64 (168.71) 637.68 34.95 9.27 25.68 25.68 100.00 Veiculos e Pecas, Lda. (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) 78 Jaguar Land Rover Espana SL Spain EUR 77.67 323.43 53.38 1,295.08 (918.26) 3,703.48 39.55 8.83 30.72 30.72 100.00 (merged company following the absorption of Jaguar Hispania, S.L.U by Land Rover Espana, S.L.U) (formerly known as Land Rover Espana SL) (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) 79 Jaguar Land Rover Italia SpA Italy EUR 77.67 9.83 232.55 2,525.55 (2,283.18) 9,299.04 103.07 63.32 39.75 39.75 100.00 (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) 80 Land Rover Ireland Limited (no Ireland EUR 77.67 0.00 5.99 19.05 (13.06) (0.34) 0.00 (0.34) (0.34) 100.00 longer a trading NSC) (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) 81 Jaguar Land Rover Korea Co. Ltd. Korea KRW 0.06 0.30 117.69 3,062.52 (2,944.52) 6,394.08 107.80 23.96 83.84 83.84 100.00 (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) 393 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year (` in crores) Sr. Subsidiary Country Reporting Exchange Share capital Reserves Total Total Turnover Profit/ Tax Profit/ Profit/ Proposed Investments % of No currency Rate (incl. advances and Assets Liabilities (Loss) Expense/ (Loss) (Loss) dividend (except in shareholding towards Surplus Before (Credit) after tax for the and tax case of capital where Tax period/ thereon investment applicable) year * in the subsidiaries) 82 Jaguar Land Rover Deutschland Germany EUR 77.67 103.45 468.28 3,715.08 (3,143.35) 10,313.12 133.24 41.86 91.38 91.38 100.00 GmbH (subsidiary w.e.fJune 2, 2008) 83 Jaguar Land Rover Austria GmbH Austria EUR 77.67 1.13 52.75 473.14 (419.26) 1,811.02 18.66 3.34 15.32 15.32 100.00 (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) 84 Jaguar Land Rover Australia Australia AUD 49.03 3.43 252.33 1,970.19 (1,714.42) 4,342.03 215.91 103.00 112.91 112.91 100.00 Pty Limited (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) 85 Jaguar Land Rover North America, USA USD 69.15 276.60 2,020.90 13,409.83 (11,112.33) 54,718.27 789.44 198.52 590.92 590.92 100.00 LLC. (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) 86 Jaguar Land Rover Japan Limited Japan JPY 62.46 2,998.08 24,560.81 125,699.44 (98,140.55) 288,245.16 5,087.83 (887.38) 5,975.21 5,975.21 100.00 (subsidiary w.e.f October 1, 2008) 87 Jaguar Land Rover Canada, ULC Canada CAD 51.54 246.05 1,679.35 (1,433.30) 5,653.10 127.51 80.75 46.76 46.76 100.00 (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) 88 Jaguar e Land Rover Brasil Indústria Brazil BRL 17.68 1,090.28 (639.25) 2,202.85 (1,751.81) 3,006.61 (9.66) 23.74 (33.40) (33.40) 100.00 e Comércio de Veículos LTDA (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) 89 Jaguar Land Rover Belux N.V. Belgium EUR 77.67 9.71 45.34 1,081.58 (1,026.54) 4,315.61 41.00 13.65 27.35 27.35 100.00 (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) 90 Jaguar Land Rover Nederland BV Holland EUR 77.67 100.00 (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) 91 Jaguar Land Rover (South South ZAR 4.78 0.00 71.51 1,009.63 (938.13) 2,450.89 36.21 8.03 28.18 28.18 100.00 Africa) (Pty) Limited (subsidiary Africa w.e.f June 2, 2008) 92 Jaguar Land Rover India Limited India INR 1.00 280.25 (21.73) 1,205.57 (947.05) 1,890.05 (31.67) (8.88) (22.80) (22.80) 100.00 (subsidiary w.e.f October 25, 2012) 93 Jaguar Land Rover Singapore Pte. Singapore SGD 51.04 3.83 16.31 232.40 (212.27) 314.46 21.11 5.89 15.22 15.22 100.00 Ltd (incorporated w.e.f November 25,2015)(subsidiary w.e.f November 25, 2015) 94 Jaguar Land Rover Taiwan Taiwan TWD 2.24 8.64 (31.22) 450.11 (472.69) 675.97 (30.17) 0.00 (30.17) (30.17) 100.00 Company Pte. Ltd 95 Jaguar Land Rover Classic Germany EUR 77.67 19.42 (3.29) 23.09 (6.97) 6.97 (3.29) (3.29) 100.00 Deutschland GmbH (Incorporated w.e.f. August 10,2018) 96 Jaguar Land Rover Hungary KFT Hungary HUF 0.24 0.07 (0.07) 0.01 0.34 0.05 0.29 100.00 (Incorporated w.e.f July 30, 2018) 97 Jaguar Land Rover Classic USA USA USD 69.15 100.00 LLC ( Incorporated w.e.f June 1, 2018) (dormant) 98 TMNL Motor Services Nigeria Ltd Nigeria NGN 0.19 0.33 (0.51) 0.03 0.21 (0.14) (0.14) (0.14) 100.00 (incorporated w.e.f September 2, 2015)(subsidiary w.e.f September 2, 2015) 99 Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle South KRW 0.06 4.00 16.88 59.45 38.57 160.09 (1.00) 0.07 (1.07) (1.07) 100.00 Sales and Distribution Co. Ltd. Korea (subsidiary w.e.f April 9, 2010) 100 PT Tata Motors Distribusi Indonesia Indonesia IDR 0.00 217.41 (225.44) 78.65 86.68 84.19 (24.88) (0.07) (24.81) (24.81) 100.00 (subsidiary w.e.f February 11, 2013) Details of Direct subsidiaries, on consolidated basis including their respective subsidiaries included above 1 Tata Technologies Limited (subsidiary 42.09 1,698.39 2,261.60 521.12 2,978.39 417.00 118.34 298.66 308.02 38.84 72.28 w.e.f September 10, 1997) 2 Tata Motors Holdings Finance Ltd 1,728.28 (108.37) 40,408.43 38,788.52 3,700.18 56.99 (42.67) 99.66 99.66 1,909.56 100.00 (Name changed from Tata Motors Finance Limited w.e.f. June 17, 2017) (subsidiary w.e.f June 1, 2006) 3 TML Holdings Pte Ltd, Singapore** 100.00 (subsidiary w.e.f February 4, 2008) 4 PT Tata Motors Indonesia (subsidiary 268.97 (281.36) 79.94 92.33 84.19 (27.29) (0.09) (27.20) (27.20) 100.00 w.e.f December 29, 2011) **TML Holdings Pte Ltd, Singapore holds fully Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc and Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Co. Ltd., the consolidated accounts of which are given below : 1 Jaguar Land Rover Automotive 11,195.17 42,876.39 212,154.88 158,023.55 224,132.08 (32,002.82) (2,640.29) (29,362.52) (29,320.44) 8,367.79 100.00 Plc Consolidated (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) 2 Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Co. 0.03 1,964.56 3,610.55 1,645.96 3,972.63 (221.37) (41.19) (180.18) (180.18) 100.00 Ltd (subsidiary w.e.f March 30, 2004) * Profit for the year is after share of minority interest and share of profit/(loss) in respect of investment in associate companies. 394 Statement pursuant to Section 129 (3) of the Companies Act, 2013 related to Associate Companies and Joint Venture INTEGRATED REPORT (01-77) Part B (` in crores) Sr. Name of Associates/Joint Ventures Shares of Associate/Joint Ventures held by the company on the year end Profit/(loss) for the year No. Latest audited No. Amount of Extent of Networth Considered in Not Description Reason why the Balance Sheet Investment in Holding % attributable to Consolidation Considered of how there associate/ Date Associates/ Shareholding in is significant Joint venture Joint Venture as per latest Consolidation influence is not audited consolidated Balance Sheet Joint Venture 1 Fiat India Automobiles Private Limited March 31, 2019 122,257,983 1,567.04 50% 1,782.30 95.10 Note (a) STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) 2 Tata Cummins Private Ltd March 31, 2019 90,000,000 90.00 50% 523.25 127.80 Note (a) Joint Ventures 1 JT Special Vehicle (P) Ltd. March 31, 2019 2,500,000 50% (2.50) Note (a) 2 Chery Jaguar Land Rover March 31, 2019 1,301.11 50% 4,295.54 100.94 Note (a) Automotive Co Ltd 3 Tata HAL Technologies Ltd. March 31, 2019 10,140,000 50% Note (a) Provision for impairment was considered in full in FY 16-17 Associates 1 Tata AutoComp Systems Ltd March 31, 2019 52,333,170 77.47 26% 243.88 31.90 Note (b) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) 2. Nita Company Ltd March 31, 2019 16,000 1.27 40% 34.80 3.22 Note (b) 3 Automobile Corporation of Goa Ltd March 31, 2019 2,982,214 109.64 47.19% 144.60 9.06 Note (b) 4 Jaguar Cars Finance Limited March 31, 2019 49,900 3.24 50% 3.12 Note (b) 5 Synaptiv Limited March 31, 2019 15,600,000 1.41 38% 1.41 Note (b) 6 CloudCar Inc March 31, 2019 133,255,012 109.22 26.30% 16.35 (25.69) Note (b) 7 Drive Club Service Pte. Ltd. March 31, 2019 251 1.81 25.07% 1.74 0.11 Note (b) 8 Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery March 31, 2019 45,428,572 240.20 39.99% 591.50 93.18 Note (b) Company Private Ltd 9 Loginomic Tech Solutions Private March 31, 2019 665,000 2.66 26.00% 1.94 (0.72) Note (b) Limited (''TruckEasy'') Note : (a) There is a significant influence by virtue of joint control. (b) There is a significant influence due to percentage (%) of share capital 395 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Notice (Pursuant to Section 101 of the Companies Act, 2013) Dear Member, of the Company, for a term of five years commencing from NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT THE SEVENTY FOURTH ANNUAL June 26, 2019 up to June 25, 2024 and who would not be liable GENERAL MEETING OF TATA MOTORS LIMITED will be held on to retire by rotation, be and is hereby approved.” Tuesday, July 30, 2019 at 3:00 p.m. at Birla Matushri Sabhagar, 5. Commission to Non-Executive Directors 19, Sir Vithaldas Thackersey Marg, Mumbai 400 020 to transact To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution the following business: as an Ordinary Resolution: ORDINARY BUSINESS “RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Section 197 1. To receive, consider and adopt the Audited Standalone and any other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, Financial Statement of the Company for the financial year 2013 ('the Act') [including any statutory modification(s) or reended March 31, 2019 together with the Reports of the Board enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force] and Regulation of Directors and the Auditors thereon. 17(6) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, 2. To receive, consider and adopt the Audited Consolidated as amended from time to time, consent of the Company be Financial Statement of the Company for the financial year and is hereby accorded for payment of commission to the ended March 31, 2019 together with the Report of the Auditors Non-Executive Directors, including Independent Directors, of thereon. the Company (i.e., Directors other than the Managing Director 3. To appoint a Director in place of Mr N Chandrasekaran, and/or Whole Time Directors) to be determined by the Board (DIN:00121863) who, retires by rotation and being eligible, of Directors for each of such Non-Executive Director for offers himself for re-appointment. each financial year and distributed between such Directors in such a manner as the Board of Directors may from time to SPECIAL BUSINESS time determine within the overall maximum limit of 1% (one 4. Appointment of Ms Vedika Bhandarkar (DIN:00033808) as a percent) of the net profits of the Company for that financial Director and as an Independent Director year computed in accordance with the provisions of Section To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution 198 of the Act or such other percentage as may be specified by as an Ordinary Resolution: the Act from time to time in this regard.” “RESOLVED that Ms Vedika Bhandarkar (DIN:00033808), who   “RESOLVED FURTHER that the above remuneration shall was appointed as an Additional Director of the Company with be in addition to fees payable to the Director(s) for attending effect from June 26, 2019 by the Board of Directors and who the meetings of the Board or Committees thereof or for any holds office upto the date of this Annual General Meeting of other purpose whatsoever as may be decided by the Board of the Company under Section 161(1) of the Companies Act, Directors and reimbursement of expenses for participation in 2013 ('the Act') and Article 132 of the Articles of Association the Board and other meetings.” of the Company, but who is eligible for appointment and in 6. Appointment of Branch Auditors respect of whom the Company has received a notice in writing To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution under Section 160(1) of the Act from a member proposing as an Ordinary Resolution: her candidature for the office of Director, be and is hereby appointed as a Director of the Company.” “RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Section 143(8) and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act,  “RESOLVED FURTHER that pursuant to the provisions of 2013 ('the Act') [including any statutory modification(s) or Sections 149, 152 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force] and the Act read with Schedule IV to the Act [including any statutory Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended from modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being time to time, the Board of Directors be and is hereby authorised in force] and the Companies (Appointment and Qualification to appoint as Branch Auditor(s) of any Branch Office of the of Directors) Rules, 2014, as amended from time to time, Company, whether existing or which may be opened/acquired Regulation 17 and other applicable regulations of the Securities hereafter, outside India, in consultation with the Company’s and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Auditors, any persons, qualified to act as Branch Auditors Requirements) Regulations, 2015 ('SEBI Listing Regulations') within the provisions of Section 143(8) of the Act and to fix the appointment of Ms Vedika Bhandarkar (DIN:00033808), their remuneration.” that meets the criteria for independence as provided in Section 149(6) of the Act and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing 7. Ratification of Cost Auditor’s Remuneration Regulations and who has submitted a declaration to that effect, To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution and who is eligible for appointment as an Independent Director as an Ordinary Resolution: 396 “RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Section 148(3) as proxy and such person shall not act as a proxy for any other CORPORATE OVERVIEW (01-77) and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies person or member. Act, 2013 [including any statutory modification(s) or re3.  Corporate members intending to send their authorised enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force] and the representatives to attend the AGM are requested to send Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended from to the Company, a certified copy of the Board Resolution time to time, the Company hereby ratifies the remuneration of authorising their representative to attend and vote on their `5,00,000/(Rupees Five Lakhs Only) plus applicable taxes, behalf at the AGM. travel and out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with  Members, Proxies and Authorized Representatives are the audit, as approved by the Board of Directors, payable to M/s requested to bring the duly completed Attendance Slip Mani & Co., Cost Accountants (Firm Registration No. 000004) enclosed herewith to attend the AGM. who are appointed as Cost Auditors to conduct the audit of the relevant cost records of the Company for the financial year 4. Only registered members (including the holders of ‘A’ Ordinary ending March 31, 2020.” Shares) of the Company may attend and vote at the AGM. The holders of the American Depositary Receipts (the 'ADR') By Order of the Board of Directors STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) of the Company shall not be entitled to attend the said AGM. Hoshang K Sethna However, the ADR holders are entitled to give instructions Company Secretary for exercise of voting rights at the said meeting through the Mumbai, June 26, 2019 FCS No: 3507 Depositary, to give or withhold such consent, to receive such Registered Office: notice or to otherwise take action to exercise their rights with Bombay House, 24, Homi Mody Street, Mumbai 400 001 respect to such underlying shares represented by each such Tel: +91 22 6665 8282 ADR. A brief statement, as to the manner in which such voting Email: inv_rel@tatamotors.com; Website: www.tatamotors.com instructions may be given, is being sent to the ADR holders by CIN: L28920MH1945PLC004520 the Depositary. 5. In case of joint holders attending the AGM, only such a joint NOTES: holder who is senior by the order in which the name stands in the register of members will be entitled to vote. 1.  The relative Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013 ('the Act') in respect of the 6. The Register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel and FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) business under item nos. 4 to 7 set out above and the relevant their shareholding as maintained under Section 170 of the details of the Directors seeking re-appointment/appointment Act, the Register of Contracts or Arrangement in which the at this Annual General Meeting ('AGM'/ 'the meeting') in Directors are interested as maintained under Section 189 respect of business under item nos. 3 and 4 as required of the Act and relevant documents referred to in the Notice under Regulations 26(4) and 36(3) of the Securities and and the Explanatory Statement are open for inspection by Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure the members at the Registered Office of the Company on Requirements) Regulations, 2015 ('SEBI Listing Regulations') all working days between Monday to Friday except public and Secretarial Standard on General Meetings issued by holidays, between 10:00 a.m. (IST) to 1:00 p.m. (IST) up to the The Institute of Company Secretaries of India ('Secretarial date of the meeting and also at the venue during the meeting. Standard') are annexed hereto. The certificate from the Statutory Auditors of the Company, stating that the Company has implemented the Tata Motors 2. A MEMBER ENTITLED TO ATTEND AND VOTE AT THE Limited Employees Stock Option Scheme 2018 ('Scheme') in AGM IS ENTITLED TO APPOINT A PROXY TO ATTEND AND accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India VOTE ON HIS/HER BEHALF AND THE PROXY NEED NOT (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014 and the BE A MEMBER. special resolution passed by the members of the Company The duly completed and signed instrument appointing proxy approving the Scheme on August 3, 2018, will be available for as per the format included in the Annual Report should be inspection at the meeting. returned to the Registered Office of the Company not less than 7. As per the provisions of Section 72 of the Act, the facility for forty-eight (48) hours before the time for holding the AGM. making nomination is available for the members in respect of Proxies submitted on behalf of limited companies, societies, the shares held by them. Members who have not yet registered partnership firms, etc. must be supported by appropriate their nomination are requested to register the same by resolution/authority, as applicable, issued by the member submitting Form No. SH-13. The said form can be downloaded organization. from the Members’ Referencer available on the Company’s A person can act as a proxy on behalf of members not exceeding website under Investor resources. Members are requested fifty (50) and holding in the aggregate not more than 10% of to submit the said details to their Depository Participants in the total share capital of the Company carrying voting rights. A case the shares are held by them in electronic form and to member holding more than 10% of the total share capital of the the Company’s Registrar and Transfer Agent ('RTA') in case the Company carrying voting rights may appoint a single person shares are held by them in physical form. 397 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year 8. Members holding shares in physical form, in identical order to Unpaid Dividend Account of the Company, are liable to be of names, in more than one folio are requested to send to the transferred to the Investor Education and Protection Fund Company’s RTA, the details of such folios together with the ('IEPF'). The shares in respect of such unclaimed dividends are share certificates for consolidating their holdings in one folio. A also liable to be transferred to the demat account of the IEPF consolidated share certificate will be issued to such Members Authority. In view of this, members are requested to claim their after making requisite changes. dividends from the Company, within the stipulated timeline. 9. Non-Resident Indian members are requested to inform the The members, whose unclaimed dividends/shares have Company’s RTA immediately of: been transferred to IEPF, may claim the same by making an application to the IEPF Authority in Form No. IEPF-5 available a) Change in their residential status on return to India for on www.iepf.gov.in. permanent settlement. 14. Members desiring any information as regards the Accounts b) Particulars of their bank account maintained in India with are requested to write to the Company at an early date so as to complete name, branch, account type, account number and enable the management to keep the information ready at the address of the bank with pin code number, if not furnished meeting. earlier. 15. To support the 'Green Initiative' announced by the Government 10. Members holding shares in dematerialised mode are of India, electronic copies of the Annual Report and this Notice requested to intimate all changes pertaining to their bank inter alia indicating the process and manner of e-voting along details/NECS/mandates, nominations, power of attorney, with Attendance Slip and Proxy Form are being sent by change of address/name, Permanent Account Number e-mail to those members whose e-mail addresses have been ('PAN') details, etc. to their Depository Participant only made available to the Company / Depository Participants, and not to the Company’s RTA. Changes intimated to the unless the member has specifically requested for a hard copy Depository Participant will then be automatically reflected in of the same. In other cases, hard copy of the Abridged Annual the Company’s records which will help the Company and its Report is being sent to the members by the permitted mode. RTA provide efficient and better service to the members. The members who are desirous of receiving the full Annual In case of members holding shares in physical form, such Report may write to the Company’s RTA for a copy of the same. information is required to be provided to the Company’s RTA. MEMBERS WHO HAVE NOT REGISTERED THEIR E-MAIL Members’ Referencer giving guidance on securities related ADDRESSES WITH COMPANY’S RTA /DEPOSITORIES ARE matters is put on the Company’s website and can be accessed REQUESTED TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE GREEN INITIATIVE at link: https://www.tatamotors.com/investors/ BY REGISTERING THEIR E-MAIL ADDRESS, FOR RECEIVING 11. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA ('SEBI') HAS ALL FUTURE COMMUNICATIONS THROUGH E-MAIL. MANDATED SUBMISSION OF PAN BY EVERY PARTICIPANT 16. Attendance Slip, Proxy Form and the Route Map showing IN THE SECURITIES MARKET. MEMBERS HOLDING SHARES directions to reach the venue of the AGM are annexed hereto. IN ELECTRONIC FORM ARE, THEREFORE, REQUESTED 17. Members may note that the Notice of AGM and Abridged & Full TO SUBMIT THEIR PAN DETAILS TO THEIR DEPOSITORY Annual Reports for FY2018-19 are available on the Company’s PARTICIPANTS. MEMBERS HOLDING SHARES IN PHYSICAL website viz. www.tatamotors.com and also on the website of FORM ARE REQUESTED TO SUBMIT THEIR PAN DETAILS TO NSDL https://www.evoting.nsdl.com. THE COMPANY’S RTA. 18. VOTING BY MEMBERS: 12. As per Regulation 40 of the SEBI Listing Regulations and various notifications issued by SEBI in this regard, transfer of A. In compliance with the provisions of Section 108 of the securities would be carried out in dematerialised form only Act, the Companies (Management and Administration) with effect from April 1, 2019, except in case of transmission Rules, 2014, Regulation 44 of the SEBI Listing or transposition of securities. However, members can continue Regulations and the Secretarial Standard, the Company to hold shares in physical form. Accordingly, members holding is pleased to provide members the facility to exercise securities in physical form were separately communicated their right to vote on resolutions proposed to be by the RTA vide three letters sent on September 29, 2018, considered at the AGM by electronic means either by (a) November 3, 2018 and December 3, 2018 at their registered remote e-voting (by using the electronic voting system address. In view of the same and to eliminate all risks associated provided by NSDL as explained at ‘para F’ herein below) with physical shares and for ease of portfolio management, or (b) Electronic Ballot at the AGM venue (as provided at members holding shares in physical form are requested to ‘para G’ herein below). Resolution(s) passed by members consider converting their holdings to demateralised form. through e-voting is/are deemed to have been passed as Members can contact the Company’s RTA for assistance in this if they have been passed at the AGM. regard. B. The voting rights of the Ordinary Shareholders shall be in 13. Members are requested to note that, dividends if not encashed the same proportion to the paid up ordinary share capital for a consecutive period of 7 years from the date of transfer and in case of voting rights on the ‘A’ Ordinary Shares, 398 the holder shall be entitled to one vote for every ten ‘A’ iv. Your User ID details will be as per details given below : CORPORATE OVERVIEW (01-77) Ordinary Shares held. a) For members who hold shares in demat account C.  A person, whose name is recorded in the Register with NSDL: 8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit of Members or in the Register of Beneficial Owners Client ID (For example if your DP ID is IN300*** maintained by the depositories as on July 23, 2019 ('the and Client ID is 12****** then your user ID is cut-off date'), shall be entitled to vote in respect of the IN300***12******). shares held, by availing the facility of remote e-voting b) For members who hold shares in demat account / voting through electronic ballot at the meeting. Any with CDSL: 16 Digit Beneficiary ID (For example if person who is not a member as on the cut-off date should your Beneficiary ID is 12************** then your treat this Notice for information purposes only. user ID is 12**************). D. The members can opt for only one mode of voting i.e. c) For members holding shares in Physical Form: either by remote e-voting or voting through electronic EVEN Number followed by Folio Number ballot at the meeting. The members attending the meeting registered with the Company (For example, for who have not already cast their vote by remote e-voting STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) members holding Ordinary Shares, if folio number shall be able to exercise their right at the meeting through is 001*** and EVEN is 110670 then user ID is electronic ballot. The members who have cast their vote by 110670001***. For members holding ‘A’ Ordinary remote e-voting are eligible to attend the meeting but shall Shares, if folio number is 001*** and EVEN is not be entitled to cast their vote again. 110671 then user ID is 110671001***). E.  The Board of Directors has appointed Mr P N Parikh v. Your password details are given below: (Membership No. FCS 327) and failing him Mr Mitesh a) If you are already registered for e-voting, then you Dhabliwala (Membership No. FCS 8331) of M/s Parikh can use your existing password to login and cast & Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries, as the your vote. Scrutinizer to scrutinize the remote e-voting and voting process at the venue, in a fair and transparent manner. b) If you are using NSDL e-voting system for the first time, you will need to retrieve the 'initial password' F. INSTRUCTIONS FOR REMOTE E-VOTING: which was communicated to you. Once you retrieve Any person, who acquires shares of the Company and your 'initial password', you need to enter the ‘initial FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) becomes a member of the Company after dispatch of the password’ and the system will force you to change Notice and holding shares as of the cut-off date, may your password. obtain the login ID and password by sending a request at c) How to retrieve your 'initial password'? evoting@nsdl.co.in. (i) If your email ID is registered in your demat The remote e-voting period starts on Saturday, July 27, account or with the Company, your 'initial 2019 (9.00 a.m. IST) and ends on Monday, July 29, 2019 password' is communicated to you on your (5.00 p.m. IST). Remote e-voting shall be disabled by NSDL email ID. Trace the email sent to you from at 5:00 p.m. on July 29, 2019 and members shall not be NSDL from your mailbox. Open the email and allowed to vote through remote e-voting thereafter. open the attachment i.e. a .pdf file. Open the The procedure for e-voting consists of two steps as .pdf file. The password to open the .pdf file is detailed hereunder: your 8 digit client ID for NSDL account, last Step 1 : Log-in to NSDL e-voting system 8 digits of client ID for CDSL account or folio i. Visit the e-voting website of NSDL. Open web browser number for shares held in physical form. The by typing the URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ .pdf file contains your 'User ID' and your 'initial either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. password'. ii. Once the home page of e-voting system is launched, (ii) If your email ID is not registered, your initial click on the icon 'Login' which is available under password is communicated to you on your 'Shareholders' section. postal address. iii. A new screen will open. You will have to enter your vi. If you are unable to retrieve or have not received the User ID, your Password and a Verification Code as 'initial password' or have forgotten your password: shown on the screen. a)  Click on 'Forgot User Details/Password?' option Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL e-services available on www.evoting.nsdl.com (If you are i.e. IDeAS, you can log-in at https://eservices.nsdl. holding shares in your demat account with NSDL com/ with your existing IDeAS login. Once you log in or CDSL). to NSDL e-services after using your log in credentials, b)  Click on 'Physical User Reset Password?' option click on e-voting and you can proceed to step 2 i.e. Cast available on www.evoting.nsdl.com (If you are your vote electronically. holding shares in physical mode). 399 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year c)  If you are still unable to get the password by ● In case of any queries, you may refer to the Frequently aforesaid two options, you can send a request Asked Questions ('FAQs') for Shareholders and at evoting@nsdl.co.in mentioning your demat e-voting user manual for Shareholders available at the account number/folio number, your PAN, your 'Downloads' section of www.evoting.nsdl.com or call name and your registered address. on toll free no.: 1800-222-990 or send a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in. vii. After entering your password, tick on 'I hereby agree to all Terms and Conditions'. G. VOTING AT AGM: viii. Click on 'Login' button.   Members who are present at the AGM, but have not ix. After you click on the 'Login' button, Home page of cast their votes by availing the remote e-voting facility, e-voting will open. would be entitled to vote at the end of the discussion on the resolutions on which voting is to be held, by way of Step 2 : Cast your vote electronically on NSDL e-voting electronic ballot. system i. After successful login at Step 1, you will be able to see 19. DECLARATION OF RESULTS ON THE RESOLUTIONS: the Home page of e-voting. Click on e-voting. ● The Scrutinizer shall, immediately after the conclusion of ii. Click on Active Voting Cycles. You will be able to see all voting at the AGM, count the votes cast at the meeting, the companies 'EVEN' in which you are holding shares thereafter unblock the votes cast through remote e-voting and whose voting cycle is in active status. in the presence of at least two witnesses not in the employment of the Company and make, not later than iii. Select 'EVEN' of the Company for casting your vote: 48 hours from conclusion of the meeting, a consolidated a. EVEN for Ordinary Shares is 110670. Scrutinizer’s report of the total votes cast in favour and b. EVEN for ‘A’ Ordinary Shares is 110671. against the resolution(s), invalid votes, if any, and whether iv. Now you are ready for e-voting as the Voting page the resolution(s) has/have been carried or not, to the opens. Chairman or a person authorized by him in writing who shall countersign the same. v. Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options i.e. assent or dissent, verify/modify the number of shares ● The result declared along with the Scrutinizer’s for which you wish to cast your vote and click on Report shall be placed on the Company’s website 'Submit' and also 'Confirm' when prompted. www.tatamotors.com and on the website of NSDL www.evoting.nsdl.com immediately after the result is vi.  Upon confirmation, the message 'Vote cast declared. The Company shall simultaneously forward successfully' will be displayed. the results to BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange vii. You can also take the printout of the votes cast by you of India Ltd., where the securities of the Company are by clicking on the print option on the confirmation listed. The results shall also be displayed on the notice page. board at the Registered Office of the Company. viii. Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, you will ●  Subject to the receipt of requisite number of votes, the not be allowed to modify your vote. resolutions shall be deemed to be passed on the date of General Guidelines for shareholders the meeting i.e. July 30, 2019. ● Institutional shareholders (i.e. other than individuals, 20. ONE WAY WEBCAST FACILITY: HUF, NRI, etc.) are required to send a scanned copy  The members are requested to note that, pursuant to (PDF/JPG Format) of the relevant Board Resolution/ Regulation 44(6) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Authority letter etc. with attested specimen signature Company is providing a one way live webcast facility of the duly authorized signatory(ies) who are of the proceedings of the AGM for the convenience of authorized to vote, to the Scrutinizer by email to those members who are unable to attend the AGM due to tml.scrutinizer@gmail.com with a copy marked to locational constraints. The members will be able to view evoting@nsdl.co.in. the proceedings on NSDL’s e-voting website www.evoting. ●  It is strongly recommended not to share your nsdl.com. Members on the day of the AGM may login password with any other person and take utmost through their user ID and password on to the e-voting care to keep your password confidential. Login website. The link will be available in member login where to the e-voting website will be disabled upon five the EVEN of Company will be displayed. On clicking this unsuccessful attempts to key in the correct password. link, the member will be able to view the webcasting of the In such an event, you will need to go through the AGM proceedings. The webcast facility will be available on 'Forgot User Details/Password?' or 'Physical User July 30, 2019 from 3:00 p.m. onwards till the conclusion of Reset Password?' option available on www.evoting. the meeting. nsdl.com to reset the password. 400 Explanatory Statement CORPORATE OVERVIEW (01-77) The Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 of the Item No. 5 Companies Act, 2013 ('the Act'), given hereunder sets out all The members had, at the AGM held on August 21, 2013 approved, material facts relating to the special business mentioned at Item under the provisions of Section 309 and other applicable provisions Nos. 4 to 7 of the accompanying Notice dated June 26, 2019. of the Companies Act, 1956, payment of remuneration by way of Item No. 4 commission to Non-Executive Directors of the Company, of a sum not exceeding 1% per annum of the net profits of the Company, Based on recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration calculated in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Committee, the Board of Directors appointed Ms Vedika Bhandarkar Act, 1956, for a period of five years commencing April 1, 2013. (DIN:00033808) as Additional Director of the Company and also However, taking into consideration the financial performance and Independent Director, not liable to retire by rotation, for a term of STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) the profitability, no commission was paid to the Non-Executive five years i.e. from June 26, 2019 up to June 25, 2024 subject to Directors for financial years 2013-14 and onwards. approval of the Members. With the enhanced Corporate Governance requirements under Pursuant to the provisions of Section 161(1) of the Act and Article the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations coupled with the size, 132 of the Articles of Association of the Company, Ms Bhandarkar complexity and global operations of the Tata Motors Group, the shall hold office up to the date of this Annual General Meeting role and responsibilities of the Board, particularly Independent ('AGM') and is eligible to be appointed as a Director. The Company Directors has become more onerous, requiring greater time has, in terms of Section 160(1) of the Act, received in writing a notice commitments, attention and a higher level of oversight. In view of from Member, proposing her candidature for the office of Director. the above, the NRC and the Board of Directors at their respective The profile and specific areas of expertise of Ms Bhandarkar are meetings held on May 20, 2019 recommended and approved provided as Annexure to this Notice. payment of commission not exceeding 1% of the net profits of the Ms Bhandarkar has given her declaration to the Board that she Company for Financial Year 2018-19 and onwards, in terms of meets the criteria of independence as provided under Section Section 197 of the Act, computed in accordance with the provisions FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) 149(6) of the Act and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the Securities and of Section 198 of the Act or such other percentage as may be Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure specified from time to time. Regulation 17(6) of the SEBI Listing Requirements) Regulations, 2015 ('SEBI Listing Regulations') and Regulations authorises the Board of Directors to recommend all is eligible to be appointed as a Director in terms of Section 164 of fees and compensation, if any, paid to Non-Executive Directors, the Act. She has also given her consent to act as a Director. including Independent Directors and the same would require approval of members in general meeting. This commission will be In the opinion of the Board, Ms Bhandarkar is a person of integrity, distributed amongst all or some of the Non-Executive Directors, possesses the relevant expertise / experience and fulfills the taking into consideration parameters such as attendance at Board conditions specified in the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations for and Committee meetings, contribution at or other than at meetings, appointment as an Independent Director and she is independent of etc. in accordance with the directions given by the Board as the management. prescribed under the Remuneration Policy of the Company. Given her experience and the Company’s adherence to policy on The above commission shall be in addition to fees payable to the Board Diversity, the Board considers it desirable and in the interest Director(s) for attending meetings of the Board/Committees or for of the Company to have Ms Bhandarkar on the Board of the any other purpose whatsoever as may be decided by the Board Company and accordingly the Board recommends the appointment and reimbursement of expenses for participation in the Board and of Ms Bhandarkar as an Independent Director as proposed in the other meetings. resolution set out at Item No. 4 for approval by the members. The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution set out at Item The terms and conditions of appointment of the Independent No. 5 of the Notice for approval by the members. Director shall be open for inspection by the members at the Registered Office of the Company on all working days, between Accordingly, members’ approval is sought by way of an Ordinary Monday to Friday except public holidays, between 10:00 a.m. (IST) Resolution for payment of commission to the Non-Executive to 1:00 p.m. (IST) up to the date of the meeting and also at the Directors as set out in the said resolution. venue during the meeting. None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel or their respective Except for Ms Bhandarkar and/or her relatives, no other Director, relatives, are concerned or interested in the Resolution mentioned Key Managerial Personnel or their respective relatives are, in at Item No. 5 of the Notice, except the Independent Directors, to the any way, concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in extent of the commission that may be received by them, including the said resolution. for Financial Year 2018-19. 401 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year Item No. 6 It may be noted that the records of the activities under Cost Audit is no longer prescribed for 'Motor Vehicles and certain parts and In line with its global aspirations, the Company has undertaken / accessories thereof'. However, based on the recommendations of would undertake projects/establishments in and outside India for the Audit Committee, the Board has also approved the appointment setting up manufacturing facilities, showrooms, service centers of M/s Mani & Co. for submission of reports to the Company on and offices, as branch offices of the Company. Whilst generally cost records pertaining to these activities for a remuneration of and to the extent possible, the Company would appoint its auditors `20,00,000/(Rupees Twenty Lakhs Only) for the said financial for the said branch offices, in some cases/jurisdictions it may not year. be possible/practical to appoint them and the Company would be required to appoint an accountant or any other person duly qualified In accordance with the provisions of Section 148 of the Act read to act as an auditor of the accounts of the said branch offices in with Rule 14 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as accordance with the laws of that country. To enable the Board to amended from time to time, ratification for the remuneration payable appoint Branch Auditors for the purpose of auditing the accounts of to the Cost Auditors to audit the cost records of the Company for the the Company’s Branch Offices outside India (whether now existing said financial year by way of an Ordinary Resolution is being sought or as may be established), necessary authorisation of the members from the members as set out at Item No. 7 of the Notice. is being obtained in accordance with the provisions of Section 143 of M/s Mani & Co. have furnished a certificate dated April 30, 2019 the Act, in terms of the Resolution set out at Item No.6 of the Notice. regarding their eligibility for appointment as Cost Auditors of The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution set out at Item the Company. No. 6 of the Notice for approval by the members. The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution set out at Item None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel or their respective No. 7 of the Notice for approval by the members. relatives are, in any way, concerned or interested, financially or None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel or their respective otherwise, in the said resolution. relatives are, in any way, concerned or interested, financially or Item No. 7 otherwise, in the said resolution. Pursuant to Section 148 of the Act read with the Companies (Cost By Order of the Board of Directors Records and Audit) Rules, 2014, as amended from time to time, the Company is required to have the audit of its cost records for Hoshang K Sethna specified products conducted by a Cost Accountant. Based on Company Secretary the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Board had on Mumbai, June 26, 2019 FCS No: 3507 May 20, 2019, approved the appointment and remuneration of Registered Office: M/s Mani & Co., Cost Auditors (Firm Registration No. 000004) Bombay House, 24, Homi Mody Street, Mumbai 400 001 to conduct the audit of the Cost records maintained by the Tel: +91 22 6665 8282 Company, pertaining to the relevant products prescribed under the Email: inv_rel@tatamotors.com; Website: www.tatamotors.com Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014, for the financial CIN L28920MH1945PLC004520 year ending March 31, 2020 at a remuneration of `5,00,000/(Rupees Five Lakhs Only). 402 ANNEXURE TO NOTICE CORPORATE OVERVIEW (01-77) Details of the Directors seeking appointment/re-appointment in the forthcoming Annual General Meeting [Pursuant to Regulations 26(4) and 36(3) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and Secretarial Standard on General Meetings] Particulars of experience, attributes or skills that qualify the candidate for Board Chairmanship Under the leadership of Mr Chandrasekaran, TCS became one of the largest private sector employer in India with the highest retention rate in a globally competitive industry. Under Mr Mr N Chandrasekaran Chandrasekaran’s leadership, TCS was rated as the world’s most Chairman powerful brand in IT services in 2015 and was recognised as a Global Top Employer by the Top Employers Institute across 24 countries. A technopreneur known for his ability to make STATUTORY REPORTS (78-195) Mr N Chandrasekaran (DIN: 00121863) aged 56, was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Company w.e.f. big bets on new technology, Mr Chandrasekaran shaped TCS’s January 17, 2017. strong positioning in the emerging digital economy with a suite of innovative digital products and platforms for enterprises, some of Educational Qualification which have since scaled into sizeable new businesses. Mr Chandrasekaran holds a Bachelor’s degree in Applied Science. Mr Chandrasekaran having been the CEO of TCS brings with He also holds a Master’s degree in Computer Applications from him valuable experience in managing the issues faced by large Regional Engineering College, Trichy, India. and complex organisations. The Company and the Board will immensely benefit by leveraging his demonstrated leadership Experience (including expertise in specific functional areas) / capability, general business acumen and knowledge of complex Brief Resume financial and operational issues faced by the Company. Mr N Chandrasekaran is the Chairman of the Board of Tata Sons Mr Chandrasekaran also brings rich experience in various areas Private Limited, the holding company and promoter of more than of business, technology, operations, societal and governance 100 Tata operating companies with aggregate annual revenues of matters. more than US $100 billion. He joined the Board of Tata Sons in FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (196-395) October 2016 and was appointed Chairman in January 2017. Board Meeting Attendance and Remuneration During the year, Mr Chandrasekaran has attended all 7 Board Mr Chandrasekaran also chairs the Boards of several group Meetings and all 3 Nomination & Remuneration Committee Meetings operating companies, including Tata Steel, Tata Power, Tata Global and was paid sitting fees of `6 Lakhs during the year. Beverages Limited, Indian Hotels Company Limited and Tata Directorships held in other public companies and listed entities Consultancy Services (TCS) – of which he was Chief Executive Chairman of Tata Consultancy Services Limited, Tata Steel Limited, Officer from 2009-17. The Indian Hotels Company Limited, The Tata Power Company His appointment as Chairman followed a 30-year business career Limited, Tata Global Beverages Limited and Jaguar Land Rover Automotive PLC. at TCS, which he joined from university. Mr Chandrasekaran rose through the ranks at TCS to become CEO and Managing Director of Memberships/ Chairmanships of Statutory Committees of other the leading global IT solution and consulting firm. public companies and listed entities Chairman of Tata Consultancy Services Limited (Corporate Social In addition to his professional career at Tata, Mr Chandrasekaran Responsibility Committee). was also appointed as a Director on the Board of India’s central bank, the Reserve Bank of India, in 2016. He has been appointed Member of Nomination & Remuneration Committees of Tata Consultancy Services Limited, Tata Steel Limited, Tata Global on the International Advisory Council of Singapore’s Economic Beverages Limited, The Indian Hotels Company Limited, The Tata Development Board in 2018. He is the Chairman of Indian Institute Power Company Limited and Remuneration Committee of Jaguar of Management Lucknow as well as the President of the Court Land Rover Automotive PLC. at Indian Institute of Science Bengaluru. He is the member of Bocconi's International Advisory Council and the Co-Chair India Disclosure of Relationship inter-se between Directors, Manager US CEO Forum. and other Key Managerial Personnel There is no relationship inter-se between Mr Chandrasekaran, Mr Chandrasekaran has been awarded several honorary other members of the Board and Key Managerial Personnel of the doctorates by leading universities in India and internationally, Company. including an honorary Doctor of Letters from Macquarie University, Australia and Doctor of Letters from the Regional Engineering Shareholding in the Company College, Trichy, Tamil Nadu, where he completed a Masters degree Mr Chandrasekaran does not hold any shares of the Company in Computer Applications before joining TCS in 1987. either by self or on a beneficial basis for any other person. 403 Integrated Report & Annual Accounts 2018-19 I 74th Year focused on children and adults with intellectual disability. She also serves as a part time member of the Banks Board Bureau. Particulars of experience, attributes or skills that qualify Ms Bhandarkar for Board membership: Ms Vedika Bhandarkar Ms Bhandarkar has extensive experience in variety of M&A Non-Executive, Independent Director (domestic consolidation, outbound and in-bound transactions with associated financing), equity capital market (IPO, QIP, OFS, IPP, Ms Vedika Bhandarkar (DIN:00033808) aged 51, was appointed GDR, ADR and CB transactions), private equity and debt capital as Additional Director and Non-Executive, Independent Director of market (bonds, structured financing and loans) transactions for the Company w.e.f. June 26, 2019. private and public sector clients, across various industry verticals. Ms Bhandarkar’s leadership skills and business acumen are Educational Qualification demonstrated by her success in managing large enterprises. Her Ms Bhandarkar is MBA from the Indian Institute of Management, rich and wide experience enables her to provide valued insights and Ahmedabad and B.Sc from the MS University, Udaipur. perspectives on a broad range of business, social and governance Experience (including expertise in specific functional areas) / issues that are relevant to large corporations. Brief Resume Directorships held in other public companies and listed entities Ms Bhandarkar brings more than 25 years of experience, building Member of Tata Investment Corporation Limited, L&T Infotech teams and businesses with Indian and international financial Limited, TMF Holdings Limited, Tata Motors Finance Limited, Tata institutions. Motors Finance Solutions Limited, Northern Arc Capital Limited Since January 2016, Ms Bhandarkar has been engaged as a senior and Tata Sky Limited. leader in India with Water.org a not-for-profit organization, overseeing Memberships/ Chairmanships of Statutory Committees of other the organization’s strategy, growth and water and sanitation program public companies and listed entities expansion in the country. In India, Water.org continues to scale Chairperson of Audit Committees of Tata Motors Finance Limited WaterCredit through direct partnerships with financial and nonand Tata Sky Limited; Stakeholders’ Relationship Committees financial organizations, collaborating with enabling partners and of Tata Motors Finance Limited, Tata Motors Finance Solutions engaging with the Government’s Swachh Bharat Mission. Working Limited and L&T Infotech Limited; Corporate Social Responsibility with implementing partners, Water.org has helped reach 1 crore Committees of Tata Motors Finance Limited, Tata Motors Finance people in the country with access to water and/or sanitation. Solutions Limited and Tata Sky Limited; Risk Management Her earlier assignments include Vice Chairman and Managing Committee of Tata Motors Finance Solutions Limited; and Asset Director at Credit Suisse Securities (India) Private Limited (2010Liability Committee of Tata Motors Finance Solutions Limited. 2015), where she was reposed with the responsibility of overseeing Member of Audit Committees of TMF Holdings Limited, Tata Motors all investment banking, structured finance and capital market Finance Solutions Limited, L&T Infotech Limited and Northern Arc business and overseeing the onshore private banking business. Capital Limited; Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee of Tata She was also part of the 7 member Credit Suisse Asia Investment Investment Corporation Limited; Risk Management Committee Banking Department ('IBD') Operating Committee and the Global of Tata Motors Finance Limited; Nomination and Remuneration IBD Management Committee. From 1998-2010 Ms Bhandarkar Committees of Tata Motors Finance Solutions Limited, Tata served as the Managing Director & Head of Investment Banking Investment Corporation Limited and Tata Sky Limited; and Asset at J. P. Morgan – India. She was on the Board of Directors for JP Liability Committee of Tata Investment Corporation Limited. Morgan India Pvt. Ltd. and a member of the Location Management Committee. She began her career with ICICI Bank in 1989 where Disclosure of Relationship inter-se between Directors, Manager she worked at ISec a joint venture between ICICI and JPMorgan and other Key Managerial Personnel across groups including project finance, M&A and capital markets There is no relationship inter-se between Ms Bhandarkar, other and ICICI in leading, focusing on a select set of industries. members of the Board and Key Managerial Personnel of the Company. Since early 2015, Ms Bhandarkar has dedicated her time to corporate boards and social enterprise, serving as independent Shareholding in the Company director on several corporate boards, and as a volunteer, fundraiser Ms Bhandarkar does not hold any shares of the Company either by and board member of the Jai Vakeel Foundation, an institution self or on a beneficial basis for any other person. 404 Bombay House, 24 Homi Mody Street, Mumbai 400 001, India /TataMotorsGroup /tatamotors /company/tata-motors /user/TataMotorsGroup /tatamotorsgroup www.tatamotors.com
