P recious to us 2018 Sustainability Report Follow the quarterly evolution of our indicators at www.argor.com/ CSRindicators Greetings from Heraeus Precious Metals For the businesses of the entire Heraeus Group, sustainability is an extremely important aspect. Therefore, it is essential that – in the interest of Heraeus customers and stakeholders – all Global Business Units are working to fully integrate sustainability in all functions including but not limited to sourcing and manufacturing. Heraeus Precious Metals (HPM) is one of the Global Business Units of Heraeus. HPM is globally leading in precious metal services covering all steps of the precious metal value chain but mining, including precious metal trading, precious metal recycling and the manufacturing of value adding precious metals products. As such we are innovating products for a large variety of applications and we are delivering our services and products to many industries such as the chemical, the electronics and the jewellery industry. We process all eight precious metals – gold, silver, platinum, palladium, rhodium, ruthenium, iridium and osmium. As a leading precious metal house sustainability is a key strategic pillar of our business strategy. We invest substantial resources to create and implement global sustainability standards to promote our growth and success across different markets. As Business Line Argor-Heraeus is fully integrated into HPM. Argor-Heraeus represents the global competence centre for gold and silver within HPM. Argor-Heraeus business is truly global with representations in Switzerland, Hong-Kong, Italy and Germany. HPM and Argor-Heraeus share the same values and we fully support Argor-Heraeus business strategy. As a leading precious metal house we establish the highest sustainability standards for ourselves and our stakeholders. We are “Committed to your precious needs!” André Christl President Heraeus Precious Metals and Chairman Argor-Heraeus SA Letter to our stakeholders Our Sustainability Report is the annual document that describes all of our efforts, results achieved, and aspects that require more work in the area of corporate responsibility. It is the tip of the iceberg of a much larger effort that we make every day to improve and become more and more sustainable, assuming the responsibilities deriving from our position at the centre of the value chain. We understand our CSR Report as an important work tool to monitor and improve our daily activity and a dialogue platform for communicating with our stakeholders and not just a marketing ploy to improve our corporate image. This is why we have assumed the five commitments on which this Report is based. Five commitments that we publicly pledge to our stakeholders and that express the essence of our daily work. In this year’s Report you can read (and see, in short videos) everything we do to maintain these commitments. This is why we launched the online platform on our website in 2018, so that you can consult selected data on our consumptions and emissions on a quarterly basis: we are working to be more and more transparent. This is why, every year, we prepare our Sustainability Report according to the most recent guidelines and standards, so that we can dialogue with our stakeholders on a shared basis. Likewise, this document is also a corporate responsibility report in which detail our progress and express our renewed support of the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact concerning human rights, labour, the environment, and the fight against corruption. In 2018, we became closer and closer (including physically) to our partners through our important Hong Kong unit. By becoming part of Heraeus Precious Metals, we will work with our stakeholders to be a leader in a more solid and sustainable precious metals sector, faithful to the shared approach expressed by our guiding principles: “Precious to us” and “Committed to your precious needs.” Thank you for being with us on this long and exciting journey. Christoph Wild CEO Argor-Heraeus SA P recious to us The metal we process and the attention we give our stakeholders are precious. Our devotion to being a successful company, which allows us to assume long-term responsibilities, is precious. Above all, the environment and the social and economic context influenced by our actions are precious. Therefore, “Precious to us” expresses our approach to sustainability, confirmed through five commitments. 6 Our commitments 2. Work for a transparent and responsible 1. nvolve our chain Page 18 stakeholders Page 12 3. Contribute to local development Page 28 4. P rotect the environment 5. Grow with Page 34 our employees Page 48 About Argor-Heraeus ArgorFORMED IN 1951 Heraeus Page 60 Headquarters Mendrisio, The Golden Link Canton Ticino, Switzerland www.argor.com HERAEUS GROUP LOCATIONS Page 62 Page 64 100% owned by Heraeus 5 locations Group and integrated in → Switzerland Heraeus Precious Metals Global → Germany Business Unit → Italy → Chile → Hong Kong 8 GOVERNANCE PRECIOUS SOLUTIONS AT 3 LEVELS Page 66 Page 68 → Executive → Precious metal refining → Managerial → Smelted and minted products → Operative → Semi-finished products for the high-end jewellery and watch industry → Financial and accessory services GOLD PRODUCTION CUSTOMERS IN ALMOST CAPACITY 50 COUNTRIES WORLDWIDE Page 69 Page 69 Up to 1,300 → Banks tonnes/year → Mines, formalised ASM communities → Professionals in the high-end jewellery and watch industry 9 About Argor-Heraeus Our 5 commitments and the UN Sustainable Development Goals By means of the 5 commitments that define our approach to sustainability, we provide a tangible contribution along the entire chain to the Sustainable Development Goals promoted by the United Nations. This Report provides detailed descriptions of the aspects summarised in the following table. 1. nvolve our stakeholders 2. Work for a transparent and responsible chain 3. Contribute to local development 4. Protect the environment 5. Grow with our employees Sustainable Development Goals www.un.org 10 Source Argor-Heraeus Distribution SCRAP INDUSTRY Industrial and old jewellery REFINING MINES LSM, SSM, TRANSFORMATION BANKS, INSTITUTIONAL ASM INVESTORS, MINTS PRECIOUS METAL SERVICES GOOD DELIVERY JEWELLERY AND Grandfathered HIGH-END Non-Grandfathered WATCH INDUSTRY 11 Precious to us 1. nvolve our stakeholders Watch the video by Christoph Wild CEO, Argor-Heraeus «To guarantee responsible and sustainable conduct on the chain, all of our stakeholders must be involved.» www.argor.com 12 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees Our approach Collaboration with our stakeholders is essential for our growth. We work every day to ensure that our stakeholders are an integral part of our operations. What does this mean in real terms? ATTENTION TO CONTEXT ATTENTION TO STAKEHOLDERS’ NEEDS An evaluation conducted with management has We listen carefully to our stakeholders’ opinions, identified our most important stakeholders. suggestions, and needs, gathered by means The list is reviewed and updated periodically. of formal and informal channels. DIALOGUE AND COLLABORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT AS DIALOGUE PLATFORM: We interact regularly with all of our stakeholders This is an essential tool for sharing results by means of numerous activities and on many occasions. achieved and measures implemented. 13 Precious to us How do we involve our stakeholders? WHO ARE OUR STAKEHOLDERS? HOW DO WE INVOLVE THEM? Stakeholder Key subjects of interest Main activities → Economic performance → Shareholders Meeting Shareholders → Distribution of added value → Board of Directors → Reputation → Continuous collaboration and periodic targeted communication → Ethics and integrity → Annual Report, Sustainability Report, video on sustainability, new website → Involvement/alignment of Heraeus CSR Benchmarking → Economic performance → Personnel policy and incentives Management → Reputation → Monthly meetings of executives, workshops → Conditions of use → Technical and professional training → Health and safety → Annual Report, Sustainability Report, video on sustainability, new website, → Education and training code of conduct → Ethics and integrity → Ethics and integrity → Personnel policy and incentives Employees → Reputation → Periodic newsletter → Conditions of use → Technical and professional training → Health and safety → Sports and recreation group → Education and training → Annual Report, Sustainability Report, video on sustainability, new website, code → Efficiency and performance of conduct → Sustainable mobility programme → Safety day → Member – FocusMEM Ticino – HR Ticino – ICT Ticino – Swiss company for safety at the workplace (SSSL) → Quality of products and service → Compliance procedures Customers → Reputation → Targeted personalised information and suppliers → Compliance → Commercial activities, targeted visits, trade fairs → Ethics and integrity → Sustainability report, new website → Responsibility and transparency → Supplier assessment procedures of suppliers → Supply practices → Ethics and integrity → Support to local non-profit associations NGOs → Compliance → Assessment of involvement in non-profit projects linked to fair trade → Responsibility and → Seminars transparency of suppliers → Sustainability report, video on sustainability, new website → Certification of commitment → Sounding board 14 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees Stakeholder Key subjects of interest Main activities → Ethics and integrity → Press and media relations office activities Mass media → Supply practices → Website media area, Sustainability Report, video on sustainability → Relations with institutions → Use → Economic performance → Member of various associations and initiatives Industry → Ethics and integrity – European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) associations → Collaboration on key projects – Ticino Industries Association (AITI) – Swiss Precious Metal Industry Association (ASFCMP) – Ticino Watch Industry Association (ATIO) – Ticino Canton Chamber of Commerce (Cc-Ti) – CME Group Inc. – Dubai Multi Commodities Centre (DMCC) – Infosuisse – London Bullion Market Association (LBMA) – London Platinum and Palladium Market (LPPM) – Precious Metals & Rhenium Consortium (EPMF) – Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC), – Swiss Better Gold Association (SBGA, founding member) – UN Global Compact → Continuous collaboration with principal associations governing the precious metals sector → Sustainability Report, video on sustainability, new website → Payment of taxes → Continuous collaboration and periodic targeted communication Institutions → Observance of rules → Sustainability Report, video on sustainability, new website → Environmental impact → Sounding board → Employment and safety → Visits to Company by politicians and representatives of institutions → Ethics and integrity → SUPSI Award for best engineering diploma → CAS CSR, SUPSI teaching → Sustainable mobility programme → Company training project, Bachelor of Science SUPSI in Business Administration → Employee safety → Regular exercises during the year Public → Collaboration on safety → Continuous collaboration and periodic targeted communication services → Environmental impact → Sustainability Report, video on sustainability, website → Economic performance → Participation in workshops Competitors → Ethics and integrity → Participation in ASFCMP platform → Partnerships on matters concerning the industry 15 Precious to us Priorities WHAT ARE THE PRIORITIES FOR OUR STAKEHOLDER? HOW HAVE WE IDENTIFIED THEM? → When preparing this Sustainability Report, we identified our stakeholders’ priorities on the basis of GRI standards. → These priorities were then mapped based on their importance for the Company and for our stakeholders. → These priorities form the basis of the topics dealt with in this Report. → We constantly monitor these topics and, when necessary, add new ones for evaluation. Very high 12 11 9 8 14 13 6 2 Importance 15 4 1 for SH 16 7 3 5 10 High Importance for Argor-Heraeus Very high Economic aspects Environmental aspects Social aspects Mixed aspects 1 – Economic value generated 3– Materials used 8 – Employment 11 – Ethics and integrity and distributed 4– Energy consumption 9 – Employee health and safety 12 – Compliance 2 – Supply practices 5– Water consumption 10 – Training and education 13 – Respect of human rights 6– Emissions 14 – Responsibility and 7– Exhaust and waste transparency of suppliers 15 – Relations with stakeholders 16 – Certification of our commitment 16 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees Our Today’s commitment Quarterly sustainability indicators commitment → www.argor.com → Key subjects: Ethics and integrity, compliance, reliability of suppliers → Sustainability Report at a glance GRI, UN Global Compact, UN SDG Tomorrow’s commitment THE 10TH EDITION OF OUR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT We will release our 10th Sustainability Report in 2019. We are very proud of the way it is evolving: from an annual review of our efforts to be a responsible company to a daily work tool for our internal and external A challenge for the future? stakeholders. We constantly work and dialogue with our stakeholders, TOWARD REAL-TIME REPORTING even with those most critical We monitor consumptions, emissions, and other indicators every day – not just when we prepare our of our industry. We always Sustainability Report. To offer greater transparency, our website has presented selected quarterly data on strive for an open and emissions and consumptions since 2018. In the future, transparent dialogue: a frank we hope to offer all data in real time! and honest exchange of views to promote mutual MORE COORDINATED SUSTAINABILITY We have been 100% part of the Heraeus Group and understanding. Not an easy integrated in the Heraeus Precious Metals Global challenge, but one that is worth Business Unit since 2017. We are already working together to completely integrate sustainability in all the effort in order to achieve activities and at all levels in the interest of a shared long-term benefits for the entire vision, while still taking account of our respective specificities and needs. industry. GRI www.globalreporting.org UN SDG www.unglobalcompact.org Sustainable Development Goals www.un.org 17 Precious to us 2. Work for a transparent and responsible chain Watch the video by Phaedon Stamatopoulos Director of Refining & bank products, Argor-Heraeus «The chain from mine to market has to be as short as possible.» www.argor.com 18 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees Our approach We do our best to ensure that all of our business partners act responsibly toward the environment and society. We take our key role at the centre of the precious metals chain very seriously. What does this mean in real terms? PRINCIPLES, POLICIES AND COMPANY RULES, STANDARDS, AND CONTINUOUS AUDITS PROCEDURES We are certified by the most prestigious national These tells us how to make the right decisions and international organisations, with constant auditing in every situation, in order to ensure that we work of our chain management system by internal and only with transparent and responsible partners. external experts. COLLABORATIONS FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT INDUSTRY We continuously improve our management system We constantly dialogue and collaborate with other by analysing events and any critical issues that players in the industry to make it more sustainable. may occur, both externally and internally. By creating “win-win” situations, we stimulate responsible conduct by our partners. 19 Precious to us Company principles, policies and procedures WHAT VALUES FORM THE BASIS OF OUR OPERATIONS? Sincerity, reliability, and trustworthiness Personal initiative and sense of responsibility Innovative spirit and Responsible conduct with creativity co-workers and partners Responsible conduct with co-workers and partners HOW ARE THESE VALUES EXPRESSED → Policies are shared internally with all employees, are a IN REAL TERMS? regular feature of workshops, and are available online. → Regularly updated policies and regulations form For example, in 2018 we conducted training sessions the guidelines that express our values in real to implement the Heraeus Code of Conduct and the terms and are applied every working day. Heraeus Compliance Guidelines. → The Heraeus Code of Conduct which also applies to Argor-Heraeus since 2017, stresses the personal responsibility of every employee. 20 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees Tools Main areas of concern Code of → Assure fair competition Conduct → Fight corruption → Fight money laundering and financing of terrorism → No activity in violation of regulations of domestic, international, or supranational organisations → Avoid conflicts of interest → Create and maintain safe and correct working conditions → Protect the environment → Respect human rights → Compliance with data protection laws Argor Supply Chain Due → No relations with any parties linked to violations of human rights Diligence Policy → No relations with any partners that may be linked to parties that violate human rights → No relations with any armed non-state actors → No relations with any partners that may be linked to armed non-state actors → Zero tolerance of corruption and/or lack of transparency to gain any sort of advantage → Active effort to prevent or unmask money laundering and/or financing of terrorist groups in activities linked to our industry Human Rights Policy → Prohibition of child labour → Prohibition of forced labour → No discrimination → Freedom of association and protection of right to organise → Safety at the workplace → Human rights in the supply chain → Mandatory due diligence in human rights Guideline for the → No acceptance of gifts exceeding 35 euros Procurement of Products → No coverage for travel or accommodation expenses by business partners and Services Sustainable → Consideration of corruption perception index of Transparency International Sourcing Guideline when forming business relations → Specific requirements for the purchase of products at risk (conflict minerals) → Additional requirements for the purchase and sale of precious metals (excluding from mines) and acceptance of precious metals for recycling → Strictest requirements for precious metals coming from mines Code of Conduct www.argor.com Supply Chain Due Diligence Policy www.argor.com Human Rights Policy www.argor.com 21 Precious to us Tools Main areas of concern Guideline for the → Prohibition of cash gifts Prevention of Bribery → Alignment of services with applicable laws and customers’ internal rules (Entertainment & Gifts) → Approval required for gifts exceeding a certain value Guideline for the → Risk assessment Conclusion of Consultancy → Self-declaration from consultant obtained in case of high or medium risk and Distribution → Approval requisites for distribution or consulting agreements at high or Agreements medium risk → Insist on a written agreement → Prohibition of remuneration to third parties to an account located in a third country → Repeat of risk assessment after 1 to 5 years depending on risk category Guideline for the → Prohibition of receiving and making cash payments Prevention of Money → Approval process for third-party payments and payments to/from countries in Laundering which the business partner is not registered → Process to identify business partners in areas at risk → Screening of business partners on Heraeus list of countries at risk of money laundering and flagging of suspicious transactions Guideline for the → Prohibition of price-fixing, price-reduction, or target price agreements Prevention of Antitrust → Prohibition of market-sharing and customer-sharing Violations → No sharing of strategic information with competitors → No fixing of retail prices → Prohibition of abusing dominant market position Data Protection Guideline → Employees must treat personal data confidentially for the Processing of → Measures to guarantee the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of Personal Data by Heraeus personal data Employees 22 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees HOW DO WE ASSESS OUR BUSINESS PARTNERS? → We subject every partner in the chain to a series of strict checks to assess their integrity. → In line with our policies, these checks are based on a set of protocols called “Know your…” (customer, customer’s customer, business, bank, carrier, etc…). → The checks regard a wide range of criteria, such as the absence of cases of corruption, respect of human rights, absence of child labour and forced labour, respect of local communities, and impact on society and the environment. All of our facilities and activities are subject to equally strict checks! → If there are any doubts, the relation is not formed and, if it already exists, it is interrupted. Customer 2. Needs analysis and request for specific documentation from customer → Know Your Customer Know Your Business 1. First assessment Customer officer Know Your Bank Know Your Carrier First assessment → Compliance/Management Compliance / Management → 3. Check of opening process Compliance Officer 4. Assessment Customer profile analysis → Overall assessment and Customer business model analysis plausibilization of customer and documentation Risk assessment Management → Legal / Compliance → Reputation → Business → Check of customer’s documentation Shared decision 5. Approval / Shared Decision Compliance / Management Rejection World – Check → Customer opening → Compliance/Management → Communication/Decision 23 Precious to us Accreditations and recognitions WHAT DO CERTIFICATIONS DO? → Beyond certifications: We also conduct specific → Certifications guarantee our business partners that audits based on our customers’ needs, for targeted our operations are transparent. We work every day assessments of individual suppliers of precious metal. to ensure that the metal we process is traceable and → At the service of the industry: We provide expertise transparent. Our efforts are certified by the industry’s for defining new quality and sustainability standards to most authoritative organisations. govern the industry. → Certifications testify to our efforts in a wide range of fields, including product and process quality, responsible supply practices, the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism, and many others. 24 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees CERTIFICATIONS AND RECOGNITIONS OVER THE YEARS 1952 2009 UCMP Melter & Assayer Licence LPPM Good Delivery platinum and palladium 1961 2011 LBMA Associate Member SQS ISO 9001 LBMA Good Delivery gold RJC Code of Practices 1974 2012 COMEX Recognised operator for gold LBMA Full member LBMA Responsible Gold Guidance D&B Rating certificate 1982 TOCOM Recognised operator for gold and silver 2013 SBGA Founding member 1992 LBMA Good Delivery silver 2014 RJC Chain of Custody 1999 SQS ISO 14001 / OHSAS 18001 COMEX Recognised operator for platinum and palladium 2015 2001 Fairtrade Certification for gold LME Silver 2016 2004 COMEX Recognised operator for silver LBMA Referee FINMA Authorization 2017 SAS ISO 17025 Fairmined Certification 2005 2018 DMMC Recognised operator RJC member LBMA Responsible Silver Guidance Certifications obtained are reconfirmed at regular intervals (recertifications are not mentioned). 25 Precious to us The industry's WHAT DO WE DO TO IMPROVE OUR INDUSTRY? → We are members of numerous work teams, committees, associations, and task forces that make our industry more transparent by defining new and commitment stricter rules and standards. → We work to make our business partners aware of the benefits (not only economic) deriving from ethical conduct. → We promote or participate in many initiatives to support artisanal and small-scale mines. For example, we collaborate with UN Agencies (UNIDO, UNEP, GEF) to help mines adopt progressively more sustainable practices in order to facilitate their access to the international precious metals market. THE INDUSRTY’S COMMITMENT TO FACING CHALLENGES IN THE PRECIOUS METALS CHAIN CHALLENGE RESPONSE UNDER WHAT CONDITIONS IS THE PRECIOUS → Supranational programmes (for example, EU Reach) MATERIAL EXTRACTED? → National and international laws It is crucial to verify that the metal was extracted → Industry standards: WGC, RJC, LBMA, OECD with complete respect for the rights and safety → Specific standards for artisanal and small-scale mines: of workers and the community, and in conformity Fairmined, Fairtrade, SBGI with international, national, and local laws. → On-site visits, “Finger printing” THROUGH WHOSE HANDS HAS THE METAL PASSED? → National and international laws It is essential to know and be able to trace all transfers → Industry guidelines for traceability of metal: of the metal in order to ensure the reliability of WGC, RJC, LBMA, OECD all parties in the chain and that the precious metal has → Indusrty initiatives (such as EITI) not used for illegal purposes (money laundering, → Company protocols and rules: Know your… customer, financing of terrorism, corruption, etc.). bank, business, due diligence policy, etc. IS IT PRODUCED SAFELY? → National and international regulations The precious metal must be refined and transformed → Industry safety standards in complete safety for workers and protected against (OHSAS 18001, RJC CoP, etc.) theft and damage during all transfers along the chain. → In-house safety exercizes → Company philosophy, policies and rules 26 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees Our Today’s commitment LRD: commitment → recertification → LBMA: recertification for gold (Responsible Gold Guidance) and certification for silver (Responsible Silver Guidance) at a glance → Global Precious Metals Code: signed in 2018 Tomorrow’s commitment FAIRTRADE AND FAIRMINED RECERTIFICATION Fairtrade and Fairmined are two of the principal gold certification initiatives for small-scale and artisanal mines. RJC CHAIN OF CUSTODY RECERTIFICATION RJC Chain of Custody (CoC) checks and certifies responsible value chain management practices in areas A challenge for the future? such as human rights, standards of use, environmental For many years, we have impact, and business ethics. In 2014, we were the first refinery in Switzerland – and one of the first in the been involved in numerous world – to obtain this certification. We will apply for projects aimed at helping recertification in 2019. artisanal and small-scale mines LBMA CERTIFICATIONS: PLATINUM AND PALLADIUM AS WELL adopt more sustainable methods. In addition to certification for gold and silver, we expect One of the biggest challenges a new LBMA certification for platinum and palladium (Responsible Platinum and Palladium Guidance) in 2019. is to involve a larger number Even though there were no specific LBMA certifications of mines in these projects for these two metals before now, we have always used the same governance system to manage all metals so that the communities where along the chain. the mines are located may receive social and economic benefits. World Gold Council www.gold.org RJC www.responsiblejewellery.com OECD www.oecd.org LBMA www.lbma.org.uk 27 Precious to us 3. Contribute to local development Watch the video by Tania Camarini Head of Compliance, Argor-Heraeus «Of course, we as a company know that everyone has their virtues and faults, and that we can always improve by learning from each other.» www.argor.com 28 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees Our approach We started in Ticino, Switzerland, almost 70 years ago. We are convinced that our growth must go hand in hand with that of our region, and we do everything we can to make our contribution at each of our locations worldwide. What does this mean in real terms? EMPLOYMENT POLICIES SUPPLIER SELECTION POLICIES Whose aim is to guarantee the creation of jobs That give priority to local or Swiss suppliers of products and the preservation of safe and correct conditions. and accessory services. This applies to the Parent Company as well as our branches. GUIDELINES FOR SPONSORING That promote the funding of activities specifically linked to local social development. 29 Precious to us Distribution of added value HOW DO WE REINVEST THE ADDED VALUE WE PRODUCE? → Our economic activity produces value for the territory with benefits for parties that are directly or indirectly related to our operations. → In 2018, over half of the value generated was distributed to our employees as salaries. → 36% of the added value was distributed to our shareholder and 10% to institutions as city, cantonal, and federal taxes. DISTRIBUTION OF ADDED VALUE IN 2018 (%) 54% Employees 36% Shareholder 10% 0% Institutions Company 30 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees HOW DO WE SUPPORT OUR COMMUNITY? → We have been a training company since 1978. → Every year, we receive numerous requests for We think it is important to contribute to the training sponsoring or support from organisations in a wide of young people interested in a career in industry. variety of fields. We evaluate these requests → 32% of our employees (at our Mendrisio based on their conformity with our internal guidelines headquarters) live in Switzerland, a figure that rises for sponsoring. to 80% with regard to company management. These → We proactively support selected local organisations numbers are significant, considering our proximity with which we have developed a relationship based to the Italian border and the industrial nature of our on respect and trust over the years. operations. WE CONDUCT MANY ACTIVITIES WITH LOCAL WITH THE ORGANISATIONS. FOR EXAMPLE, IN 2018: → Argor-Heraeus Award TERRITORY, Every year, we present a CHF 3,000 award to the Master in Engineering student who wrote the best FOR THE thesis, evaluated based on criteria of innovation and sustainability. In 2018, we presented the award for TERRITORY the 8th time. We work with the University of Applied Sciences and Arts of Southern Switzerland (SUPSI) on many projects, of which we are very proud. → “Partita Doppia” theatrical event In collaboration with the City of Mendrisio and with the sponsorship of CSR Ticino, we brought local businessmen to the theatre to see a performance about corporate social responsibility (Partita Doppia). A different sort of event to call attention to a subject that is very important to us! SUPSI www.supsi.ch Municipality of Mendrisio www.mendrisio.ch 31 Precious to us Suppliers of accessory products and services WHO ARE THEY? HOW DO WE SELECT OUR SUPPLIERS OF → They are the suppliers of accessory products and PRODUCTS AND SERVICES? services that we need in the company, such as: → When we select our suppliers, the quality/price ratio chemicals, fuels, safety, consumables, waste disposal, offered is naturally important. and many more. → But we also give great weight to the possibility of developing long-term relations based on shared values. → In 2018, almost 70% of expenditures for supplies went to Swiss companies (of which 26% in Ticino), in line with the figure for previous years. DISTRIBUTION OF EXPENDITURES FOR SUPPLIERS OF ACCESSORY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES IN 2018 (%) 24% European Union 26% Ticino Canton 8% Extra-EU 42% Rest of Switzerland 32 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees Our Today’s commitment Distribution of added value: commitment → 54% to our employees → Suppliers of accessory products and services: 70% from Switzerland → Support for training: at a glance a training company since 1978 Tomorrow’s commitment 10TH EDITION OF THE ARGOR-HERAEUS AWARD Next year we will present the 10th Argor-Heraeus Award for the best Master in Engineering thesis at SUPSI. This important prize supports training, the region, and the future of both by means of continuous, A challenge for the future? solid collaboration. If we look back at the last several years, we can see that A COMMITMENT FOR SAFETY WITH OUR LOCAL PARTNERS we have achieved a significant We collaborate regularly with organisations such as international presence. We are the police, ambulance service and fire brigade, insurance companies and public institutions on matters such now directly present in as safety at the workplace. These collaborations help us 5 countries and indirectly on make our company safer and also strengthen relations with our partners to the benefit of all. every continent! A crucial challenge in this process is to SUPPORT TO THE COMMUNITY maintain a strong local identity In addition to proactively supporting local companies, and presence: taking good every year we evaluate numerous requests from a variety of sources, local and regional. In 2019, we are working care of relations with on a new programme to support targeted projects in line local players is essential. with our values. Professional training www.formazioneprof.ch 33 Precious to us 4. P rotect the environment Watch the video by Alessandro Ruffoni Environmental Officer, Argor-Heraeus «I think we can confirm our commitment to protecting the environment, so that future generations can receive it in the best possible condition.» www.argor.com 34 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees Our approach We pay the greatest possible attention to monitoring and reducing the environmental impact of our operations. We also urge our partners to do the same. What does this mean in real terms? DEDICATED GUIDELINES CONSTANT MONITORING OF CONSUMPTIONS A set of guidelines has been defined (Global Environment, AND EMISSIONS Health & Safety Framework) to confirm the entire Group’s By means of indicators and continuous measurements management system principles and to be applied by all that consider all of our international locations. Business Units. Compliance with these principles and legal Starting next year, figures for the Hong Kong location requirements is checked periodically by means of specific will be included. audits (EHS Legal Compliance).  STRICT LIMITS COLLABORATION WITH PUBLIC BODIES Our classification as a chemical industry imposes AND INSTITUTIONS very strict monitoring and very low legal limits. We try To find shared criteria. The objective: constantly to self-impose even stricter limits. reduce our impact.  MODERN AND AVANT-GARDE TECHNOLOGIES EXPLICIT AND BINDING COMMITMENTS We adopt production technologies that conform To institutions for the reduction of impacts. to the most recent energy criteria and allow highly sophisticated monitoring.  EXTERNAL AUDITS AND INCREASE THE SENSITIVITY OF OUR CERTIFICATIONS BUSINESS PARTNERS To assess our impacts and management approaches. By means of collaborations that stimulate and at times impose the adoption of responsible environmental conduct. 35 Precious to us Water consumption HOW MUCH WATER DO WE CONSUME? HOW DO WE EXPLAIN THIS TREND IN CONSUMPTION? → We consumed 44,027 m3 of water in 2018. Water → We recently installed new, closed-circuit cooling consumption – 100% from the Mendrisio aqueduct – systems that significantly reduce consumption was almost the same as last year (43,483 m3) despite by recirculating water and minimise loss. higher production. → Greater attention to consumption has contributed → Over the last 5 years, from 2013 to 2018, we have to efforts to save water. reduced consumption by 44% even if we have doubled our production area. TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION (M3) 2016 46,751 2017 43,843 2018 44,027 36 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees HOW MUCH WATER IS CONSUMED AT OUR TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION AT OTHER SITES? OTHER SITES IN 2018 (M3) → Total water consumption at our other sites is 8% of that at our Mendrisio headquarters, Argor-Heraeus Deutschland where most production takes place. 1,000 Argor-Heraeus Italia 530 Argor-Heraeus America Latina 1,096 Argor-Aljba 879 → To produce metals WHY DO WE Water is essential for the chemical and electrolytic reactions needed to refine precious metals. USE WATER? → To cool machines Machines must be cooled constantly in order to work correctly. USES OF WATER IN 2018 (%) 39% Chemical and electrolytic treatments 16% Cooling tower 13% Other 32% Cooling water 37 Precious to us Chemical consumption HOW MUCH CHEMICALS DO WE CONSUME? → As a result, there was also greater use of caustic → We consumed 3,946,647 kilograms of chemicals in soda (+20%) to neutralise the acidity of substances 2018, 17% more than in 2017 (3,269,368 Kg). remaining after the metal was processed. → In addition, higher quantities of silver were refined, generating greater use of nitric acid (+24%). HOW DO WE EXPLAIN THIS TREND → We are working to decrease the use of chemicals IN CONSUMPTION? by installing innovative machines that refine metal → In general, the increase was caused by higher without the use of acids. production. → Metals received in a less pure state required a quantity of chemicals in a higher proportion compared to increased production. CHEMICAL CONSUMPTION (TONNES) AND PRODUCTION (%) 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 tonnes 0 20 40 60 80 100 % 2016 2017 2018 Hydrochloric acid Nitric acid Caustic soda Other chemicals Production (2016 = 100%) 38 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees CHEMICALS ARE NEEDED TO REFINE WHY DO PRECIOUS METALS: → Hydrochloric acid: to refine gold. WE USE → Nitric acid: to refine silver. → Caustic soda: to neutralise solutions after processing. CHEMICALS? → Other chemicals: to refine platinum and palladium, and for other production processes. CHEMICALS USED IN 2018 (%) 35% Caustic soda 15% Other chemicals 23% Nitric acid 27% Hydrochloric acid 39 Precious to us Energy consumption HOW MUCH ENERGY DO WE CONSUME? HOW DO WE EXPLAIN THIS TREND → We consumed 55,441 gigajoules of energy in 2018, IN CONSUMPTION? practically the same as in 2017 (54,207 Gj, +2%). → It is interesting to note that energy consumption → Energy consumption has increased by 29% was essentially stable compared with 2017 despite compared to 2010. In the same period, the increased production. production area doubled in size and production → A loan from the Swiss ProKilowatt program allowed increased significantly. us to install new technological components → Our “energy mix” is more sustainable than in the that made the electrolytic refining process more past: in 2012 we installed a photovoltaic system that efficient. We reached our target: saving over 40% of has generated over 300 MWh of energy, consumed electrical energy. entirely by our plant. We have practically eliminated → We replaced the heating and steam generation the use of fuel oil, replacing it with methane to heat system in a production facility. As part of this our rooms. project, we completed the substitution of fuel oil with natural gas. 40 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees ENERGY CONSUMPTION (GIGAJOULES) AND PRODUCTION (%) 0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000 60,000 Gigajoule 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 % 2016 2017 2018 Fuel oil Methane Electricity Propane Photovoltaic Production (2016 = 100%) HOW MUCH ENERGY IS CONSUMED 2018 ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY AFFILIATES BY OUR AFFILIATES? (GIGAJOULES) → Electrical energy consumption by our affiliates is marginal (about 6.5%) Argor-Heraeus Deutschland compared to that of our Mendrisio headquarters. 186 → Energy consumption at some of our affiliates Argor-Heraeus Italia (Italy, Germany) is practically the same every year because they have no production 256 activities. Argor-Heraeus America Latina 1,045 Argor-Aljba 2,128 41 Precious to us DIFFERENT ENERGY SOURCES ARE NEEDED WHY DOES TO HEAT OUR FACILITIES AND FOR PRODUCTION PROCESSES. ARGOR-HERAEUS → Electricity: to run our facilities and systems → Methane and fuel oil: to heat our facilities and for USE DIFFERENT chemical processes. Use is influenced by the climate. → Propane: used for protective flames during the ENERGY SOURCES? smelting and casting of gold and silver. Use is proportional to production. → Photovoltaic: over 1,000 solar panels are installed on the roof of our newest facility and generate part of the energy used for processes. 4% ENERGY USE IN 2018 (%) Propane 2% Photovoltaic 69% Electricity 24% Methane 1% Fuel oil 42 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees Emissions 38 CARPOOLING HOW HIGH ARE OUR EMISSIONS? → We emitted 885 tonnes of CO2 into the atmosphere GROUPS in 2018 (3% more than the previous year). → The trend of CO2 emissions in the last 3 years has nearly stabilised, with slight annual oscillations. → Nitrous oxide (NOx) emissions increased 5% in 2018, proportionally less than the increase in production. → Since 2012, when we began this measurement, NOX emissions have decreased by 75%. HOW DO WE EXPLAIN THIS TREND IN EMISSIONS? → The reduction in CO2 emissions is the result of careful work to optimise the use of heating in our rooms and of the decision to use cleaner energy sources (i.e., the total elimination of fuel oil). → By carefully monitoring emissions and working with the Canton, we implemented a number of technical improvements that have sharply reduced nitrous oxide emissions in recent years. → We also try to reduce our impact on our local -75% COMPARED environment by encouraging our employees to use greener means of transportation, such as public WITH 2012 transportation, carpooling, or slow mobility. In 2018, we had 38 carpooling groups and subsidised Thanks to technical and 34 company passes for public transportation. procedural improvements Arcobaleno pass arcobaleno.ch 43 Precious to us CO2 EMISSIONS (TONNES) AND PRODUCTION (%) 2016 841 2017 861 2018 885 Emissions (ton.) Production (2016 = 100%) WE GENERATE TWO MAIN TYPES OF EMISSIONS: WHAT TYPES OF → CO2: the fossil fuels we use for our porcesses and to heat our buildings emit this gas into the atmospher. EMISSIONS DO → NOX: nitric acid used to refine precious metals generates nitrous oxide into the atmosphere. WE GENERATE? 44 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees Waste and scrap SPECIAL WASTES Recyclable metal hydroxides (tonnes) 188 197 274 Other recyclable wastes (tonnes) 50 35 46 WHAT WASTE MATERIALS Non-recyclable wastes (tonnes) DO WE GENERATE? 25 29 WE GENERATE TWO BASIC TYPES OF WASTE AND SCRAP, LINKED TO PORDUCTION 14 OR COLLATERAL TO IT: → Special wastes: Defined as such by the Federal Department of the Envionment, Transport, Energy and Communications (DATEC), these 2016 2017 2018 require speical disposal procedures. → Generic wastes: these are linked mainly to daily operations and to packagings for incoming materials: PET, wood, solid urban waste and ferrous waste. 45 Precious to us GENERIC WASTES Solid urban wastes (m3) Wood (ton.) 193 38 156 50 178 47 Cardboard (m3) Plastic wastes (ton.) 93 14 95 14 96 13 PET (ton.) Metal wastes (ton.) x 1.82 29 1.98 27 2.04 42 2016 2017 2018 46 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees Our Today’s commitment → Water consumption: commitment 44% in 5 years → NOx emissions: 59% in 5 years → Solid urban wastes: at a glance 42% in 5 years Tomorrow’s commitment QUIETER FACILITIES We have been working with the authorities for years to monitor and limit the noise emissions generated by our facilities. We will install sound barriers to reduce our impact even more. A challenge for the future? We’re doing everything FROM SCRAP TO REUSABLE RESOURCE we can to constantly reduce We are preparing a process to reduce nitrates our impact in terms of in waste water by transforming them into a product that can be used by other chemical industries. consumptions and emissions. An important challenge in this ELIMINATION OF PAPER context is our effort to increase We are working to eliminate paper in our company by digitising all processes. For now, we are the awareness of our partners focusing on the digitisation of the documents that in the value chain and stimulate accompany precious metal from when we receive it to when it is delivered. them to act responsibly toward the envirtonment, so that they understand the long-term benefits – including economic – of this approach. 47 Precious to us 5. Grow with our employees Watch the video by Benedetta Masciari Finance & Administration Director, Argor-Heraeus «Having a safe working environment, continuing to create innovation, and having all processes under control are definitely critical success factors for a company like Argor.» www.argor.com 48 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees Our approach Guaranteeing quality working conditions and safety at the workplace, and providing opportunities for training and continuous growth are absolute priorities. Thanks to our employees, we have become successful and can look to the future with confidence and optimism. What does this mean in real terms? VALUES, PRINCIPLES AND CLEAR RULES CONSTANT MONITORING OF INDICATORS By means of our principles, personnel rules, and We constantly monitor key indicators regarding code of conduct, we ensure an environment where our employees. duties and rights are shared in a context of complete transparency and respect. COLLABORATION AUDITS AND CERTIFICATIONS We work in close contact with external bodies We have OHSAS18001, ISO14001 and ISO 9001 and institutions to guarantee constant updating certifications for the management of safety, on important issues. health, environment, and workplace quality. 49 Precious to us Composition of personnel HOW MANY EMPLOYEES WORK AT OUR FACILITIES? → Compared to 2010, the year of our first Sustainability → In 2018, 288 employees worked at our Mendrisio Report, the number of employees at Mendrisio has headquarters, including 41 temporary employees grown by 25%. who help handle the fluctuations in demand that → 66 employees work at our other facilities. This characterise our industry. figure does not yet include employees at the Hong → The number of full-time employees grew by 22 units Kong unit (about 60), who will be counted starting in 2018. in 2019. EMPLOYEES 2016 54 229 2017 53 225 2018 41 247 Temporary employees Employees 50 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees EMPLOYEES AT AFFILIATES IN 2018 Argor-Heraeus Deutschland 10 Argor-Heraeus Italia 9 Argor-Heraeus America Latina 19 Argor-Aljba 28 26% WOMEN 74% MEN Composition of personnel by gender in 2018 WHAT IS THE TURNOVER RATE AT ARGOR-HERAEUS? EMPLOYEES TURNOVER RATE → Turnover is the rate at which employees leave the company compared to the total number of 2016 employees in a given time period. In 2018, the rate was 4%, down from 6.1% in 2017. 7% → The highest turnover was in 2014 (8.15%), after 2017 which it has always decreased. 6.1% 2018 4% 51 Precious to us WHAT IS THE AVERAGE TENURE OF OUR EMPLOYEES? → Our employees are very loyal: over 40% have been with us for 10 years or more, and about 30% for 5 to 9 years. → We are convinced that long-term tenure is a key factor in creating a shared company culture. We are also convinced that it is an important factor in our success. AVERAGE EMPLOYEE TENURE IN 2018 43.3% More than 10 years 27.1% Less than 5 years 29.6% 5-9 years WHO IS THE TYPICAL ARGOR-HERAEUS EMPLOYEE? → This is a very hard question to answer! You can meet all kinds of professionals at Argor-Heraeus: Economists, engineers, sworn assayers, jurists, chemists, technicians, workers, and many others. → Our industry is very complex: numerous rules and regulations, business partners all over the world, stateof-the-art machinery and production processes. Over 60% of our employees have complete professional training or a university degree. → Since 2010, the number of our employees with a university degree has increased by 76%. 52 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees EMPLOYEE EDUCATION LEVEL IN 2018 (%) 48% Complete professional training (with apprenticeship) 21% In-house training 2% Compulsory education 8% Professional trade school 6% High school 15% Prof. univ. trade school and university → The Heraeus Award promotes ideas and A PRIZE FOR projects of employees in Group companies throughout the world. GROWING → It awards exceptional ideas or projects in the following fields, essential for the Group’s success: TOGETHER Innovation, Supply Chain, Commercial, Responsibility, Digital Transformation, and Leadership. → The 2018 Award in the “Responsibility” category went to a Heraeus Noblelight Project. → The team replaced the treatment of UV lamps with hydrofluoric acid by a new process: the lamps can be treated with ultrasound, significantly reducing environmental impact, increasing safety at the workplace, and cutting production costs. Congratulations! 53 Precious to us Health and safety at the workplace CAN WE CONSIDER OUR COMPANY SAFE? → The Magnitude Index, which expresses the number → It might seem a set phrase, but safety is a priority of working days lost due to accidents every 1,000 for us. We do a lot of work to ensure it: work days, was 0.34. The Lost Time Injury Frequency, process analyses, training courses, internal rules and which expresses the number of accidents recorded codes of conduct, exercises and collaborations for every 100,000 hours worked, was 1.18. with outside partners. → In 2018, the safety indicators worsened slightly, compared with the positive trend in previous years. There were a few more accidents (five compared with two last year) – fortunately not serious – that caused the employees involved to be absent from work for a few days. MAGNITUDE INDEX / LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY 2016 0.30 0.76 2017 0.13 0.78 2018 0.34 1.18 Magnitude index Lost time injury frequency 54 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees Training TRAINING HOURS IN 2018 Quality and processes training 150 122 Personal and professional development training 0 400 Safety training 50 27 Internal training External training WHAT KIND OF TRAINING DO WE GIVE OUR EMPLOYEES? We provide three types of training: → Quality and processes: to ensure that all employees know our internal processes and procedures. → Personal and professional growth: to increase our employees’ skills in a wide range of fields (languages, IT, etc.). → Safety: to inform all employees about company practices and safety rules. 55 Precious to us EXACTLY HOW DO WE TRAIN OUR EMPLOYEES and apply “good practices” concerning safety at the WITH REGARD TO SAFETY? workplace. → Group guidelines: Safety is a crucial subject for → Outside certifications: Our management systems Argor and our shareholder Heraeus. Therefore, a set for safety, worker health, environment, and quality of guidelines has been defined (Global Environment, are validated by the most authoritative certification Health & Safety Framework) to confirm the entire systems: OHSAS 18001, ISO 14001 and ISO 9001. Group’s management system principles and to The process for obtaining and maintaining these be applied by all Business Units. Compliance with certifications demands rigorous instruction and training these principles and legal requirements is checked activities. periodically by means of specific audits (EHS Legal → Training courses with outside partners: In addition Compliance). to internal training activities, we work with partners → Internal policies and procedures: We have a such as the Police, Ambulance personnel, and Fire series of internal rules and procedures for safety Fighters to ensure that we can effectively handle management that help our employees understand possible crises and emergencies. SAFETY TRAINING HOURS 2016 855 215 2017 22 329 2018 50 27 Internal safety training External safety training → To support our internal safety activities, Heraeus A SAFETY has created a Safety Task Force composed of experts and employees from several Group divisions. TASK FORCE → Our objective? Increased awareness of safety at the workplace and prevent accidents in all sectors of the organisation. → The focus is on trainng managers and employees, on improving processes, and on targeted campaigns and safety days. → All activities are reinforced by constantly updated communications to employees. 56 1. Involve our 2. Work for a transparent 3. Contribute to local 4. Protect the 5. Grow with stakeholders and responsible chain development environment our employees Our Today’s commitment → Number of employees: commitment +10% in 2018 → Turnover rate: 4% → Health and safety at the workplace: at a glance 0.34 working days lost per 1,000 worked Tomorrow’s commitment REVISION OF SAFETY MANAGEMENT APPROACH Our approach to the management of health and safety at the workplace will be fully revised in 2019, with a complete analysis of all processes involved. A challenge for the future? The safety of our employees NEW SAFETY TRAINING ACTIVITIES We will continue the training of all line and functional is an absolute priority. managers together with a leadership programme We will improve this aspect that will allow all levels of the company’s hierarchy to make their contribution. even more by revising our approach to management ISO 45001 CERTIFICATION of health and safety at the OHSAS18001 certification regarding management systems for health and safety at the workplace, workplace. The challenge for which we obtained in 2014, was replaced by the new the future? Keep the number ISO45001 in 2018. We will undergo the evaluation process again to obtain the new certification. of accidents at 0. Every accident, no matter how small, is one too many. 57 About Argor-Heraeus About Argor-Heraeus 58 59 About Argor-Heraeus History What are the principal events in our development? We were founded in Ticino (Switzerland) in 1951, and since then we have been the “golden link” for our customers’ precious metal along the entire chain. In 2017 we became part of Heraeus Precious Metals (HPM) in Heraeus, the German technology group. HPM is the world’s leading provider of precious metals services. 1986 UBS and Heraeus form a joint venture and create Argor-Heraeus SA 1951 1999 Argor SA is formed in Heraeus and Management Chiasso, Switzerland acquire 100%; entrance of Commerzbank International 1988 Argor-Heraeus moves to Mendrisio, Switzerland 1973 2002 UBS acquires 100% The Austrian Mint enters of the company the shareholder structure 60 2004 2017 An office is opened in Chile; Argor-Heraeus becomes Argor-Heraeus Deutschland and 100% owned by Argor-Aljba are formed Heraeus Group and is integrated in the Heraeus Precious Metals Global Business Unit. 2013 Mendrisio headquarters is expanded 2006 2018 Argor-Heraeus Italia Strengthened presence is formed in Asia with addition of the Hong-Kong facility. 2015 Argor-Heraeus America Latina is officially opened 61 About Argor-Heraeus Heraeus Precious Metals Founded in 1851, Heraeus is a family-owned portfolio company which traces its roots back to a pharmacy opened by the family in 1660. Today, Heraeus combines businesses in the environmental, energy, electronics, health, mobility and industrial applications sectors. In the 2018 financial year, Heraeus generated revenues of 20.3 Mines billion with approximately 15,000 employees (including staff leasing) in 40 countries. Argor-Heraeus is fully integrated in Heraeus Precious Metals (HPM). HPM is a Global Business Unit of the Heraeus Group. HPM is a leading provider of precious metals services and products. All activities are related to a comprehensive expertise in the precious metals loop – from trading to precious metals products to recycling. Heraeus Precious Metals is the world’s largest refiner of precious metals and a leading name in industrial precious metals trading. Our precious metals products are used in a wide variety of industries, including the chemical, pharmaceutical, glass, electronics and automotive industries. Top quality solutions and products are based on many years of experience and technical expertise. Heraeus is a reliable development partner for its customers and find the best solutions for their requirements. With eleven production and four trading sites in all relevant time zones, it provides a global production and logistics network. Trust and reliability, strict adherence to leading compliance standards, transparency and financial Refineries stability have formed the foundation of the business for more than 160 years. 62 Precious Metals Services Precious Metals Products 2,300 Employees worldwide → Sale and purchase of physical/non → Chemical Products physical precious metals → Catalytic Gauzes → Precious Metals risk management, → Chemical Catalysts pool accounts, transfers & Emission Catalysts 4 → Recycling and Refining → Hydrogen Solutions Commercial sites → Semi-finished products → Functional Materials → Pharmaceutical Ingredients → Precious Coatings 11 Production sites OVER 100 Active patent families with patents in several countries around the globe Products Recycling Product in 12 global industries 15 Technology plaforms 110 Developers and researchers Trading Heraeus www.heraeus.com Heraeus Precious Metals www.heraeus.com 63 About Argor-Heraeus Locations WHERE ARE WE LOCATED? We have a direct presence in 5 countries, and the Heraeus network gives us an indirect presence in over 40 countries. This widespread presence means that we can satisfy the needs of our global partners “on-site,” forming long-term relations based on trust. ARGOR-HERAEUS ARGOR-HERAEUS DEUTSCHLAND ITALIA 2004 – Pforzheim, Germany 2006 – Cavenago-Brianza, Italy → Collection and assaying of industrial scrap → Collection and assaying of industrial scrap → Marketing of precious metals → Marketing of precious metals → Logistics → Sale of products to the jewellery and watchmaking industry → Marketing of gold for investment → Logistics ARGOR-HERAEUS AMERICA LATINA 2015 – Santiago de Chile, Chile → Processing of metals from mines (collection, homogenisation and assaying of material) → Provision of logistics services as logistical hub for Latin-American customers → Marketing of precious metals → Sale of cast and minted bars 64 ARGOR-HERAEUS SWITZERLAND 1951 – Mendrisio, Switzerland → Production of tool coatings → Production of coatings for mechanical components → Production of decorative coatings for the watchmaking industry → Research and development of hi-tech coating solutions ARGOR-ALJBA 2004 – Mendrisio, Switzerland → Refining and assaying of precious metals → Production of cast and minted bars → Products for watchmaking and jewellery, electronics and chemical industries → Services to support physical trading of precious metals HERAEUS PRECIOUS METALS HONG KONG 2018 – Hong Kong → Refining and assaying of precious metals → Production of cast and minted bars → Services to support physical trading of precious metals 65 About Argor-Heraeus Governance EXECUTIVE MANAGERIAL LEVEL LEVEL ROLE ROLE → Define corporate strategy and governance → Manage allocation of resources in profit → Assess risks and service centres and control their use → Support management and rest of company → Check correct application of guidelines, in daily operations national and international regulations, and internal rules → Assess responsibility of potential new partners REALIZED BY → Shareholders meeting → Board of directors → Board of directors delegation REALIZED BY → Risk audit committee → Internal compliance committee → Credit committee → Credit office  → Personnel commission 66 HOW DOES OUR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE of Argor-Heraeus’ governance systems with those of SYSTEM WORK? Heraeus with regard to all aspects involving corporate Our governance system doesn’t just make rules to be social responsibility. Our representative is a member of followed: it involves all of our employees to ensure the governance committee for CSR at the Group level to prosperous relations with our stakeholders and long-term guarantee that alignment of the policies will cover every success. We are now completing the harmonisation aspect of work performed in this context. OPERATIVE LEVEL ROLE → Assess quality of work performed Internal and external auditors in each department (private bodies and government authorities) → Monitor quality of products and processes Audits and checks of process quality → Monitor safety at the workplace and management system Company’s environmental impact → Control quality of precious metals REALIZED BY → Technical and quality control offices → Quality control laboratory → Safety, quality, and environment supervisors 67 About Argor-Heraeus Operations WHAT DO WE DO? We offer our customers what we call precious solutions, completely personalised solutions for the refining and transformation of gold, silver, platinum and palladium, for the creation of products for the high-end watchmaking and jewellery market, and for the physical trading of precious metals. SCRAP Industrial and old jewellery MINES Traceability LSM, SSM, ASM* GOOD DELIVERY Grandfathered Non-Grandfathered REFINING / TRANSFORMATION * LSM: Large-scale mines WHAT METALS DO WE PROCESS? SSM: Small-scale mines We process gold, silver, platinum, and palladium ASM: Artisanal mines that arrive as: → Industrial scrap and old jewellery → Raw material from large and small mines → Good Delivery material, already high-quality 68 What is our production capacity? WHAT SERVICES DO WE OFFER? Our services include: Gold refining up to 1,300 T/year → Chemical and electrolytic refining of precious metals Silver refining 1,100 T/year → Bars and Coins Smelted bars 5-5.5 million pieces/year → Semi-finished products for the high-end jewellery and Minted bars 2.5-3 million pieces/year watchmaking industry (Luxury solutions) Semi-finished products 120 T of alloys → Financial and accessory services for physical trading of precious metals (Precious Metals Services). BAR & COINS LUXURY Traceability SOLUTIONS PRODUCT IN COC MATERIAL / PRECIOUS METAL SERVICES WHO ARE OUR CUSTOMERS? In our industry, very often our suppliers are also our customers and therefore retain ownership of the materials we process. Our customers do business worldwide, and are primarily: → Banks Key challenges for the → Mines precious metals value → Companies in the high-end watchmaking and chain (p. 26) jewellery industry 69 About this Report Perimeter External audit The information contained in the section “About ArgorMost of the information contained in this Sustainability Heraeus” refers to the entire Company. With regard to Report was checked during the internal and external audits the indicators in the first part of the Sustainability Report, required for Argor-Heraeus certifications. Likewise, the the figures refer mainly to the Mendrisio headquarters, measurement standards adopted for the reporting of data where almost all the production takes place and most are the strictest and most widely adopted. Therefore, we of the company’s employees work. Only significant have decided not to subject this Sustainability Report to indicators are reported for other locations. The Hong additional external certification audits. Kong affiliate was formally added in 2018, and only qualitative information is included for such year. Greater inclusion in the Sustainability Report will be evaluated starting next year. For more information: Argor-Heraeus SA Via Moree 14 | CH-6850 Mendrisio Reference period Canton Ticino | Switzerland T +41 91 640 53 53 | F+41 91 646 80 82 This Sustainability Report, prepared on an annual basis, info.argor@heraeus.com | www.argor.com covers the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018. The previous Sustainability Report refers to 2017. Reference to GRI guidelines This Sustainability Report was prepared in conformity to the latest Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, “Core” option (version adopted: GRI Standards). 70 GRL Lndex GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES (2018) Number Disclosure Page Omissions / comments ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE GRI 102-1 Name of the organisation 8 GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 68-69 GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters 8 GRI 102-4 Location of operations 8 GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form 62 Private corporation GRI 102-6 Markets served 9, 69 GRI 102-7 Scale of the organisation 50-51, 68-69 GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 50-51 GRI 102-9 Supply chain 26, 68-69 GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 4-5 GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 35 GRI 102-12 External initiatives 14-15 GRI 102-13 Membership of associations 14-15 STRATEGY Strategia GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2-5 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Etica e integrità GRI 102-16 Values, principle, standards and norms of behavior 2-22 GOVERNANCE Governance GRI 102-18 Governance 66-67 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Coinvolgimento degli stakeholder GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 14-15 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements None GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 16 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 14-16 GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 14-16 REPORTING PRACTICE Pratiche di reporting GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Argor-Heraeus SA / Argor-Heraeus Deutschland Argor-Heraeus Italia / Argor-Aljba / Heraeus Hong Kong Ltd GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 16, 70 GRI 102-47 List of material topics 16 GRI 102-48 Restatements of information GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting 70 GRI 102-50 Reporting period 70 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report 70 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle 70 GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 70 GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 70 GRI 102-55 GRI content index 71-73 GRI 102-56 External assurance 71 71 About Argor-Heraeus GRI 200: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE (2018) Number Disclosure Page Omissions / comments ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI 103 Management approach disclosures 29 GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 30-31 We do not report economic result for reasons of privacy MARKET PRESENCE Presenza di mercato GRI 103 Management approach 26 GRI 202-2 Proportion of senior-management hired from local 31 community PROCUREMENT PRACTICES Pratiche di approvvigionamento GRI 103 Management approach 29 GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 32 ANTI-CORRUPTION Pratiche anti-corruzione GRI 103 Management approach 29 GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 23 GRI 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 21-23 and procedures 72 GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE (2018) Number Disclosure Page Omissions / comments MATERIALS GRI 103 Management approach 25, 39 GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 38 We do not report incoming raw material for reasons of privacy ENERGY Energia GRI 103 Management approach 35, 42 GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 40-41 GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 40-41 WATER Acqua GRI 103 Management approach 35, 37 GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 36 EMISSIONS Emissioni GRI 103 Management approach 35, 43-44 GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 42-44 GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 42-44 GRI 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other 43-44 significant air emissions EFFLUENTS AND WASTE Scarichi e rifiuti GRI 103 Management approach 35, 45 GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 45-46 GRI 306-3 Significant spills None COMPLIANCE Compliance GRI 103 Management approach 35 GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations None SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT Valutazione fornitori GRI 103 Management approach 35 GRI 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental 23 criteria 73 About Argor-Heraeus GRI 400: SOCIAL PERFORMANCE (2018) Number Disclosure Page Omissions / comments EMPLOYMENT GRI 103 Management approach 49 GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 50-52 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Salute e sicurezza sul lavoro GRI 103 Management approach 49, 54 GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 54 lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities. TRAINING AND EDUCATION Formazione e istruzione GRI 103 Management approach 49, 55 GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 55-56 CHILD LABOR Lavoro minorile GRI 103 Management approach 21-23 GRI 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of 19-23 child labor FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR Lavoro forzato GRI 103 Management approach 19, 21-23 GRI 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of 19-23 forced or compulsory labor HUMAN RIGHTS Diritti umani GRI 103 Management approach 19, 21-23 GRI 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or 19-23 impact assessments SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT società GRI 103 Management approach 19, 21-23, 29 GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 19-23, 32 SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE Compliance GRI 103 Management approach 19, 35 GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and None economic area 74 www.argor.com www.argor.com
