UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 “British Land has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2009. I am pleased to reaffirm our support for its principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We will continue to advance our approach in each of these important areas through our 2020 sustainability strategy. This is integrated into our placemaking strategy, governance and business operations.” Chris Grigg, Chief Executive Officer at British Land The table below outlines where our actions, policies and progress on the UN Global Compact principles can be assessed. Principles Information Principles Information Human rights www.britishland.com/about-us Labour www.britishland.com/about-us 1. Businesses should • Inclusive culture 3. Businesses should • Inclusive culture support and respect the www.britishland.com/sustainability/strategy uphold the freedom of www.britishland.com/sustainability/strategy protection of association and the • Skills and opportunity • Skills and opportunity internationally effective recognition of proclaimed human www.britishland.com/sustainability/governance the right to collective www.britishland.com/sustainability/governance rights; and • Modern Slavery Act Disclosure bargaining; • Modern Slavery Act Disclosure 2. Make sure that they are www.britishland.com/policies 4. The elimination of all www.britishland.com/policies not complicit in human • Sustainability Policy forms of forced and • Sustainability Policy rights abuses. compulsory labour; • Supplier Code of Conduct • Supplier Code of Conduct 5. The effective abolition of • Whistleblowing • Health and Safety policies and guidance child labour; and Our internal policies include: Our internal policies include 6. The elimination of • Employee Code of Conduct discrimination in respect • Employee Code of Conduct • Equal Opportunities Policy of employment and • Equal Opportunities Policy www.britishland.com/data occupation. www.britishland.com/data • Fig. 45 Supplier workforce • Figs. 4-7 Health and safety www.britishland.com/annualreport • Fig. 13 Considerate Constructors • Page 44 • Figs. 40-41 Bright Lights • Fig. 45 Supplier workforce • Figs. 46-57 Group employment www.britishland.com/annualreport • Pages 30-31 British Land UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Principles Information Principles Information Environment www.britishland.com/sustainability/strategy Anti-Corruption www.britishland.com/about-us/governance 7. Businesses should • Wellbeing; Futureproofing 10. Businesses should work • Structure and committees support a precautionary www.britishland.com/policies against corruption in all www.britishland.com/policies approach to its forms, including • Sustainability Policy • Sustainability Policy environmental extortion and bribery. challenges; • Supplier Code of Conduct • Supplier Code of Conduct 8. Undertake initiatives to • Sustainability Briefs for Acquisitions • Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy promote greater • Sustainability Brief for Developments • Whistleblowing environmental www.britishland.com/data Our internal policies include: responsibility; and • Fig. 3 Biodiversity • Employee Code of Conduct 9. Encourage the • Figs. 14-16 Sustainability ratings • Equal Opportunities Policy development and diffusion of • Fig. 17 Financial www.britishland.com/data environmentally friendly • Figs. 18-23 Carbon emissions • Fig. 55-56 Employee training technologies. • Figs. 24-30 Energy use www.britishland.com/annualreport • Figs. 31-33 Water use • Page 44 • Figs. 34-37 Waste and materials • Figs. 38-39 Physical risks www.britishland.com/sustainabilityreport • CDP Climate Change Information Response 2018 www.britishland.com/annualreport • Pages 45, 62-64, 195-196 For examples of our sustainability strategy in action, visit www.britishland.com/sustainability/blogs British Land UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Sustainable Development Goals Our sustainability focus areas support many of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), as outlined below. Sustainable development goals We support this through Other relevant links our focus on • www.britishland.com/sustainability/strategy for insights into: SDG 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote wellbeing Wellbeing Opportunities and responsibilities that SDGs represent to our business. for all at all ages. Where our priorities lie with respect to SDGs. • www.britishland.com/sustainability/performance for: SDG 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality Community Goals and indicators set by our company with respect to SDGs. education and promote lifelong learning opportunities Skills and opportunity • www.britishland.com/suppliers and www.britishland.com/annualreport pages 26for all. 27 for: SDG 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all Inclusive culture How our activities related to the SDGs are undertaken in collaboration with women and girls. Skills and opportunity other stakeholders. • www.britishland.com/sustainability/reports-and-publications/earlier-reports for SDG 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, Futureproofing Materiality Review 2018 sustainable and modern energy for all. SDG 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable Skills and opportunity economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. For detailed sustainability data, see our Sustainability Accounts: SDG 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote Placemaking www.britishland.com/data inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster Futureproofing innovation. We also integrate economic, social and environmental information into our Annual Report and Accounts: SDG 10: Reduce inequality within and among Inclusive culture countries. Skills and opportunity www.britishland.com/annualreport SDG 11: Make cities and human settlements Wellbeing inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. Community Futureproofing About British Land Skills and opportunity We are a leading UK property company. We create and manage places that reflect SDG 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and Futureproofing the changing needs of the people who work, visit or live in and around them. production patterns. SDG 13: Take urgent action to combat climate Futureproofing change and its impacts. SDG 15: Protect, restore and promote sustainable Wellbeing use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage Futureproofing forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss. British Land UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019
