Our commitment to the UN Global Compact Communication on progress 25 October 2018 25 october 2019 One of our ads in ‘Het Financieele Dagblad’, the leading financial newspaper in the Netherlands. To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that ftrprf b.v. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. In this COP report you see some other ads that we published in the newspapers in the past year. Sincerely yours, D. Hemels, CEO Introduction Our world is changing at a rapid pace. We live longer, technology influences our lives extensively, robots are taking over our work, sustainability thinking is breaking through, we interact differently: these are all examples of changes that impact our way of living, working and interacting with each other enormously. This has extensive consequences for the way organizations work. It impacts product development, market position, internal culture and structure, competitive sensitivity. How do you assure that your organization is futureproof? We guide companies and NGOs to find their own relevance, to think about the difference they can make. We create perspectives on marketing strategy, value, visibility, and the internal organization. The ten principles of the UN Global Compact and the SDGs are our guiding principles. Our mission Our mission is to make the world tomorrow a better place than today. In everything we do. Our guideline: will the next generation benefit from what we do today? If so, proceed. If not, change. In practice, we create perspective. This means that we inspire organisations to take a different, sustainable and relevant path, we fight injustice, we support those who need support and we involve our environment in what we do. A few examples on the next pages: We are strong supporters of ‘start to talk’, the campaign the European Council developed to fight abuse. We support them in anyway we can, and help to create visibility, influence and legislation. We support Centrum Veilige Sport Nederland (Center for Safe Sports the Netherlands), to fight sexual abuse and other excesses in sports. We developed ‘de werkbeweging’ (movement on work) to create a dialog about the impact and consequences of a workforce that is rapidly becoming more and more flexible and self-employed. We facilitate ‘De Kamer’, an initiative of Achmea that focuses on enabling the dialog between the CEO’s of corporate Netherlands about our common future and the changes needed to balance economy and ecology and the distribution of wealth. Our support We support organisations like Kansfonds (Kansfonds helps people look after the most vulnerable people in our society, so that nobody gets excluded), Stichting LEF! (LEF! teaches young people between the ages of 15 and 22 to deal responsibly with money), Greenpeace (because together we can change the world), Bomen op de kaart (a foundation with the aim to plot all trees on a map and let them tell their story), And obviously UN Global Compact as an organisation. Our commitment to the UN We love the UN. We believe that it’s of the utmost importance to formulate targets on a global scale and solve problems with the broadest perspective possible. Together. That’s why we are an active participant of UN Global Compact, the biggest corporate sustainability initiative of the world. More than 10.000 organizations participate. We support the UN Global Compact goals on subjects such as human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. That’s why we actively participate in the Dutch Board on UN Global Compact, invite organisations to participate, use this signature in our mail and integrate the principles in everything we do. We commit ourselves to The Ten Principles: Human Rights Environment Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect Principle 7 Businesses should support a the protection of internationally proclaimed human precautionary approach to environmental challenges; rights; and Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in environmental responsibility; and human rights abuses. Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of Anti-corruption association and the effective recognition of the right Principle 10 Businesses should work against to collective bargaining; corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and bribery. compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Human Rights Human Rights We acknowledge the importance of supporting and protecting the UN Human Rights Charter and continues in developing and renewing internal procedures. The respect for human rights is integrated in the Human Resource Policy, which describes clearly the rights and obligations of employees and management. Activities implemented ● Ftrprf respects and protects human rights in all our daily operations. ● Ftrprf provides a safe and pleasant working environment to all its employees. ● Ftrprf actively trains all employees on social behavior and personal development. ● Ftrprf meets with the General Data Protection Regulations on privacy/data protection and data leaks. ● Ftrprf respects and takes into account the traditions and rituals that are connected with the various religions and cultures of her employees Measurement of outcomes Ftrprf has not received any complaints from employees, business partners or clients in relation to (potential) human right violations, nor was the Ftrprf organization involved in any human right incidences before or during the reporting period. Labour Labour Our primary objective is to be an outstanding and inspirational employer for all employees and people we work with. Our employment procedures and internal culture are built on the following principles: ● Non-discrimination between employees of potential employees and equal opportunities for all ● Recruitment, promotion and development of employees based on each individuals attitude, abilities and skills ● Provision of suitable training according to role and responsibilities ● Employee remuneration that meets legal national standards ● Personal communication with our employees ● Safe working conditions for all our employees, including customers that come into contact with our business Measurement of outcomes Since we are a relatively small company, employees can report any irregularities directly to the management or via a third party. We have received no grievances of complaints from employees or others in relation to labour rights violations, nor was the organization involved in any labour rights incidences before or during the reporting period. Ftrprf puts her awareness of cultural differences into practice by employing staff of different cultural and religious backgrounds.Periodically we do a survey among our colleagues to measure their satisfaction and work pressure. Environment Environment We support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, undertaking initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and encouraging the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We are actively working on reducing the negative impacts of our organization's actions on the environment. Actions implemented: ● Extension of the digital production (drastic reduction of printing) ● Promotion of public transportation and electric cars ● We only use ‘green energy’ and recycle as much as possible ● We compensate the CO2 emission for all our flights ● We prefer ‘green’ purchasing ● We use only CO2 neutral cloud technology Anti-corruption Anti-corruption We acknowledge the importance to work against corruption. We do not offer neither receive any gifts, loan, fee, reward or other advantage to or from any person as an inducement to do something which is dishonest, illegal or a breach of trust, in the conduct of the enterprise’s business. We do not tolerate the direct or indirect offer, payment, solicitation or acceptance of bribes in any form. Facilitation payments are also prohibited. We have total transparency on our purchase costs for all our customers, without any hesitation. Should we discover that bribery or fraud allegations are imposed against any third party performing work for ftrprf, we will review our relationship with that party and take appropriate action. Measurement of outcomes There have been no cases of corruption in the line of our work over the course of the organization’s existence. If such a situation might arise, ftrprf will take appropriate action and withdraw from the assignment. Talking SDGs Our eﬀort on the Sustainable Development Goals All the 17 SDGs are important. We use them as guidelines for the transition we realize for clients and for ourselves. We especially focus on the following four SDGs: SDG 8: Sustainable economic growth will require societies to create the conditions that allow people to have quality jobs. With our own knowledge lab, we do indepth research and develop new knowledge on the future of work and the impact of the flexibilisation of work. We are deeply involved in the dialogs about the value of work. SDG 10: To reduce inequalities, policies should be universal in principle, paying attention to the needs of disadvantaged and marginalized populations. So we focus on creating opportunities for minorities, and focus on inclusion, inand outside our own offices. SDG 15: Sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation, halt biodiversity loss. It’s the reason why we support Greenpeace en Bomen op de Kaart. SDG 17: Revitalizing the global partnership for sustainable development is essential to realize the 2030 goals. That’s the reason why we actively invite other organisations to participate and always aim for partnerships, in anything we do. More information? ftrprf.com info@ftrprf.com
