October 2019 Sustainability Report Statement from our CEO At Plougmann Vingtoft, we wish to contribute to a ideas. In connection to the latter, we have introduced an sustainable global development. We are aware that the initiative called IP Matters, which is an annual donation impact of initiatives taken in-house in an office like ours of expert consulting for a start-up with an idea that has is limited. the potential of affecting one or several of the global goals. More about this on page 3. However, we are convinced that our line of work makes an actual difference in the world, as we help our clients In this year’s Communication on Progress, we aim to move innovative solutions forward. show that IP does in fact matter when firms are turning their bright ideas in to viable solutions that affect society We are part of the process of turning good, sustainable as well as the environment. We will describe our actions initiatives into profitable, long-lasting businesses. Thus, to improve the integration of the Global Compact and our social responsibility is embedded in our brand and in its principles into our business strategy, culture, and our daily work with three types of clients. daily operations. I hereby reaffirm Plougmann Vingtoft’s support for the We are part of the process United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. of turning good, sustainable initiatives into profitable, Further, and on behalf of the firm, I commit to promoting the initiative and sharing this information long-lasting businesses. with different stakeholders. Enjoy the read! First of all, we work with industry leaders within the fields of renewable energy, new technologies, pharma and healthcare that all work with products and solutions that have an impact on the planet we inhabit. Second, Finn Strøm Madsen we assist SMEs and universities in pursuing potentialCEO ly groundbreaking ideas. Third, we are committed to helping start-ups to be successful with their sustainable Page 2 Plougmann Vingtoft © 2019 Pro bono initiatives IP Matters Winner of IP Matters 2019: CELLUGY In September 2019, CELLUGY won the first IP Matters We make our living by assisting firms with their business donation. CELLUGY has made a breakthrough in development and guiding them in all aspects of IPR solving the problem of extensive use of plastic in food (intellectual property rights). We help clients make sure packaging. Their product ‘EcoFLEXY’ is a type of biomathat their rights to an idea are protected and they can terial packaging made from fruit and vegetable waste. enter the market without hesitation. EcoFLEXY is home compostable and 100% bio-based. CELLUGY’s vision is aspiring and widely recognized – We are part of the team when entrepreneurs develop they aim to replace plastic packaging used in all kinds ideas into completed solutions. Quite often, we witness of food products with a bio-based alternative. that this can change and improve the world. Baring this in mind, we have come to a conclusion that the best way for us to contribute to a sustainable global development is to continue to do more of what we do best – build the future of bright ideas. Therefore, we have introduced IP Matters – Plougmann Vingtoft’s annual donation of expert IP consulting worth of 50.000 DKK. IP Matters is a pro bono initiative in which we pick a Danish start-up that we consider able to influence one or several of the 17 Global Goals. The chosen start-up Isabel Álvarez-Martos (Co-founder) & Serena Leka will have access to a team of handpicked IP-experts with (Key Account Manager) specialized academic knowledge within the relevant business area. This way, we can help them move forward CELLUGY’s product has an impact on several of the and closer to the market with their idea. global goals, including responsible consumption and production, life on land, life below water and climate By 2030, we hope to have enabled 12 start-up firms to action. We look forward to working with CELLUGY and make a difference for our planet. we encourage readers of this report to go visit the CELLUGY website and be inspired. Page 3 Plougmann Vingtoft © 2019 Involvement We are involved in several events that back the innovative environment and the sustainable Dansk Biotek development locally as well as globally. Dansk Biotek continuously takes steps to increase the public knowledge about modern biotechnology. The organization publishes books and articles, participates in the public debate, and teaches in biotech research conditions, genetic modification, and ethical matters. Danish IP Fair Danish IP Fair assembles all Danish Research Institutions and their new technologies. The fair is a place for companies, investors, and entrepreneurs to meet and network about business opportunities. We support this annual High Tech Summit event and use it as a platform for exchanging knowledge High Tech Summit is part conference and part exhibiwith students, researchers, and entrepreneurs. tion powered by DTU (Technical University of Denmark). Their vision is to create the largest research-based meeting place in Denmark within the field of digitization. We are present as speakers and exhibitors. TechBBQ With over 6,500 participants, TechBBQ is the biggest start-up and innovation summit in Scandinavia. We want to direct our attention to start-ups who can benefit Knowledge sharing massively from protecting their ideas. Therefore, we collaborate with TechBBQ. & education Several of our IP attorneys work as lecturers or examiners at educational institutions such as the University of Copenhagen, the University of Aarhus, the University of Aalborg, and the Danish Food Cluster University of Southern Denmark. Our life science experts within food and agriculture have dedicated themselves to participating in groups, which Others provide lectures and presentations are working to improve practices within food technoat institutions such as Copenhagen School of logies. One of them is the Danish Food Cluster in which Design and Technology (KEA) and the innothe work is aimed at bringing Danish Research Solutions vation programme at Copenhagen Business in to the Global Sustainable Food Production (link). Hub (Iværksætterhuset). Most recently and in line with our increased focus on helping startups, two of our employees taught workshops about the business of IPR at Copenhagen Business Hub. Medicon Valley Alliance Aside from sharing knowledge with educational Medicon Valley Alliance (MVA) is a non-profit memberinstitutions, Plougmann Vingtoft takes on the ship organisation in the Danish-Swedish life science responsibility of educating young professionals cluster Medicon Valley. The activities in MVA focus on in the IP industry. We have an extensive trainee strengthening conditions for a vibrant life science ecoprogram that provides new employees with all system in Medicon Valley trough networking events, innecessary knowledge to pass the exams that creased collaboration, analysis, and communication acare required to achieve a career within IPR. tivities. Plougmann Vingtoft employees participate and Currently, we have five IP attorney trainees and sometimes also host events. one IP administration trainee receiving training at our firm. Page 4 Plougmann Vingtoft © 2019 Employee satisfaction As should be expected, we commit to high ethical Psychosocial environment and professional standards, and we take good care of our Our employees are with us because each and every one employees and their bright minds. creates value to our company regardless of their function or title. Put simply and yet sincerely: we want to be the preferred employer and the best place to work. This includes Consequently, we value the opinion of all employees our efforts in three different aspects that all end with and encourage everybody to speak up with ideas that improved employee satisfaction: physical environment, can improve the work processes as well as any matters psychosocial environment, and the experience of perof concern. sonal development. To make this easier, we have established a worklife comPhysical environment mittee, which consists of employees from different deWe dedicate resources to monitor, remedy, and eliminate partments, who work to improve the job satisfaction in environmental and safety risks through our work endirect dialogue with the top management. vironment committee. The members are elected by and Besides, we apply a situational management principle among the employees for a three-year period during in order to keep a close dialogue whenever needed, for which they receive mandatory work environment courexample we have an ongoing dialogue concerning workses. Part of the committee’s work is to carry out regular load, which is part of our efforts to enhance job satisfacworkplace assessments and make sure to follow up on tion and prevent stress. expressed needs from employees. Additionally, we stage planned sessions between the employee and his/her manager. These sessions deal with employee performance, development, need for training as well as a discussion of what the individual can do to take responsibility for his/her contribution to the team and the company. Some of these topics lead to the final branch of employee satisfaction. Personal development At Plougmann Vingtoft, we have a strong focus on further developing our employees. In addition to the European Qualifying Examination (EQE), all IP attorneys receive internal training tailored to their individual function and level. In this way, they are introduced to processes, which secure a consistent high level of quality in each assignment. Several of our attorneys have completed the European Qualifying Examination (EQE) and many of our IP coordinators are Qualified Intellectual Property AdministraFurther, employee insurance is a priority and a mandators (QIPA’s). We encourage our employees to look for tory part of the Plougmann Vingtoft employment confurther education and to keep themselves updated on tract. All contracts entail a personal accident insurance the most current trends in the IPR world. as well as an extra health insurance, which provides all employees with quick and competent treatment in case In other words, it is a priority to keep investing in our emof physical or mental illness. ployees and make sure that they experience a personal Additionally, we offer employees a vaccination against the career development and feel ready to meet the demands flu. This initiative is free of charge and of course optional. of constantly changing industries. Page 5 Plougmann Vingtoft © 2019 Plougmann Vingtoft in facts & figures Diversity is one of our strengths As an internationally oriented company, we believe a diverse team of employees helps nourish a creative and innovative dialogue with colleagues as well as with clients. Consequently, we set our team of experts regardless of age/seniority, ethnicity, nationality, and gender. As an example, we have ten different languages represented as we employ patent attorneys that hold many different nationalities such as European, Japanese, and American. Therefore, our staff consists of people with different cultural backgrounds, and this enables us to understand and communicate even better with wour stakeholders and communities all over the world. Relevant job experience for students We invite students to work at our firm, and we have experienced that this is a great way of preparing young people for their work life after graduation. Our student positions are limited to part-time employment, which ensures that student workers also have time for their academic studies. Numbers We have 66 full time employees (58 FTE) 9 student workers are employed part-time In total, 43 % of all employees are male and 57 % female In management roles, 56 % are men and 44 % are female The average age at Plougmann Vingtoft is 46 44% of our employees have been at the company for more than 10 years Page 6 Plougmann Vingtoft © 2019 The impact of IPR Creators of clean technology need patent protection for their inventions and investments, as it secures their In a knowledge-based society, new ideas and business and stimulates further innovation on climate inventions are the backbone when creating action for the common benefit of our society. and maintaining a successful business, and therefore it is often essential for companies to ensure their intellectual property rights. Communication on Sustainable Inventions Plougmann Vingtoft is able to contribute with great value when guiding companies in Working with frontier technologies and solutions the global IPR system, helping them to make demands attention to secrecy. However, we are eager the right decisions in order to protect their to promote the stories behind the different inventions business the best way possible. as soon as this is appropriate. As mentioned earlier, we believe this is Previously, we have published stories about using crucial in order for good, creative and susozone for efficient water purification, a microchip that tainable ideas to win territory and market can revolutionize the biogas industry, and the story shares globally. behind the birth control pill. Below is a short look into how our line of Most recently, we published a story about the patenting work makes an actual difference in the world. of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in collaboration with our client, Cercare Medical. See below. The Life Science industry is one of our top strategic priorities since we acknowledge the fact that food is Case story: Cercare Medical rapidly becoming a scarce resource globally, and mankind needs to find new ways of preventing widespread It is said that a person who is afflicted with cerebral famine. We strive to assist the R&D within foods for thrombosis ages four years each hour that passes which Denmark is renowned throughout the world by before treatment is initiated. Therefore, Cercare Mediintroducing the world of IPR to the industry and helping cal has invested considerable resources in developing companies gain from their innovations. a program that, based on artificial intelligence, can help Further, we work with world leaders of the health-care doctors with quick analyses of brain scan images, and industry, as well as first-movers within industrial biotech provide an indication of the most likely development in and medical technology. Each of them have innovative the affected brain. and sustainable solutions for life on land, life below water, and good health and well-being on the agenda. Cercare Medical’s breakthrough is likely to affect many people around the world, which makes it all the more The industry of clean technology is also worth relevant to talk about IPR. mentioning. Clean technology relates to products and services that improve operational performance, With help from Plougmann Vingtoft, Cercare Medical productivity or efficiency while reducing costs, inputs, has succeeded in patenting the program under the energy consumption, waste or pollution. name Cercare Medical Neurosuite. The patent was a crucial premise in the development of the program. We assist global corporations in protecting their breakthroughs in renewable energy transition. Further, we have experts who consult on matters concerning energy efficiency and water conservation. Page 7 Plougmann Vingtoft © 2019 Matching the UNGC principles Human Rights PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support In Denmark, the labour market is governed by and respect the protection of internationally many laws ensuring human rights to a very high proclaimed human rights; and degree, and we experience very few violations of the laws. PRINCIPLE 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. We are devoted to monitoring our foreign business partners with a view to assessing their compliance with human rights. Labour PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold We offer employments regardless of the freedom of association and the effective age/seniority, ethnicity, nationality, and gender. recognition of the right to collective bargaining; We provide employee representatives with PRINCIPLE 4: the elimination of all forms appropriate facilities to assist in the development of forced and compulsory labour; of effective collective agreement. This is obvious in our work life& work environment committees. PRINCIPLE 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and We offer regular dialogue sessions to monitor job satisfaction as well as the employee’s individual PRINCIPLE 6: the elimination of discrimination in workload and stress level. respect of employment and occupation. Environment PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a preWe offer pro bono work that supports solutions cautionary approach to environmental challenges; to environmental challenges (see page 3). PRINCIPLE 8: undertake initiatives to promote We focus strategically on industries such as greater environmental responsibility; and cleantech and life-science (see page 7). PRINCIPLE 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against In a global study performed by the World corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Justice Project in 2018, Denmark was ranked as bribery. the least corrupt country in the world for the fourth year in a row (no data for 2019 has yet been published). Further, Transparency International ranks Denmark as the least corrupt country in their latest report. Page 8 Plougmann Vingtoft © 2019 Concluding remarks As an office-based consultancy company, the nature of our operations makes our direct environmental impact relatively small as compared to e.g. production plants. However, we are constantly on the outlook for ways to act environmentally sound. In 2019 we have continued our focus on developing digital tools that can ease our procedures and decrease our consumption of resources. We are proud to continue our full support for the UNGC initiative. Page 9 Plougmann Vingtoft © 2019 WWW.PV.EU COPENHAGEN // AARHUS // MADRID // MUNICH // OSLO
