AUSTRIAN POST Sustainability Report 2018 #OurAustrianPost Reading guide Our pictograms should ­facilitate reading and ­promote understanding. ­ The reader can quickly PRO ACTIVE! assign contents to a specific AUSTRIAN POST. topic area and get to other SUSTAINABLE FOR AUSTRIA parts of the report via the 02 Editorial references made. 03 PRO ACTIVE in four areas Economy  PRO ACTIVE  PRO ACTIVE FOR THE ECONOMY FOR EMPLOYEES Environment Digitalisation New worlds of work 04 “Deliver on our promises” – 20 Promote diversity – generate Employees Interview with the sustainable value Management Board 26  Attract and retain the best Society 08  The challenge of Digitalisation employees GRI Index  PRO ACTIVE PRO ACTIVE Sustainable FOR THE ENVIRONMENT FOR SOCIETY Development Goals Logistics Reliability of supply Financial Report 12 At Vienna’s doorstep, 30 Partner & Post all signs point to the future 34 Even more comfort for even Sustainability Report 16 Less is the new More more satisfied customers Internet Sustainability Report 38 Statement – what sustainability 52 Stakeholder management means for us 54 Material topics 40 An overview of Austrian Post 57 Economy 42 Integrated sustainability strategy 62 Society 46 Sustainable corporate governance 66 Employees 49 Responsible procurement 74 Environment Further Information 82 About this report 104 Independent Assurance Report 84 Facts & figures 106 Contact and imprint 96 GRI Index COVER: Andras Lengyel, Head of Operations CEE with his family #OurAustrianPost Austrian Post takes its interaction with stakeholders seriously. The different points of view held by stakeholders with respect to “their Post” contribute to the progress made by the company. “For me the Post share “Austrian Post already links strength and security gave me a promotion to with innovation. As a an executive position sustainable dividend stock, in my mid 20s. All doors it enjoys the confidence at Austrian Post are open of shareholders.” to me as a motivated CLAUDIA VINCE-BSTEH, and committed woman.” Private shareholder about DIGITALISATION STEPHANIE VOJTA, Team leader internal sales for regions and tourism NEW WORLDS OF WORK “Customer satisfaction is our “Austrian Post takes its top priority. For this reason, ‘guarantee obligation’ to ­the quick and reliable delivery is population seriously and important for online shops fulfills its responsibility to such as our weinwelt.at. provide postal services Austrian Post offers us the throughout the country.” optimal solution.” FRIEDRICH FÜRST, Mayor of Martinsberg about RELIABILITY OF SUPPLY MARKUS KASER, ­ Managing Director Interspar Austria about LOGISTICS #OurAustrianPost 01 Dear reader, Solutions which make life easier are the key aspect of our business. We want to connect people with one another, and we want to organise things to be more convenient. For this purpose, we leverage all possibilities available to us today. What concerns us is reliability, speed and individuality. What we offer has to fit customer needs. The bottom line is that Austrian Post is always something very personal – my Post. The dialogue with our stakeholders is particularly important to us because we want to ensure that things are just right for people – for employees, shareholders, and the recipients of mail. The title of this year’s report #OurAustrianPost should underline this closeness to our stakeholders. Interviews with experts from our own ranks and articles about our mission and various solutions demonstrate that we do not only make promises but keep them. We see ourselves as being entrenched at the centre of society. “Our Austrian Post” is the original. And in reality, “Our Austrian Post” is “Your Austrian Post”. With this in mind, I hope you will enjoy reading this. Best regards, Georg Pölzl 02 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post #OurAustrianPost – What we have in common with our customers Austrian Post operates fully engaged in life. As a result, we focus on the same social trends which all people deal with. IN FOUR AREAS 1. 4. 3. Urbanisation More and more people are living in cities. The population Connectivity 2. is moving from the country to Digital networking leads to the city. Service structures such an explosion of communication Gender shift as retail shops or even medical possibilities. Digital technoloRoles are changing and gender care can no longer survive in gies extend into all spheres stereotypes are weakening. The regions on the periphery. At the of life and give rise to new individual strong “I” overrules same time, new types of mobility lifestyles and behavioural the old women/men formula. and networking also serve as patterns. Mobility This gives rise to a culture the basis for new lifestyles. The need for mobility is of pluralism, which also fungrowing, and forms of mobility damentally changes the world DIGITALISATION are becoming increasingly of work and makes the diversity RELIABILITY OF SUPPLY Thanks to its new diverse. Technical innovations of employees an important Austrian Post fulfils its and the changed needs of success factor. solutions, Austrian Post service obligation everypeople become the driving is moving closer to force behind new solutions. where, whether in the city the everyday life of its NEW WORLDS OF WORK or in rural areas. Postal customers. The customer Changing roles are service points are the has even more direct LOGISTICS creating a more diverse key, offering customers possibilities to choose The multi-mobile range of target groups. suitable services under from than ever before. age requires special Whoever wants to reach differing conditions and solutions. Tomorrow’s them has to show the solutions making logistics should be same diversity in the delivery possible even climate-friendly, timely workforce. Austrian Post in the remotest corners. and space-saving. has initiated programmes Austrian Post is already focusing on diversity. working full steam ahead on this. #OurAustrianPost 03 “DELIVER on our promises” Digitalisation is sustainably transforming Austrian Post’s ­business. The Management Board of the Austrian market leader in the letter mail and parcel market – Georg Pölzl, ­ Walter Oblin and Peter Umundum – explain its concepts for the future. also this year, when we will proAustrian Post set ambitious pose the distribution of a dividend “Viable for the future” targets at the beginning totalling EUR 2.08 at the Annual also always means “digital” of 2018 against the backGeneral Meeting. The rise of 1.5 % these days. How is digital­ drop of a demanding market is consistent with EBIT growth. This isation impacting the environment. How did corresponds to a dividend yield various business segments things turn out? of close to 6.9 % in relation to the of Austrian Post? GEORG PÖLZL (GP): T  he share price at the end of DecemWO: Take the mail business for postal sector faces a continuously ber 2018. In this way we offer our example. In this case, the changed challenging situation. Our task is shareholders the stability they are behaviour of people in disseminating to steadily develop our business accustomed to from Austrian Post. news clearly plays a role, partially model in line with market requireAn increasingly important issue reducing the importance of conments in order to defend and for us with respect to the capital ventional letters. Our response to expand our top position in Austria. market is the area of environmenthis development is a much broader We succeeded in achieving the tal, social, governance (ESG) fusing offering. We offer our customers a growth targets we set for ourselves a commitment to the environment, diverse range of options to choose in the past financial year both in society and corporate governfrom covering the entire spectrum terms of revenue and earnings as ance as well as corporate social of communications, from the physwell. This means that we properly responsibility in general. Growing ical delivery of mail at different dealt with the consequences of importance is being attached to speeds to electronic conveyance. digitalisation which we directly feel the issues in making investment This portfolio also encompasses in our core business, i. e. declining decisions, and they are considered hybrid models, in which we assume ­letter mail volumes and an enorto be crucial factors for economic the function of an interface between mous increase in parcel volumes. success. During this reporting electronic and physical news for We also adjusted our business to period we once again demonstrated large-volume mailers and recipients. the needs of customers and made that we also keep our sustainability PETER UMUNDUM (PU): T  he it viable for the future. promises as well. This is reflected influence of digitalisation in the WALTER OBLIN (WO): S  ince the in our awards and ratings such parcel business is the most obviIPO in 2006, our motto has been to as the MSCI ESG AAA rating, the ous development. Ordering certain deliver on the promises we make. ISS oekom research Prime-Status types of goods via the Internet has This also applies to our positioning rating and the Carbon Disclosure become mainstream and ensures as an attractive dividend stock. We Project Rating A–. a considerably increase in parcel regularly deliver on this promise, volumes. Last year we transported 04 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post “We leverage technology to make things easier for the customer.” GEORG PÖLZL, Chairman of the Management Board and CEO PRO ACTIVE for the economy Digitalisation 05 innovative solutions help to optimise processes in companies. This starts with scanning services and the digital recording of documents in the case of incoming mail to modular services and document management solutions in processing mail and finally the management of outgoing mail. When it comes to such offerings, we are in the midst of an evolutionary process we deliberately chose to pursue. In this way we support our customers to streamline their value chain on a step by step basis using our new digital services. PU: A nother increasingly important field is consulting, especially the start and expansion of an online presence for smalland medium-sized companies. We have significantly increased our skills in the fields of advertising and e-com“Digitalisation will merce thanks to two acquisitions, namely adverserve Holding GmbH lead to substantial and ACL advanced commerce labs GmbH, thus positioning Austrian productivity increases.” Post effectively for an expansion of these high-potential business areas. WALTER OBLIN, Deputy Chairman of the Management Board, Mail & Direct Mail, Finance The question frequently arises with respect to the digitalisation of processes a record number of 108 million at the interface to our customers. as to what will happen to the parcels. As the distributor of these Today we already boast the denshuman dimension. Are we goods, we have to adjust in two est service and supply network in going to have less contact ways. On the one hand, we need the country, featuring around 1,800 with Post employees in the the right hardware to quickly sort postal service points, 413 self-­ future? parcels and then punctually deliver service zones, 349 pick-up stations GP: We are clearly focusing on them over long distances and in and more than 34,100 pick-up boxes. a dual concept today and in the every type of weather in an enviHowever, we want to further expand future. More specifically, this means ronmentally compatible manner. these services. that success will consist of a mixInvestments are required on our ture of state-of-the-art digital techpart to enable us to reliably provide nologies and competent employees these enormous logistical services. Has digitalisation also in contact with the customer. This This is the reason why we want to opened up new business encompasses more than just our double hourly sorting capacity in areas for Austrian Post? dense physical network with around our sorting centres over the next WO: We now have a service and 1,800 postal service points, but two to three years as a means of product offering, particularly in our also our delivery staff of more than further expanding upon our number letter mail business, which would 9,000 people who have an enorone position in Austria. On the other not be possible without digitalisamous know-how. Even though the hand, adjusting also means furtion and which go above and beyond digital aspect is very important, a ther enhancing the level of service conventional postal logistics. Our physical presence featuring people 06 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post at the interface to customers who resources. Recipients also benefit ­to ensure stability. We are aware favourably view the concept will from increasingly precise delivery that the challenges will not diminalso continue to be crucial. Human forecasts. Naturally, ­we are also ish, and that we will have to work beings are the basis of success in observing market developments hard for the success of our comour Group. We exploit modern digital in areas such as autonomous drivpany. We managed this feat last technology to equip these people for ing and delivery with drones with year thanks to our 20,545 m ­ oti­vated their work as best as we can. These great interest and have carried out and professional employees, who technologies change the nature preliminary practical tests. Howdeserve our ­very special thanks. of the work done by people in our ever, there are no plans yet for the With their support we would like ­company but do not replace them. standard use of drones in the near to build upon this success in the future. current financial year, and further improve the quality level we have Does this duality also apply reached ­­when it comes to services to Austrian Post's financial What plans does the performed on ­­ behalf of customers. services business? company have in the near At the same time, we also aim to GP: We want to continue offerfuture, more specifically maintain ­the current level of reveing financial services in the branch for the year 2019? nue and e­ arnings. offices to our customers in the GP: Against the backdrop of ­ future as well. Financial services a successfully concluded financial will remain an important part of our year 2018, our major objective ­­is business. We have observed that many customers inform themselves online, for example in the case of our popular offering to change electricity and gas suppliers. However, “Networking and they actually prefer to personally implement the transaction with communication impose an employee in one of our branch offices. This confirms our dual high demands on the approach, which makes use of both channels. IT infrastructure.” PETER UMUNDUM, Member of the Management Board, Parcel & Logistics, Logistics Networks Against this backdrop, are future technologies such as artificial intelligence an issue for Austrian Post? PU: We very closely monitor such developments and we deal with everything that is relevant to our business or could be in the future. For example, this includes self-learning systems for the purpose of volume predictability. This already enables us to carry out an extremely precise estimate of parcel volumes one or two weeks from now on the basis of information about the weather, holidays and notified quantities. In turn, this helps us with staff and vehicle ­planning and simultaneously protects the environment and conserves employee PRO ACTIVE for the economy Digitalisation 07 The Challenge of DIGITALISATION 08 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post Austrian Post is taking advantage of the possibilities opened up by digitalisation for new services and higher capacities. Its objective is to more effectively fulfill increased expectations and needs. T he digital transformation is moving ahead, Strategic partnerships in sustainably changing society as well as the digital lines of business needs and expectations of people. Future generations will have confidence in the Austrian Post is targetedly expanding its competencies digital changes being made to the worlds of work, to meet the challenges of the present time by conentertainment and consumption, increasingly taking cluding strategic partnerships with companies such it for granted. as adverserve. In the coming years Austrian Post will gradually acquire adverserve, a service and consulting The rapid developments affecting the field of digitalcompany specialising particularly in programmatic and isation pose a particular challenge to a company ­like data-driven advertising. New business concepts and Austrian Post. All strategic areas are impacted. The strategies for innovative advertising campaign mantrend towards e-substitution has led to a decline in agement developed in cooperation with adverserve are traditional letter mail. At the same time, e-commerce forward-looking and will thus play an even bigger role is growing exponentially, as are the challenges facing in the future. shipping services. Increasing volumes are being sent back and forth between retailers and consumers. ­ For Austrian Post, this means it must critically assess its business model on an ongoing basis and adapt it to the evolving conditions and customer requirements in a timely, flexible and forwardLine of business: looking manner. This applies to both the B2B and Direct Mail B2C business. ­Austrian Post is improving its level of Market Leadership on all channels service in the field of digital offerings from year to year. Digital solutions make the lives of customers and employees easier, enhance the quality of service and reliability ­of postal services and improve their ecological footprint. Core in-house processes at Although the Internet is increasingly asserting itself as Austrian Post are also being subject to the digital the virtual space for communication and consumption, transformation. Workflows are being optimised step there is nothing like addressed direct mail to skilfully by step with the aim of devoting freed-up capacities and effectively appeal to the designated customers. The for the ­­benefit of the postal business, the economy Dialogue Marketing Report 2018 once again showed and customers. how important it is to ensure a combination of online and offline communication. 52 % of the people surveyed consider e-mail newsletters to be up-to-date, 12 % align their purchase decisions to recommendations in social media and 92 % look at personally addressed adverThe digital tising mail. Austrian Post offers the tried and tested transformation “Pimp my Campaign” initiative to enable companies, In the area of tension betregardless of whether they are small or big, to optimally ween the universal service exploit the potential of their advertising ­campaigns. In obligation and competition this case, specific campaigns are optimised in line with the latest findings in the field of interactive marketing PRO ACTIVE for the economy Digitalisation 09 “Building upon market leadership in the conventional printed advertising brochure market, we will position ourselves in ­ the ­digital advertising market even more strongly than in the past. In doing so, ­adverserve will assist Austrian Post as a strategic and innovative specialist partner.” MICHAEL JIRESCH, Sales Manager Mail Solutions and Managing Director adverserve Holding GmbH to enhance their impact. This includes a target groupAustrian Post takes an integrated, multi-track oriented approach, ideas for individual offers as well as approach as a means of individually fulfilling the needs multi-channel campaigns encompassing online channels of business partners and customers in the core letter and social media. In the case of a renowned customer in mail segment and continuing on all channels, whether the furniture sector, the three-step approach with e-mail analogue or digital. That is why the company’s offerteaser, direct mailing and e-mail reminder generated ing not only includes digital and conventional print 66 % more customer feedback than by simply sending a solutions but also alternative dual solutions. They direct mailing. link the physical shipping of mail items with digital components, thus fusing the best of both worlds with each other. The e-letter was developed as a cost-cutting and digital solution. It offers maximum cost saving potential to senders alongside the necessary security, confidentiality and reliability. Dual delivery means mail items are either delivered digitally to the person’s elecLine of business: tronic mailbox or physically as a postal item. Letter Mail e-letter – secure and Innovations in retailing are high up on the list of the efficient new business areas and services being opened up by digitalisation. Austrian Post supports retailers with 10 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post e-commerce business of customers from mail-order houses but also makes it simpler and more effective, thus ensuring a maximum level of satisfaction on the Line of business: part of recipients. E-commerce Complete solutions for retailers from acl and shöpping.at Complete complete e-commerce software solutions in collabosolutions ration with its subsidiary ACL. Services such as online Along the entire value chain shops, data management, design of shipping and storage logistics solutions and their implementation comprise just a small part of the service portfolio. In this way ACL makes it easier for retailers to enter the world of e-commerce and promotes their survival in a Modern process management highly competitive market. The online marketplace of right through the branch offices Austrian Post, shöpping.at, also enables many retailers to tap into online business opportunities. Numerous The forces propelling the digital transformation also regional and nationwide s­ uppliers already successfully impact Austrian Post’s in-house processes. This year the leverage their presence on shöpping.at to convince company is investing in a monitoring system to enable new target groups and considerably increase their the timely detection of delivery bottlenecks in the future outreach. Moreover, every purchase supports the na­­ and thus enhance the effectiveness of core processes. tional economy, because shöpping.at brings together The new monitoring system will link various databases Austrian consumers exclusively with Austrian suppliwith each other and be capable of quickly and automaters, thus creating a domestic alternative to foreign ically presenting where and when bottleneck hotspots competitors. will take place as a result of vacation time, sick leave and high shipment volumes. In this way, Austrian Post will be Post Systemlogistik GmbH also profits from the growth able to react in a timely and forward-looking manner to in e-commerce. Thanks to its fulfillment services along reliably maintain its high level of delivery quality, even the entire value chain, Systemlogistik offers complete when things get tight. This is because Austrian Post's strategic solutions to mail-order companies in cooperfocus is on the everyday lives of the customers as well ation with ACL, from online shops, storage and order as their expectations and needs, particularly in times picking to packaging and reliable delivery. In turn, marked by the accelerated development and implementhis offering not only contributes to stimulating the tation of electronically supported services. Internal measures in 2018 1. Equipping post office branches with the latest generation of hardware. 2. Launch of a team leader app for the digital management of employee hours at work, vacation planning and employee presence reports. 3.  Development of a monitoring system for bottleneck hotspots. PRO ACTIVE for the economy Digitalisation 11 At Vienna’s doorstep, all signs point to the FUTURE The new logistics centre of Austrian Post is currently being built ­ in Hagenbrunn. It is scheduled to be put into operation in the summer of 2019, shortly before the beginning of the peak season. Stefan Heiglauer and Robert Modliba, logistics experts at Austrian Post, talk about the importance of the new facility north of Vienna and the specific measures Austrian Post is taking in connection with the logistics of the future. T he expansion of logistics centres is desigthe construction process optimally took occupational ned to strengthen Austrian Post’s market safety and health protection aspects into account. The leadership position in the core business corporate culture will also be positively developed in and safeguard the nationwide reliability ­of Hagenbrunn, in light of the fact that f­ urther education ­supply. In addition to these aspects of capacity expanand training measures will be offered alongside its sion, employee interests and environmental issues ensuring diversity and equal opportunity. also play a significant role. This is in line with the ­“PRO ACTIVE! Austrain Post. Sustainable for Austria.”-initiative for sustainable and future-­oriented logistics. To what extent do environmental aspects play a role here in Hagenbrunn? ROBERT MODLIBA (RM): The issue of environmenWe are standing here in the new Hagental protection is a key aspect in the construction of our brunn Logistics Centre. To what extent is ­distribution centres. We have already been relying for substantial progress being made thanks to years on certified environmental management systems, the new facility? ← The ground-­ STEFAN HEIGLAUER (SH): This centre represents a breaking ceremony central building block of our investment programme and in Hagenbrunn took place in July 2018. a further step towards making our infrastructure fit for Operational start in the future. The logistics centre will expand capacities in the summer of 2019. the magnitude of 25 %. In this way we are making a key contribution towards sustainably securing our profitability while fulfilling our high standards with respect to → ROBERT MODLIBA (l.) and STEFAN efficiency, reliability of supply and environmental conHEIGLAUER (r.) siderations. The new logistics centre creates many jobs monitor implementain the region, and Austrian Post already made sure that tion of the plans. 12 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post PRO ACTIVE for the environment Logistics 13 Hagenbrunn IN FIGURES 50 EUR m in investments 75,000 20,000 square meters of land square meters of building space 300 13,500 jobs parcels/hour which we have successfully implemented at several ment. Against this backdrop, the number of supplier sites. An environmental management system pursuant checks by shipping customers in the field of CSR and to ISO 14001 will also be implemented in Hagenbrunn environment is increasing each year. In the case of an due to our favourable experiences, for example in raising increasing number of tenders, above all by international awareness among employees, energy savings based on customers, inquiries are also being made concernthe review of objectives and cost savings in waste maning this issue. In the meantime, more than 150 mail agement. More specifically, a photovoltaic plant with and p ­ arcel customers already use our CO2 NEUTRAL an output of 500 kilowatt-peak will be installed on the ­DELIVERY logo. roof of the logistics centre, whereas interior and exteSH: Accordingly, one can say that environmental rior lighting will be based on energy-saving LED light ­­protection has become a key element in our sales systems. The focus of our environmental targets is the ­strategy. It would be hard to imagine our business withreduction of energy consumption and waste volumes out the partnerships we conclude. As the quality leader, and sensitising employees concerning this issue. we want and have to meet our high quality demands with respect to this issue as well. The ­CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY certificate is granted by ­Austrian Post to Which priority is given to environmental shipping customers each year in a ­festive setting. The aspects for Austrian Post in general as a certificate shows the shipping ­volume of the customer logistics company? and the resulting CO2 emis­sions compensated by RM: For us the primary environmental-related ­Austrian Post. issues are climate protection and energy efficiency as well as the use of resources and responsible procure14 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post City logistics also incorporate environ­ mentally compatible solutions. The objective is to optimise urban freight transport from an environmental and cost perspective. What measures has Austrian Post ­already taken? And in which direction is the ­company going? SH: The focus is on a holistic view of the last mile in urban areas, i. e. the path an item takes from the ↑ ROBERT MODLIBA, distri­bution centre to the recipient. Last year numerHead of Mail Logistics, ous­­ innovative ideas for inner-city parcel delivery were studies the construcdeveloped at a multi-day workshop. They were subsetion plans. It is all about the details which are quently fleshed out in detail and prioritised according already taken into to their added value. Based on this, in 2019 we want account in the planning to evaluate the setting up of a city hub infrastructure. process so that operations proceed smoothly Such an inner-city distribution centre should test the afterwards. most promising approaches within the context of both the downstream and upstream delivery process. Constructing a city hub would make it possible to reduce the number of delivery tours and deploy alternative delivery vehicles, for example cargo bikes or e-transporters. RM: With respect to city logistics, it should be pointed out in general that we see a need to catch What other environmental challenges and up with respect to ensuring a scientific basis for any opportunities do you see for Austrian Post ­initiatives: What causes traffic in the city? Which proin the future? Where does it make sense to cesses already work efficiently, and where should we enter into partnerships? seek to make improvements? We can first go on the RM: Austrian Post is Austria’s largest logistics comoffensive with new, innovative approaches when the pany. For this reason we should have sufficient self-con­corresponding results are available. fidence to set trends as reflected in our ­programme, which primarily focuses on solutions on the last mile. This includes projects such as AllesPost, the expanion of Post pick-up boxes, the pick-up service, Austrian-wide parcel redirection and the ongoing optimisation of delivery routes. All these measures contribute to reducing traffic volumes and setting standards in the entire postal sector. SH: We are also engaged in a continuing dialogue with many stakeholders on this issue. We tested the deployment of an electric bicycle in the Josefstadt area of Vienna in 2017, and tests were carried out with an e-vehicle on autonomous delivery solutions in collaboration with the utility company Energie Steiermark, the Graz University of Technology and i-Tec Styria. We are also continually involved in a dialogue with the responsible traffic planners in Vienna, the Federal Economic Chamber and various scientific institutions. In several studies, e-commerce was rated per se as an environmentally-friendly possibility to do shopping. We have to continue working on enhancing efficiency and increase e-mobility. All in all, environmentally compatible logistics ↑ STEFAN HEIGLAUER, Head of Parcel Logistics, on his way to the ­ still hold great potential, for example in designing a first floor, where the Technical Control Centre will soon be standing. vehicle fleet featuring alternative drive systems. PRO ACTIVE for the environment Logistics 15 Less is the NEW MORE How Austrian Post expands capacities and curtails environmental impacts at the same time ↓ Delivered personally: the mail carriers know the daily routine 57 % of their customers. of Austrian consumers (15 or older) buy online 1 6–7 % annual growth in e-commerce up to 2023 2 7.2 EUR bn was spent by Austrians on online purchases in 2018 1 1 E-Commerce Study 2018 of Austrian trade association (Handelsverband) 2 Statista, Outlook 2019, eCommerce Austria 16 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post ↑ Parcel volumes have more than doubled since 2009. This growth is felt by the delivery staff every day. E fficiency means concentrating on the 2018, and annual e-commerce growth is anticipated to ­essentials in order to achieve more, or even total 6 – 7 % annually in the coming years. New strateleveraging greater potential than beforehand gies, approaches and concepts are called for in order to with less. Keeping prices at a competitive adjust the parcel market to the dynamic development level but increasing service, going easy on resources of the online retail business and growing shipment volbut improving performance: efficiency on all levels is umes. As the only universal services provider and the imperative at the present time. The focus is on capanumber one logistics partner in Austria, Austrian Post is city expansion and the related challenges. pressing ahead with the technological development of the logistics infrastructure and at the same time making The growth curve in e-commerce is showing a steep the company fit for a sustainable future. This is being upward trend, and places heavy demands on the done by searching for energy-efficient and resource-­ logistic sector. 57 % of all Austrian consumers aged efficient solutions. Against this backdrop, Austrian Post 15 or older already do part of their shopping online. has developed strategic corporate social responsibility The expenditures on the part of Austrians for online measures bundled in the “PRO ACTIVE! Austrian Post. retailers reached the record amount of EUR 7.2 bn in Sustainable for Austria.”-initiative. This is designed to PRO ACTIVE for the environment Logistics 17 link the four fields of the corporate strategy with the four areas of the sustainability strategy. The factors of employee protection and reliability of supply play a decisive role in addition to economic and environmental issues. This is because Austrian Post is convinced that this integration of the two strategies can secure the long-term success of the company. Fit for tomorrow: solutions and paths in city logistics The service quality of parcel service providers is a significant factor enabling mail order companies to transform the online shopping experience into an allround success. In 2018, Austrian Post was selected as the Best Logistics Brand in the category of courier, express and parcel services. Moreover, Austrian Post is the clear market leader with a 48 % share of the Austrian parcel market. In the future, it will continue to focus on customer proximity and all-round service up to the last Austrian Post's honours mile in order to defend its position. In doing so, it has and awards to optimally deal with rising customer demands as well as growing shipment volumes and the increasing traffic density in city centres. For this reason, Austrian Post ­is searching for alternative solutions to delivery traffic, Best Austrian not least in order to meet the high expectations when it comes to environmental and climate protection. One Logistics Robotics of these options could be the so-called “city hubs”. By Brand Award setting up such inner-city distribution points, the total 2018 1 2018 2 length of delivery tours would be reduced. The city hubs would also drive the deployment of alternative vehicle technologies over the last mile, from the cargo bike to e-bus. Austrian Post will evaluate the establishment of 1 Awarded by the international weekly “Verkehr” in cooperation with the Austrian Retail Association. a city hub infrastructure within the context of its “city 2 Awarded at the initiative of robo4you and Grant Thornton Austria. logistics” programme. The innovation “Rapid Unloader” – Furthermore, Austrian Post is also putting its trust in Unloading system of the future electromobility. This is an area in which Austrian Post is a trailblazer in light of the fact that it operates the counAustrian Post is expanding and refurbishing its existing try’s largest e-vehicle fleet. The company expects to parcel distribution centres in Austria in order to be cover the entire last mile with electric-powered vehicles equipped for developments in the near future. Furby the year 2030. The Austrian-wide capacity expanthermore, new logistics facilities are being built, such sion programme implemented by Austrian Post ensures as the one in Hagenbrunn in Lower Austria, scheduled that the strong growth in parcel volumes will continue to be completed in the summer of 2019. In addition, to be handled in a completely CO2 neutral manner in the an innovation of Austrian Post and PHS Logistiktechfuture as well. The “autonomous driving” project is also nik GmbH is designed to make sure that the unloading part of these efforts. In this case a modified e-vehiprocess from lorries is accelerated and simplified. The cle would autonomously navigate its way to the target Rapid Unloader is a parcel unloading system cutting address in order to deliver parcels. The project carried unloading time from the swap body container or lorry in out in collaboration with the Graz University of Technolhalf while relieving the physical burden on employees. ogy, Energie Steiermark and i-Tec Styria was given the It works quickly, fully automatically and efficiently, and Austrian Robotics Award in November 2018. was put into operation­in 2018 for the very first time in the Upper Austrian logistics centre in Allhaming. The system is suitable for retrofitting. As a consequence, it 18 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post “The new unique European-wide quick unloading system has given us a capacity expansion solution which is just as intelligent as it is innovative.” ANDREAS WOLFSCHLUCKNER AND MATTHIAS FRITZ, founder of PHS can be integrated into the existing logistics infrastrucRapid Unloader is ready for nationwide use on the logisture such as lorries and swap body containers in an tics market. It can make a major contribution towards economically and ecologically feasible manner. Following increasing unloading capacities and redistributing growa trial period during normal business operations, the ing parcel volumes. PRO ACTIVE for the environment Logistics 19 NEW WORLDS OF WORK Promote diversity – generate sustainable value. Verena Knott-­Birklbauer of Austrian Post and the expert Barbara Lutz discuss this topic in an interview. 20 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post T he digital transformation is also changing job profiles. Companies aiming to sustainaMs Knott-Birklbauer, what was the catalyst bly enhance their innovative strength have leading Austrian Post to advocate a gender recognised the signs of the times and focus balance in the company in the first place? on diversity in their workforce. Austrian Post has also VERENA KNOTT-BIRKLBAUER (VKB): Today ­about embarked on a challenging journey to a culture which one third of the Austrian Post staff is female, and there promotes diversity in general and gender diversity in are still even fewer women in management positions particular and purposefully benefits from them. at present. Women are still currently underreprePRO ACTIVE for employees New worlds of work 21 “Women and sented, which means a lot of potential is still Generation Y left unused. There have always been individual initiatives for more women at Austrian Post to have a similar change this, but now we are focusing on the business-relevant advantages of a gender balmentality.” ance and devoting our attention to this issue by developing an overall strategic concept which I am spearheading. We would l­ike to promote a corporate culture which embeds and promotes diversity based on ­transparency and commitment in all worlds o­ f work and on all ­­ levels. How did you find out about each other, and what is your collaboration about? VKB: I got to know Barbara Lutz in Vienna, when she presented the Women Career Index she developed in a lecture. This index measures the opportunities in a company for women to climb the entire career ladder from the bottom to the top. This analytical and professional approach convinced us, and we were the first completely Austrian company to undergo such an assessment. The status quo analysis laid out our strengths and potential in detail, and Barbara Lutz advised us to take appropriate measures. We will now compile the Women Career Index annually as a means of reliably measuring the progress of our commitment to gender balance. BARBARA LUTZ (BL): We have indexed close to 200 companies up until now in addition to Austrian Post. An excellent and exclusive corporate network has developed in which the indexed companies regularly and intensively exchange information about their results and experiences. This takes place on a professional level and with a great deal of openness. There is really a remarkably high degree of willingness to share the most innovative and effective measures. BARBARA LUTZ has developed and established the Women Career Index. Ms Lutz, why is gender balance of fundamental importance to the economy? And Ms Knott-Birklbauer, why is it particularly vital to Austrian Post? BL: Gender balance should be seen in a wider context. It’s a matter of the systematic and structural changes taking place in almost all companies. This transformation is being driven by digitalisation. But Generation Y, the young ­talents on the job market – and I am not only talking about women – are imposing completely 22 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post different requirements upon their companies. “We promote women because mixed They are primarily asking for flexibility and the compatibility of their professional and private leader­ship teams lives. The second aspect relates to the issues of transparency and openness. They are the pre-requisites for successful change processes and are increasingly demanded by Generation Y. have a positive For example, the young generation wants knowledge to be openly shared in companies and for ­impact on r­ e­turns on investments, profits team-building processes to take place in a transparent manner. All this automatically requires and share price greater bottom-up movement in companies and inclusiveness for new ideas. If the company ­development, as opens itself in this manner, women will be able to successfully assert themselves in the organisa­studies have shown.” tion and gender balance will be achieved. VKB: These transformation processes are also becoming increasingly important to Austrian Post. We believe in the potential of diversity, because studies show that mixed teams are simply more successful. Moreover, Austrian Post is faced with the challenge of finding and retaining good staff in addition to the growing pressure on our everyday business. Thanks to our commitment to gender balance, we want to ensure that we will have the best talents on board, leverage innovations to hold our ground on the marketplace and create customer proximity in the B2B and B2C segments. Ms Lutz, popular lore has it that women are hard-working and tidy, whereas men are wiling to take risks. Are there really ways in which women and men are fundamentally different at work and which can become strengths? BL: The images in our minds of the typical traits of women and men are mainly shaped by social attributes and expectations. How and what determines our gender perception is primarily a social construct related to our upbringing, societal norms, values and stereotypes. For example, an ambitious man is frequently considered to be goal-oriented and focused, whereas an ambitious woman is seen as tough and stubborn. This makes it all the more important to critically reflect upon every perception we have with respect to stereo­typical classifications of people. Strengths are such an individual matter, just like our perceptions. VERENA KNOTT-BIRKLBAUER is Head of Group Accounting at Austrian Post. PRO ACTIVE for employees New worlds of work 23 Actual situation and targets 1 35 % Overall share of women in 2018 41 % Targeted share of women in 2023 31 % Share of women in executive positions in 2018 39 % Targeted share of women in executive positions in 2023 1 As at December 31, 2018 (headcount), employees of Austrian Post (incl. subsidiaries) Ms Lutz: What will drive the executives of wants to work less, but they do not want to go by ­a tomorrow forward? Are there differences time clock. Key issues include taking sabbaticals ­and between women and men? achieving a work-life balance. Money and hierarchies BL: We have observed changes in men belonging are not as important any more. In fact, the decisive to the younger generations. They are now also placing factor is the content of a person’s work. How meangreater emphasis on flexibility and reconciling work ingful is the work I am doing? In particular, women and family life, similar to what women have demanded drop out when they no longer discover a sense of for a long time. This does not mean that Generation Y purpose at work. 24 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post Ms Knott-Birklbauer, what specific measures is Austrian Post taking to ensure a gender balance? Measures VKB: I initiated Expedition Elly within the context of my assignment. The name of the project is for gender derived from the aviation pioneer Elly Beinhorn. She undertook demanding trips as a courageous balance aviator. Our Expedition Elly means we are going on a challenging journey towards a culture which stands up for diversity. A pioneering spirit is needed along with perseverance and good equipment. For this reason, we have analysed all the worlds of work at Austrian Post with respect to the employment structure, employee indicators and labour market situation and developed specific targets on the Attract employees basis of our findings. Moreover, a diverse team from different areas and hierarchies at Austrian Post has developed measures for more gender balance. The focus is on the commitment of executives, communicative support and embedding gender goals in HR processes. We consider the hiring and development of employees to be just as important as the focus on enhancing the flexibility of working conditions Increased flexibility of and the management of time outs and the return working conditions to working life. It is crucial for us to put this commitment to gender balance into practice across the board for all employees in light of the fact that Austrian Post is a highly diverse company. To continue to use the language of aviation, this is not a short-haul flight. We have to master the challenges of circumnavigating the globe. Manage time off and return to work As a female executive, what ex­periences have you had in working for ­Austrian Post? VKB: I have always actively searched for opportunities and I have pursued my career path at ­Austrian Post with pioneering work and a passion for change processes. I would also now like Further develop to inspire people to stand up for diversity with the employees same level of passion. As an executive, I promote talented ­people, both women and men, create space for diversity and make it a priority in my decision-­ making processes. Our gender balance initiative is a real opportunity for the best women and men at Austrian Post to further develop and fulfil their potential. Diversity means more than just gender balance. Different characters, perspectives and backgrounds should not be discriminated. At the end of the day, we want to profit from transparency and the successful teamwork of the best talents instead of holding ourselves back with stereotypes. PRO ACTIVE for employees New worlds of work 25 ATTRACT AND RETAIN the best employees Employees are crucial to the success of Austrian Post. It aims to be a company people enjoy working for. Accordingly, Austrian Post places great emphasis on giving employees the feeling that they are an important part of the whole. They are heard, supported, and thus more intensively integrated into the company. F or Austrian Post, the employees give ­the company a decisive competitive edge. This will not change in the age of digitalisation. The competence of every single employee strengthens Austrian Post as a whole. ­Employees shape the public image of Austrian Post, particularly those involved on the interface ­ Attract … to customers. Mail carriers know their delivery ­ areas very well and are also aware of when they can best reach customers and thus drop off a par­COMPETE FOR THE BEST cel if necessary. Austrian Post’s recruiting focus is on the changed demands of prospective employees. It aligns its efforts to the Austrian Post has a huge need for suitable employees. forms of communication used by potential applicants and In particular, the parcel business is booming, and the varies its personnel search depending on the advertised number of employees increased once again in 2018. position. To appeal to people entering the job market, The company is continuing to search for additional Austrian Post selects communication channels preferred staff and thus relies on new strategies to position it by the younger generation, namely social media. It is difas an appealing employer for applicants. At the same ficult to catch their attention outside of these channels. time, Austrian Post strives to remain attractive to Austrian Post has grasped the message and thus treads its existing employees. Accordingly, it is investing in new paths. For example, young people are picked up various programmes with the aim of promoting the where they are thanks to YouTube videos under the motto professional development of experienced employees “Finally get what is important to you” designed to make and luring new staff. them curious about apprenticeships at Austrian Post. 26 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post ← A delivery staff of about 9,000 people and 1,600 branch office employees work in the front ranks comprise the face of the country’s largest logistic and postal company. → From apprentice to manager, there is bound to be something there. PRO ACTIVE for employees New worlds of work 27 ↑ Austrian Post offers a performanceoriented working environment where employees can develop. → Austrian Post combines tradition and modernity, and would also like to communicate this with its new look. 28 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post INSPIRE TRAINEES Austrian Post relies on an apprenticeship campaign to appeal to young trainees for the company of tomorrow. Austrian Post aims to convince apprentices with a twofold approach, namely changing its appeal in a manner … and tailored to young people as well as offering new apprendevelop them ticeship occupations going above and beyond existing job profiles. For example, Austrian Post wants to train young minds to manage future work in the company by enabling apprenticeships in fields such as local and distribution STRENGTHEN THEIR MOTIVATION logistics or application development. The diverse perAustrian Post focuses on creating a good working sonal and professional development opportunities in an ­climate in order to ensure employee loyalty to the ­established company like Austrian Post make it an inter­company. Employees want to take responsibility, be k ­ ept esting employer, also for Generation Y and Generation Z. in the loop about new developments and get involved. If this happens, they will be motivated at work and actively HELPING PEOPLE TO GET STARTED commit themselves in the interest of their employers. If the new features of Austrian Post’s recruiting approach This is how experts assess the situation, and it is also were successful in hiring suitable new employees, the the conclusion of numerous studies. Austrian Post’s next task is to effectively support them from the very employee retention measures are oriented to these first day at work and integrate them into day-to-day findings. business operations. Ultimately, they should quickly find their way in their jobs and be able to experience pleasure PROMOTE SELF-RESPONSIBILITY in their work. With this goal in mind, Austrian Post initiFor example, Austrian Post changed its structures based ated a project in its letter mail distribution called ODIN on the “Teamwork 2018” programme and opened up its (short for onboarding, development, integration) to facilidoors to new forms of decision making. Decisions are tate the job entry on the part of new employees. The new now made on site with fewer hierarchical levels. In turn, colleagues are given intensive support at the beginning this facilitates processes and improves quality. The and can thus gradually grow into their new role. employee takes greater responsibility and feels he is a vital part of the big picture. This is motivating and positively impacts work results. EXPAND KNOWLEDGE Well trained employees show a higher level of motivation, something that customers appreciate. And the company profits from this. Accordingly, Austrian Post has been offering a broad spectrum of different training and professional development measures in all business areas of the company for years. For example, employees in the Vienna Parcel Centre were able to improve their language skills last year with the help of in-house, post-related German courses. Moreover, personality trainings positively impact the working atmosphere by improving the way people interact. Furthermore, trainings also ensure expanded internal know-how and a more intensified exchange of knowledge. Frequently the company works with external specialists, for example as reflected in Austrian Post’s collaboration with the Vienna University of Economics and Business on a ­training programme called “Zukunft gestalten@Post” (Shape the Future@Post). The company’s sales employees­position themselves as experts for interactive ­marketing thanks to their newly-acquired knowledge and can provide future-oriented advice to customers. PRO ACTIVE for employees New worlds of work 29 PARTNER & POST on site Shared goals. Mutual trust. Being there for someone else. Austrian Post stands for these values when it concerns the relationship to its stake­“Nicer, better, holders, especially its customers longer … The new and postal partners. This “we-feeling” branch office is the only way to achieve the best ­concept is rated results for the benefit of everyone as outstanding by involved. A toast to working and living customers.” together! LEANDER KRALL, POST OFFICE BRANCH MANAGER in Vienna-Penzing 30 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post “In Austria there are no second-class postal customers.” FRIEDRICH FÜRST, MAYOR AND POSTAL PARTNER, Martinsberg “Something important would be missing without the postal partner branch office.” DIETER GSCHIEL, POSTAL PARTNER from the lakeside district in Aspern PRO ACTIVE for society Reliability of supply 31 PARTNER & POST together Small but impact­ful – the postal partners Austrian Post fulfils its universal service obligation with no ifs “The cooperation with local partners ensures the supply of postal or buts, whether in the city or in services to smaller communities rural areas. The high standards such as ours. It is an important element in preserving jobs and it sets for itself go far beyond maintaining the infrastructure.” legal stipulations designed to safeguard the ­nationwide ­supply of ­postal ­services in FRIEDRICH FÜRST, Austria. It goes ­without sayMAYOR AND POSTAL PARTNER, ing that the company’s ­offering Martinsberg includes c ­ ustomized branch office concepts, value added services and individualised solutions ensuring smooth-­ running ­services, even in No matter where you are – ­remote corners of the country. Austrian Post is already there! They make a ­decisive contribuAustrian Post’s network of postal service points encomtion to the first-class design of passes 1,791 locations, making it the largest private the country’s communications customer network in the country. In addition to 423 company-operated branch offices, the postal partner ­infrastructure. We have captuprogramme ensures that postal services can be optired the voices of some people mally reached by every single customer, even in rural areas. The colourful mix of businesses serving as postal who ­explain where and ­how partners, ranging from grocery stores, petrol stations Austrian Post operates at a and pharmacies to office supply outlets, bookshops and the like, frequently safeguard existing economic ­local level. structures in addition to providing local postal services throughout the country. “There are no second-­ class postal customers,” says Mayor Friedrich Fürst of the Lower Austrian Municipality of Martinsberg. The Municipality of Martinsberg operates the postal partner office directly in the town hall. “Austrian Post continues to keep the flag flying in rural areas threatened by depopulation and the loss of a good infrastructure and is exactly where people need it.” 32 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post Securing postal services and social engagement Service with extras The socially integrative company Wien Work GmbH “We are the contact persons for provides support to people facing disadvantages on various services and generated a the job market. More than 300 people are at work or substantial expansion of our sales are being given training in different business areas in activities for value added services workshops, in the restaurant “Speiseamt Seestadt” and in 2018 such as the energy cost in the training companies in Seestadt Aspern – Vienna’s calculator and the A1 mobile phone Urban Lakeside. The dry cleaners and ironing service guarantee, in part due to the new operated by Wien Work and located in this young section branch office concept.” of the city is also a postal partner. “Seestadt Aspern is one of Europe’s largest urban development projects,” says Dieter Gschiel, postal partner and branch office manager of Wien Work. “Of course, we are also part of the infrastructure in our role as a neighbourhood shop LEANDER KRALL, providing communication and additional services.” POST OFFICE BRANCH “Something substantial would be missing without the MANAGER in postal partner branch office,” says Seestadt Aspern Vienna-Penzing ­resident Maria K. “Take a suit to the cleaners and ­ then bring a parcel to Austrian Post right afterwards – one should be able to do this without travelling long distances!” This is possible here. New post office branches with new momenJobs for disadvantum – the WIENWOHL20 project taged people Austrian Post has to move out of 42 branch offices in “The postal partner office located Vienna due to the termination of the partnership with in Seestadt Aspern – Vienna’s BAWAG P.S.K. Austrian Post is unleashing new potential Urban Lakeside – offers people in the Austrian capital city and is reinventing itself within with disabilities the chance to the context of a completely revised branch office concept. re-enter the labour market. We are The project entiteled ­WIENWOHL20 is bringing a breath proud of this social commitment in of fresh air and foresees the reopening of 31 modern collaboration with Wien Work” branch offices by the end of 2019. “We believe that Austrian Post is quintessentially a service provider. Customer satisfaction is the top priority,” explains Leander Krall from Vienna-Penzing. He manages one of the new Viennese feel-good post office branches which was festively DIETER GSCHIEL, opened in 2018. “Longer opening hours lasting till eight POSTAL PARTNER o’clock in the evening, an expanded self-service area, from the lakeside sales and consulting for interesting value-added services district in Aspern and an atmosphere inviting people to stay thanks to a lounge area and free WIFI – this is the direction Austrian Post is moving in,” Krall adds. The branch office manager is aware of the fact that the new concept is excellently received by his customers. The satisfaction curve of employees is also pointing upwards. A survey revealed that the feel-good factor at the new workplace was consistently rated with almost straight A’s. PRO ACTIVE for society Reliability of supply 33 Even more comfort for even MORE SATISFIED CUSTOMERS Branch offices Delivery staff SERVICE POINTS OF AUSTRIAN POST Self-service Pick-up Box and station Flexibox CONTACT AT HOME Pick-up Release delivery station authorisation Desired Postal Partner neighbour Starting in the spring of 2019: AllesPost 34 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post Austrian Post stands for quality, service and reliability. However, an extra smile, friendliness and a kind word comprise the icing ­on the cake in everyday postal operations. Customer satisfaction i­s much more than just a catchword for Austrian Post and its ­employees. For this reason, numerous convenient self-service ­solutions exist alongside the friendly branch office employees and delivery staff, allowing great autonomy and individual timing on the part of customers. This generates increased satisfaction. K nowing customer needs and being able to meet the highest demands are at the heart of Austrian Post’s activities. The company measures its success as a high-quality PILOT project 20 Post stations in service provider by the satisfaction of its customers. Hofer shops across Services and products are tailored to the customer the country ­and his wish for enhanced autonomy and comfort, from expanded self-service zones as part of modern­ ised branch office concepts to customised individual ­shipping solutions. Reliability and friendliness – Austrian Post is well received More than 9,000 mail carriers fan out each day to bring letters and parcels to the people who expect them. Six letter mail and seven parcel distribution centres ensure that all items quickly and reliably reach the right destination. Employees at 1,800 postal service points ↑ Austrian Post wants to make things comfortable and convenient throughout the entire country offer the best personfor customers. Receiving and sending parcels should involve the least possible effort. For this reason, Hofer is becoming a ­postal alised postal shipping and communication services. hub in close to 20 pilot branch offices throughout the country. Professional handling, reliable transport and reliabil­Parcels can be redirected to Hofer shops or picked up from here ity are guaranteed for every delivery, whether letters the next time the recipient goes shopping. A person’s own parcels, e. g. returns, can be easily shipped from here. The pilot project from public authorities with advice of receipt, a flyer will be further expanded ­if well received by customers. or parcel. The high quality of shipment and delivery verifiably influence the success of business customers and make a major contribution towards strengthening the reputation of Austrian Post with private customers processes. The company's efforts have paid off. For the as well. However, what tips the scales are the situations very first time, the customer satisfaction index in 2018 in which things become personal. Service-oriented cuswas at a level of 70 points, so that it can be said in the tomer contact which Austrian Post continuously strives double sense of the word that the (Austrian) Post is well to expand and improve is just as important as smooth received by customers. PRO ACTIVE for society Reliability of supply 35 ← Austrian Post offers flexible services to its customers thanks to the pick-up stations. Here parcels which could not be delivered can be picked up. Bring, redirect and deposit mail – flexible solutions provide relief to customers Make a wish! Thanks to digital solutions, there is no problem at all arranging for mail items to be left with a neighbour, delivered to a self-chosen place, pick-up box, Flexibox or one of the 349 pick-up stations instead of the recipient being absent when the mail carrier comes by. It is quite simple to make a wish, select and decide upon a particular option via the Post website post.at or using The advantages of the Post App installed on the smart phone – and the mail will be brought to where the recipient is. It is also possible AllesPost: to use this service to delay delivery for up to five days  You never have to pick-up parcels again from to a more suitable delivery date. Austrian Post has long different parcel shops. provided this degree of comfort to its customers, and is You conveniently receive parcels and save time. expanding its offering. A new pick-up service has been  You can take advantage of all delivery available since 2018. Simply pre-frank the shipment with options offered by Austrian Post. a return label or parcel stamp and let Austrian Post per Act for the sake of the environment and reduce sonally pick the parcel up from your preferred location o ­r the number of delivery tours through bundling. the Flexibox. Now this service can be booked online with just a few clicks. The underlying aim of expanding such services is obvious, i. e. Austrian Post is on the move and will come to the place where the customer is, in line with the motto: welcome to the comfort zone, dear customer. This is how it works: We will take care of you. 1. You get an AllesPost address which you submit In the future: AllesPost as your future recipient address. For example, the AllesPost address would be: As a customer it is frequently not possible to decide John Doe which company will be responsible for shipping and AP2345678 ­delivery when goods are ordered. However, empowered Halban-Kurz Straße 10/1 consumers should have this option at their disposal. For 1230 Vienna this reason, Austrian Post is launching a new service in the spring of 2019 enabling people to specify that all their 2. All your parcels will be sent to this address by parcels are to be delivered by Austrian Post in the future. all transport companies. In this case, Austrian Post will assume responsibility for all product orders no later than on the last metres before 3. From this point on Austrian Post's delivery the items reach the recipient – with all the advantages staff will ­take charge and bring your mail items and reliability customers are accustomed to enjoying to you as usual. from Austrian Post. 36 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post Sustainability Report SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 39 Statement – What Sustainability Means for Us 40 An Overview of Austrian Post 42 Integrated Corporate and Sustainability Strategy 46 Sustainable Corporate Governance 49 Responsible Procurement 52 Stakeholder Management 54 Material Topics 57 Economy 62 Society 66 Employees 74 Environment 82 About this Report 84 Facts & Figures 96 GRI Index 104 Independent Assurance Report 106 Contact and Imprint � left to right WALTER OBLIN, GEORG PÖLZL, PETER UMUNDUM 38 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post STATEMENT – WHAT SUSTAINABILITY MEANS FOR US 102-14 a member of the UN Global Compact. Not only do we want to Austrian Post considers corporate social responsibility maintain our leading position undertaken with our CO2 NEUto be of great importance. As an Austrian flagship company, TRAL DELIVERY initiative, but also to expand it further. We we assume responsibility for our behaviour in a social enviwere one of the very first Austrian companies to make a clear ronment. In future we want to positively shape our impacts on commitment to climate protection, and already submitted a the economy, employees and environment as well as society scientifically sound CO₂ reduction goal to the Science Based with numerous targeted measures. With our programme Targets initiative in 2016. called “PRO ACTIVE! Austrian Post. Sustainable for Austria”, we make it clear that sustainability is an ongoing process. For our company, corporate social responsibility also means that we are in regular contact with our s­ takeholders. As a company we are compelled to ensure economic We want to know their expectations and make ongoing success on behalf of our shareholders. However, we are improvements. For this reason, we use every opportunity to aware of our social responsibility, our role as an employer pursue an active dialogue with our stakeholders. Our annual and our ecological footprint. Our mission statement and the Stakeholder Roundtable is the highlight of our efforts. We integrated corporate and sustainability strategy comprise appreciate the open and constructive discussions and thank the basis of our day-to-day business operations. We take our stakeholders for their willingness to contribute. At this sustainability into account in our core business and correpoint we would like to thank our employees not only for enaspondingly align our projects to these targets. In this way bling Austrian Post to meet its economic, societal, social and we safeguard the company’s future success. ecological objectives but also to exceed our targets. In order to ensure the sustainable orientation of our busiWith this in mind, we are pleased to present this year’s ness activities, we define ambitious objectives on an annual Sustainability Report to you, and hope you will find it to be basis in our four dimensions of economy, society, employees informative! and the environment. We support the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations in our capacity as With best regards, GEORG PÖLZL WALTER OBLIN PETER UMUNDUM Chairman of the Management Board Deputy Chairman of the Management Board Member of the Management Board Chief Executive Officer Mail & Direct Mail, Finance Parcel & Logistics, Logistics Networks Statement 39 AN OVERVIEW OF AUSTRIAN POST 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-5, 102-7, 102-45, 102-46 The Austrian Post Group, hereafter Austrian Post, is the leading logis­tics and postal services provider in the country, with approximately 20,500 employees and an annual revenue of EUR 2.0 bn. The core business encompasses the transport and delivery of letters, direct mail items, print media and parcels as well as various logistics services. Corporate Structure and The service spectrum of the Mail & Branch Network ­Division includes the collection, sorting and delivery of Business Areas letters, postcards, addressed and unaddressed direct mail items and newspapers. In addition, Austrian Post offers 102-2, 102-5, 102-7, 102-10 postal and telecommunications products as well as financial A majority stake in Austrian Post is held by Österreich­ services. Austrian Post also make energy services availaische Beteiligungs AG – ÖBAG (formerly Österreichische ble and offers its customers a range of online services. The Bundesund Industriebeteiligungen GmbH – ÖBIB). Detailed offering is complemented by new services for business and information on the company as well as on the Austrian Post direct mail, including address, data and mailroom manageshare and shareholder structure can be found in the Finanment, intelligent scanning and response management. cial Report. The transport and delivery of parcels and “Express Mail Austrian Post concentrates its business activities in two Service (EMS)” items for private and business ­customers divisions, namely the Mail & Branch Network Division and comprise the core business of the Parcel & Logistics the Parcel & Logistics Division. ­Division. The service spectrum of the Parcel & Logistics Mail & Branch 720 550 million letters million addressed 340 million print media 95.8 % of all letters mailed Network and 3.3 billion un­ and 340 million with Austrian Post reach addressed direct mail regional media their recipients on Division items the next working day Parcel & Logistics 108 97.3 % 91.4 % million parcels of all parcels to private of all parcels are handed Division and EMS items customers are delivered within two working to their recipients by Austrian Post on the first days delivery attempt 40 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post Austrian Post’s Presence 2018 Czechia 1 Germany 1,791 postal service points 6 Slovakia Austria mail and Hungary Croatia 7 parcel distribution centres Serbia Bosnia and Bulgaria 15,001 letterboxes Herzegovina Montenegro Turkey 2 9,024 mail carriers 1 Recognised as a financial asset accounted for using the equity method 2 Recognised as a financial asset Division also includes a wide range of value-added services. Austrian Post’s Presence They include fulfilment solutions such as warehousing, commissioning, returns management, the transport of valuable 102-4, 102-6, 102-7 goods and cash, webshop logistics and webshop infra­ Austrian Post operates in the letter mail and direct mail structure. businesses as well as in the parcel and logistics segment The two operating divisions are complemented by the through its subsidiaries in ten countries. Corporate Division. It is responsible for all services relating Austrian Post generated about 92 % of its revenue in to administering the Group, innovation management and its domestic market of Austria in 2018 together with its the development of new business models. There were no ­Austrian subsidiaries. Austrian Post (AG) is a market leader major changes in the corporate structure of Austrian Post in the country for the delivery of letters, direct mail items during the period under review. and newspapers as well as parcels. Austrian Post (AG) offers its services throughout the Refer to the Financial Report 2018, p. 04f, p. 16 entire country, featuring 1,791 postal service points, including 423 company-operated branch offices and 1,368 postal partner offices. It’s network of postal service points ranks among the country’s largest private customer networks. Refer to the Financial Report 2018, p. 04f An Overview of Austrian Post 41 INTEGRATED CORPORATE AND ­SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Austrian Post considers the sustainable orientation of its business operations to be a great opportunity. For this reason, ecological and social factors also play a decisive role in managing the company in addition to the economic aspects. Together they secure the longterm success of the company. Goals: Goals: → Further develop → Ensure reliable supply the ­sustainable business of postal services and shape model of Austrian Post underlying conditions → Focus on customers → Promote social and innovation ­commitment THE FOUR AREAS OF THE SUSTAINABILITY DIMENSIONS SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY 1. Defending market ­leadership in the core business 2. Profitable growth in selected markets 3. Enhancing efficiency and optimising the cost structure 4. Customer orientation and innovation 42 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post Sustainable profitability is the top priority of Austrian place within the context of various sustainability projects Post. It serves as the basis for further expansion of its oriented to the four strategic cornerstones of the corporate services for the benefit of customers, the promotion of its strategy. At the same time, these projects also take account international business and the modernisation of the logistics of the material issues established in cooperation with the infrastructure. company’s stakeholders. In order to safeguard its long-term profitability, Austrian This integration of the sustainability and corporate Post relies on four strategic levers comprising the core of its strategy practiced and embodied by the company is preoverall strategic orientation. Moreover, the four dimensions sented in the diagram below on the basis of four selected of sustainability – economy, employees, society and environexamples impacting all four sustainability dimensions. ment – are integrated into the strategy of the company. In Starting in 2019, strategically important projects implethis manner the ongoing sustainable orientation of the entire mented by Austrian Post will be included in this matrix. In company is ensured in line with the motto “PRO ACTIVE! this way, the impacts of the projects can be reviewed and Austrian Post. Sustainable for Austria.” managed by the CSR & Environmental Management DepartTwo primary and two sustainability objectives determinment, ensuring that sustainability aspects are taken into ing the direction of the company are assigned to each of the account. four sustainability dimensions. Every year milestones serving Corporate strategy, refer to the Financial Report 2018, p. 06ff as targets are defined for each of the dimensions, i. e. econSustainability targets and measures, refer to p. 58, 63, 67, 75f omy, society, employees and environment. They help the company to achieve its main ­targets. Implementation takes Goals: Goals: → Promote a corporate → Protect the climate and leadership culture and conserve resources → Pay attention → Strengthen environ­ to health and safety mental awareness EXEMPLARY PROJECTS – “CSR INSIDE“ Expansion of p. 12 logistics centres p. 79 Digitalisation of p. 04ff, p. 08ff Austrian Post CO2 NEUTRAL p. 12ff, p. 16ff DELIVERY p. 76 Customer solutions p. 34 p. 60f Integrated Corporate and ­Sustainability Strategy 43 Sustainable Development Goals Development Goals (SDGs). They took effect in January 2016 and are designed to provide a globally valid framework for 102-12, 103-2 sustainability until 2030. Along with other 192 members of Austrian Post has been a member of the UN Global the United Nations, Austria has also adopted these goals. Compact since 2007. In implementing its goals and activities, On balance, the measures and programmes carried out it aligns its operations to these principles with regard to by Austrian Post contribute towards achieving eleven of the human rights, labour laws, environmental protection and 17 sustainability goals of the United Nations. anti-corruption. On the basis of its commitment to the Global The sections of this report marked with the symbol SDG Compact, Austrian Post advocates implementation of the outline how Austrian Post puts SDGs into practice: . United Nation’s 17 global objectives called the Sustainable Sustainable Development Goals of Austrian Post As a public limited company, a stable economic performance (SDG 8) is at the heart of its business operations. As a service company, Austrian Post attaches particular importance to the social orientation of its business activities. Health care (SDG 3) and training programmes (SDG 4), the promotion of gender equality (SDG 5) as well as anti-discrimination and diversity (SDG 10) are firmly embedded in the company. As a logistics company, the ecological orientation of its business is becoming increasingly important. The focus is on climate protection (SDG 13), which Austrian Post actively supports by promoting a sustainable infrastructure (SDG 9), using renewable and innovative technologies (SDG 11) and actively promoting environmentally-friendly consumption and production patterns (SDG 12). In carrying out its business operations, Austrian Post contributes to a sustainable society (SDG 11) and the development of the rule of law (SDG 16). 44 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post Honours and Awards ECOVADIS EcoVadis awarded a “Gold Recognition Level” r­ ating to Austrian Post in recognition of its CSR activities. E ­ coVadis is a sustainability assessment platform, which aims to 102-12 improve the environmental and social practices of compaAustrian Post operates in a sustainable manner – this nies by CSR performance monitoring within the supply chain has been confirmed by the capital markets and various and supporting companies in improving their sustainability national and international ratings. scorecards. MSCI ESG RESEARCH VÖNIX Austrian Post was assigned the best ­possible rating of The renewed inclusion of Austrian Post in the Austrian AAA in 2018 within the context of the MSCI Environmensustainability index VÖNIX of the Vienna Stock Exchange tal, Social and Governance Ratings. As a part of the rating for the period 2018/19 confirms the ­sustainable manner in process, the company was evaluated according to the bestwhich Austrian Post operates from a capital market per­ in-class approach and compared to other companies in the spective. postal sector. In particular, MSCI also positively assessed the expansion of the e-vehicle fleet, the attractive remunerIPC GOLD AWARD 2018 ation systems, further education and professional developAustrian Post actively participates in international ment offerings for employees and the good and solid busiprogrammes such as the “Environmental Measurement ness management structures. and Monitoring System (EMMS)” of the International Post ­Corporation (IPC) and was awarded the IPC Gold Award in 2018. ENERGY GLOBE AWARD Austrian Post (AG) was given the internationally ISS OEKOM RESEARCH re­nowned “Energy Globe World Award” at the beginning ISS oekom research is one of the world’s leading rating of 2018 for its e-mobility concept. The award is given on agencies in the field of sustainable investments. ­Austrian an annual basis to outstanding projects with a focus on Post was awarded the Prime Status rating within the context con­serving natural resources, energy efficiency and the of the oekom Corporate Rating in May 2018. As a result, Aususe of renewable energy. trian Post ranks among the leading transport and logistics companies in terms of sustainability. AUSTRIAN SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING AWARD In November 2018, Austrian Post (AG) placed third in the category “Separate sustainability report of large companies” within the context of the Austrian Sustainability Reporting Award (ASRA) in recognition of the best Austrian CARBON DISCLOSURE PROJECT sustainability reports. The ASRA honours those Austrian Austrian Post was assigned an A– rating by the Carbon companies which fulfil the requirements of operating sus­ Disclosure Project (CDP), world’s largest database for tainably in an exemplary manner and transparently present corporate environmental and climate change information it in their sustainability reports. and which is extensively used by capital m­ arket participants to evaluate potential investments. This re­cog­nition not only confirms Austrian Post’s trans­parent environ­mental reporting but also serves as evi­dence of the quality of the initiated climate protection measures. Integrated Corporate and ­Sustainability Strategy 45 SUSTAINABLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Austrian Post attaches great importance to a responsible and transparent corporate management. This is because Austrian Post is one of the country’s flagship companies. The company is aware of its exemplary role and the responsibility which goes along with it and aims to fulfil its responsibility in every respect. Austrian Post wants to be perceived as a responsible it serves as a reference framework for employees and execpartner that acts with integrity. In this regard, proper and utives and is the basis for an open, respectful and legally-­ responsible business management as well as ethically sound compliant corporate culture. Its contents reflect the commitbehaviour on the part of all executives and employees play ment of Austrian Post to comply with the principles of the a major role. UN Global Compact and thus comprise the foundation for an open, respectful and legally-compliant corporate culture. All other Group guidelines and behavioural instructions Mission Statement are based on and derived from the Code of Conduct and Ethics. The Code of Conduct and Ethics is available on the 102-16, 16 Intranet at all times and can also be downloaded from the Austrian Post expects impeccable and exemplary Austrian Post website in all Group languages. behaviour from each employee at all times, regardless of A separate Code of Conduct for Suppliers of Austrian his or her position. The mission statement was developed in Post was developed in 2011. This obliges contractors of 2010 in order to create a mutually shared value system Austrian Post as well as their subcontractors and suppliers and a clear benchmark for executives and employees. The to comply with minimum legal, social and ecological standmission statement, which applies to all employees, stipuards. lates which core values of the corporate and sustain­ability Refer to p. 50 strategy are to be implemented. post.at/Code-of-Conduct The mission statement of Austrian Post has two objectives. post.at/Code-of-Conduct-for-Suppliers On the one hand, it serves as an orientation for the actions of employees and the Management Board in their everyday work. On the other hand, the mission statement is of fundamental importance for defining clear objectives. It underlines the fact Responsibility for Sustainability that sustainable corporate success at Austrian Post not only defines economic aspects but also encompasses the social 102-18, 102-19, 102-20 sphere, the environment and employees. The issue of sustainability is of crucial importance to the entire company. For this reason, on an organisational post.at/mission-statement level, responsibility for sustainability is directly in the hands of Chief Executive Officer Georg Pölzl in the “Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management Code of Conduct and Ethics Department”. Great importance is attached in the company to an 102-16, 16 interdisciplinary approach and cooperation among the indiThe Code of Conduct and Ethics of Austrian Post is vidual areas. The basis for this is the integrated sustainbased on the mission statement. It describes the principles ability and corporate strategy. For this reason, the “CSR of conduct which are binding at Austrian Post. Accordingly, and Environmental Management Department” maintains an 46 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post ongoing dialogue with various business units. Inter-comGood corporate governance goes far beyond simply pany working groups deal with current sustainability-­ adhering to legal regulations. Respect for the interests of related issues, formulate corresponding objectives and shareholders, openness and transparency in corporate comdefine appropriate measures. munications to all stakeholder groups and avoidance of The Management Board integrates sustainability-­ conflicts of interests in corporate bodies are just as imporrelated issues in the highest decision-making bodies and tant. Furthermore, the efficient cooperation between the processes, for example at Management Board and SuperManagement Board and Supervisory Board is also a key visory Board meetings, in order to ensure the company’s aspect of good corporate governance. sustainability-oriented corporate development. In its role Austrian Post reports on corporate governance annually as the highest governing and supervisory body, the Superin its Corporate Governance Report. visory Board performs its duties by taking account of the Refer to the Financial Report 2018, p. 20ff economic as well as social and ecological responsibility ­of the company. Important corporate decisions on social and ecological aspects are made in accordance with the mission statement of Austrian Post and on the basis of relevant Risk Management legal regulations. 102-11 Comprehensive risk management is a key c­ ornerstone Corporate Governance of good corporate governance. Austrian Post operates a comprehensive risk management system integrating all 102-18, 103-1, 103-2 business units and subsidiaries. The Management Board Austrian Post considers corporate governance to comdefines the risk strategy and policy of the company and sets prise responsible business management. Both the Manageout a framework for the risk management system. ment Board and Supervisory Board align corporate manageRefer to the Financial Report 2018, p. 85ff ment and control to national and international principles. Since its initial public offering, Austrian Post (AG) has been unreservedly committed to complying with the Austrian Corporate Governance Code (ACGC). Responsible Corporate Management Responsible corporate management, or good corporate governance, is characterised by compliance with laws and regulations, respect for the interests of shareholders, openness and transparency in the capital Structure Shareholder Capital structure, corporate communications and the remuneration of the ManManagement Board Rights Structure agement Board and Supervisory Board. Moreover, efficient cooperation Supervisory Board and control between the Management Board and Supervisory Board is the prerequisite for good corporate governance. Since its initial public offering, Austrian Post (AG) has been unreservedly committed to adhering to the Austrian Corporate Governance Code (ACGC). Corporate Diversity Compliance Governance Remuneration Transparency Group Management Board Disclosure Auditing Supervisory Board Sustainable Corporate Governance 47 The objective of risk management is to identify risks at Data Protection an early stage and to manage them by taking appropriate measures designed to minimise any potential deviation 103-1, 103-2 from the company’s business targets. Ecological, social and Business customers provide Austrian Post with data to ethical aspects are also integrated into the risk manageensure the smooth processing of transport and delivery serment system in the interest of sustainability. There were no vices. Recipients of mail items also transmit personal data ­ sustainability risks in 2018 which impacted any deviations to Austrian Post. Accordingly, confidentiality as well as inforfrom Group targets. mation and data security are extremely important issues Further details on the central risk management system, for Austrian Post. For this reason, Austrian Post identified risk strategy and policy, the internal control system as well the issue of data protection and data security as a material as a description of the main risks can be found in the Finantopic. cial Report 2018. Austrian Post reports on data protection and data Due to the increasing significance of sustainability security as well as its corresponding goals in the Non-finanrisks on the company’s business activities, several inter­ cial Report 2018. disci­plinary risk workshops were organised by the Risk Refer to the Financial Report 2018, p. 47ff Management Department and the CSR & Environmental post.at/data protection Management Department. The most important risks and opportunities for Austrian Post with respect to the focus areas of the economy, society, employees and environment were identified within the context of an interactive process. Continuation of the workshops and the subsequent assessment of opportunities and risks are planned for 2019. Refer to the Financial Report 2018, p. 20f, 38f, 43, 49, 51, 54, 57 Compliance and Anti-corruption 103-1, 103-2 Austrian Post (AG) and its subsidiaries have established a compliance culture based on the mission statement and the Code of Conduct and Ethics to ensure ethically impeccable and exemplary behaviour. Austrian Post attaches particular importance to proper conduct towards business partners and customers as well as with public authorities and institutions. This is accompanied by the necessity for all employees in the Group to avoid any appearance of corruptibility ­or dishonesty in their business dealings. The main objective of Austrian Post is to prevent corruption from happening in the first place. The Corporate Governance Report provides further information on compliance and the Non-financial Report 2018 includes details on anti-corruption. Refer to the Financial Report 2018, p. 50ff 48 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT Austrian Post takes responsibility along the entire value chain. In addition to the organisation of internal processes, responsibility and integrity in its business relationships are also decisive factors enabling the company to live up to its ambitions in this regard. Responsibility all Along the Line Within the context of its responsible procurement policy, Austrian Post takes account of environmental and social 103-1, 103-2, 102-9 aspects in addition to price, quality and delivery time. The core business of Austrian Post consists in the As a logistics company, the sourcing of energy and puracceptance, sorting and delivery of mail items. In order to chasing of vehicles is of immense importance to Austrian fulfil these tasks, Austrian Post requires technical equipPost and its core business. Since 2012, Austrian Post (AG) ment, machinery, operating materials, vehicles, IT and other has been procuring electricity exclusively from renewable services. energy sources for company-owned and leased buildings in Austrian Post distinguishes between purchasing for its which the origin of the electricity supply is known. core business (infrastructure and logistics) and procureEnvironmental compatibility is also a priority when it ment on behalf of its administration (indirect materials and comes to new acquisitions for the vehicle fleet. Austrian Post services). (AG) purchases vehicles in the lowest emission classes Infrastructure and Indirect Material Logistics and Services Technical systems and machinery Consulting Technical equipment Construction Transport (freight companies) Facility management Vehicles Furniture and fittings Information technology & telecommunication Office supplies Printed forms Marketing Philately Human resources management Travel management Responsible Procurement 49 i. e. Euro 5, Euro 5 EEV and Euro 6 and also focuses on alternative drive systems in its delivery processes and the continual expansion of its e-vehicle fleet. The Code of Conduct for Paper consumption is of primary importance within the Suppliers of Austrian Post context of material use. That is why Austrian Post (AG) pays attention to ensuring purchases from responsible sources 1. Respect for human dignity such as those featuring the FSC or PEFC seals. 2. Adherence to legal regulations 3. Promotion of equal opportunity and diversity Business Relationships of 4. Ban on child labour Austrian Post (AG) 5. Ban on forced labour 6. Adherence to national labour laws 102-9, 102-10, 204-1, 12 7. Support for freedom of association and Group Procurement is responsible for an annual order freedom of assembly volume of about EUR 0.6 bn. Accordingly, Austrian Post (AG) 8. Ensuring occupational health and safety ranks among the leading contracting entities in the Republic 9. Adherence to environmental and safety of Austria. regulations The company relies on regional structures in its procure10. Adherence to respective national ment policy. 92 % of the approx. 7,000 suppliers are located anti-corruption laws in Austria. This means that Austrian suppliers account 11. Prevention of conflicts of interest for more than 90 % of the total purchasing volume. During the reporting period, there have been no major changes in the supply chain with respect to its structure, the location of suppliers and their selection. in tendering procedures since 2012. Suppliers of Austrian Post are subject to the Group’s own Corporate Procurement Corporate Procurement Policy and Policy and are required to adhere to the minimum social Local Procurement Policy standards stipulated in the Code of Conduct for Suppliers of Austrian Post. All purchases which exceed a value of EUR 100,000 With respect to all external suppliers with which Austrian are subject to Group-wide procurement guidelines (CorPost wants to establish strategically important, financially porate Procurement Policy). The Local Procurement ­Policy material or long-term business relationships, a risk assessdetails the procurement guidelines applying to the entire ment is regularly carried out on a medium-term basis in Group for purchases under EUR 100,000 in value. order to minimise the purchasing risk and above all default These two guidelines stipulate that all business relationand dependency risks. ships have to be oriented to ethical principles and correspond to the requirements of fairness. A further principle Vendor Integrity Check contained is sustainability, stipulating an environmentally and socially responsible organisation of procurement and 103-3, 308-2, 414-2, 5, 8, 16 relationships to suppliers in accordance with the sustainStarting with an annual net purchasing volume of at least ability strategy. The rules in the Corporate Procurement EUR 1m, or with respect to high-risk categories already startPolicy relating to procurement excellence (quality standards, ing with a volume of EUR 50,000, suppliers are subject to reporting and supplier evaluation) and compliance not only a vendor integrity check (VIC). In addition to compliance-­ apply to the entire Group Procurement but also purchases related aspects, this evaluation also encompasses sustainwhich are processed in a decentralised manner by the operability criteria such as human rights and labour laws, health ating units. The compliance rules also apply for those excepand safety, sustainability and environmental protection as tions (list of exceptions) which are subject to special rules in well as ethics and corporate responsibility. In 2018 the VIC line with the procurement guidelines of Austrian Post. Auswas converted from a supplier self-disclosure to a system-­ trian Post also applies internal guidelines in the selection of supported process. This system-based approach considersuppliers within the context of its procurement management. ably increases the data security and quality of the compiled information. The compiled data is subsequently reviewed by Code of Conduct for Suppliers the ­Compliance Department and Group Procurement. All verified suppliers are entered into the portfolio of 205-2, 414-2, 5, 8, 16 the system, initiating an ongoing monitoring of key company The Code of Conduct for Suppliers of Austrian Post characteristics. In the case of critical issues or when the has already been part of the standard documents included criteria of the VIC are not fulfilled, the suppliers are asked 50 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post to submit a response or else appropriate measures are specified in consultation with the Compliance D ­ epartment. Afterwards the implementation of these measures is checked. Austrian Post is working on implementing an up­stream inspection process for the purpose of continually improving its supplier management. The Group’s own companies (subsidiaries and sister companies) which perform services on behalf of Austrian Post and for which invoices are offset are also listed as suppliers but are exempt from the VIC. Postal companies in other countries with which Austrian Post has reciprocal cooperation agreements are also exempt. International partnerships and the conditions underlying cross-border postal traffic are regulated by the Universal Postal Union. Responsible Procurement 51 STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT As one of the largest employers in the country and the market-­ leading universal postal service provider, Austrian Post has diverse relationships with various stakeholder groups. The dialogue with these stakeholders helps Austrian Post to fulfil their expectations, identify improvement potential and define specific measures to be implemented. In the Spotlight Stakeholder Groups of Austrian Post The aim of Austrian Post’s stakeholder management is 102-42 to get to know the concerns of stakeholders better and inteFor Austrian Post, ongoing communication with its grate these concerns in developing the company’s sustainvarious stakeholder groups is enormously important to ability strategy. At the same time, stakeholder management en­able the step-by-step development of the company’s also aims to strengthen and expand the very good and open sustainability strategy. The interest groups of Austrian Post relationships to interest groups. encompass various areas of society and have different expectations of Austrian Post. For this reason, the relevant For this reason, Austrian Post develops and discusses stakeholder groups were evaluated in 2014 and identified strategic goals, measures and their implementation within in line with ONR 192500, the certifiable guideline to the context of a broad-based dialogue with its stakeholder ISO 26000. groups. The sustainability targets and measures of Austrian Post are strongly focused to the demands and expectations of its stakeholders. Stakeholder Groups 102-40 Austrian Post engages in dialogue with various stakeholder groups Communities/ and relies on different Share­holders Customers Employees NGOs Mayors forms of interaction. In addition to the annual Stakeholder Roundtable, Austrian Post exchanges views with political decision makers, and gives its stakePublic Social holders the opportunity Government Associations Authorities Partners to participate via different communication channels. Transport Friends and Competitors Media Suppliers Service Family Providers 52 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post Engaged in a Dialogue with Stakeholder Groups ■ Investor Relations Department (normal business hours) ■ Compliance hotline (normal business hours) 102-21, 102-43, 102-44 ■ Ombudsperson for employees (normal business hours) A significant form of dialogue is the annual Stakeholder ■ Annual General Meeting (held once a year) Roundtable. The roundtable offers different stakeholders ■ Separate e-mail address for issues relating to such as customers, suppliers, employees, NGOs, investors sustainability (csr@post.at) and shareholders a direct and personal opportunity to convey what they believe to be important to Austrian Post as well as what they desire from the company. Interaction with Political In organising its Stakeholder Roundtable, Austrian Post attaches great importance to providing a balance among the Decision Makers different stakeholder groups participating in the roundtable as well as between men and women. The Stakeholder Austrian Post continually exchanges views with its Roundtable was held on October 2, 2018, for the eighth time. stakeholders, including political interest groups and decision Austrian Post discussed the main challenges of the present makers. Austrian Post (AG) is committed to ensuring that the and future with about 40 stakeholders. For each of the four political framework is in line with the demands imposed upon sustainability dimensions economy, environment, employees Austrian Post as well as the needs of its customers. Accordand society one important aspect was singled out and disingly, Austrian Post (AG) has a justified interest in making cussed with stakeholders on the basis of targeted questions sure that its concerns are conveyed to legislators with regard on risks and opportunities. For example, the aspect of gento laws and decisions affecting postal market regulations, der balance was discussed in connection with the dimenmail and parcel delivery, transport and logistics, business sion of employees, whereas the aspect of city logistics was location policies, e-government and many other areas. The selected with respect to the dimension of the environment. underlying objective is to promote a broad under­standing, The focus was on the regional reliability of supply in the attract support and optimally exert influence. dimension of society and on digitalisation with respect to the dimension of the economy. Transparency Regarding Lobbying Both external and internal stakeholders identified the and Interest Representation felxibilisation of working hours and the required change in leadership as the most important aspect relating to gender 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 balance. Stakeholders highlighted the further expansion of According to the Lobbying and Interest Representation e-mobility and the use and integration of the existing (public) Transparency Act (LobbyG), which took effect on January infrastructure for services with regard to city logistics. The 1, 2013, companies and employees are required to register use of branch offices as “click and collect” points as well and disclose cases in which they represent their interests or as the extension of opening hours were the most important have their interests represented in the political arena. issues discussed in connection to the reliability of supply. The interests of Austrian Post are represented by its With respect to the subject of digitalisation, stakeholders own employees as well as membership in associations (e. g. considered a stronger linkage of the digital and physical Austrian Federal Economic Chamber, Federation of Ausoffering and the safeguarding of Austrian Post as a trusttrian Industries, PostEurop, International Post Corporation, worthy partner to be the key issues. The relevant chapters EMOTA) as well via external consultants who monitor releof this report explain how Austrian Post incorporates the vant political developments on a national and EU level and conclusions of the Stakeholder Roundtable. The next Stakereport their findings to Austrian Post. holder Roundtable is scheduled to be held in the autumn of All relevant information relating to the lobbying activ2019. ities of Austrian Post, for example the names of company Furthermore, there are other opportunities for stakelobbyists, the lobbying expenditures of Austrian Post which holder groups to express their opinions, exchange views or exceed EUR 100,000 annually or its lobbying positions, are participate in the decision-making process, a few of which publicly available. Austrian Post has not only been listed in are presented here: the Lobbying and Interest Representation Register of the ■ Employee survey (every two years) Austrian Ministry of Justice (lobbyreg.justiz.gv.at; registra■ Customer service for private customers tion number LIVR-00196) since November 2014 but is also (available during normal business hours) listed in the voluntary EU Transparency Register. ■ Customer service for business customers (normal business hours) ■ Customer survey (quarterly) Stakeholder Management 53 MATERIAL TOPICS Austrian Post worked together with its external stakeholders and internal experts in an interactive process to define the most important issues. 102-46, 102-47 innovation and future technologies, regional infrastructure The importance and clustering of the material topics and reliability of supply as well as resource efficiency were were identified and discussed with external stakeholders at considered by stakeholders to be the most important and the Stakeholder Roundtable 2017. Subsequently these issues are also believed to have a high impact. were ranked according to their importance from a stakeHow Austrian Post takes these material topics into holder perspective. account within the context of its sustainability manageFollowing the Stakeholder Roundtable, in-house groups ment, which management approaches it pursues in each of experts assessed the material topics which were idencase, and the progress it has made with respect to the tified with respect to their economic, ecological and social material topics is handled in the four sections of this report impacts. The entire process was supported by an auditor. dealing with the thematic priorities. The outcome of both rounds of voting were integrated The reasons why these topics are considered to be of into a materiality matrix. The results of the revision process material importance and the impacts they have are prefor the material topics shows that most topics are consented in the following table: sidered to be of extensive importance and have a significant impact. The topics of customer proximity, service and customer orientation, climate protection and energy, Materiality Matrix of Austrian Post 10 Economy 1 Service and customer orientation H H IG 2 Innovation and future technologies 9 7 RY VE 3 Growth and value creation Society 4 1 IMPORTANT FOR STAKEHOLDERS 11 4 Data protection and data security 8 5 Regional infrastructure and reliability of supply 8 2 9 12 6 Social commitment 13 5 Employees 7 7 Customer proximity 10 3 8 Corporate culture and working environment 9 Further education and professional development 10 Occupational safety and health protection 6 6 Environment H IG H 11 Climate protection and energy 5 12 Resource efficiency 5 6 7 8 9 10 13 Responsible procurement SIGNIFICANCE OF ECONOMIC, ECOLOGICAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS 54 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post Material Topics of Austrian Post 103-1, 102-46, 102-47 Material Economic Topics Material Issues According Impacts and Responsibility/Influence GRI Standard/Internal Performance Indicators to the Matrix of Austrian Post Growth and Growth and value creation are key factors in the economic GRI 201: Economic Performance value creation success of Austrian Post. Other indirect effects arise from GRI 205: Anti-corruption the related volume of contract orders, taxes and fees GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behaviour GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance Innovation and Modern and innovative products and services comprise No adequate GRI standard exists at the present time. future technologies a crucial prerequisite of economic success. Other An internal performance indicator is currently being com­panies, the government and society also profit from evaluated innovations and investments in infrastructure Service and Austrian customers, especially customers in the company’s No adequate GRI standard exists at the present time. customer orientation core business, directly benefit from the service and cusThe internal performance indicators used here are the tomer orientation of Austrian Post. With respect to those customer satisfaction analysis (CSI) results areas in which Austrian Post does not perform the services itself but, for example, works together with external delivery staff, the company only indirectly and to a limited extent has an influence on service and customer orientation Material Social Topics Material Issues According Impacts and Responsibility/Influence GRI Standard/Internal Performance Indicators to the Matrix of Austrian Post Regional infrastructure and Austrian Post safeguards the regional infrastructure and GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts. Other internal reliability of supply ensures a reliable supply of postal services for the benefit performance indicators are the requirements imposed of Austrian society and customers in Austria. Due to the by the universal service obligation (nationwide network public service obligation of Austrian Post (AG) as a uniof postal service points and stipulated delivery quality) versal service provider, this material topic only applies to Austrian Post (AG) and not to its subsidiaries Social commitment Socially disadvantaged sections of the population in No adequate GRI standard exists at the present time. Austria are supported by social projects carried out by The internal performance indicators are total sponsoring Austrian Post. As a partly state-owned company, Austrian expenditures and total amount of donations Post aims to assume its corporate social responsibility to a special degree Data protection and Austrian Post adheres to all valid legal regulations relating GRI 418: Customer Privacy data security to the protection, legitimate use and confidentiality of personal data as well as data security. Personal data is processed in line with data protection regulations, especially the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the Austrian Data Protection Act, special provisions contained in the Postal Market Act and all other relevant laws Material Topics 55 Material Employee Topics Material Issues According Impacts and Responsibility/Influence GRI Standard/Internal Performance Indicators to the Matrix of Austrian Post Corporate culture and A strong corporate image of Austrian Post and a positive GRI 401: Employment worlds of work corporate culture are important basic prerequisites for GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations creating an attractive working environment for employees. GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity This ­promotes employee identification and satisfaction. Austrian Post believes that only satisfied employees will be able to optimally contribute to the long-term value creation of Austrian Post Occupational safety and Measures to ensure safety at the workplace and health GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety health protection protection positively impact employee health. Only employees who are fit for work can ensure the reliable supply of postal services in Austria. Austrian Post only has a limited influence on occupational safety and health protection at its partner companies. However, minimum standards are defined in the Code of Conduct for Suppliers Further education and Austrian Post employees are given individual support in GRI 404: Training and Education professional development order to enable them to optimally manage their professional challenges Customer proximity Regular contact of employees with customers is of particuNo adequate GRI standard exists at the present time. lar importance and an important factor of Austrian Post’s The performance indicators used here are the results of ability to achieve a high level of customer satisfaction the customer satisfaction index (CSI) Material Environmental Topics Material Issues According Impacts and Responsibility/Influence GRI Standard/Internal Performance Indicators to the Matrix of Austrian Post Climate protection As a logistics company, Austrian Post is associated with GRI 302: Energy and energy direct and indirect (e. g. via partner companies) environGRI 305: Emissions mental impacts. Effects on the climate and air quality particularly arise from operating vehicles and the use of energy in operating postal service points, logistics centres, delivery bases and office buildings in Austria Resource efficiency As a logistics company, Austrian Post is associated with GRI 301: Material 2016 direct and indirect (e. g. via partner companies) environGRI 302: Energy 2016 mental impacts. The conscious use and handling of natural GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 resources, for example energy, water and waste, is a matter of course for Austrian Post in order to further reduce ­negative impacts Responsible Austrian Post also assumes its responsibility in the supply GRI 204: Procurement Practices procurement chain based on a responsible and primarily regional proGRI 205: Anti-corruption curement. The aim is to keep negative environmental and GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behaviour social impacts to a minimum GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 56 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post ECONOMY Profound changes characterise the environment in which Austrian Post operates on the basis of its business model. Austrian Post continuously monitors and analyses the underlying conditions in order to be able to optimally respond to change. Trends and Challenges Management Approach Progressive digitalisation, growing competitive pressure of Austrian Post and the internationalisation of markets pose major challenges to Austrian Post, making it ­necessary for the company to 103-2 actively adapt to these changes in order In its capacity as market leader in Austria, Austrian Post to safeguard the long-term economic success of the ­company. resolutely defends its leading position and aims to profitaDigitalisation results in a decrease in letter mail volumes bly grow in the markets it has defined. To ensure its future but also offers customers the highest degree of flexibility in ­success, Austrian Post continually invests in the expansion accessing Austrian Post services. For this reason, Austrian and modernisation of its infrastructure and working proPost is opening up new business areas to compensate for the cesses. In addition, it pursues an attractive dividend policy loss of revenue from the letter mail business. At the same for the benefit of its shareholders. time, it creates innovative digital solutions to fulfil customer Austrian Post assigns great importance to innovation needs. to fulfil the growing demands of its customers. The same In essence, the trends impacting Austrian Post and the question always arises: How can added value for senders be challenges they pose can be summarised as follows: In addiincreased and comfort improved for recipients? In answering tion to cyclical and market developments as well as factor this key question Austrian Post benefits from being close cost increases, the development of staff costs is one of the to its customers and part and parcel of their everyday lives. external influencing and success factors Austrian Post has to Austrian Post knows the wishes and expectations of its deal with in the short-term and long-term: customers. This knowledge enables Austrian Post to develop suitable offerings and services. It also ensures the company’s competitiveness. Megatrends in the Focus Area Refer to p. 57f of the Economy This strategic direction is in line with material topics E-SUBSTITUTION – PRESSURE ON THE CORE BUSINESS identified by stakeholders within the context of the materialCommunication is becoming more digitalised, and the ity analysis in the focus area of the economy: letter mail business is declining. Austrian Post has to offset this loss of revenue by means of new and lucrative sources Material Issues in the Focus Area of income. of the Economy GROWING COMPETITIVE PRESSURE 103-1 Private customer parcel volumes are rising thanks to the ■ Growth and value creation steadily growing importance of online shopping. However, ■ Innovation and future technologies competitive intensity is also increasing. ■ Service and customer orientation Economy 57 Austrian Post relies on new, innovative business ideas markets through a targeted offering of value-added and the implementation of efficiency enhancement proservices, especially in the fields of parcel and logistics and grammes as a means of generating growth and value online services. The company aims to generate economically creation and being able to offer attractive dividends to its attractive earnings from its operations in Austria and abroad shareholders. in order to strengthen the company’s development and provide regular dividend payments to its shareholders. Achievements in 2018 and Focus on Customers and Innovation Targets for 2019 The strategic objective is to safeguard the company’s leading market position. Austrian Post strives to continue 103-3 offering the highest quality mail and parcel delivery services The economic objectives of Austrian Post were defined in its core market of Austria. The company aims to offer for the entire Group. For this reason, the target achievement additional services to private and business customers above assessment incorporates Group data. These goals are to: and beyond its basic offering. The economic performance of Austrian Post is presented Further Develop Austrian Post’s in detail in the Financial Report 2018. Sustainable Business Model The strategic objective is to create value. Austrian Post intends to leverage further growth potential in selected Overview of Economic Objectives Main Target: Further Develop the Sustainable Business Model of Austrian Post Targets for 2018 Achieved in 2018 Targets for 2019 and beyond Target of maintaining Group revenue at a stable The target of achieving Group revenue of EUR 2 bn Target of maintaining Group revenue at a stable level in 2018 (2017 revenue of EUR 1.9 bn) was achieved in spite of a challenging business level in 2019 (2018 revenue of EUR 2 bn) environment Ongoing optimisation of structures and processes Measures were continuously implemented again Ongoing optimisation of structures and processes to further reduce costs and enhance efficiency in 2018 to optimise structures, enhance efficiency to further reduce costs and enhance efficiency and reduce costs. As a result, Austrian Post Group generated an EBITDA margin of 15.6 % in the year under review Target of generating stable operating ­earnings In 2018 the operating earnings (EBIT) of Austrian Target of generating stable operating earn(EBIT) at the level of 2017 (EBIT 2017 of Post amounted to EUR 210.9 m, a year-on-year ings (EBIT) at the level of 2018 (2018 EBIT of EUR 207.8 m) increase of 1.5 % EUR 210.9 m) Main Target: Focus on Customers and Innovation Targets for 2018 Achieved in 2018 Targets for 2019 and beyond Promotion of online services as Promotion of online services such as the Post Ongoing promotion of online services such as the Post App and e-letter App, Postcard App and online parcel stamp the Post App and e-letter Medium-term doubling of 34,100 Post pick-up boxes are at the disposal Expansion of Post pick-up boxes to a total of self-service solutions of customers 46,000 by 2019 50,070 post office boxes at pick-up stations Expansion to 60,000 post office boxes at pick-up stations by 2019 413 self-service zones are at the disposal Further expansion of self-service zones of customers 58 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post Growth and Value Creation to the environment, society and employees have a posi­tive impact on the influencing factors of sustainable profita201-1, 2, 5, 7, 8, 9 bility, such as employee satisfaction and energy efficiency. Whoever wants to generate sustainable value has to operOn the other hand, only an economically successful comate in an economically sound and profitable manner. Austrian pany can fulfil its social responsibility. The ­company’s basic Post sees significant opportunities for the entire company in understanding is correspondingly aligned to the idea that the sustainable orientation of its business activities. Austrian sustainably successful business management must take Post considers the “A” rating granted by the Carbon Discloaccount of both financial and non-financial aspects and consure Project (CDP) and other ESG ratings as confirmation tribute to value creation. that the company already operates in a sustainable manner More information on the business model and the from a capital market perspective. strat­egy of Austrian Post can be found in the Financial Since full-scale market liberalisation took effect in ­Austria, Report 2018. Austrian Post has been a universal services provider, guarRefer to the ratings on p. 45, and About Austrian Post, p. 40f anteeing the supply of high-quality postal services throughRefer to the Financial Report 2018, p. 04f, 06ff out the country. Austrian Post (AG) generates about 88 % of Group revenue. Through its Group subsidiaries, the Mail & Branch Network Division and Parcel & Logistics DiviAnalysis of Value Creation sion of Austrian Post (AG) not only operate in Austria but in ­Germany and in South East and Eastern Europe as well. 201-1, 2, 5, 7, 8, 9 A solid revenue development, sustainably high profitaAustrian Post pursues the goal of generating sustainable bility and the continuation of the attractive dividend policy added value on behalf of its stakeholders. The value generare the declared goals of Austrian Post. The targets relating ated by the company in 2018 consisted of the following: Analysis of Value Creation EUR m Austrian Post (AG) 1 Group 2 2016 2017 2018 2017 2018 Origin Revenue and other operating income 1,771.4 1,881.6 1,862.4 2,051.6 2,054.6 less advances –622.9 –691.1 –705.3 –798.8 –809.0 thereof raw materials and consumables –339.8 –346.8 –361.9 –409.9 –441.2 thereof other operating expenses –227.1 –286.8 –274.2 –316.1 –287.1 thereof depreciation and amortisation –56.0 –57.6 –69.1 –72.8 –80.6 Value creation 1,148.5 1,190.4 1157.1 1,252.8 1,245.7 Distribution to employees (salaries, social contributions) 957.1 983.7 935.7 1,023.4 1,011.9 to shareholders (dividends) 135.1 138.5 140.5 3 138.5 140.5 3 to the Republic of Austria (taxes) 32.7 53.8 62.9 59.4 65.1 to creditors (interest) 0.1 0.4 2.4 0.3 1.0 to non-controlling interests 0 0 0 –0.2 0.6 Balance 23.6 14.0 15.6 31.4 26.6 Added value 1,148.5 1,190.4 1,157.1 1,252.8 1,245.7 1 Pursuant to Austrian Commercial Code (UGB) 2 Pursuant to IFRS 3 Proposal to the Annual General Meeting on April 11, 2019 Economy 59 The revenue of EUR 2,054.6 m generated by Austrian Post in Dividend Policy 2018 (incl. other operating income) was offset by advances in the amount of EUR 809.0 m. The resulting added value of 201-1, 2, 5, 7, 8, 9 Austrian Post totalling EUR 1,245.7 m was mainly distributed An attractive dividend policy is not only a key corner­ to employees directly in the form of wages and salaries and stone of the company’s investment story, but also the founindirectly via social contributions. The total amount assigned dation of its entire corporate philosophy. At least 75 % of the to employees was EUR 1,011.9 m. Group’s net profit should be distributed to shareholders each year. For the 2018 financial year, the Management Board will Refer to the Financial Report 2018 for more information propose to the Annual General Meeting scheduled for April about the earnings situation 11, 2019, the distribution of a dividend totalling EUR 140.5 m (EUR 2.08 per share) to shareholders for approval. Payments of Austrian Post (AG) The dividend policy of Austrian Post is based on a solid to the Republic of Austria business model and strong cash flow from operating activities. In 2018, Austrian Post further improved its operating 201-1, 2, 5, 7, 8, 9 earnings. Moreover, the operating free cash flow before The majority owner (52.85%) of Austrian Post, namely acquisitions/securities and growth CAPEX was at a high level Österreichische Beteiligungs AG – ÖBAG (formerly Öster­ despite an extensive investment programme, providing an reichische Bundesund Industriebeteiligungen GmbH – ongoing solid basis to finance future investments and diviÖBIB), will receive EUR 74.3m in dividends from the total dend payments. At the end of 2018, the dividend yield was dividend payout of from Austrian Post (AG) amounting to 6.9 %. Accordingly, Austrian Post has ranked among the most EUR 140.5m (subject to approval by the Annual General attractive dividend stocks both in Austria and internationally Meeting on April 11, 2019). Moreover, EUR 62.9m was paid in recent years. to the Republic of Austria as taxes and duties. Payments of the Republic of Austria Innovation and to Austrian Post (AG) Future Technologies 201-1, 2, 5, 7, 8, 9 Austrian Post (AG) benefits from public sector funding 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 201-2, 203-1, 2, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13 for individual projects, and also actively participates in The market launch of innovative products and the projects funded by the European Commission, such as expansion of the existing product portfolio comprise an “Smarter Together” (more information at smartertogether.at). essential key to sustainable success in a changing market The support and know-how of the Climate and Energy Fund, environment. Austrian Post continuously works on complethe Austrian Research Promotion Agency, the Vienna menting and improving its products and services and on Business Agency and other government funding bodies optimising its processes and work flows. en­ables Austrian Post to implement projects featuring a high Austrian Post relies on state-of-the-art technologies level of research and innovation and/or relevance to envi­ and invests in improving and expanding its operating infraronmental protection. structure each year. The investments and innovations are not limited to property, plant and equipment but are also smartertogether.at designed to improve the way employees work. Modern and up-to-date working models also ensure efficiency and proThe objective of several comprehensive mobility projects ductivity in processes. largely financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Resource conservation and energy efficiency in Rural Development (EAFRD) of the European Union and the ­processes and work flows represent one of the research Federal Ministry for Sustainability and Tourism is to further and development priorities. The CSR and E ­ nvironmental expand climate-friendly mobility solutions in the form of Management Department consults and supports the opere-vehicle fleets. Austrian Post (AG) has created a central ating units in their research and development a ­ ctivities. funding management unit to optimally support project By the end of 2018, Austrian Post invested about EUR 17 m managers of the eligible projects, serving as a competent in CO₂-neutral, pollution-free delivery. In total, investments internal and external contact partner, from application of Austrian Post (AG) in the 2018 financial year totalled submission to the invoicing of project costs. EUR 137 m, up by EUR 15 m from the prior-year level. This 60 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post amount encompassed spending of EUR 126.5 m on propsatisfaction was measured on a quarterly basis during the erty, plant and equipment and EUR 10.5 m on intangible reporting period by the renowned Institute for Empirical assets. Social Research (IFES). The “Customer Satisfaction Index” One of the focal points of the investment programme (CSI) encompassing customer satisfaction and customer during the period under review was on other equipment, ­loyalty is determined by means of a representative survey furniture and fittings. In addition to ongoing investments in with a sample size of n = 1,000 per wave. the vehicle fleet, this area mainly involved investments in Measuring customer satisfaction in accordance with branch office equipment and furnishings. The section on the CSI scale considers 50 index points or less to represent the environment provides details on the vehicle fleet and a critical level and 51 to 60 points as moderately content, the expansion of e-mobility. Another focal point was on whereas more than 61 points is considered to be good and investments made within the context of the capacity higher than 70 means very good. An outstanding level of cusexpansion programme. tomer satisfaction is for 81 points up to the highest possible score of 100. Refer to p. 78ff Refer to p. 13ff Refer to the Financial Report 2018 starting on p. 47ff Service and Customer Orientation 103-2 The customer at the centre of Post services Austrian Post knows its customers well, which has proven to be a key cornerstone of its success. Only when a C company knows what its customers want can it offer innovative and customer-oriented services and thus achieve entreBranch offices B preneurial success in the long term. Self-service In line with its guiding principle, “Everything we do station A revolves around our customers”, Austrian Post focuses on the needs of its customers and steadily works on new Delivery staff products and services which respond to current customer Pick-up station requirements for greater flexibility in a pinpointed manner. Customer Post The emphasis is placed on customer convenience and pick-up box service quality on the basis of flexible delivery concepts and Postal Partner online solutions. Appointed neighbour Flexibox Refer to p. 8ff, 57ff Release delivery authorisation Customer Satisfaction 102-43, 102-44, 103-3 A – Contact  at home Austrian Post always strives to offer high quality to B – Postal  service points its customers, be it new ideas, innovative services or the C – The future: Austrian Post moves together with the customer to meet his everyday needs. Making everything easier for the customer. offering they are used to. Customers have responded with constantly good customer satisfaction levels. Customer Customer satisfaction 70 points is 49 % of the interviewees 84 % rated their mail 77 % said their parcel in 2018 the average rated Austrian Post carriers as being carriers are CSI level as “very good” or “very good” or “very good” or “excellent” in the “excellent“ “excellent“ fourth quarter Economy 61 SOCIETY Austrian Post delivers 5.3 billion mail items each year, thus ensuring that the Austrian population is provided with basic postal services. Trends and Challenges Megatrends in the Focus Area 102-15, 103-2 of Society The postal business is subject to major changes. The changing business environment requires continuous DEMOGRAPHIC CHANGE customer-­oriented adjustments on the part of Austrian Post Whether people are old or young, Austrian Post has to in order to be able to ensure the long-term supply of postal fulfil all customer requirements in a target group-oriented services to the Austrian population. manner. Austrian Post (AG) offers its services throughout the country based on a delivery staff of 9,024 people along with DIFFERENTIATED LIFE STYLES 423 company-operated branch offices and 1,368 postal Austrian Post has to constantly offer inno­vative services, partners and is thus a reliable partner to its customers. online and personal, around the clock and Thanks to an extensive offering of online and offline s­ ervices on time. the company takes account of customer needs and integrates them into its core business based on practical, everySUSTAINABILITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS day solutions. Society is changing. Austrian Post has to live up to its In order to effectively address societal trends and the pioneering role based on its commitment to society. relating challenges on the basis of an appropriate management approach, these trends are closely monitored and services are aligned accordingly. Management Approach Various social developments impact the way Austrian Post (AG) perceives and structures its public service obligaof Austrian Post tion. Society is becoming increasingly complex and customers are becoming more demanding. This is a responsibility 103-2 that has become an every day challenge. The universal serAustrian Post's (AG) top priority is to ensure the nationvice obligation is directly linked to the core business. For this wide supply of top-quality postal services throughout the reason, challenges relating to society are closely related to country. This is because Austrian Post (AG) plays a decisive economic factors. The challenges in the focus area of society role in Austria’s communications infrastructure. The company mainly result from the following social trends which influhas optimally tailored its services to reflect the material ence consumer behaviour. topics identified as part of its ongoing dialogue with stakeholders as a means of dealing with the above-mentioned trends and challenges in the focus area of society. Material Topics in the Focus Area of Society 103-1 ■ Regional infrastructure and reliability of supply ■ Social commitment ■ Data protection and data security 62 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post As a universal services provider in Austria, Austrian Austrian Post attaches great importance to ensuring that Post (AG) is subject to legal requirements with respect to its social commitment is clearly linked to its core business the reliability of supply and delivery speed which do and that it can meaningfully contribute its core expertise to not apply to the company’s subsidiaries. Accordingly, the support socially disadvantaged people. material topic “Regional infrastructure and reliability of Refer to p. 48, 65, 76f apply” is only relevant for Austrian Post (AG). For this reason, this section of the report refers to Austrian Post (AG) for the most part. The issue of data protection and data security is dealt Achievements in 2018, with in the sustainable corporate governance section as well as in the Non-financial Report. Targets for 2019 Austrian Post (AG) takes the growing trend towards sustainability and environmental awareness into account on 103-3 the basis of its CO₂-NEUTRAL DELIVERY initiative described Austrian Post has defined objectives and measures in detail in the chapter on the environment. revised on an annual basis as a means of ­measuring its Furthermore, it is committed to society beyond the success and progress in its focus area of society as well as company’s boundaries, supporting a range of business-­ to document and manage its achieve­-ments on important related social projects and activities. In this regard, issues. Overview of Societal Objectives Main Target: Ensure Reliable Supply of Postal Services and Shape Underlying Conditions Targets for 2018 Achieved in 2018 Targets for 2019 Ensuring reliable delivery services at all times 95.8 % of letters were successfully delivered on Ensuring reliable delivery services at all time and and exceeding legal requirements by Austrian the first working day after letters were posted exceeding legally stipulated performance targets Post (AG) by Austrian Post (AG) Ensuring a nationwide network of postal service Austrian Post (AG) exceeded legal stipulations: Ensuring a nationwide network of postal service points and exceeding legal requirements by the network encompassed 1,791 postal service points and exceeding legal requirements by Austrian Post (AG) points at the end of 2018 Austrian Post (AG) Main Target: Promote Social Commitment Targets for 2018 Achieved in 2018 Targets for 2019 and beyond Continuation of support for social projects on 412,000 mobile phones collected for the Continuation of support for social projects on the basis of Austrian Post's logistics competence Ö3 Wundertüte campaign. 7,300 “gift parcels the basis of Austrian Post's logistics competence for the Christ Child” and 3,000 school boxes are sent throughout the country each year by Austrian Post (AG) Regional Infrastructure and continues, the company continually upgrades its nationwide network of postal service points, consisting of company-­ Reliability of Supply operated branch offices and postal partner offices. Regional infrastructure and the reliability of supply also 203-1 have to take the demographic transformation of ­Austrian As a supplier of universal postal services, Austrian Post society into account. For this reason, Austrian Post (AG) (AG) is responsible for the reliable, nationwide supply of offers up-to-date products and services tailored to various postal services as well as maintaining and safeguarding the customer groups and links the physical and digital worlds country’s communications infrastructure. To ensure that this of communication in order to accommodate changing life Society 63 styles. The company works continually on innovative prodAt the same time, a sustainable supply of postal services ucts and services to fulfil current customer requirements as to the population is ensured and economic structures in effectively as possible in response to changing life styles. rural areas are strengthened. This is due to the fact that Today’s customers want to take care of their postal business a majority of postal partner locations are local businesses in a flexible manner and at different times. This is precisely such as food stores, petrol stations or pharmacies, which what Austrian Post (AG) makes possible thanks to its 24/7 offer Austrian Post’s products and services in addition concepts. In addition to the convenience and efficiency of to their own product line and can thus generate additional services, the actual experience, the feeling of well-being and income. This means the postal partner concept is an advanthe overall atmosphere of a place also play a major role. A tage for customers, the postal partners and for Austrian total of 19 branch offices have already been adapted in line Post (AG) itself. with the “feel-good branch office concept”. These measures The company also cooperates with postal partners from help to combine a modern, customer-oriented regional infrathe social sector, such as charitable organisations. These structure for postal services and the fundamental need for partnerships are particularly successful because they have supply reliability. a two-fold social effect. While they make a contribution towards ensuring the Exceeding Requirements of the supply of postal services they also help employees of these Universal Service Obligation organisations to be reintegrated into the job market. Austrian Post (AG) also supports future postal partAustrian Post (AG) fulfils its mandate in outstanding ners in meeting legal requirements on barrier-free access quality due to its operation of six letter mail distribution into account in a timely manner when making construction centres and seven parcel distribution centres as well as changes to their sites. Starting in 2018, Austrian Post’s 244 letter and 16 parcel delivery bases. In 2018, 95.8 % of all postal partner management unit made an information letters were delivered on the next working day, and 97.3 % leaflet on barrier-free construction available to companies of parcels within two working days. Both levels are higher interested in becoming postal partners as a means of conthan what is legally stipulated within the context of the unitributing to a more inclusive society. versal service obligation. Austrian Post (AG) also surpassed the good performance Responding to Demographic Change achieved in the previous year with respect to the first-time and different Life Styles delivery success rate for parcels, a very important factor determining customer satisfaction. In 2018, 91.4 % of parcels Within the context of ensuring a reliable supply of postal were successfully delivered on the first attempt. services, Austrian Post also takes account of the two societal trends of “demographic change” and “differentiated life 102-7 styles”. In order to ensure the optimal supply of postal services Austrian Post (AG) has to fulfil customer demands in a to customers, the definition of the Universal Postal Service target group-oriented manner as a consequence of demoObligation also requires Austrian Post to operate a nationgraphic change. Increasing digitalisation leads to changwide network of at least 1,650 postal service points. Austrian ing life styles, requiring Austrian Post (AG) to meet these Post (AG) clearly exceeds the statutory requirements in this changing requirements. Customers want to be able to have respect as well. The company provides its services throughaccess to postal services everywhere and at any time and out the entire country, featuring a network encompassing take care of their postal business as comfortably as possi1,791 postal service points at the end of 2018, including ble but in a secure manner. 423 company-operated branch offices and 1,368 postal Austrian Post (AG) links these major trends with its partners. Accordingly, the network of postal partners ranks postal service obligation and responds by continually among the country’s largest private customer networks and expanding existing services and regularly launching innois designed to be very easily accessible for every customer. vative online solutions. In this way, the company enables its customers to access postal services on a 24/7 basis. Triple-win Situation of the Postal Partner Concept The postal partner concept of Austrian Post (AG) plays a decisive role in its nationwide network. The postal partners also ensure the availability of postal services for customers when no branch office is nearby. They ensure more service, shorter distances and improved opening hours. 64 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post Social Commitment training pathways which are either new or in some cases unusual for them before making their career choice. 103-2 Austrian Post believes it has the social responsibility to AUSTRIAN POST MAKES CHILDREN CLEVER support people, who are socially disadvantaged and require Under the title “Austrian Post Makes Children Clever”, special support. The company takes this responsibility very Austrian Post sends about 3,000 school boxes to primary seriously, linking this com­mitment to its core business schools each year. These appealingly designed teaching particularly by utilising its nationwide delivery of mail items materials aim to encourage pupils to read and write and and Austrian distribution network for social or charitable simultaneously help them understand what Austrian Post purposes. does. Committed to help Socially Disadvantaged Commitment to Culture The Ö3 Wundertüte is one example of how Austrian Post The “Post Cultural Associations” (seven bands and two (AG) has been committed to help socially disadvantaged peochoirs throughout Austria) have about 400 members. Not ple for so many years. In 2018, as in the year before, Austrian only do they include many Post employees, but also other Post directly delivered the Ö3 Wundertüte in the form of a music enthusiasts. This is because playing music together red paper bag to every household in the country. In this way, ensures a good atmosphere and strengthens the sense of consumers were able to give away their old mobile phones community, not only among colleagues. In collaboration with and return them free of charge. The net proceeds from recythe post.sozial association, Austrian Post supports the Post cling these devices were donated in equal parts to the emercultural associations financially, for example in purchasing gency aid funds of “Licht ins Dunkel” (“Light into the Darkinstruments and uniforms. ness”) and also to Caritas. In total, the campaign generated donations of EUR 600,000, thus providing support to people in the most difficult life situations. Within the context of the “Gift parcels for the Christ Child” initiative, Austrian Post (AG) once again cooperated Social Commitment with the Workers’ Samaritan Foundation in 2018 to ensure in 2018 that no child in need in Austria would have to celebrate Christmas without a present. Anyone, who wanted to send a Christmas present to a child in Austria exposed to the risk of poverty could order a prepaid parcel stamp online free of 412,000 mobile phones charge, stick it on the gift parcel and drop it off at a postal for the “Ö3 Wundertüte” 7,300 service point. Austrian Post (AG) sent the parcels to collection centres of the Workers’ Samaritan Foundation, where full-time and voluntary Samaritans personally gave the children received “gift parcels ­parcels to children in social welfare institutions and families for the Christ Child” 3,000 in need. About 7,300 such parcels were sent in Austria. Commitment to the Next Generation school boxes are distributed each year throughout the country Austrian Post (AG) is also involved in promoting the well-being of children within the context of its social activities. For this purpose, various projects have been launched and support has been provided to existing 22 girls participated in Austrian Post’s initiatives related to the company’s core competence. “Vienna Daughter’s Day” VIENNA DAUGHTER’S DAY A total of 22 girls spent the 11th Vienna Daughter's Day end of April at the mail and parcel distirubtion centres, as well as the transport of goods in Inzersdorf. The aim of the Vienna Daughter’s Day is to motivate girls to select Society 65 EMPLOYEES Austrian Post is a service provider. Its success as a company is fundamentally linked to the skills, motivation and commitment of its employees. Trends and Challenges INCREASING COMPLEXITY AT WORK – OFFERING OF PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT MEASURES 102-15, 103-2 Employees can only manage increasingly complex tasks Customer needs are changing, which can be attributed if they are continuously trained. to digitalisation, demographic change and increasing mobility and flexibility on the part of customers. These developPRESSURE TO BE EFFICIENT – SOCIAL COMPATIBILITY ments impose new demands on employees. Austrian Post OF ADJUSTMENTS will only be able to fulfil the changed service and quality Economic pressure has to be counteracted by suitable demands with qualified employees, who actively shape the efficiency and flexibilisation measures. further development of the company along with new and innovative services. AUTOMATION – MINIMISATION OF ACCIDENT Digitalisation changes processes and work flows, which RISKS AND PROTECTION OF EMPLOYEES requires new mindsets and competencies. In turn, this leads The advance of technology in the postal business imposes to new requirements with respect to executive management high demands on occupational safety and health protection. development as well as further education and training of employees, which Austrian Post has to adapt to. WORK-LIFE BALANCE – ENHANCING MOTIVATION At the same time, the needs of employees are also AND EMPLOYEE RETENTION changing. The attractiveness of a company as an employer Employees are more motivated and productive if there plays a much more important role today than it did in the is a proper balance between work and free time. past. Additional benefits offered by the company alongside salaries are also crucial, such as further education and professional development opportunities enabling employees Management Approach to enhance their professional and personal skill sets and working time models enabling them to harmonise their work of Austrian Post and private lives. The main trends and challenges facing Austrian Post in 103-2 the focus area of employees can be summarised as follows: Human resources management is of particular importance for Austrian Post as a service provider. Its measures make a decisive contribution to the company’s success Megatrends in the Focus Area and future viability. In this regard, a good working environment, attractive career opportunities, workplace safety and of Employees occupational healthcare also play a significant role. This is because satisfied and healthy employees, who feel comfortDEMOGRAPHIC CHANGE – MAINTAINING EMPLOYABILITY able at their workplaces, are more motivated and are able to Working into old age requires target group-oriented give their best for the benefit of the company. training and healthcare programmes. Mutually shared visions and values are particularly important for employees in an environment strongly ­influenced by changes and transition. They serve as the basis for all employees to act in a target-­oriented and sus­tainable manner. The mission statement of Austrian Post is the foundation for its 66 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post business operations and the basis for its corporate culture ■ Customer proximity (Refer to Service and characterised by respect, openness, trust and appreciation. Customer Orientation on p. 61.) The promotion of a corporate and leadership culture is a key concern of Austrian Post’s human resources work and is actively supported by numerous measures. Achievements in 2018 Material Topics and Targets for 2019 103-1 103-3 The services rendered by Austrian Post are perfectly Austrian Post manages and reviews its success and aligned with the material topics identified in the dialogues progress in the focus area of employees on the basis of main with stakeholders and are clearly presented as follows: targets which have been defined and the measures derived ■ Corporate culture and working environment from them. ■ Occupational safety and health protection The figures in the infoboxes marked in yellow refer to ■ Further education and professional development Austrian Post (AG). Overview of Employee Objectives Main Target: Promote a Corporate and Leadership Culture Targets for 2018 Achieved in 2018 Planned for 2019 Training for executive management: Implemen­ 2,122 person-days of training and seminars At least 1,000 person-days of trainings and tation of at least 1,000 person-days of trainings were carried out for executives seminars for executives and seminars for executives A Day Visiting Customers: Participation of at least 304 executives took part in the programme Participation of at least 250 executives in the 250 executives in the programme “A Day Visiting “A Day Visiting Customers” programme “A Day Visiting Customers” Customers” “Career and family” audit: Continuation of Measures planned within the context of the Continue the planned measures or implement the re-audit re-audit were continued or implemented on an them on an ongoing basis ongoing basis and included in the Annual Report as the targeted goals Main Target: Pay Attention to Health and Safety Targets for 2018 Achieved in 2018 Planned for 2019 Heart rate variability analyses: Implementation of 273 heart rate variability analyses were carried Evaluation of implemented measures heart rate variability analyses and health workout at 20 sites shops at five sites or more Health-related activities: At least 1,000 health 1,130 health consultations and 18 Health Days 1,000 health consultations and 15 Health Days consultations and 15 Health Days are to be held were held Development and continuation of health projects: Twelve short movies were produced (“The right Production of a brochure and posters on proper Austrian Post is on the move (“The right exercise exercise is good for everybody”), including a trainexercise including a training initiative; implemenis good for everybody”): Production of ten short ing initiative tation of the “Fit2Work” project at the Vienna movies and a brochure on right exercise including Letter Mail Centre a training initiative Evaluation of psychological stress: Development Evaluation of psychological stress in Austrian Evaluation of psychological stress at corporate of measures for parcel logistics in Austria and parcel logistics, distribution centres and transheadquarters distribution centres as well as transport logistics port logistics was completed Accident prevention: Compulsory wearing of Compulsory wearing of safety helmets for deDevelopment of measures to deal with the most safety helmets for delivery staff on bicycles livery staff on bicycles and equipping them with frequent causes of accidents in 2018, creation clearly visible Post helmets, along with creation of of posters on the issue of falling and measures a short film on accident prevention focusing on traffic safety Safety and health at work – employee protection: Production of a brochure on safety and health at Development of checklists for individual areas for Production of a brochure including checklists work for the individual management levels easy use and implementation of employee profor individual management levels and areas for and areas for easy use and implementation of tection measures; campaign targeting executives easy use and implementation of employee protecemployee protection measures focusing on training and instruction tion measures Employees 67 Corporate Culture and Working Environments Executive Training in 2018 More than anything else, economic success means one thing: companies and employees have to constantly evolve and adjust to new circumstances. It is important to design a corporate culture and a working environment stimulating 322 executives took part in the employees to be creative and innovative and supporting them Executive Academy 273 in implementing new ideas. In order to effectively position itself for the future, Austrian Post laid the foundation for a cultural transformation area and team leaders were given in 2010 based on a new mission statement. The three value leadership training categories of customer orientation, profitability and sustainability as well as communication and appreciation and one central principle for each provide clarity and guidance as to which values should characterise the way every employee in turn improves the information flow and the feeling of acts and which values serve as the basis for the corporate belonging and increases motivation. A total of 244 delivery strategy. bases were realigned in accordance with the “Teamwork” Executives perform a special role of navigators in this concept in 2018. ­process. Their task is to create productive working conditions and a good working atmosphere in which employees can optiDialogue with Employees mally unfold their skills as well as to identify the potential of their employees and promote their individual development. 102-43 The open dialogue Austrian Post maintains with its PROMOTION OF THE LEADERSHIP CULTURE employees is based on respect, appreciation, honesty and THROUGH EXECUTIVE TRAINING trust. This also entails Austrian Post (AG) informing employSince 2012, executives have been regularly trained at ees in a timely and regular manner about major developAustrian Post’s own Executive Academy. The long-term ments and changes in the company, for example by means professional development programme supports executives of department and team meetings as well as one-on-one and key employees to implement the leadership guidelines discussions. in their daily work routines. Additional Employee Benefits A Strong Corporate Culture Based on Appreciation and an Exchange of Views In addition to uniform leadership guidelines and an open communication culture, Austrian Post believes that motivatA DAY VISITING CUSTOMERS ing and productive working conditions also include offering In 2018, more than 300 executives seized the opportunity a variety of additional services to employees, regardless of again to take part in the annual “A Day Visiting Customers”. their age, gender and occupation type. They familiarised themselves with the work of employees who are in daily contact with customers to more effectively Employee Profit Sharing assess the challenges they face. “A Day Visiting Customers” also promotes the exchange of views between employees Austrian Post is one of the few companies in Austria with and executives as well as mutual understanding, and thus an employee profit-sharing scheme, which has been in effect supports the Austrian Post mission statement. for more than ten years. Austrian Post (AG) voluntarily pays employees an annual EBIT bonus, part-time employees TEAMWORK 2018 receive a pro rata share. With the “Teamwork 2018” concept, Austrian Post launched a new leadership structure and downsized letter mail distribution teams. These teams are now headed by a “playing captain”, who works on the delivery staff himself and is thus familiar with the day-to-day work of his colleagues. The flattening of hierarchies promotes direct communication between executives and employees, which 68 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post post.sozial 401-2 post.sozial in 2018 The joint welfare association “post.sozial“ offers additional social services above and beyond legally required obligations to full-time and part-time employees. The 6.13 EUR m in total funding non-profit association was established in 2005 with the objective of providing social support to active employees of Austrian Post and its subsidiaries as well as to retired employees, family members and surviving relatives of 54,330 overnight stays by employees. Fair.Reisen Diversity and Equal Opportunity 3.84 EUR m in food coupons by Helfens.Wert 22,821 103-1, 103-2 Social diversity is a cornerstone of progress. Austrian Post promotes social diversity and constructively seeks to discounted admission tickets benefit from this within the context of its diversity manageby Sehens.Wert ment. Diversity is based on respect and equal opportunity and also promotes the capacity for innovation and creativity. Diversity helps to open up international markets and improve the company’s image. Austrian Post wants to highlight the individual differas well as a mutual exchange of experience. Edith Hlaences among employees to create a productive overall wati, Chairwoman of the Supervisory Board, and Edeltraud atmosphere in the company. In order to ensure equal opporStiftinger, Deputy Chairwoman of the Supervisory Board, tunity at work, it resolutely opposes any kind of discriminaassumed the patronage of the mentoring programme, which tion, mobbing and sexual harassment. was launched on January 1, 2018. CHARTER OF DIVERSITY GENDER BALANCE Austrian Post (AG) signed the Charter of Diversity in Austrian Post developed a strategy to ensure gender 2013, making a clear commitment to creating and promoting balance in the company with its flagship project “Expedition a working environment which is free of prejudices. Elly”. Diverse teams formulated the strategy as well as corresponding objectives and measures. In this way, Austrian Equal Opportunity Post wants to achieve gender balance and ensure it remains a model company for innovation and customer proximity. Equal treatment at work and equal treatment of employRefer to p. 20ff ees without reference to their gender and age are a matter of course for Austrian Post (AG) and its subsidiaries. The recruiting process strictly adheres the principle of equal COMPATIBILITY OF FAMILY AND CAREER treatment of women and men. In particular, measures are taken to promote the comWomen have been promoted to management jobs on patibility of career and family and create appropriate career the first and second reporting levels in numerous business opportunities in order to position Austrian Post (AG) as an areas. The aim is to achieve the best possible diversity at attractive employer for women. In 2016, Austrian Post (AG) the highest management level and gradually increase the was once again given the “Career and Family” quality seal share of women in executive positions. For this purpose, the by the former Federal Ministry of Families and Youth, which programme “Mentoring for Women at Austrian Post” was is valid until 2019. The company offers flexible working time initiated in 2017. Approximately 25 selected female junior models, includes employees on leave in the internal inforexecutives (mentees) have an experienced executive from mation ­network and has set up a comprehensive information another company at their disposal to serve as their mentor platform on issues such as parental leave and child care. for career and development issues. The focus is on the The Austrian Post programme to promote the career personal and professional development of the mentees advancement of women was overhauled in 2017. The Employees 69 underlying objective of the plan is to ensure equal opportunities for women and men in the company on the basis of the Employee diversity Federal Equal Treatment Act (B-GIBG) and to increase the proportion of women in areas in which they are under-reprein 2018 sented. One measure designed to help achieve the desig405-1, 5, 8 nated target is an annual equality check to help evaluate the 3,210 Austrian Post employees implementation of the programme to promote the career come from a total of advancement of women at Austrian Post (AG) and its subsidiaries. 89 Equal Treatment different nations (excl. Austria) The principle of equal treatment implies that no person 38 Post executives come from should be discriminated or put at a disadvantage because of their gender, age, ethnic origin, religion or ideology, sexual orientation or disability. 14 nations It is important for Austrian Post to ensure that people 24 % with disabilities can take an equal part in professional life. It is so important that in past years Austrian Post more than fulfilled its legally stipulated em­ployment obligations. In the of executives and 30 % year 2018, 1,207 people with special needs were employed by Austrian Post (AG). of employees are women Contact Point for Employees Austrian Post offers a large number of programmes and initiatives designed to promote and support employees For further employee indicators, refer to p. 85ff and contribute to a positive working climate. Nevertheless, For information on diversity on the Management Board and personal issues can have a significant impact on ­em­plo­yee Supervisory Board, refer to the Financial Report, p. 21ff motivation and his or her ability to perform well on behalf of the company. Since 2014, employees have been able to confidentially turn to an internal ombudsperson when they January 1, 2018, and thus redefined the rules related to the require assistance to deal with personal prob­lems in their underlying conditions impacting employee protection at working environment or concerning com­pliance with the Austrian Post (AG). In particular, the new guidelines newly values of Austrian Post as defined in the mission statement. regulated responsibility and control of employee pro­­tection at the individual sites and workplaces and re­defined inspection obligations in a cascading system. The inspection and Occupational Safety and control obligations of every single executive are pre­cisely specified. In order to provide the best possible support to Health Protection executives, an awareness campaign was launched in 2018. Moreover, the contents of the directive were summarised in a 103-2 brochure for easier handling and ac­com­panied by instructions. Only healthy employees are able to do their best for the The training initiative for exec­­utives started in the autumn of benefit of the company and actively contribute to employee 2018 with the aim of raising aware­ness of responsibilities and satisfaction and further development of the company. For the role model function exec­utives have. Furthermore, this reason, Austrian Post attaches great importance to checklists are being developed and coordi­nated with the offering employees a working environment in which they are specialist areas. The training drive will protected from risks and dangers when carrying out their be ex­panded in 2019. tasks. Moreover, Austrian Post aims to preserve and pro­mote the health and well-being of its employees. The internal directive called “Safety and Health at the Workplace – Employee Protection” was issued effective 70 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post Health Management Within the context of its healthcare management Health Manageprogramme, Austrian Post continually offers preventive ment in 2018 measures at different sites to maintain and promote the health and working capacity of its employees. They include vaccinations, anti-smoking initiatives and eye examinations. In addition, health consultations and Health Days are 18 Health Days were held. In total, the regularly held. different service stations were visited more than 1,300 times “A HEALTHY HEART AND YOU” CAMPAIGN The focus in 2018 was on the further development of the project “A Healthy Heart and You” to prevent heart disease 174 sites offered health counselling to prevent heart disease. as well as on flu vaccinations. Occupational physicians 1,130 participants were given information 1,297 at Austrian Post offered health counselling sessions to employees to discuss their individual risk profile for cardio­ vascular diseases and explain preventive measures. vaccinations were carried out – of which 1,113 were against the flu. STRESS MANAGEMENT AND HEART RATE 148 eye examinations were carried out. 273 heart rate variability analyses VARIABILITY ANALYSES were also conducted In 2018, employees once again had the opportunity to measure their heart rate variability as part of the project “Stress management check to promote health at work”. Their 5,198 employees took part in 18 running capability to manage stress and their regenerative capacity events throughout Austria in 2018 were measured, complemented by comprehensive information talks and workshops. HEALTH DAYS Health Days were once again offered at various company Occupational Safety locations in 2018. Employees had the opportunity to test their lung capacity as well as to determine their fat and 403-1, 403-4 muscle mass and body’s water content by means of the Body Due to its crucial importance, occupational safety is firmly Composition Analyser. Information was also provided on embedded at an organisational level at Austrian Post. Safety healthy diets and relaxation. is dealt with in formal occupational safety committees in which safety experts, occupational physicians, safety officers, EVALUATION OF PSYCHOLOGICAL STRESS employee representatives and the employer are represented. Austrian Post (AG) continued its evaluation of psychologIn 2018 16 regional occupational safety committee meetical stress in 2018. Representative groups of employees were ings were held for sites with more than 100 employees or formed for different types of work, for example machine sites exposed to certain dangers. distribution and manual mail sorting, to identify the psychoGuidelines are contained in Sections 88 and 88a of the logical stress factors impacting each specific group. WorkEmployee Protection Act. Improvement suggestions are shops were held and measures were developed which are developed on individual safety and health issues and the now being implemented. implementation of appropriate measures is discussed. Moreover, counselling on occupational safety is carPROMOTION OF SPORTING ACTIVITIES ried out by the appropriate occupational safety bodies at all Jogging keeps people fit and is a good way for office company sites in line with legal requirements. In this way, the employees to compensate for their desk work. Austrian Post entire workforce of Austrian Post is supported in ensuring and the post.sozial association get involved by paying the safety at work by safety experts and occupational physicians. registration fees for various running events and providing In addition to legal regulations on occupational safety specially designed Austrian Post running wear in order to and accident prevention, there are also internal organisasupport employees in their athletic activities. tional rules and instructions as well as leaflets designed to contribute towards protecting employees. In light of the fact that the safety of all employees is very important, Austrian Post (AG) initiated the compulsory wearing of helmets for Employees 71 all staff delivering mail on bicycles (including e-bikes) and also equipped all the affected employees with helmets. In order to minimise work-related stress, video films for Employee various work processes such as getting in and out of ­vehicles Protection in 2018 or the correct pushing and pulling of heavy loads were produced alongside training courses and ongoing instruction. The trade union and the Works Council of Austrian Post are involved in all important matters relating to safety at 3,436 workplace inspections by safety work and accident prevention and are also represented in representatives and counselling of site managers regarding the safety the above-mentioned occupational safety committees. and protection of employees RISK MINIMISATION AND OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY TRAINING 1,031 assessments of Austrian Post Austrian Post focuses on raising awareness of employees workplaces 765 for potential dangers at work. Employees are informed and made aware of possible safety risks and potential dangers through instructions and training before commencing work as training courses with safety well as in regular intervals. In this way, they will be capable of experts and occupational avoiding accidents by behaving correctly. New findings and physicians dangers are regularly identified via workplace inspections and assessments. Measures are defined in collaboration with executives, and safety and health protection documents are updated. Further Education and Sick Leave and Accident Statistics Professional Development 403-4, 3,8 In the reporting year 2018, accident reporting was 103-2, 404-2, 8 modernised and implemented in line with the GRI standard Austrian Post offers its employees both personal and 403-9:2018 of the Global Reporting Initiative. The objective professional development possibilities. In addition to the was to ensure a state-of-the-art report and comparability Executive Academy, the target group-oriented and compewith relevant market participants. The new reporting relies tence-oriented further education and training of employees on new indicators i. e. – the accident frequency is calculated was intensively continued in 2018. These measures encomon the basis of productive hours instead of full-time equiv­ passing specialised instruction, continuing education alents. Furthermore, subsequent sick leave is also incorpocourses, coaching and training comprise an important focal rated. The improvement of data quality and shorter reporting point of Austrian Post’s human resources management. intervals are designed to assist the company in analysing causes of accidents more quickly, effectively and in greater Individual Development Planning detail and to take short-term measures in order to prevent such accidents from occurring again in the future. The regular performance reviews and staff appraisals A total of 718 occupational accidents were reported in 2018 between employees and their supervisors make an important for Austrian Post AG. Among the main reasons and at the contribution to the individual professional development of same time risks for serious accidents are falls, traffic employees. They help to determine personal work priorities accidents and the natural handling of objects comprise the and goals as well as to reach an agreement upon support main reasons for accidents and also the risk for serious measures in the form of further education and training accidents. Weather-related road conditions are usually the measures. Executives hold such performance reviews with reason for falls and for traffic accidents. The lifting and each employee at least once annually. carrying of loads play a major role when it comes to manually handling objects. Responsibilities and reporting processes PROJECT WORK@POST are regulated in detail by the organisational directive 6/2018 The new project Work@Post identifies and implements “Safety and Health at the Workplace”. 23 accidents took improvement potential in the fields of employer branding, place at work in 2018 involving leased personnel. recruiting, onboarding, junior staff/talents, executives, compensation, IT success factors and feedback within the Refer to p. 88 72 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post context of working groups. The underlying objective is to reduce employee turnover and the drop-out rate. Further Education TRAINEE PROGRAMME and ­Professional Eighteen new trainees commenced their programme at Development Austrian Post in September 2018. They spent time familiarising themselves in detail with the work of different departin 2018 404-1, 4,5 ments for the purpose of comprehensive training. APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING Austrian Post (AG) has already been offering young people an “Apprenticeship with a Secondary School Diploma” 1,062 seminars were attended by 6,473 employees. 39 % of seminar for eight years. In 2018, a total of 90 apprentices were participants were women and trained at Austrian Post as retail salespeople with a focus on 61 % were men 7.7 telecommunications. As of September 2018, four apprentices are being trained as office clerks and e-commerce merchants at corporate headquarters. The average number of hours female employees were involved in training COOPERATION WITH UNIVERSITIES 5.5 hours comprised the average for men Austrian Post (AG) also offers exciting areas of activity and diverse professional development opportunities to college graduates. Accordingly, within the context of a 118,415 The total number of seminar hours partnership with the Centre of Excellence of the Vienna in which Austrian Post employees took part University of Economics and Business, Austrian Post (AG) supports prospective graduates with an outstanding academic performance and intensively promotes them over Refer to p. 89 a period of two years. Furthermore, Austrian Post (AG) supports the programme of the Delta Academy of Montanuniversität Leoben, offering additional, high-quality education to selected students. Austrian Post (AG) assists employees impacted by restructuring measures to reposition themselves on the job EXPERIENCED HIRES AND INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME market. The “Internal Labour Market” platform offers career Two new, innovative programmes were launched in 2018. guidance and vocational orientation to employees. Personal Experienced Hires training with internationally recognised consultations help employees to find either internal lecturers and network events are offered to create attracpositions, or jobs outside the company. For example, the tive job entry opportunities for experienced specialists. This post.qualified training initiative enables employees who lost is complemented by meetings with the highest management their jobs to upgrade their IT user qualifications to a level as well as coachings. certified level or to attend English language or spelling The Internship Programme offers ten students at univercourses. The platform also supports the temporary employsities and colleges the opportunity to complete an internship ment of employees and has established its own rules for this at Austrian Post. At the same time, the interaction with the purpose. This ensures that the leased Post employees are younger generation generates valuable innovation contribupaid in conformity with the collective wage agreement for tions for the company. the respective sector. One success model for a responsible and socially comAustrian Post Labour Market patible way to deal with excess staffing capacities is the initiative “Austrian Post employees to the federal public 404-2, 8 service”. As of the end of 2018, 675 former civil servants of Increasing competition and changes in market conditions Austrian Post were employed by federal agencies. This figure require the company to implement ongoing adjustments to shows that the competencies of Post employees are very its personnel structure. In these situations, Austrian Post much in demand at the ministries. (AG) considers responsible corporate behaviour to entail reacting to the resulting changes in a socially acceptable manner and actively supporting relevant measures. Employees 73 ENVIRONMENT As a logistics company, Austrian Post bears a special responsibility when it comes to protecting the environment. In order to optimally fulfil its responsibility, Austrian Post consistently analyses developments and challenges, and correspondingly tailors its measures in this area. temperatures. Austrian Post and its employees are directly Trends and Challenges exposed to these conditions. 102-15, 103-2 LOCAL EMISSIONS – E-MOBILITY AND A Logistics is a significant growth market. Increasing MODERN VEHICLE FLEET globalisation leads to a rise in international trade volumes. Logistics services have to be provided in a pinpointed At the same time, parcel volumes are increasing as a result and timely manner – with as minimal an environmental of the e-commerce boom. Subsequently, there is a growing burden (dust, noise, NOx ) as possible. demand for logistics services and innovative solutions. This is a development that also relates to business success of ENERGY TRANSITION AND CONSEQUENCES – other companies and which is closely monitored by Austrian NECESSARY ECOLOGICALISATION OF ENERGY SOURCING Post. The logistics solutions offered by Austrian Post conThe necessary energy transition motivates large logistics nect people, regions and countries, c­ reate jobs and generate companies such as Austrian Post to save energy and p ­ urchase added value. However, they also have effects on the environgreen electricity. ment and the climate, especially due to emissions of climate-­ changing greenhouse gases such as CO₂. SHORTAGE OF NATURAL RESOURCES – Against this backdrop, Austrian Post has a two-fold task INDISPENSABLE INCREASE IN ENERGY EFFICIENCY to carry out. As the largest logistics company in the counLong-term price increases of natural resources require try, the challenge for Austrian Post is not only to reduce the company to continually assess whether these resources climate-changing greenhouse gases such as CO₂ but to also are used efficiently enough. This issue is extremely imporavoid generating them in the first place and thus to minimise tant, especially in the vehicle fleet. environmental impacts to the greatest possible extent. Moreover, as one of the country’s flagship companies, Austrian URBANISATION – SMART CITY LOGISTICS SOLUTIONS Post bears a special responsibility to actively participate in In steadily growing cities with increasingly dense structhe efforts to achieve the national climate protection ­targets. tures, postal service providers require new approaches for There are also environmental megatrends which impact transporting goods or mail items from one place to another. Austrian Post and its business operations and pose challenges: Management Approach Megatrends in the Focus Area of Austrian Post of the Environment 103-2 GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE – IMPACTING As a large logistics company, Austrian Post bears the DELIVERY OPERATIONS responsibility to minimise the environmental impacts of its Climate change leads to changed weather conditions, activities. Austrian Post has already been consistently such as somewhat heavier rains and extremely hot or cold integrating climate and environmental protection measures into its core business for many years in order to reduce its 74 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post ecological footprint. For this purpose, Austrian Post has Achievements in 2018 established a range of Group-wide environmental protection measures tailored to reflect the material issues defined and Targets for 2019 within the context of its dialogue with stakeholders. They are designed to minimise environmental risks and optimally 103-3 exploit opportunities: Austrian Post considers environmental protection to be an ongoing process. It has defined the goal of protecting the Material Topics in the Focus Area climate and conserving natural resources. Austrian Post of the Environment manages and evaluates its performance and progress on the basis of its specified main targets and the derived measures: 103-1 ■ Climate protection and energy ■ Resource efficiency ■ Responsible procurement Overview of Environmental Objectives Main Target: Protect the Climate and Conserve Resources Targets for 2018 Achieved in 2018 Targets for 2019 and beyond Continuation of the CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY The CO2 emissions of Austrian Post (AG) and their Continuation of the CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY initiative and evaluation of expanding it to compensation were confirmed by TÜV Austria again initiative and evaluation of expanding it to subsidiaries in 2018. The potential expansion of the initiative subsidiaries was assessed but a decision has not yet been made Science Based Target CO2 reduction goal: reducIncrease in CO2 emissions of Austrian Post (AG) Reduction of CO2 emissions by 14 % by 2025 tion of CO2 emissions by 14 % by 2025 (base year: by 1.4 % due to rising parcel volumes (base year: (base year: 2013) and evaluation of CO2 reduction 2013) and evaluation of CO2 reduction targets for 2013). An evaluation was carried out but a decitargets for subsidiaries subsidiaries sion has not yet been made Steady expansion of the e-vehicle fleet to 1,592 e-powered vehicles at Austrian Post (AG) Deployment of 100 % e-powered vehicles for all 1,800 vehicles by the end of 2020 were in use at the end of 2018, or 17.2 % of the delivery operations (last mile) by 2030 entire delivery fleet Expansion of the “Green Vienna” (delivery of 100 % “green delivery” takes place in Eisenstadt. Deployment of 100 % e-powered vehicles for all letter and direct mail items to private customers Green delivery services apply to more than 90 % delivery operations (last mile) by 2030 by foot, bicycle or e-vehicles) project to other of letter and direct mail items in Vienna, Wiener provincial capitals and urban areas Neustadt and St. Pölten and 60 – 80 % of all items delivered in the other provincial capitals by ­Austrian Post (AG) Additional energy efficiency measures at Austrian Implementation of 31 energy efficiency measFurther implementation of energy efficiency Post (AG) and its subsidiaries ures in the categories of lighting, room heating, measures at Austrian Post (AG) and its subsidiarelectricity measurement and water heating at ies, implementation of a Group-wide energy audit ­Austrian Post (AG) and its subsidiaries Evaluation of further optimisation and quality Waste and recycling management was reorganContinuation of optimisation and quality assurassurance potential. ised at six logistics centres of Austrian Post (AG) ance projects at Austrian Post (AG) in the field of and in the subsidiary feibra waste and recycling management Construction of a photovoltaic power plant on the roof of the new Hagenbrunn Logistics Centre and exploration of other potential sites Main Target: Strengthen Environmental Awareness Targets for 2018 Achieved in 2018 Targets for 2019 and beyond Roll-out of the environmental management sysThe Wernberg Parcel Centre and two other sites Preparation for ISO 14001 certification of two tem pursuant to ISO 14001:2015 to other sites of of the subsidiary Medien.Zustell GmbH were sucother sites (the Hagenbrunn Logistics Centre and Austrian Post (AG) and Medien.Zustell GmbH cessfully certified pursuant to ISO 14001 the corporate headquarters Post am Rochus) Evaluation of other sites The evaluation of other sites was completed and targets were subsequently defined for the coming years Environment 75 Targets for 2018 Achieved in 2018 Targets for 2019 and beyond Employee awareness raising with the help of a Publication of the “Fact Book” on sustainability  oll-out of the internal quality seal “CSR INSIDE” R new campaign on the Internet and Intranet to certify projects and employees on the issue of Introduction of the issue of sustainability at sustainability the Welcome Day for new employees Internal promotion and Austrian-wide participaCreation of a new recruiting homepage tion in the “Austria Goes Biking” to enhance environmental awareness and promote health Implementation of a waste management campaign at corporate headquarters Promotion of participation in the “Bike to Work” initiative via the Intranet Training on waste separation for all employees of the subsidiary Medien.Zustell GmbH Project to recycle working clothes which are no longer in use Development of a handbook for sustainable Application of the handbook for sustainable events events at Austrian Post events Climate Protection and Energy 103-2 The CO₂ NEUTRAL DELIVERY initiative plays a key role at Austrian Post with respect to climate protection and energy. The initiative was launched in 2011 and is at the heart of Austrian Post’s environmental efforts. In particular, its goal is to continually and extensively reduce greenhouse gas The initiative CO2 NEUTRAL ZUGESTELLT emissions (refer to the illustration on the left). consists of three steps: Within the context of this initiative, the first step is taking measures to ensure greater efficiency in core processes, for example optimising energy efficiency of buildings and 1. lighting and continually modernising the vehicle fleet. Efficiency increases in core processes The second step involves the increasing use of alternative e. g. a modern vehicle fleet and technologies. Austrian Post (AG) has already been procuring energetic optimisation of buildings its entire electricity needs from renewable energy sources since 2012. Since 2017 it has exclusively used electricity from 2. renewable energy sources in Austria. Since 2018 all AusIncreased use of alternative technologies trian subsidiaries have been procuring green electricity from e. g. electricity from renewable sources ­Austria. and expansion of the e-vehicle fleet All the remaining unavoidable CO₂ emissions at this time are offset in a third step by support provided to national and 3. international climate protection projects. The result of these Compensation for unavoidable three steps is that Austrian Post (AG) delivers all mail items CO₂ emissions in Austria in a CO₂ neutral manner. This is confirmed each year by TÜV Austria. Results: The results demonstrate that the CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY all items are delivered in a CO₂ initiative is successful. Since 2011 Austrian Post (AG) has NEUTRAL MANNER in Austria by Austrian Post (AG). delivered all mail items within Austria in a CO2 neutral manThis is confirmed each year by TÜV Austria. ner. This makes the company a leader in the international And more than 150 customers use the logo in their logistics sector. communication activities. The CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY initiative also makes a substantial contribution to raising the environmental awareness of employees, customers and other stakeholder groups. It improves the climate scorecard of customers thanks to 76 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post the CO₂ neutral delivery of their mail items. Furthermore, interested business customers can request a certificate to confirm the CO₂ neutral delivery of all their mail items in Climate Protection the previous year. Austrian Post (AG) issued about 500 such Targets of Austrian certificates in 2018. Post (AG): Emissions 14 % reduction of CO2 emissions by 2025 Austrian Post has succeeded in significantly reducing (base year 2013) 100 % the emissions it causes in recent years. The consistent and ongoing energy-saving measures implemented by Austrian Post and the increased use of alternative energies have e-powered vehicles in delivery resulted in a considerable drop in emission levels. Emissions (last mile) by 2030 increased slightly, however, in 2018. This is primarily due to the strong growth in the parcel business, which meant emissions could not be reduced despite a number of measures to reduce emissions. Key indicators as well as further information on reporting boundaries, calculation methods and conversion factors can be found in the Facts & Figures section. Refer to p. 82f, 92f ­Science Based ­Targets sciencebasedtargets.org Austrian Post (AG) has been taking part in “Science Based Targets” since 2016, thus strengthening its commitin the vehicle fleet, which in turn resulted in a rise in CO2 ment to climate protection. The Science Based Targets emissions. initiative is an international organisation supported, for example, by the World Wide Fund for Nature. It pursues the Climate Protection on a National goal of actively involving companies in climate protection. and International Level As a result, Austrian Post (AG) is a trailblazer when it comes to the scientifically substantiated approach for developing With respect to its corporate social responsibility, it a CO2 reduction target. Austrian Post is only the second is essential for Austrian Post to be proactively involved in Austrian company to submit a science-based target. This is climate protection outside of the company. For this reason, in accordance with the results of the Paris Agreement on Austrian Post (AG) provides support for climate protection Climate Change, and thus contributes to ensuring that global projects in Austria and abroad within the context of the warming is limited to under 2° C. More specifically, Austrian CO₂ NEUTRAL DELIVERY initiative. The compensation for Post aims to cut its own CO2 emissions by 14 % by 2025 (base the remaining unavoidable emissions is the third step in year 2013). CO₂ neutral delivery. In Austria itself, support is provided to This goal not only encompasses emissions in Austrian projects such as the replacement of outdated heating sysPost's (AG) sphere of influence (Scope 1 and Scope 2) but tems running on fossil fuels by modern pellet heating or the also CO2 emissions from suppliers (Scope 3 targets). The purchase of e-vehicles for charitable organisations via the commitment to these holistic and scientific targets requires Climate Austria initiative. All this helps avoid CO₂ emissions a de­crease in CO2 emissions along the entire value chain. and also supports the regional economy via a high indirect Accordingly, Austrian Post (AG) collaboration with suppliers profitability. paying attention to the environmental compatibility of their On an international level, Austrian Post (AG) also supbusiness operations becomes even more important. ports numerous certified climate protection projects, such Emissions climbed by 1.4 % in comparison to the base as the generation of renewable energy by solar power facilyear. The strong growth in the parcel business (+54 % in the ities in India. The development of a low-cost and efficient period 2013 to 2018) led to an increase in the number of stove for the populations in Kenya and Honduras as a means ­kilometres driven and the related higher energy consumption of reducing fuel consumption and minimising health risks is Environment 77 another example. A similar project in Virunga National Park within the context of several cross-border projects. Austrian in Ruanda contributes to protecting the mountain gorillas Post (AG) deployed 1,597 e-vehicles in the year 2018. there. Austrian Post (AG) has yet set another ambitious goal for more ecological transport operations, namely that the entire delivery of mail and parcels to customers will be carried out Ecological Transport by e-vehicles by 2030. At present, e-vehicles account for 17.2 % of the Austrian Post (AG) delivery fleet. If Austrian Post wants to avoid or reduce CO₂ emissions The main areas of operation for the e-vehicles at present as a logistics company, the most promising approach is to are populated areas, especially Vienna, as well as provinfocus on transport operations, because this is the area it cial and district capitals. In its “Green Provincial Capitals” can influence the most. Each year mail and parcel carriers project, Austrian Post defined the goal in recent years of deliver 5.3 billion items to more than four million housedelivering all mail and direct mail items to private customers holds and companies in Austria. In doing so, it circles the in the provincial capitals in a “green” or CO₂ neutral manglobe several times – on foot, by bike, but also on mopeds, ner. This means the delivery of mail and direct mail items to in cars and in lorries. Austrian Post is working intensively on private customers are to be carried out entirely without the structuring its transport operations to be as environmentally use of fossil fuels. Conventional mopeds or automobiles are compatible as possible. no longer used. Instead, delivery is carried out completely The delivery staff can reach about 20 % of the delivery on the basis of the staff’s own muscle power or electrical areas on foot or by bicycle, whereas other delivery areas can energy. Now the project is being extended to rural areas. only be reached using motorised vehicles. That is why the Only e-powered vehicles or vehicles featuring alternative challenge is to find solutions, which are just as or almost as drive systems will be deployed for delivery purposes by the environmentally compatible. Two key aspects are route year 2030. planning and the vehicle fleet with the objective of increasThe fact that Austrian Post makes an important contriing efficiency in both areas. bution to climate protection based on its ecological transport measures is confirmed by the latest award granted for Refer to p. 92f the project involving the delivery of letter mail with e-vehicles. At the beginning of 2018, Austrian Post (AG) received Modern Vehicle Fleet for Greater Efficiency the internationally prestigious “Energy Globe World Award” environmental prize for its e-mobility concept. The Energy The condition of the vehicles plays a key role in the Globe Award is assigned annually in recognition of outstandefficiency of the vehicle fleet. For this reason, Austrian Post ing projects with a focus on resource conservation, energy focuses on deploying modern vehicles and carries out efficiency and the use of renewable energies. regular maintenance work as a means of optimising efficiency in the vehicle fleet. Environmental and Climate Protection also in Transport Logistics More Alternative Drive Systems for Lower Emissions Austrian Post has also undertaken major efforts in its transport logistics in recent years to protect the environMoreover, Austrian Post (AG) increasingly relies on ment and the climate. The primary focus is on rejuvenating alternative drive systems in its delivery operations, and once its vehicle fleet and thus applying modern technologies. again expanded its fleet of e-vehicles in 2018. Supported In order to reduce fuel consumption and emissions, by the funding programme “klima:aktiv mobil” launched by capacity utilisation of lorries is increased to reduce the numthe Austrian Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, ber of kilometres driven. In addition, routes are optimised Environment and Water Management and the Climate and and the types of vehicles deployed are adjusted to routes Energy Fund of the Austrian Federal Government, Austrian with lower utilisation levels. Post (AG) now operates 1,592 e-vehicles today, including 1,036 single track e-vehicles and special vehicles (quads and trikes) as well as 556 electric cars. Accordingly, Austrian Post is the largest e-fleet operator in the country. The further expansion of the e-vehicle fleet will be implemented in Austria’s rural regions with the support of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) as well as the Austrian Federal Ministry of Sustainability and Tourism 78 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post Ecological Building Structure Furthermore, the roofs of Austrian Post buildings provide a natural home for various animal species. For example, 302-4, 7, 8, 12, 13 the green roof of the Vienna Letter Mail Centre has become With more than one million square meters of usable a breeding place for the crested lark, and swarms of wild building space, Austrian Post also requires a large amount of bees have settled there. energy in its buildings. For this reason, Austrian Post has implemented various measures to minimise the ecological footprint of its activities, but without compromising on the Resource Efficiency quality of its services or its mandate to provide postal services. 103-2 Resource efficiency is an important aspect and part Refer to p. 91 of Austrian Post’s contribution to climate protection and energy saving. In order to enhance resource efficiency, Lower Energy Consumption for ­Austrian Post strongly relies on increasing awareness of Reduced Emissions this issue among external and internal stakeholders. Accordingly, the CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY initiative Austrian Post is continually striving to decrease energy contributes considerably to raising awareness in ­different consumption in buildings and thus reduce emissions. It constakeholder groups. For example, an employee survey carsistently monitors energy consumption and is successively ried out every two years shows that the CO2 initiative is converting the lighting systems in its logistics centres to LED positively assessed by employees, is of major significance lighting solutions. to them and is important for their identification with the In 2018, the company continued to exploit much of the ­company. energy savings potential identified in an energy audit in The fact that the CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY initiative has 2015, for example converting heating systems to district become an integral part of society is underlined by the high heat or installing efficient heating and warm water systems. level of public awareness. Customer satisfaction surveys carried out semi-annually show that this initiative is very More Renewable Energy Sources for well known in Austria and helps shape the image of Austrian Fewer Emissions Post. Interested business customers can also use the CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY logo for their own communication purAustrian Post (AG) exclusively derives green electricity poses and request a certificate confirming the CO2 neutral from renewable energy sources for company-owned builddelivery of all their mail items. ings and leased buildings for which it can impact the supply of electricity. The low amount of electricity from unknown Environmental Awareness as the Basis sources relates to postal partner offices and leased buildfor Enhanced Resource Efficiency ings with unknown electricity suppliers. However, Austrian Post (AG) not only procures electricity Austrian Post continuously works to raise awareness from renewable energy sources but also produces such elecof environmental issues among its employees by means of tricity itself. It has been operating one of the largest rooftop internal communications. Media such as internal info photovoltaic facilities in Austria located on the Vienna Letter screens, the Intranet and the employee magazine provide Centre since the autumn of 2013, boasting an output of regular information about the CO₂ NEUTRAL DELIVERY ini882 kilowatt peak (kWp). A second photovoltaic facility with tiative and other CSR-related measures. In 2018, an internal an output of 496 kWp has been generating solar power on quality seal “CSR Inside” was created focusing on the issue the roof of the Allhaming Logistics Centre in Upper Austria of sustainability and will be used starting in 2019. Within this since 2014. A third photovoltaic plant with 24 kWp on an context, projects will be evaluated on the basis of sustainaoffice building in Vienna was put into operation at the beginbility criteria and employees with a high level of commitment ning of 2018. The logistics centre in Hagenbrunn currently to sustainability will be appointed as ambassadors. under construction is also being equipped with a photovolThe environmental management system according to taic plant. The energy produced by the facilities amounting the ISO 14001 standard, which has been in effect since the to about 1.4 million kWh is sufficient to provide the entire year 2016, serves as a key instrument in ensuring resource e-vehicle fleet of Austrian Post (AG) with clean solar energy, efficiency and environmental awareness. The more sustainfree of greenhouse gas emissions. able use of natural resources requires awareness among employees to sensibly handle materials. In the meantime, Environment 79 the Vienna Letter Mail Centre, the largest logistics centre Environmental Risks operated by Austrian Post, as well as the Wernberg Parcel Centre and the entire subsidiary Medien.Zustell GmbH are for Austrian Post certified in accordance with ISO 14001. Accordingly, environmental protection and sustainability 102-15, 201-2 have gained in importance at the company’s facilities and Risks cannot be excluded in a diverse area such as the are embedded in the organisation via a regulated manageenvironment, which is shaped so much by natural events. For ment process. The main focus is on increasing employee this reason, the management of environmental risks which awareness on environmental protection, decreasing energy can potentially arise for the company is embedded in the consumption and reducing the volume of residual waste. Group-wide risk management system. The precise environAn improvement of the environmental management system mental risks arising from Austrian Post’s business operatakes place through the annual validation by a certified auditions are explained in greater detail in the Financial Report. tor of TÜV Austria. It is planned to extend this certification Environmental risks impacting Austrian Post primarily to two further sites in 2019. arise from natural influences such as the consequences of climate change. Resource-oriented Behaviour Based on However, normative changes, the slow technological Responsible Waste and Recycling Management progress, economic developments and the loss of reputation also have an impact. 306-2, 12 Refer to the Financial Report 2018, p. 57 Responsible waste and recycling management also plays an important role with respect to the efficient handling of natural resources. Similar to other logistics companies, PHYSICAL CLIMATE RISKS waste at Austrian Post mainly takes the form of used paper, Climate change and the related acute effects on the plastic, waste wood (pallets) and residual waste. Ausweather impact the infrastructure in Austria. In turn, the trian Post only has a very limited opportunity to exert an consequence could be detours, interruptions and losses of influence on waste volumes, which are primarily impacted time with respect to freight transport and delivery services. by customers or subcontractors commissioned by the Additional financial obligations could arise if the company ­company. is unable to fulfil its legal obligations to provide nationwide However, Austrian Post takes relevant measures in the postal services over a given period of time due to natural spirit of ensuring sustainable waste management wherever disasters. Austrian Post’s commercial properties could also possible. If waste cannot be avoided, it is disposed of in an be impacted more frequently in the future as a result of the environmentally compatible manner. Waste materials are severe effects of the weather such as flooding and damage separated by category, helping Austrian Post to reduce the caused by hail. amount of residual waste. The valuable recycling materials can be re-used in a sensible manner, both economically and TRANSITORY CLIMATE RISKS ecologically. A further risk relates to changes to and a tightening of applicable environmental laws or new environmental regulations, which could result in higher investments. In Responsible Procurement addition, higher taxes or increasing energy costs triggered by a shortfall of natural resources could lead to higher costs. 103-2 Risks relating to CO₂ emissions arise from technology Austrian Post not only strives to minimise the environand emissions trading. In turn, this affects the reputation of mental impacts of its business operations within the context Austrian Post, which has defined ambitious goals in its of its high sustainability standards. A shared understanding climate policies. Unreliable or immature technologies could with respect to environmental protection and responsibility slow down the modernisation of the vehicle fleet, preventing is also important in the selection of business partners. Austrian Post from achieving its climate targets. A financial risk exists in emissions trading should prices of emission Refer to p. 49ff certificates increase. 80 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post Further Information FURTHER INFORMATION 82 About This Report 84 Facts & Figures 96 GRI Index 104 Independent Assurance Report 106 Contact and Imprint ABOUT THIS REPORT The Sustainability Report is designed to show how Austrian Post takes responsibility for the environment, employees and society and integrates this into its core business without also taking economic criteria into account. 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-54 102-56 The Sustainability Report of Austrian Post is published The data published was checked by an independent audiannually. This report applies to the 2018 financial year, and tor. The corresponding confirmation on the part of KPMG thus is a seamless continuation of the 2017 S ­ ustainability Austria GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsund SteuerberatungsReport. This report is prepared according to the Core option gesellschaft can be found at the end of this report. of the GRI Standards. Refer to p. 104f As Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act (NaDiVeG) came into effect, Austrian Post expanded its financial reporting in 2017 for the first time by reporting on Reporting Boundaries, Calculation Methods, key non-financial aspects of its business operations with Conversion Methods and Conversion respect to observing human rights, combatting corruption Factors Relating to Greenhouse Gas Emissions and bribery as well as environmental, social and employee Generated issues and expanding it to encompass the entire Austrian Post Group. The legally required Non-financial Report 2018 302-1, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 can be found in the Annual Report. Reporting encompasses the parent company Austrian Post (AG) as well as its fully consolidated subsidiaries. A list Refer to the Financial Report 2018, p. 35ff of all the subsidiaries is included in the Non-financial Report of the Annual Report. There is no breakdown according to 102-45, 102-49 region for reporting in accordance with GRI Standards due This Sustainability Report refers to the entire Austrian to the fact that the main market is in Austria. Post Group for the first time and covers the same scope as Refer to the Financial Report 2018, p. 37 the Non-financial Report. However, due to the fact that the parent company Austrian Post (AG) generates most of the Group revenue (88 %) and has the largest number of The reporting of Austrian Post with respect to greenemployees (85 %), the impact of subsidiaries is considered house gas emissions is limited to CO₂ equivalents since these to be immaterial in comparison. The database and quality of are relevant in the context of its business operations as a the subsidiaries is being continuously improved and logistics services provider. Austrian Post reports about emisupgraded. sions caused by internal company activities (Scope 1), from the energy supply (Scope 2), and emissions arising as a result Refer to the Financial Report 2018, p. 36 of outsourced transport services such as freight transport and delivery services (Scope 3). Accordingly, Austrian Post 102-48 presents its emissions via CO₂ equivalents throughout its The data collection system was expanded due to the fact entire value chain. that the scope of the report was enlarged to include the There are no air mail delivery services within Austria. fully-consolidated subsidiaries. The measurement methods Emissions from domestic rail traffic are evaluated each year used were selected in a similar fashion as with the prior but are not material due to the low volume. Calculation of sustainability report. Individual deviations will be noted the CO₂ emissions of Austrian Post (AG) and its subsidiarappropriately. ies feibra, Post Systemlogistik and Post Wertlogistik from road transport is the responsibility of the Group Vehicle 82 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post Management organisational unit. The basic data for calculatsubsequent plausibilisation and consolidation of the indicaing the emissions of Austrian Post is derived from a special tors supplied by all subsidiaries is implemented by the CSR SAP production system, which includes vehicle data (type of and Environmental Management Department. In the case of vehicle and engine, etc.) and performance data (kilometres implausible figures, an extrapolation is carried out on the driven and fuel consumption). The basic data or kilometres basis of average values applying to Austrian Post (AG). driven for “external shipping companies” for letter mail The CO₂ emission factors for natural gas, heating oil, comes from databases which distinguish between the fields diesel and petrol for Austrian Post (AG) and the national of distribution and freight traffic. The data for “external shipsubsidiaries are derived from the database of the Federal ping companies” for parcels is determined by a calculation of Environmental Agency. In line with contracts with energy ratios. The parcel delivery volume of the outsourced extersuppliers, the electricity is green electricity from Austria. The nal companies is compared to the parcel delivery volume of Austria mix from the database of the Federal Environmental Austrian Post to calculate mileage. This results in a figure Agency in 2017 in used to calculate the CO₂ emissions. All for total mileage, which is multiplied by the average fuel conemission factors involve CO₂ equivalents. It is important to sumption of the Austrian Post vehicles taking account of the mention here that the term “CO₂” is to be equated with CO₂ particular vehicle category. The result is the fuel consumpequivalents in the entire report. Exceptions are emissions tion of the shipping companies. of the district heat companies in Vienna, Graz and Hall. For The Corporate Real Estate organisational unit is responFernwärme Wien, the emission factor from the 2005 report sible for determining the level of CO₂ emissions from buildof the Federal Environmental Agency on the company Fernings of Austrian Post (AG). Data compilation includes all wärme Wien is used. Information provided by operators is buildings and building space (own, leased space or space used in determining the emission factors for “Fernwärme rented out to third parties) of Austrian Post (AG). Generally Graz” and “Fernwärme Linz”. CO₂ equivalents are not used in speaking, a black box view is chosen, enabling significant these three exceptional cases. energy flows (electrical energy, room heating) to be identiEmission factors from the database of the Federal Envified. ronmental Agency are also used for natural gas, heating The environmental indicators of the international subsidoil, diesel and petrol for the international subsidiaries. The iaries are based on data directly obtained from the respecemission factors from the respective countries are the basis tive subsidiaries. Environmental indicators of the national for electricity and district heat. These are derived from the subsidiaries are determined in cooperation with the subecoinvent database. All CO2 emission factors are reviewed sidiaries and by the CSR and Environmental Management and updated on an annual basis. Department with the assistance of Group Real Estate. The About This Report 83 FACTS & FIGURES Indicators create transparency and show possibilities for improvement. In this way Austrian Post can manage measures being taken and steer target achievement. The development of indicators is depicted over a three-year period. The development of Austrian Post in 2018 is characternon-financial indicators in the fields of employees, society ised by declining mail revenue (–2.5 %) and rising parcel and the environment. revenue (+11.5 %). The analysis of the financial and non-­ Data compilation in the scope of consolidation of the financial indicators clearly reflects this. The consequences Group was expanded in 2018. For this reason, the non-finanof these developments with regard to financial indicators cial indicators on a Group level are not directly comparable (revenue and earnings) could be kept stable as predicted. with the information provided in the previous year. The Changes in the services provided (growth of parcel volumes com­pany is working on ensuring further harmonisation in and the accompanying increase in the kilometres driven as order to enable improved comparability of indicators on a well as individualised delivery services for private customers Group level. For this reason, changes will be commented upon relating to delivery times and locations) also impact in each case in relation to Austrian Post (AG). 84 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post Employee Indicators Employees 102-8, 102-41 8 The total number of employees working for Austrian Post volume development in the parcel business reflected in a (AG) rose slightly from 17,225 full-time equivalents (FTE) double-digit growth rate of 11.1 % in transported parcel in 2017 to 17,406 in 2018. This is due to the good capac­ity volumes in 2018. utilisation for letter mail items as well as the increasing Austrian Post (AG) Group 1 2016 2017 2018 2017 2018 Total Employees (FTE 2) 17,448 17,225 17,406 19,956 20,545 thereof women 5,068 5,027 5,264 5,996 6,481 thereof women (FTE in %) 29.0 29.2 30.2 30.0 31.5 thereof men 12,380 12,198 12,142 13,960 14,064 thereof men (FTE in %) 71.0 70.8 69.8 70.0 68.5 Civil servants (FTE) 3 7,642 7,056 6,315 n/a n/a thereof women 4 – 1,037 921 n/a n/a thereof men4 – 6,019 5,394 n/a n/a Salaried employees (FTE) 9,582 9,991 10,914 n/a n/a thereof women 4 – 3,913 4,265 n/a n/a thereof men 4 – 6,078 6,649 n/a n/a Employees pursuant to the Austrian Civil Code (ABGB, FTE)3, 5 225 179 178 n/a n/a thereof women 4 – 77 78 n/a n/a thereof men 4 – 102 99 n/a n/a Full-time employees (head-count) 15,512 15,256 15,324 n/a 18,228 thereof women (in %) 23.5 23.5 24.5 n/a n/a thereof men (in %) 76.5 76.5 75.5 n/a n/a Part-time employees (head-count) 3,395 3,474 3,600 n/a 3,951 thereof women (in %) 75.9 74.4 73.7 n/a n/a thereof men (in %) 24.1 25.6 26.3 n/a n/a Average tenure of civil servants (years) 32 33 34 n/a n/a Average tenure of salaried employees (years) 11 10 10 n/a n/a Temporary staff (FTE) 246 326 389 n/a n/a 1 Austrian Post Group 2017: This includes Austrian Post (AG) and the subsidiaries Medien.Zustell GmbH, feibra GmbH, Post Wertlogistik GmbH, Post Systemlogistik GmbH, Slovak Parcel Service s.r.o., IN TIME s.r.o., City Express d.o.o., City Express Montenegro d.o.o., Weber Escal d.o.o., M&BM Express OOD, Overseas Trade Co Ltd d.o.o. and Express One d.o.o. Sarajevo. For this reason, the indicator Total employees (FTE) does not correspond to the total number of employees (FTE) included in Financial Report on p. 45. Austrian Post Group 2018: The indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. 2 FTE = Full-time equivalents 3 All civil servants are employed for an unlimited period of time. Salaried employees are also employed for an unlimited period of time for the most part. In 2018, 456 FTE were employed for fixed periods of time (including employees undergoing a trial period and who then receive a permanent employment contract.) Employees pursuant to the Austrian Civil Code are principally employed for fixed periods of time. 4 The subdivision into the categories of women and men was first reported for the 2017 reporting year. 5 They are not subject to the collective wage agreement in line with stipulations contained in the Postal Services Structure Act (Sect. 19 Para. 5 PTSG). Facts & Figures 85 Employee Turnover 102-48, 401-1 The turnover statistics showed a trend towards in­creasprogramme in response to this development as a means of ing employee turnover, which reflects the current situa­ reducing employee turnover and ensuring the long-term tion on the labour market. The general favourable economic retention of employees in the company. Relevant measures situation has inherently led to increased willingness of were developed and implemented in the administrative, as employees to change jobs. Austrian Post (AG) initiated a well as in Mailand Parcel & Logistics divisions. Austrian Post (AG) Group 1 2016 2017 2018 2017 2018 Employee attrition (total staff departures) 2 2,072 2,309 2,548 n/a 3,280 thereof women 879 885 918 n/a 1,211 thereof men 1,193 1,424 1,630 n/a 2,069 By age group under 30 475 651 735 n/a 969 30 – 50 years 755 764 789 n/a 1,130 over 51 842 894 1,024 n/a 1,181 Employee attrition (staff departures in %) 2, 3 11.1 12.3 13.6 n/a 14.8 thereof women 42.4 38.3 36.0 n/a 36.9 thereof men 57.6 61.7 64.0 n/a 63.1 By age group under 30 22.9 28.2 28.8 n/a 29.5 30 – 50 years 36.4 33.1 31.0 n/a 34.5 over 51 40.6 38.7 40.2 n/a 36.0 New employee hires (total) 2 1,548 2,442 n/a 4 n/a n/a thereof women 702 1,050 n/a 4 n/a n/a thereof men 846 1,392 n/a 4 n/a n/a By age group under 30 889 1,346 n/a 4 n/a n/a 30 – 50 years 607 1,017 n/a 4 n/a n/a over 51 52 79 n/a 4 n/a n/a New employee hires (in %) 2, 3 8.3 13.2 % n/a 4 n/a n/a thereof women 45.3 43.0 n/a 4 n/a n/a thereof men 54.7 57.0 n/a 4 n/a n/a By age group under 30 57.4 55.1 n/a 4 n/a n/a 30 – 50 years 39.2 41.6 n/a 4 n/a n/a over 51 3.4 3.2 n/a 4 n/a n/a 1 Austrian Post Group 2017: This includes Austrian Post (AG) and the subsidiaries Medien.Zustell GmbH, feibra GmbH, Post Wertlogistik GmbH, Post Systemlogistik GmbH, Slovak Parcel Service s.r.o., IN TIME s.r.o., City Express d.o.o., City Express Montenegro d.o.o., Weber Escal d.o.o., M&BM Express OOD, Overseas Trade Co Ltd d.o.o. and Express One d.o.o. Sarajevo. Austrian Post Group 2018: The indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. 2 Persons leaving or hired for the permanent staff who have been employed by the company for at least six months. All forms of staff departures are taken into account. 3 Persons leaving or hired in relation to the average number of employees. 4 New employee hires to permanent staff employed for a period of at least six months. Due to the internal definition at Austrian Post, new employee hires for the 2018 financial year cannot be disclosed in light of the fact that the current Sustainability Report was already published in March. New employee hires for this reporting year will be included in the Sustainability Report in the subsequent year. 86 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post Diversity 405-1 A review of diversity at Austrian Post (AG) in 2018 revealed an increase in the proportion of women in 2018 as showed a continuation of the balanced mix of employees by a consequence of Austrian Post's (AG) ongoing measures to age groups. The indicator “Women in executive positions” promote the career advancement of women. Austrian Post (AG) Group 1 2016 2017 2018 2017 2018 Employees with special needs (total as of December 31st) 1,226 1,243 1,207 n/a n/a Employees (FTE 1) by age group 17,448 17,225 17,406 19,956 20,545 under 30 2,068 2,317 2,731 2,799 3,396 30 – 50 years 8,241 7,690 7,535 9,325 9,377 over 51 7,139 7,218 7,139 7,832 7,772 Employees by age group in % under 30 11.9 13.5 15.7 14.0 16.5 30 – 50 years 47.2 44.6 43.3 46.7 45.6 over 51 40.9 41.9 41.0 39.2 37.8 Employees in management positions (FTE) 2 921 887 778 993 972 thereof women 213 202 186 224 245 thereof men 708 685 591 769 727 By age group under 30 11 14 19 n/a 24 30 – 50 years 480 438 363 n/a 513 over 51 430 435 395 n/a 435 Employees in management positions in % 1, 2 5.3 5.1 4.5 5.0 4.7 thereof women 23.1 22.8 24.0 22.6 25.2 thereof men 76.9 77.2 76.0 77.4 74.8 By age group under 30 1.2 1.6 2.5 n/a 2.5 30 – 50 years 52.2 49.3 46.7 n/a 52.8 over 51 46.7 49.0 50.9 n/a 44.8 1 Austrian Post Group 2017: This includes Austrian Post (AG) and the subsidiaries Medien.Zustell GmbH, feibra GmbH, Post Wertlogistik GmbH, Post Systemlogistik GmbH, Slovak Parcel Service s.r.o., IN TIME s.r.o., City Express d.o.o., City Express Montenegro d.o.o., Weber Escal d.o.o., M&BM Express OOD, Overseas Trade Co Ltd d.o.o. and Express One d.o.o. Sarajevo. Austrian Post Group 2018: The indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. 2 FTE = Full-time equivalents 3 Management Board members, management team (reporting directly to the Management Board), expanded management team (directly reporting to the management team or executives) and leadership conference (employees of the reporting level 2 to 5 responsible for at least three employees) as well as all other executives, who are responsible for at least three ­employees. Facts & Figures 87 Sick Leave and Accident Indicators 102-48, 403-9:2018, 3, 8 A statistically higher number of occupational accidents has been registered since 2018. This is attributable to an improved and thus changed data compilation and evaluation system. The rate of people on sick leave remained virtually unchanged despite the increase in parcel volumes. Austrian Post (AG) Group 1 2016 2017 2018 2017 2018 Employees on sick leave (FTE 2 in %) 8.9 10.1 10.6 n/a 9.7 thereof women (in %) 35.7 26.6 27.3 n/a n/a thereof men (in %) 64.3 73.4 72.7 n/a n/a Days lost per sick leave (working days) 10.5 11.3 11.6 n/a n/a thereof women 8.4 8.8 9.0 n/a n/a thereof men 11.7 12.9 13.2 n/a n/a Number of occupational accidents 3 654 617 718 676 809 thereof women 235 236 292 n/a n/a thereof men 419 381 426 n/a n/a thereof serious accidents 11 11 8 n/a n/a thereof women 4 1 2 n/a n/a thereof men 7 10 6 n/a n/a thereof fatal accidents 0 0 0 0 3 Accident frequency 3, 5 23 22 25 n/a n/a Accident frequency for serious accidents 3, 4, 5 0.4 0.4 0.3 n/a n/a 1 Austrian Post Group 2017: This includes Austrian Post (AG) and the subsidiaries Medien.Zustell GmbH, feibra GmbH, Post Wertlogistik GmbH, Post Systemlogistik GmbH, Slovak Parcel Service s.r.o., IN TIME s.r.o., City Express d.o.o., City Express Montenegro d.o.o., Weber Escal d.o.o., M&BM Express OOD, Overseas Trade Co Ltd d.o.o. and Express One d.o.o. Sarajevo. Austrian Post Group 2018: The indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. 2 FTE = Full-time equivalents 3 Accidents beginning with one working day lost including subsequent sick leave (incl. commuting accidents during work). 4 Accidents beginning with six months or more lost. Only actual absence from work is reported, whereas expected times of absence are not taken into account. 5 Number of occupational accidents (starting with one working day lost) in relation to the hours worked, referring to one million working hours. The calculation takes place analogously for the accident rate for serious accidents. 88 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post Further Education and Professional Development 404-1, 4, 5 The number of seminar participants increased compared impacted by special effects such as the discontinuation of to the prior-year level, whereas the number of seminars participant registration for heart rate variability measureremained stable. The number of person-hours at 118,415 was ments at the delivery bases. above the long-term average. The indicators for 2017 were Austrian Post (AG) 1 Group 2 2016 2017 2018 2017 2018 Number of seminars 1,048 1,066 1,062 1,133 1,259 Number of participants 5,136 6,092 6,473 6,326 6,868 thereof women (in %) 32.5 34.3 39.2 n/a n/a thereof men (in %) 67.5 65.7 60.8 n/a n/a Person hours 100,442 131,894 118,415 n/a 123,496 Average annual number of person hours for women 5.9 8.6 7.7 n/a n/a Average annual number of person hours for men 5.0 6.3 5.5 n/a n/a 1 Indicators 2016 apply to employees of Austrian Post (AG) incl. national subsidiaries. Indicators for 2017 and 2018 apply to Austrian Post (AG) excl. national subsidiaries. 2 Austrian Post Group 2017: This includes Austrian Post (AG) and the subsidiaries Medien.Zustell GmbH, feibra GmbH, Post Wertlogistik GmbH, Post Systemlogistik GmbH, Slovak Parcel  Service s.r.o., IN TIME s.r.o., City Express d.o.o., City Express Montenegro d.o.o., Weber Escal d.o.o., M&BM Express OOD, Overseas Trade Co Ltd d.o.o. and Express One d.o.o. Sarajevo. Austrian Post Group 2018: The indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. Facts & Figures 89 Environmental Indicators Fundamentally speaking, all indicators are based on both has been expanded within the scope of consolidation. real data and extrapolations. These extrapolations are The entire Group is presented with the exception of one necessary due to the fact that the availability of real data subsidiary. In comparison to the previous year, the CO₂e is limited at the time of data collection. The approach used emission factors were also updated for the subsidiaries. in making extrapolations is continually evaluated and For this reason, it is not possible to directly carry out a im­proved. The strong growth in the Parcel & Logistics Divi­ comparison with the prior-year figures on a Group level. sion has resulted in the most frequent increases in indicators Moreover, developments of the respective indicators are compared to the previous year. only explained for Austrian Post (AG). Data compilation in the scope of consolidation of the Group was expanded in 2018. Furthermore, data collection Energy Overview 302-1, 7, 12, 13 The entire energy consumption of Austrian Post (AG) vehicle fleet rose by 6 %. The main influencing factor in this for its commercial properties and vehicle fleet increased regard was parcel volume growth of 11.1 %. This required a by 3 % year-on-year to about 402 m kWh. However, energy spatial extension of logistics processes and a conversion to consumption of its property holdings fell by 3 % to about larger and more powerful vehicles. 122m kWh. Energy consumption of the Austrian Post (AG) Unit Austrian Post (AG) Group 1 2016 2017 2 2018 2017 2018 Energy consumption buildings and vehicle fleet m kWh 384.1 389.0 401.7 469.7 484.4 Energy consumption buildings (total) 3 m kWh 125.2 125.5 121.6 147.7 143.5 Energy consumption vehicle fleet (total) 4 m kWh 258.9 263.5 280.0 322.0 340.9 1 Austrian Post Group 2017: This includes Austrian Post (AG) and the subsidiaries Medien.Zustell GmbH, feibra GmbH, Post Wertlogistik GmbH, Post Systemlogistik GmbH, Slovak Parcel Service s.r.o., IN TIME s.r.o., City Express d.o.o., City Express Montenegro d.o.o., Weber Escal d.o.o., M&BM Express OOD, Overseas Trade Co Ltd d.o.o. and Express One d.o.o. Sarajevo. Austrian Post Group 2018: The indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group with the exception of the subsidiary Express One Hungary. 2 Within the context of the audit, indicators relating to external vehicles for the year 2017 were revised upwards due to adjustments made to the original calculations. 3 Energy indicators for property holdings in the year 2018 include all space occupied by Austrian Post (office space, delivery bases, logistics centres, branch offices). The indicators for Austrian Post (AG) are based on real data available as at the deadline of January 17, 2019. The remaining share is based on estimates. Indicators for subsidiaries are based on data made available by them as at the deadline of January 24, 2019. Extrapolations were used in some cases. 4 Energy indicators for the vehicle fleet in 2018 refer to all motorised vehicles of Austrian Post. The indicators for Austrian Post (AG) are based on real data. The indicators applying to subsidiaries is based on data made available by them as at the deadline of January 24, 2019. Extrapolations were used in some cases. 90 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post Energy – Property and Buildings 302-1, 302-4 7, 8, 12, 13 Austrian Post (AG) administered more than one million the data collection and evaluation system combined with square metres of building space. The total area in m² rose energy efficiency measures. Specific CO2 emissions in slightly by 1 % in 2018 compared to the previous year. The tonnes per thousand m² declined even more strongly and entire amount of energy consumed by property holdings fell was down by 10 %. by 3 % to about 122 m kWh due to adjustments carried out in Unit Austrian Post (AG) Group 1 2016 2017 2018 2017 2018 Building space (m2) m2 1,053,200 1,048,295 1,055,669 1,185,294 1,208,212 Total energy consumption building 2 m kWh 125.2 125.5 121.6 147.7 143.5 Natural gas m kWh 33.2 32.3 32.7 42.3 42.5 Heating oil m kWh 3.1 3.1 2.0 3.3 2.1 District heat m kWh 32.6 34.5 30.3 36.9 33.0 Electricity (total) m kWh 56.3 55.6 56.6 65.3 65.8 t hereof electricity from renewable energy sources m kWh 52.8 52.4 55.4 55.4 59.0 t hereof electricity from own photovoltaic plants m kWh 1.3 1.5 1.4 1.5 1.6 thereof grey electricity m kWh 3.5 3.1 1.2 9.9 6.8 1  Austrian Post Group 2017: This includes Austrian Post (AG) and the subsidiaries Medien.Zustell GmbH, feibra GmbH, Post Wertlogistik GmbH, Post Systemlogistik GmbH, Slovak Parcel Service s.r.o., IN TIME s.r.o., City Express d.o.o., City Express Montenegro d.o.o., Weber Escal d.o.o., M&BM Express OOD, Overseas Trade Co Ltd d.o.o. and Express One d.o.o. Sarajevo. Austrian Post Group 2018: The indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group with the exception of the subsidiary Express One Hungary. 2 Energy indicators for property holdings in the year 2018 include all space occupied by Austrian Post (office space, delivery bases, logistics centres, branch offices). The indicators for Austrian Post (AG) are based on real data available as at the deadline of January 17, 2019. The remaining share is based on estimates. Indicators for subsidiaries are based on data made available by them as at the deadline of January 24, 2019. Extrapolations were used in some cases. Facts & Figures 91 Energy – Vehicle Fleet 302-1, 7, 12, 13 In 2018 Austrian Post (AG) travelled a total of 170 m km use of lorries led to a vehicle-related rise in fuel consumpto render its services. The number of kilometres driven rose tion. For this reason, overall fuel consumption climbed by 6 % by 5 % as a result of increased parcel volumes. Volume to 280 million kWh. Austrian Post (AG) cannot directly growth of 11.1 % and weight increases in this segment not influence energy consumption by external vehicles, which is only required a conversion to larger and more powerful why the company implements a large number of measures in vehicles but a spatial extension of logistics processes, in its own vehicle fleet (expansion of e-mobility, modern and particular in the case of third-party vehicles deployed to efficient vehicle fleet). transport goods (vehicles > 3.5 t). This freight transport and Unit Austrian Post (AG) Group 1 2016 2017 2 2018 2017 2018 Kilometres driven 3 m km 160.2 162.2 170.1 218.5 229.4 Total fuel consumption vehicle fleet 3 m kWh 258.9 263.5 280.0 322.0 340.9 thereof own vehicle fleet m kWh 166.0 170.7 176.5 198.7 208.5 t hereof electricity consumption e-mobility m kWh 0.6 1.1 1.2 1.1 1.2 thereof external vehicle fleet m kWh 93.0 92.8 103.5 123.3 132.3 1  Austrian Post Group 2017: This includes Austrian Post (AG) and the subsidiaries Medien.Zustell GmbH, feibra GmbH, Post Wertlogistik GmbH, Post Systemlogistik GmbH, Slovak Parcel Service s.r.o., IN TIME s.r.o., City Express d.o.o., City Express Montenegro d.o.o., Weber Escal d.o.o., M&BM Express OOD, Overseas Trade Co Ltd d.o.o. and Express One d.o.o. Sarajevo. Austrian Post Group 2018: The indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group with the exception of the subsidiary Express One Hungary. 2 Within the context of the audit, indicators relating to external vehicles for the year 2017 were revised upwards due to adjustments made to the original calculations. 3 Energy indicators for the vehicle fleet in 2018 refer to all motorised vehicles of Austrian Post. The indicators for Austrian Post (AG) are based on real data. The indicators applying to subsidiaries are based on data made available by them as at the deadline of January 24, 2019. Extrapolations were used in some cases. 92 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post Emissions 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 3, 12, 13 CO2e emissions (Scope 1–3) of Austrian Post (AG) Scope 2) was up 9 % to 12,365 tonnes. The 7 % increase in increased by 3 % to 71,389 tonnes compared to the pre­vi­ CO2e emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 3) in the vehicle fleet to ous year. Strong parcel growth was the main factor respon­ 59,024 tonnes offset the drop in emissions in the company’s sible for this rise in emissions. The CO2e emissions in property and buildings. ­Austrian Post's (AG) property and buildings (Scope 1 and Unit Austrian Post (AG) Group 1 2016 2017 2018 2017 2018 Total CO2 emissions (Scope 1 – 3) 2 according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol t CO2e 67,491 68,982 71,389 89,166 95,354 CO2e emissions buildings t CO2e 12,707 13,649 12,365 18,941 17,829 CO2e Scope 1 – buildings t CO2e 7,473 7,312 7,078 9,343 9,073 Natural gas t CO2e 6,630 6,462 6,541 8,455 8,506 Heating oil t CO2e 843 850 537 888 567 CO2e Scope 2 – buildings 3 t CO2e 5,234 6,337 5,287 9,598 8,756 District heat t CO2e 5,003 5,401 4,991 5,858 5,543 Electricity t CO2e 231 936 296 3,740 3,213 CO2e emissions vehicle fleet t CO2e 54,784 55,333 59,024 70,225 77,525 CO2e Scope 1 – own vehicle fleet t CO2e 35,154 35,713 37,065 42,804 47,953 CO2e Scope 3 – Partner companies t CO2e 19,630 19,620 21,959 27,421 29,573 1 Austrian Post Group 2017: This includes Austrian Post (AG) and the subsidiaries Medien.Zustell GmbH, feibra GmbH, Post Wertlogistik GmbH, Post Systemlogistik GmbH, Slovak Parcel Service s.r.o., IN TIME s.r.o., City Express d.o.o., City Express Montenegro d.o.o., Weber Escal d.o.o., M&BM Express OOD, Overseas Trade Co Ltd d.o.o. and Express One d.o.o. Sarajevo. Austrian Post Group 2018: The indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group with the exception of the subsidiary Express One Hungary. 2 All gases named by GRI are taken into account in calculating Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions. In order to fulfil GRI requirements, the CO2 emissions for Austrian Post (AG) for the base year 2013 are listed as follows: CO2 Scope 1 – road transport (own emissions: 35,199 t; CO2 Scope 1 – buildings: 8,887 t; CO2 Scope 2 – buildings: 6,346 t; CO2 Scope 3 – partner companies: 19,951 t. These figures refer exclusively to Austrian Post (AG). The difference to previously published CO2 emission figures for the year 2013 arises by not taking account of Post Wertlogistik GmbH. 3 The calculation of Scope 2 emissions (electricity and district heat) for Austrian Post (AG) is carried out in line with the market-based method. This means supplier-specific emission factors are used if available. When Scope 2 emissions are calculated using the location-based method (no supplier-specific emission factors, no green electricity), CO2 emissions for the year 2018 are at 19,839.9 tonnes. This shows the impact of procuring electricity from renewable energy sources. The calculation of Scope 2 emissions (electricity and district heat) for the national subsidiaries is carried out in line with the market-based method. This means supplier-specific emission factors are used if available. The calculation of Scope 2 emissions (electricity and district heat) for international subsidiaries is carried out in line with the location-based method. Facts & Figures 93 Relative Emissions 302-1, 7, 12, 13 Due to the changes in the mail and parcel businesses, more pro­nounced decrease than for absolute emissions. it makes sense to compare CO2e emissions to the respec­ CO2e emissions of the vehicle fleet climbed by 2 % to about tive reference value. CO2e emissions of property and 347 tonnes of CO2e per million kilometres, less than buildings fell by 10 % to 11.7 tonnes per thousand m², a the comparable increase for absolute CO2e emissions. Unit Austrian Post (AG) Group 1 2016 2017 2018 2017 1 2018 Relative CO2e emissions buildings 2 t CO2e / 1000 m2 12.1 13.0 11.7 16.0 14.8 Relative CO2e emissions vehicle fleet t CO2e / m km 342.0 341.1 347.0 321.5 337.9 1 Austrian Post Group 2017: This includes Austrian Post (AG) and the subsidiaries Medien.Zustell GmbH, feibra GmbH, Post Wertlogistik GmbH, Post Systemlogistik GmbH, Slovak Parcel Service s.r.o., IN TIME s.r.o., City Express d.o.o., City Express Montenegro d.o.o., Weber Escal d.o.o., M&BM Express OOD, Overseas Trade Co Ltd d.o.o. and Express One d.o.o. Sarajevo. Austrian Post Group 2018: The indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group with the exception of the subsidiary Express One Hungary. 2 All gases named by GRI are taken into account in calculating Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions. In order to fulfil GRI requirements, the CO2 emissions for Austrian Post (AG) for the base year 2013 are listed as follows: CO2 Scope 1 – road transport (own emissions: 35,199 t; CO2 Scope 1 – buildings: 8,887 t; CO2 Scope 2 – buildings: 6,346 t; CO2 Scope 3 – partner companies: 19,951 t. These figures refer exclusively to Austrian Post (AG). The difference to previously published CO2 emission figures for the year 2013 arises by not taking account of Post Wertlogistik GmbH. Vehicles The number of e-vehicles in the Austrian Post (AG) were put into operation at the end of 2018. However, the vehicle fleet in 2018 was up 12 % to 1,592. The total number of decommissioned vehicles were not yet eliminated from the vehicles rose by 7 % to 9,257 in comparison to the prior-year vehicle fleet during the period under review, which explains figure. This can be attributed to the fact that new vehicles the increase. Austrian Post (AG) Group 1 2016 2017 2018 2017 2018 Total vehicles 8,735 8,680 9,257 9,952 10,473 Bicycles 807 714 719 715 758 thereof electric bicycles 683 613 620 613 621 Mopeds 882 809 921 944 970 thereof electric mopeds 370 369 416 370 417 Vehicles up to 3.5 t 6,893 6,996 7,467 8,066 8,529 thereof natural gas-driven vehicles up to 3.5 t 2 0 0 0 3 thereof e-vehicles up to 3.5 t 334 441 556 443 559 Vehicles over 3.5 t 153 161 150 227 216 1 Austrian Post Group 2017: This includes Austrian Post (AG) and the subsidiaries Medien.Zustell GmbH, feibra GmbH, Post Wertlogistik GmbH, Post Systemlogistik GmbH, Slovak Parcel Service s.r.o., IN TIME s.r.o., City Express d.o.o., City Express Montenegro d.o.o., Weber Escal d.o.o., M&BM Express OOD, Overseas Trade Co Ltd d.o.o. and Express One d.o.o. Sarajevo. Austrian Post Group 2018: The indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group with the exception of the subsidiary Express One Hungary. 94 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post Paper 301-1, 8, 12 Paper consumption fell by 70 tonnes due to a variety of different measures (printer settings, awareness building measures, etc.). The share of paper from sustainable sources (FSC or PEFC) remains at a constant high level (more than 90 %). Unit Austrian Post (AG) Group 1 2016 2017 2018 2017 2018 Total paper consumption t 6,302 5,539 5,469 5,755 5,697 t hereof sustainably produced paper (PEFC and FSC paper) t 5,443 5,372 5,195 5,415 5,243 1 Austrian Post Group 2017: This includes Austrian Post (AG) and the subsidiaries Medien.Zustell GmbH, feibra GmbH, Post Wertlogistik GmbH, Post Systemlogistik GmbH, Slovak Parcel  Service s.r.o., IN TIME s.r.o., City Express d.o.o., City Express Montenegro d.o.o., Weber Escal d.o.o., M&BM Express OOD, Overseas Trade Co Ltd d.o.o. and Express One d.o.o. Sarajevo. Austrian Post Group 2018: The indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group with the exception of the subsidiary Express One Hungary. Facts & Figures 95 GRI INDEX 102-55 In the following GRI Index, the standard disclosures made by Austrian Post, material topics and at least one related indicator are listed in line with the “Core” option. If a GRI indicator is linked to a SDG, this is specified in the appropriate place. Disclosure Title GRI GRI Individual disclosure Standard Standard Disclosure items (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) Information on Disclosure Reasons for the Omission/ Number Title Number are not listed here SDGs or Reference Comments UNIVERSAL STANDARDS GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE Österreichische Post AG GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-1 Name of the organization (Austrian Post) Activities, brands, p. 40f GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-2 products, and services Financial Report 2018: p. 04f Rochusplatz 1, 1030 Vienna, GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-3 Location of headquarters Austria p. 41 GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-4 Location of operations Financial Report 2018: p. 04f p. 40f GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-5 Ownership and legal form Financial Report 2018: p. 14ff p. 41 GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-6 Markets served Financial Report 2018: p. 05 p. 40f, 64 Financial Report 2018: p. 04f, GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-7 Scale of the organization 66ff, 116ff Part of the services rendered in the field of goods transport and Information on employees SDG 8: Decent Work and parcel delivery are handled by GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-8 and other workers Economic Growth p. 85 external transport companies. SDG 8: Decent Work and GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-9 Supply Chain Economic Growth p. 49f Significant changes to the organization and GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-10 its supply chain p. 40f, 50 GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-12 External initiatives p. 44f Membership of GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-13 associations post.at/memeberships SUSTAINABLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Precautionary Principle or p. 47f GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-11 approach Financial Report 2018: p. 20f, 78ff Statement from senior GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-14 ­decision-maker p. 39 Key impacts, risks, p. 62, 66, 74, 80 GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-15 and ­opportunities Financial Report 2018: p. 85ff 96 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post Disclosure Title GRI GRI Individual disclosure Standard Standard Disclosure items (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) Information on Disclosure Reasons for the Omission/ Number Title Number are not listed here SDGs or Reference Comments Values, principles, standards, and norms SDG 16: Peace, Justice p. 46ff GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-16 of behavior and Strong Institutions Financial Report 2018: p. 50ff Mechanisms for advice and concerns about SDG 16: Peace, Justice GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-17 ethics and Strong Institutions Financial Report 2018: p. 50ff p. 46f GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-18 Governance structure Financial Report 2018: p. 20ff GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-19 Delegating authority Financial Report 2018: p. 21ff Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-20 and social topics p. 46f Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and SDG 16: Peace, Justice p. 53 GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-21 social topics and strong institutions Financial Report 2018 p. 38 Composition of the highest governance body SDG 16: Peace, Justice GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-22 and its committees and strong institutions Financial Report 2018: p. 21ff Chair of the highest SDG 16: Peace, Justice GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-23 ­governance body and strong institutions Financial Report 2018: p. 21ff Nominating and selecting SDG 5: Gender Equality the highest governance SDG 16: Peace, Justice GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-24 body and strong institutions Financial Report 2018: p. 24f Reporting on this disclosure is SDG 16: Peace, Justice voluntary and therefore incomGRI 102 General Disclosures 102-25 Conflicts of interest and strong institutions Financial Report 2018: p. 26 plete. GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-35 Remuneration policies Financial Report 2018: p. 12, 27ff Collective bargaining SDG 8: Decent Work and GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-41 ­agreements Economic Growth p. 85 STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-40 List of stakeholder groups p. 52 Identifying and selecting GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-42 stakeholders p. 52 Approach to stakeholder GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-43 engagement p. 53, 61, 68 Key topics and concerns GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-44 raised p. 53, 61 REPORTING PRACTICE Entities included in the p. 40f, 82 consolidated financial Financial Report 2018: p. 37, GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-45 statements 115f, 188 Defining report content GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-46 and topic Boundaries p. 40f, 54ff GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-47 List of material topics p. 40f, 54ff Restatements of GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-48 information p. 82, 86, 88 GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-49 Changes in reporting p. 82 GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-50 Reporting period p. 82 Date of most recent GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-51 report March 14, 2019 GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-52 Reporting cycle p. 82 Contact point for questions regarding the GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-53 report p. 106 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-54 Standards p. 82 GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-55 GRI content index p. 96f GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-56 External assurance p. 82, 104f GRI Index 97 Disclosure Title GRI GRI Individual disclosure Standard Standard Disclosure items (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) Information on Disclosure Reasons for the Omission/ Number Title Number are not listed here SDGs or Reference Comments MATERIAL TOPIC: GROWTH AND VALUE CREATION GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Boundary p. 57 The management approach and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 components p. 57 Evaluation of the GRI 103 Management Approach 103-3 management approach p. 58 GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 2016 SDG 2: Zero Hunger SDG 5: Gender Equality SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth SDG 9: Industry, Direct economic value Innovation and p. 59f Not applicable. Information on GRI 201 Economic Performance 201-1 generated and distributed Infrastructure Financial Report 2018: p. 69ff this disclosure is not applicable. Financial implications Limitations due to confidentiand other risks and ality. Costs and financial risks or opportunities due to opportunities are not disclosed GRI 201 Economic Performance 201-2 climate change SDG 13: Climate Action p. 80 for reasons of confidentiality. GRI 203: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS 2016 SDG 2: Zero Hunger SDG 5: Gender Equality SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy SDG 9: Industry, Innovation Infrastructure and Infrastructure Indirect Economic investments and services SDG 11: Sustainable Cities In this case, the investments are GRI 203 Impacts 203-1 supported and Communities p. 60, 63 commercial in nature. MATERIAL TOPIC: CORPORATE CULTURE AND WORLDS OF WORK GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 Explanation of the p. 47f, 67 material topic and its Financial Report 2018: p. 41ff, GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Boundary 50ff The management approach and its p. 47f, 66ff GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 components Financial Report 2018: p. 41ff, 50ff Evaluation of the p. 67 GRI 103 Management Approach 103-3 management approach Financial Report 2018: p. 41f, 51ff GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION 2016 Operations assessed for SDG 16: Peace, Justice GRI 205 Anti-corruption 205-1 risks related to corruption and strong institutions Financial Report 2018: p. 51 Communication and training about anticorruption policies and SDG 16: Peace, Justice GRI 205 Anti-corruption 205-2 procedures and strong institutions Financial Report 2018: p. 53f Confirmed incidents of There were no cases of corruption and actions SDG 16: Peace, Justice corruption during the reporting GRI 205 Anti-corruption 205-3 taken and strong institutions Financial Report 2018: p. 54 period. 98 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post Disclosure Title GRI GRI Individual disclosure Standard Standard Disclosure items (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) Information on Disclosure Reasons for the Omission/ Number Title Number are not listed here SDGs or Reference Comments GRI 206: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR 2016 In the year 2018 there were no lawsuits filed against Austrian Post nor sanctions or fines imposed upon the company for anti-competitive behaviour, formation of cartels or monopolistic Legal actions for antipractices, based on the Federal competitive behavior, Act Against Unfair Competition Anti-competitive anti-trust, and monopoly SDG 16: Peace, Justice (UMG) or the Austrian Cartel Act GRI 206 Behavior 206-1 practices and strong institutions (KartG). GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT 2016 Not applicable. In line with Austrian Post's internal definition, the annual average is used to New employee hires and calculate new employee hires GRI 401 Employment 401-1 employee turnover p. 86 and employee turnover. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time GRI 401 Employment 401-2 employees p. 69 GRI 402: LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 2016 Generally speaking, the rules relating to participation on the part of employee representatives in organisational changes is regulated by the Labour Constitution Act. Moreover, Austrian Post is obliged to comply with the stipulations contained in the Postal Service Works Constitution Act. In line with Section 72 Para. 3/7 of this law, Austrian Post is required to inform employee representatives in a timely manner before organisational changes take place and to promptly negotiate with them. Based on these regulations, organisational changes are coordinated with the Minimum notice periods employee representatives more Labor/Management regarding operational SDG 8: Decent work and than two months on average GRI 402 Relations 402-1 changes economic growth before they are implemented. GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2016 SDG 5: Gender Equality Diversity and Equal Diversity of governance SDG 8: Decent work and GRI 405 Opportunity 405-1 bodies and employees economic growth p. 70, 87 GRI 419: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 2016 In the year 2018 there were no lawsuits filed against Austrian Post nor sanctions or fines imposed upon the company for anti-competitive behaviour, formation of cartels or monopolistic practices, based on the Federal Non-compliance with laws Act Against Unfair Competition Socioeconomic and regulations in the SDG 16: Peace, Justice (UMG) or the Austrian Cartel Act GRI 419 ­Compliance 419-1 social and economic area and strong institutions (KartG). GRI Index 99 Disclosure Title GRI GRI Individual disclosure Standard Standard Disclosure items (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) Information on Disclosure Reasons for the Omission/ Number Title Number are not listed here SDGs or Reference Comments MATERIAL TOPIC: RESOURCE EFFICIENCY GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Boundary p. 75 The management approach and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 components p. 74, 79 Evaluation of the GRI 103 Management Approach 103-3 management approach p. 75f GRI 301: MATERIALS 2016 SDG 8: Decent work and economic growth SDG 12: Responsible Materials used by Consumption and GRI 301 Materials 301-1 weight or volume Production p. 95 GRI 301: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 2016 The information is not available: Waste at Austrian Post arises because of deliveries made by customers. This waste primarily consists of cardboard, plastic films and waste wood. Operational waste management is the responsibility of the respective site. Waste is only handed over to authorised waste management companies. They subsequently introduce these valuable waste materials either to the recovery or disposal cycles. Austrian Post is working intensively on a cenSDG 3: Good health and tralization and bundling of its Wellbeing strategic and operational waste SDG 12: Responsible management. A database is to Waste by type and Consumption and be created in the coming years GRI 306 Effluents and Waste 306-2 disposal method Production p. 80 to as the basis for reporting. MATERIAL TOPIC: CLIMATE PROTECTION AND ENERGY GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Boundary p. 75 The management approach and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 components p. 74, 76 Evaluation of the GRI 103 Management Approach 103-3 management approach p. 75f GRI 302: ENERGY 2016 SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Energy consumption Production GRI 302 Energy 302-1 within the organization SDG 13: Climate Action p. 82, 90f SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy SDG 8: Decent work and economic growth SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Reduction of energy Production GRI 302 Energy 302-4 consumption SDG 13: Climate Action p. 79, 91 100 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post Disclosure Title GRI GRI Individual disclosure Standard Standard Disclosure items (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) Information on Disclosure Reasons for the Omission/ Number Title Number are not listed here SDGs or Reference Comments GRI 305: EMISSIONS 2016 Not applicable: Austrian Post does not generate biogenic CO₂ emissions. Information is not available: The Global Warming Potential (GWP) and the source of the GWPs are SDG 3: Good health and not known. By the time the next Wellbeing report is published in 2019, it will SDG 12: ­Responsible be clarified with the Austrian Direct ­Consumption and Federal Environmental Agency (Scope 1) ­Production which GWP will be used and the GRI 305 Emissions 305-1 GHG emissions SDG 13: Climate Action p. 82, 93 source will be disclosed. Information is not available: The Global Warming Potential (GWP) and the source of the GWPs are SDG 3: Good health not known. By the time the next and Wellbeing report is published in 2019, it SDG 12: Responsible will be clarified with the Austrian Energy indirect ­Consumption and Federal Environmental Agency (Scope 2) Production which GWP will be used and the GRI 305 Emissions 305-2 GHG emissions SDG 13: Climate Action p. 82, 93 source will be disclosed. Information is not available: The Global Warming Potential (GWP) and the source of the GWPs are SDG 3: Good health and not known. By the time the next Wellbeing report is published in 2019, it SDG 12: Responsible will be clarified with the Austrian Other indirect Consumption and Federal Environmental Agency (Scope 3) Production which GWP will be used and the GRI 305 Emissions 305-3 GHG emissions SDG 13: Climate Action p. 82, 93 source will be disclosed. MATERIAL TOPIC: RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Boundary p. 49 The management approach and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 ­components p. 49, 80 Evaluation of the p. 50 GRI 103 Management Approach 103-3 management approach Financial Report 2018: p.51 GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 SDG 8: Decent Work and GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-9 Supply chain Economic Growth p. 49f Significant changes to the organization and its GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-10 supply chain p. 50 GRI 204: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 2016 SDG 12: Responsible Proportion of spending on Consumption and The term “local suppliers” GRI 204 Procurement Practices 204-1 local suppliers Production p. 50 refers to Austrian suppliers. GRI 308: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 2016 Negative environmental No significant social and environSupplier Environmental impacts in the supply mental impacts are known with GRI 308 Assessment 308-2 chain and actions taken Financial Report 2018: p. 51 respect to verified suppliers. GRI 414: SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 2016 SDG 5: Gender Equality SDG 8: Decent work and Negative social impacts economic growth No significant social and environSupplier Social in the supply chain and SDG 16: Peace, Justice mental impacts are known with GRI 414 Assessment 414-2 actions taken and strong institutions Financial Report 2018: p. 51 respect to verified suppliers. GRI Index 101 Disclosure Title GRI GRI Individual disclosure Standard Standard Disclosure items (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) Information on Disclosure Reasons for the Omission/ Number Title Number are not listed here SDGs or Reference Comments MATERIAL TOPIC: OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH PROTECTION GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Boundary p. 67 The management approach and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 components p. 66, 70 Evaluation of the GRI 103 Management Approach 103-3 management approach p. 67 GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HELATH AND SAFETY 2016/2018 Workers representation in formal joint manageOccupational Health ment-worker health and SDG 8: Decent work and GRI 403 and Safety 403-1 safety committees economic growth p. 71 Not applicable: Data on occupational illnesses is not compiled, because it is not relevant. Productive hours are not disclosed for reasons of confidentiality. Conversion to the new standard: productive hours of temporary staff are not available. For this reason, the frequency of accidents incurred by temporary staff cannot be reported at the present time. In 2019 an evaluation will take place to determine whether accident frequency for temporary Types of injury and rates staff can be included. of injury, occupational SDG 3: Good Health and diseases, lost days, and Wellbeing The information is not available: Occupational Health absenteeism, and number SDG 8: Decent work and Presentation of temporary GRI 403 and Safety 403-9 of work-related fatalities economic growth p. 88 workers according to gender. Health and safety topics covered in formal Occupational Health agreements with trade SDG 8: Decent work and GRI 403 and Safety 403-4 unions economic growth p. 71f GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 2016 The information is not available: In line with the database on professional development and training measures, an assessment according to the specific management level or Average hours of training SDG 4: Quality education other functions is not possible GRI 404 Training and Education 404-1 per year per employee SDG 5: Gender Equality p. 73, 89 (no system interfaces). Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance SDG 8: Decent work and GRI 404 Training and Education 404-2 programmes economic growth p. 72f MATERIAL TOPIC: DATA PROTECTION AND DATA SECURITY GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Boundary Financial Report 2018: p. 47 The management approach and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 components Financial Report 2018: p. 47f Evaluation of the GRI 103 Management Approach 103-3 management approach Financial Report 2018: p. 49 102 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post Disclosure Title GRI GRI Individual disclosure Standard Standard Disclosure items (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) Information on Disclosure Reasons for the Omission/ Number Title Number are not listed here SDGs or Reference Comments GRI 418: CUSTOMER PRIVACY 2016 There were no major complaints against Austrian Post in 2018 relating to the violation of cusSubstantiated complaints tomer data protection rules or concerning breaches of the loss of customer data above customer privacy and SDG 16: Peace, Justice and beyond media reports which GRI 418 Customer Privacy 418-1 losses of customer data and strong institutions were publicised. OTHER MATERIAL TOPICS WITHOUT AN EQUIVALENT GRI STANDARD MATERIAL TOPIC: INNOVATION AND FUTURE TECHNOLOGIES GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Boundary p. 57 The management approach and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 ­components p. 57, 60 Evaluation of the Internal performance indicators GRI 103 Management Approach 103-3 management approach p. 58 are currently being evaluated. MATERIAL TOPIC: SERVICE AND CUSTOMER ORIENTATION Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Boundary p. 57 The management approach and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 ­components p. 57, 61 Internal performance indicators Evaluation of the are the results of the customer GRI 103 Management Approach 103-3 management approach p. 58 satisfaction index (CSI). MAIN TOPICS: SOCIAL COMMITMENT Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Boundary p. 62 The management approach and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 ­components p. 62, 65 Internal performance indicator: Evaluation of the total expenditures for sponsoring GRI 103 Management Approach 103-3 management approach p. 63 and donations. MATERIAL TOPIC: CUSTOMER PROXIMITY Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Boundary p. 57, 67 The management approach and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 components p. 61 Internal performance indicators Evaluation of the are the results of the customer GRI 103 Management Approach 103-3 management approach p. 58 satisfaction analysis (CSI). MATERIAL TOPIC. REGIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND RELIABILITY OF SUPPLY Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Boundary p. 62 The management approach and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 components p. 62f Evaluation of the GRI 103 Management Approach 103-3 management approach p. 63 GRI Index 103 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT ON THE NON-FINANCIAL REPORTING 102-56 To the Board of Directors of Österreichische Post AG. We have performed an independent assurance on the disclosures and indicators concerning the sustainability performance for the financial year 2018 published in the Sustainability Report 2018 (“the Sustainab­ ility Report”) Österreichische Post AG, Vienna, (“the Company”). Management’s Responsibility References to other formats of reporting stated in the GRI Index were assessed for GRI conformity. The Company's management is responsible for the Our engagement was conducted in conformity with the proper preparation of the Sustainability Report in accordInternational Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE ance with the reporting criteria. The Company applies the 3000) applicable to such engagements. These standards sustainability reporting guidelines of the Global Reporting require us to comply with our professional requirements Initiative (GRI Standards, “Core” option) as reporting criteria. including independence requirements, and to plan and perThe responsibility of the legal representatives of the form the engagement to enable us to express a conclusion company includes the selection and application of reasonwith limited assurance, taking into account materiality. able methods for sustainability reporting (especially the An independent assurance engagement with the purselection of material topics) as well as the use of assumppose of expressing a conclusion with limited assurance is tions and estimates for individual non-financial disclosures substantially less in scope than an independent assurance that are reasonable under the circumstances. Furthermore, engagement with the purpose of expressing a conclusion the responsibility includes the design, implementation and with reasonable assurance, thus providing reduced assurmaintenance of systems, processes and internal controls ance. In spite of conscientious planning and execution of the relevant for the preparation of the sustainability reporting engagement it cannot be ruled out that material mistakes, in a way that is free of – intended or unintended – material unlawful acts or irregularities within the Non-financial misstatements. Reporting will remain undetected. The procedures selected depend on the auditor's judgAuditors’ Responsibility and Scope ment and included the following procedures in particular: of the Engagement ■ Inquiries of personnel on corporate level, which are Our responsibility is to state whether, based on our responsible for the materiality analysis, in order to gain an procedures performed, anything has come to our attention understanding of the processes for determining material that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Report of sustainability topics and respective reporting boundaries the Company is not in accordance with the sustainability of the Company; reporting guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI ■ Conduct of a media analysis on relevant information Standards, “Core” option) in all material respects. concerning the sustainability performance of the Company The engagement scope included the Sustainability in the reporting period; Report regarding the GRI Standards listed in the GRI Index. ■ Evaluation of the design and implementation of the systems and processes for the collection, processing and 104 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post control of the disclosures and indicators concerning the efficiency of management. Furthermore, it is not part of our sustainability performance in scope of this assurance engagement to review future-related disclosures, figures agreement, including the consolidation of the data; from previous periods and statements from external infor■ Inquiries of personnel on corporate level responsible for mation sources and expert opinions. Disclosures which were providing and consolidating and for carrying out internal audited within the scope of the Annual Financial Statement control procedures concerning the disclosures; were assessed for correct presentation (no substantial test■ Inspection of internal and external documents in order to ing). determine whether qualitative and quantitative informaThis assurance report is issued based on the assurance tion is supported by sufficient evidence and presented in agreement concluded with the Company. Our responsibility an accurate and balanced manner; and liability towards the Company and any third party is sub■ Inquiry of employees as part of a site visit of a subsidiary ject to paragraph 7 of the General Conditions of Contract for in Austria (feibra GmbH) to assess local data collection the Public Accounting Professions. and reporting processes and the reliability of the reported data; The respective latest version of the AAB is accessible at kpmg.at/aab ■ Analytical evaluation of the data and trend explanations of quantitative disclosures, submitted by all sites for consolidation at corporate level; Conclusion ■ Evaluation of the consistency of the for the Company applicable requirements of the GRI Standards (“Core” Based on the procedures performed, nothing has come to option) with disclosures and indicators in the Sustainab­ our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainabilility Report; ity Report of the Company is not in accordance with the ■ Evaluation of the overall presentation of the disclosures sustainability reporting guidelines of the Global Reporting by critical reading of the sustainability report. Initiative (GRI Standards, “Core” option) in all material respects. The procedures that we performed do not constitute an audit or a review in accordance with Austrian professional guidelines, International Standards on Auditing (ISA) or International Standards on Review Engagements (ISRE). Our engagement did not focus on revealing and clarifying illegal acts such as fraud, nor did it focus on assessing the Vienna, 22 February 2019 KPMG Austria GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsund Steuerberatungsgesellschaft Mag. Peter Ertl Wirtschaftsprüfer Independent Assurance Report 105 CONTACT AND IMPRINT Media owner and publisher Österreichische Post AG Rochusplatz 1, 1030 Vienna, Austria T: +43 577 67 0 E: info@post.at FN: 180219d, Commercial Court of Vienna Concept and design Berichtsmanufaktur GmbH, Hamburg, Germany Project management, editing, organisation/coordination Berichtsmanufaktur GmbH, Hamburg, Germany; Austrian Post CSR and Environmental Management Investor Relations Photography © Ian Ehm Print AV+Astoria Druckzentrum, Vienna 106 Sustainability Report 2018 Austrian Post Contact and Imprint We have prepared this report and checked the figures as “expect”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, “plan” or “calculate”. This Sustainability Report is also available in German. In with the greatest possible care. Nevertheless, rounding, We wish to note that a wide variety of factors could cause case of doubt, the German version takes precedence. typographical and printing errors cannot be excluded. actual circumstances – and hence actual results – to The aggregation of rounded amounts and percentages ­deviate from the forecasts contained in this report. may result in rounding differences due to the use of automated computational aids. Statements referring to people are valid for both men and women. This report also contains forward-looking assumptions and statements based on the information currently availaInformation on data protection can be found at post.at/ ble to us. These are usually indicated by expressions such data protection. Editorial deadline: March 13, 2019 post.at
