Communication on Progress UN Global Compact 2018 Content GC Rieber Creating Joint Futures Letter from the CEO........................ 4 About GC Rieber......................................................................................... 7 Our CSR Framework................................................................................... 8 Environment................................................................................................ 10 Human and Labor Rights............................................................................ 13 Anti-corruption............................................................................................. 14 The GC Rieber Foundations....................................................................... 16 Illustration: MIR 3 Front page picture: Mostphotos GC Rieber – Creating Joint Futures In January 2019, GC Rieber Proudly announced We are happy to see that since the establishment our new vision; Creating Joint Futures. of the Global Goals in 2015, more and more companies are playing their part in reaching As a company closing in on 140 years, we know the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. the importance of always looking ahead, adapting Progress is being made, but at the same time we to the current situation and creating solutions for are learning that neither the scale nor the pace is future needs. sufficient to reach the goals in time. Our tradition has been to change. We are At GC Rieber we are making an effort to change continuously looking for new opportunities, this. 2018 has been a year where the Sustainable venturing into different business areas. Development Goals have been a major focus point. Throughout our business units, management teams Looking forwards, it is evident that one of the have worked together to identify the areas in which greatest challenges will be that of creating a their unit may have the largest impacts. sustainable future. A future where both people and business can flourish. This is also the future The results have been exciting. Each company in which we can find the greatest opportunities has identified the different targets, risks and – when we are willing to make the necessary opportunities most relevant to them and their changes. supply chain. This gives us an opportunity to direct our focus and allocate our resources to where it As part of the global market, the world has matters the most. become our area of operation. Digitalization and technological innovation are rapidly increasing This exercise also shows that due to the different the speed of change. The world we are operating nature of our daughter companies, the GC Rieber in today is very different from only a few decades Group has an opportunity to greatly impact ago. economic, social and environmental targets, touching upon almost every single sustainable In this everchanging business environment, it is development goal. crucial to know who you are. At GC Rieber, our vision, values and business principles, serve as Integrating these exciting findings in our corporate our foundation and set the direction for all future strategies gives us a solid platform to fulfill our role business conduct. Our role as a piece in a larger in reaching the 2030 agenda. In this way, we are puzzle, is deeply embedded in our company using the Global goals to guide our way and assist culture. Staying true to our belief in giving back to us in reaching our new vision. the community is as important as ever. Together we are Creating Joint Futures. Sincerely yours, Paul-Chr. Rieber CEO GC Rieber AS 4 Photo: C Foto, Camilla Waage Photo: GC Rieber AS 6 About GC Rieber Our employees At the end of 2018, the GC Rieber group consisted of approximately 600 employees allocated to five business units: GC Rieber Shipping ASA GC Rieber Shipping operates within the subsea, marine seismic and ice/support segments. GC Rieber Compact AS GC Rieber Compact including Compact India Pvt. Ltd. and GC Rieber Compact South Africa (Pty) Ltd. GC Rieber Compact develops and produces life-saving, ready-to-use food products. GC Rieber Oils AS GC Rieber Oils is a supplier of concentrated Omega-3 fatty acids to the supplements industry. GC Rieber Salt AS GC Rieber Salt delivers salts and minerals across the Nordic region. GC Rieber Eiendom AS GC Rieber Eiendom develops and manages urban business areas in Bergen (Norway). The countries in which we operate Besides Norway, our offices and production sites are located in the following countries: Denmark, Iceland, Faroe Islands, Australia, Russia, India, South Africa and Tunisia. 7 Our CSR Framework Company CSR Functions Internal Polices and guidelines Corporate Social Responsibility activities in each Based on our strong business principles and business unit are supported and monitored by core values, GC Rieber has developed internal a central Group CSR Manager reporting to the guidelines for ethics and CSR that we expect all Group CEO and Board of Directors. In addition, GC Rieber employees to adhere to. The guidelines all GC Rieber Companies are reporting to their contain general principles for best practice and Company board respectively. professional conduct and represent the fundament of our core beliefs and our corporate culture. Since 2016, each group company has their own CSR Coordinator to support the implementation of Group policies and guidelines, coordinate Sustainability in our supply chain the company CSR strategy and action plan. In As a group with a diverse product range and addition, the CSR coordinator acts as an advisor international presence, GC Rieber has a vast for company leaders and employees. range of suppliers from all over the world. Good supplier-control and confidence is of outmost In 2017 the role of the CSR-coordinators were importance. further strengthened by an official mandate signed by the Group CEO. In order to make our position on CSR and sustainability clear to our business partners, we The CSR coordinator role contributes to better have created a Code of Conduct (CoC) that we integration of sustainability considerations into ask them to sign. GC Rieber will, when selecting the strategies of the business units and ensures suppliers and prior to making investment alignment between Group and company CSR decisions, consider compliance with this CoC as goals. part of our general assessment. The CoC provides a framework for what we consider to be the minimum standard for professional conduct. In addition, business units conduct regular audits of their suppliers and partners either directly or through recognized agencies. We also use a thirdparty assessment form to evaluate sustainability risks related to potential business partners in cases where a signed CoC may be difficult to obtain in due time. To further strengthen our supplier control and follow-up, we have conducted a status evaluation of our established routines for supplier handling and Code of Conduct and is adapting our routines and documentation accordingly. Illustration: UN Global Compact 8 CSR Strategy, action plans and reporting Our CSR policy is an integral part of our organization and reflects our business goals. At GC Rieber, we involve and engage all parts of the organization in the work related to CSR. During fall 2018 and Spring 2019 all GC Rieber business units have taken part in an internal program for identifying the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) most relevant for their area of operation and integrating these goals in their company strategy. Each group management team has participated in the exercise of analyzing their company operations and supply chain and linking them to the SDGs at target level. Throughout this exercise the teams have focused on both positive and negative impacts, and potential opportunities and risks. The results of the analysis will be described in a detailed report for each business unit containing specific examples of current practices, future goals and a GAP-analysis. The final result of the GC Rieber SDG process will be communicated on our web site. Training Dilemma training and information meetings are important elements in building knowledge and awareness around important CSR topics in our organization. In 2016 we achieved our aim for all employees of the GC Rieber Group to complete an e-learning course on anticorruption which we had developed ourselves. Every year since, the course has been sent out and conducted by all new employees. Illustration: Mir Photo: Mostphotos Environment Taking the lead on sustainable property From by-products to valuable output development At GC Rieber Oils, waste reduction is an GC Rieber Eiendom is one of the leading important target. As a producer of health real estate developers in Bergen city, and is products made from fish-oil, it is a major in the forefront when it comes to creating focus point that as little as possible of this sustainable and energy efficient urban areas. valuable raw material should go to waste. Utilizing new building materials and GC Rieber Oils has for a long time alternative sources of energy, GC Rieber provided local municipal enterprises with Eiendom is raising the industry standard and environmentally friendly bio-fuel made developing new and innovative solutions to from recycled by-products. In addition, such meet the sustainability-challenges of the real fuel is used for heating the GC Rieber Oils estate industry. production streams. To show their commitment to the Another exciting usage area for fish-oil byenvironment and sustainable area products is animal feed. GC Rieber Oils has development, GC Rieber Eiendom has made recently developed a new technology for bya commitment that all new buildings shall product conversion and is planning to build a obtain the high-reaching industry certificate whole new factory with the aim of introducing Breeam Nor Excellent, while all existing these valuable resources back into the value buildings are in the process of acquiring the chain. certification, Breeam in use. Among the many activities carried out Other activities carried out by the GC by GC Rieber Eiendom in 2018/19: Rieber Oils: • Breeam Excellent certification for • Sourcing exclusively from new building “Lanternen” trustworthy markets and partners • Breeam in use certificate achieved to provide full traceability for 4 buildings. A total of 5 out of • Utilizing energy management 10 existing buildings now holds the systems to reduce energy and water certificate consumption. • Utilizing low carbon footprint building materials (wood) in the construction of the new building “Skipet” • Preserving energy for peak periods through re-use of old electric car batteries • Connecting new buildings to the existing Marineholmen Ocean Technology energy plant, thus reducing energy consumption. 10 A greener shipping industry In 2018, GC Rieber Shipping has continued its focus on reducing CO2, NOx and SOx emissions from their vessels. This is an initiative addressing some of the major environmental challenges of the shipping industry. In addition, the company has introduced a new focus area, reducing the use of plastic and other garbage on board their vessels. This initiative will have a positive impact on marine life and reduce the levels of plastic in the oceans. Results from Rieber Shipping: Activities carried out by other • 16% of all operations were carried GC Rieber Units: out in green mode • Participation in government led • Shore power was utilized whenever projects on reducing the overall use possible of road salt • Urea plant was utilized on Polar (GC Rieber Salt) King both inside and outside the • Member of the environmental NOx emission control area organization “Grønt Punkt” • 46% of all office commute were (GC Rieber Salt) “green travels” • Installation of Liquid Petroleum Gas Plant as a more environmentally friendly alternative to High Speed Diesel New initiatives from GC Rieber (GC Rieber Compact) Shipping (2019): • Increasing greenery inside and • Returning packaging to agent/ship outside the office/factory chandler when receiving goods and (GC Rieber Compact) provisions. • Hired external agency for safe • Reducing the use of disposable collection, disposal or treatment items such as eating utensils, water of solid non-hazardous waste bottles, goblets, etc. generated in the company • Replace water bottles on all vessels (GC Rieber Compact) • Provide high-quality equipment, • Developed KPIs adressing plastic spare parts, etc. waste and energy saving (GC Rieber Compact) Photo: Mostphotos 11 Photo: Mostphotos 12 Photo: GC Rieber Compact Human and Labor Rights Sustainability at its core Other human and labor rights activities Being a producer of food for prevention and carried out in other GC Rieber Units: treatment of malnutrition, improving the life of poor and vulnerable groups is at the core of GC • Implementation of new appraisal system Rieber Compact’s business operations. to better form desired behaviors (GC Rieber Shipping) Providing food for people in difficult situations, • Conducting regular internal audits requires high competence and quality standards. and being subjected to external audits Due to this, GC Rieber Compact has a very strict in accordance with the Marine Labor training and production regime to ensure that the Convention products are of the best quality possible in order to (GC Rieber Shipping) improve their health. • Hosting apprentices and contributing to education GC Rieber Compact believes that good habits start (GC Rieber Oils) at home. In order to improve the knowledge level • Annual collective bargaining for union and hygienic condition of factory staff, GC Rieber members Compact have provided stainless steel cooking (GC Rieber Oils) tables with washing sink for workers in India and • HSE-card is issued during construction their families. This initiative was conducted in process to prevent social dumping, cooperation with the GC Rieber Foundations. illicit work and other illegal working conditions (GC Rieber Oils) • Introducing new recruitment procedures Other human and labor rights activities to increase share of women in carried out at GC Rieber Compact: management positions (All GC Rieber Companies) • Improving the quality of food in the • Increasing the share of women in board canteen at the factory in India of directors • Improving working condition through (All GC Rieber Companies) installation of air purifiers in office and • Regular HSE training and updates factory (All GC Rieber Companies) • Flu vaccine offered to staff • Supplier control through Code of • Four staff members studied further with Conduct and third-party analysis support from the company (All GC Rieber Companies) • Audit of labor practices at our South• Revision of Whistle Blower Policy African factory showed full compliance (All GC Rieber Companies) 13 Anti-corruption Increased awareness fosters positive actions Since 2016 Anti-Corruption has been a main focus area in GC Rieber. We believe that the best method for preventing corruption is to foster a company culture where our employees are able to identify situations where corruption may occur, in addition to having the skillset to act correctly if they are to encounter such a situation. Through the development of our online course in 2016, we have informed all employees about what can be defined as corruption, the content of our GC Rieber Anti-Corruption policy, Norwegian and international corruption legislation, and practical examples. In Q2 2019 all new employees since Q2 2018 conducted the online course. In addition, all GC Rieber Compact office staff have received the course in 2019. As a tool to support us in our anti-corruption activities, GC Rieber has developed “we say no to corruption” cards and posters. These are animated illustrations that can easily be understood independent of language and reading-ability. Introduced in 2016, the cards and posters are still popular among the employees and are hanging on board all GC Rieber Shipping’s vessels. 14 Photo: Mostphotos The GC Rieber Foundations The GC Rieber Foundations comprise six charitable foundations and manage philanthropic and charitable contributions to benevolent and social initiatives and a wide range of culture and science projects in Norway and abroad. The Foundations hold more than 20% ownership in the GC Rieber Group. Consequently, a significant part of the Group’s value creation finds its way into social investments through the GC Rieber Foundations. This contribution means a lot to employees and shareholders of GC Rieber and motivates us to go the extra mile every day. Visit the Foundation’s own website for more information: https://www.gcrieber-fondene.no/english-summary/ Photo: GC Rieber Fondene / Hans Jørgen Brun 16 Photo: GC Rieber Funds Contact For further information about our sustainability work, please contact our Group CSR Manager Silje Langemyr Phone (+47) 941 34 468 Or GC RIEBER AS Solheimsviken 15 5058 Bergen Phone 55 60 67 00 www.gcrieber.com Photo: Thomas Morel / Alf Gundersen
