Greenstone Annual Communication on Progress 2019 7th February 2017 – 6th February 2018 Introduction February 2019 I am pleased to confirm that Greenstone+ Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti Corruption. With this Communication on Progress, we continue to demonstrate our commitment to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations. We support public accountability and transparency and we are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Matthew de Villiers Chief Executive Officer 2 Our commitment to UNGC Principles At Greenstone, we provide software and services that enable our clients to advance their sustainability reporting and become responsible businesses. Through our sustainability reporting software and supporting services, we enable our clients to collect, manage, analyse and report the data required to fulfil their non-financial, EHS, CSR, ESG, health and safety, risk and compliance and supply chain reporting requirements. We actively use and promote the UN Global Compact Principles as a standard for our clients and are dedicated to improving the transparency of corporate reporting in the 4 key areas – human rights, labour, environment and anti-bribery and corruption. We also promote engagement with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) across our client base and in our software solutions. SupplierPortal – enabling responsible sourcing Through our SupplierPortal solution (www.greenstoneplus.com/software/supplierportal/ ), we are helping our clients to improve transparency across their supply chains. SupplierPortal is an online platform for suppliers and their buyers to track and monitor environmental, labour, health & safety and anti-bribery & corruption information. Using a series of questionnaires, suppliers are able to disclose information about their policies, compliance and procedures that they have in place. This helps buying organisations to get a better understanding of the companies they work with across their supply chain to help them make informed business decisions. 3 Materiality assessment With a wide range of sustainability topics organisations can report on, assessing which aspects are most material enables Greenstone to focus our reporting. Both internal and external factors are used to determine ‘materiality’ involving organisational stakeholders such as customers or company investors. Materiality is a key part of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) reporting framework. As a member of the GRI GOLD Community we aim to align Greenstone’s Communication on Progress (COP) with the GRI Standards and disclosure aspects. In 2016 we undertook a materiality assessment to determine our key stakeholders: our investors, clients, employees and partners. In our 2019 report we continue to report based on these material aspects. In defining our material aspects we considered the following factors: • Greenstone’s estimated main sustainability impacts • Topics and future challenges highlighted on a sector-wide level • Relevant laws, regulations and international or voluntary agreements • Greenstone’s key organisational values and policies • Expectations or interests of our stakeholders • Significant organisational risks for Greenstone as an SME • Organisational core competencies The assessment of materiality yielded five key areas which were most material to Greenstone and we believe should be reported against and linked to the UNGC Principles. These continue to be included in our 2019 COP submission across Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Bribery and Corruption. 4 Sustainable Development Goals We acknowledge the importance of advancing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, so we have identified five of the Sustainable Development Goals where we are committed to catalysing action. Good Health & Well being • As tenants of the Crown Estate we are offered free weekly health activities including yoga and mindfulness. We have a roof allotment which employees maintain. Employee wellbeing is an agenda item on our annual team building event. Gender equality We value our diverse workforce. Our recruitment process allows fair and equal access to employment opportunities. Any acts of gender discrimination will be addressed through existing codes of conduct. We aid our clients to capture CSR metrics which help address gender equality within the workforce. Industry, innovation & infrastructure Providing consultancy services to clients with large commercial assets and infrastructure enabling the measuring and monitoring of their non-financial data. The heart of what we do aids knowledge sharing. Responsible consumption & reduction We always encourage responsible consumption within the office and are constantly looking for ways to reduce our plastic and paper use. We also work hard to reduce business travel by using online conferencing. Climate action We are all sustainability professionals who are passionate about promoting positive climate change and environmental awareness. 5 Human Rights As an employer, Greenstone is committed to providing employees all basic Human Rights guaranteed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and UN Global Compact Principles. Actions All new and current staff are reminded of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and are aware of the commitment Greenstone has made to these principles. Any and all updates in legislation are communicated to employees in a timely manner through education and awareness training. Forthcoming Plans By committing to Principle 2 of the UN Global Compact, Greenstone will strive to ensure we are not complicit in human rights abuses connected with our supply chain. We will therefore, where possible, further strengthen our supplier assessment mechanisms with regards to human rights aspects. Measurement of outcomes Since its inception, Greenstone has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving human rights violations. Due to the scope of our activities and number of employees (17) in our organisation, an external audit on human rights performance is not required. 6 Labour Greenstone’s policies and procedures, including our Health and Safety policy, employment contracts, and non-discrimination policies, comply with both UK and EU employment legislation to ensure that our staff are treated fairly and without discrimination. Equality & Diversity Policy Greenstone has a written equal opportunity policy that complies with its statutory obligations under the Race Relations Act 1976, the Sex Discrimination Act 1975, the Disability Discrimination Act 1995, the Equality Act 2006 and the Equality Act (Sexual Orientation) Regulations 2007. As a team, we have a zero tolerance policy for all forms of forced and compulsory labour both within Greenstone and within our clients and suppliers. We also do not tolerate any form of child labour and discriminatory practices. Measurement of outcomes The rights of all employees are continuously reviewed to ensure that the Greenstone team are happy and that they are fulfilled and motivated by their work. We encourage a workplace approach designed to ensure that employees are committed to the organisation’s goals and values, motivated to contribute to organisational success, and are able at the same time to enhance their own sense of wellbeing. Where necessary, we take external advice to ensure that we enforce Labour principles compliant with the Global Compact position. We have never had a breach or complaint about unfair treatment since the Company formation in 2006. 7 Environment Greenstone is committed to acting responsibly and adopting best practice to minimise our environmental impact. We are committed to the continuous improvement of our environmental performance, as part of our overall goal of implementing the principles of sustainable development in all areas of our work. Our aim is to ensure that environmental objectives are integrated into relevant business objectives in a cost-effective manner. Greenstone is continually improving its environmental targets and plans. Our sustainability policy and ongoing goals include: • Comply with all relevant environmental legislation and approved codes of practice in force, cooperating fully with the appropriate regulatory authorities; • Foster an understanding of the environmental issues arising from our business activities among our employees, suppliers, contractors, customers and the local community. • Set out environmental targets for significant activities, and carry out regular environmental audits of these Greenstone activities. Measurement of outcomes We continuously measure and manage our environmental performance (including energy, waste and recycling) using our Enterprise software. We also report our environmental performance publicly on an annual basis to our customers via our SupplierPortal solution. 8 Greenstone’s Carbon Footprint As part of Greenstone’s commitment to evaluating our environmental performance, our carbon footprint is calculated across all relevant scopes. Our 2017/18 footprint was 43.07 tCO₂e. This includes emissions associated with electricity use, business travel, and waste. Our carbon footprint is calculated in Greenstone’s Enterprise software for the period 1st April 201731st March 2018. Overall emissions have increased, which can be accounted for by an increase in FTE and non-operational emissions associated with flights taken for overseas business expansion. Rail continues to be the single means of travel for client meetings. Greenstone Footprint 2017/18 Scope Emission tCO2e 0.82 0.48 3 Road Travel 0.48 3 Air 16.50 11.20 3 Hotel Stays 3.26 16.50 3 Rail 0.91 3 Commuter Travel 9.83 0.07 3 Waste 0.07 3 Electricity 11.2 9.83 3.26 3 T&D 0.82 0.91 Total Emissions 43.07 Road Travel Air Hotels Rail Commuter Travel Waste Electricity T&D * T&D refers to emissions relating to electricity Transmission and Distribution losses in the UK. The UK GHG reporting framework released by Defra states 9 that UK electricity emissions should be split in to scope 2 and scope 3 T&D so that the different scopes are accurately accounted for. Greenstone’s Carbon Footprint This reporting period Scope 3 Emissions have significantly increased due to non-operational travel taken for essential business trips associated with Greenstone’s expansion in other global markets. Commuter emissions have been calculated per employee, based on the modes of transport used and the frequency of days travelled to and from the our office in central London. These emissions have decreased even though employee numbers have increased. Due to an increase in Greenstone’s clients, rail emissions have increased significantly as this is the only method of travel used for client meetings. Total Annual Commute Distance (miles) Greenstone tCO2e travel footprint 2017/2018 420 10,369 Commuter Car 11,697 Commuter Tube Commuter Rail Tube Rail Air 89,339 Car Taxi 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 National Rail Tube Car Bus 2018 2017 10 Greenstone’s Carbon Footprint Electricity use is the second largest contributor to Greenstone’s overall carbon footprint. FTE numbers increase by 20% this reporting year which correlates to the increase in Scope 2 emissions. We’ve included our data centre emissions in our footprint for the first time. We have continued to decrease our Scope 2 emissions by 35% compared to the previous 5 years. Total Scope 2 emissions 18 Greenstone Office Data centre 16.0 Total Scope 2 emissions (tCO2e) 16 15.2 13.5 14 3.9 3.7 12 11.2 3.6 10.5 10 3.3 3.3 8 6 12.1 11.5 9.87 4 7.88 7.18 2 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Reporting year * Greenstone’s carbon footprint was calculated using Defra 2017 (1st April – 31st Dec 2017) and Defra 18 (1st Jan – 31st Mar 2018). Scope 2 emissions relate to electricity usage within our main office facility in Regent Street, London. Emissions from external data hosting activity by our tier 1 partner Rackspace have not been included. 11 Anti-bribery & corruption Greenstone is committed to operating responsibly wherever we work in the world and to engage with our stakeholders to manage the social, environmental and ethical impact of our activities in the different markets in which we operate. Greenstone does not engage in bribery or any form of unethical inducement or payment including facilitation payments and ‘kickbacks.’ All employees are required to avoid any activities that might lead to, or suggest, a conflict of interest with the business of the Company. We do not make direct or indirect contributions to political parties. Measurement of outcomes The Greenstone Management Team regularly reviews the implementation of this policy in respect of its suitability, adequacy and effectiveness and makes improvements as appropriate. It periodically reports the results of this process to the Greenstone Board, who makes an independent assessment of the adequacy of the policy and discloses any material non-compliance. Greenstone has established feedback mechanisms in order to maintain accurate records which properly and fairly document all financial transactions. Internal control systems are subject to annual audits to provide assurance that they are effective in countering bribery and corruption. 12 5th Floor, Crown House 143-147 Regent Street London W1B 4NR T: +44 (0)20 3031 4000 W: www.greenstoneplus.com
