2018 Sustainability Review YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Contents YEAR 2018 MANAGING OUR RESPONSIBILITY KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES THE REPORT Sponda in brief 3 General operating principles Responsibility is based on Sponda’s responsibility key The scope and principles guiding responsibility 12 co-operation 22 figures 49 of the report 61 Highlights in 2018 4 Responding to trends and Transparent and ethical Environmental responsibility Management approach 64 Chief Executive’s review 5 changes 14 operations 24 key figures 50 Assurance 65 How we create value 8 We listen to our Enhancing the customer Social responsibility key GRI index 67 Responsibility at Sponda 10 stakeholders 16 experience 27 figures 57 Case: Energy efficiency is Economic responsibility key a shared goal 28 figures 59 Investing in employees 30 Energy and environmental efficiency 32 Case: Good co-operation lifted Forum’s recycling rate to new heights 35 Property locations 38 Case: Tampere’s largest shopping centre Ratina brings citizens together 40 Taking the industry forward 43 Case: MOW Supernova in Tampere fosters courage 45 1 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT YEAR 2018 “Co-operation was essential in all of our sustainability achievements and the steps we took in 2018.” Kai Aejmelaeus President and CEO 2 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Sponda in brief 3.9 ENHANCING 53% OFFICE PREMISES 48% WASTE RECYCLING THE CUSTOMER RATE 40% EXPERIENCE (1–5) 45.0 SPONDA PLC is the leading property investment company in Finland. We are 125 a forerunner in property investment, SHOPPING CENTRES an experienced business partner and a kg CO2/gross m2 1.2 million m² responsible developer of properties and urban CARBON FOOTPRINT EMPLOYEES environments. We own, lease and develop 200.5 office and retail properties and shopping 2.03% LEASABLE AREA centres in the largest cities in Finland. We develop operating environments that 84 M€ kWh/gross m² promote the success of our customers. SICK LEAVE, % OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION WORKING HOURS 34% Sponda is owned by Blackstone, one of the PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENTS most reputable investment companies in the world. Its extensive global experience New CEO 3.8 bn€ ENVIRONMENTAL in property investments makes us Kai Aejmelaeus was CERTIFICATION RATE uniquely positioned to lead our industry appointed as President and CEO of Sponda. forward. Sponda business units are Office Properties, Shopping Centres, Property TOTAL VALUE OF PROPERTIES New Development, Portfolio Management and certifications Coworking Spaces (31 December 2018). Opening of the Ratina Sponda’s properties shopping centre were awarded five new environmental certificates and Sponda’s new shopping centre Ratina the level of two certificates opened its doors in Tampere in April. was successfully raised. Ratina is the largest property development project in Sponda’s entire history. Information dated 3 31 Dec 2018 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Highlights in 2018 NEW PROPERTIES IN STRONG YEAR IN TERMS OF CERTIFICATIONS TOP LOCATIONS Sponda’s properties were awarded five new environmental Our property portfolio grew with certificates during 2018, and the level of two certificates was two new properties in 2018, with the successfully raised. As the most significant certifications, the Ratina shopping centre in Tampere AGAIN ONE OF THE MOST RESPONSIBLE Väritehtaankatu 8 office and retail space building was awarded the and the office and retail property OPERATORS IN THE FIELD LEED® Gold certificate and the Ruoholahden Tähti office property at the Tikkurila railway station, Sponda ranked number one in Finland and number was the first office building in Finland to be awarded the BREEAM® Väritehtaankatu 8, opening for two in the Nordic countries within its peer group in In-Use Excellent certification. In addition, the Forum shopping centre business. Ratina is Sponda’s biggest the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark improved its BREEAM® In-Use certification rating to Very Good. shopping centre and also the largest (GRESB) 2018 survey. Sponda also ranked among property development project in the the best in all of Europe. GRESB is a global company’s history. Both properties comparative study of sustainability that measures are centrally located in transport hubs the performance of property companies in various and based on low energy consumption areas of sustainability. We received a full five-star solutions. assessment and, for the sixth year running, we were also awarded a Green Star for our sustainability efforts. 4 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Chief Executive’s review 2018 will be remembered as the year Sponda completed its largest development project, started the renewal of information systems and continued to work in the area of sustainability. Sponda’s environmental partnership programme, R&D co-operation and modern information systems that enhance these activities support the company’s role in sustainable development. The advantageous economic climate in SUSTAINABILITY ACHIEVEMENTS Finland and the high level of activity in From the perspective of sustainability, the property market created favourable 2018 was a successful year for Sponda. We conditions for business in the past year. are moving towards our energy efficiency The property market’s total transaction programme target for 2020, which is to volume reached approximately EUR 9 bilreduce energy consumption by 20%, using lion and the demand for office and retail the period 2001–2005 as the baseline. We space remained strong throughout our also improved the material efficiency of portfolio. our properties. The key factors in increasing our recycling rate included the enviSponda’s total revenue and net operating ronmental coordinator activities introincome both decreased slightly in 2018. As duced at shopping centres in 2017 as well in previous years, Sponda made significant as active co-operation with customers and investments in property development, other stakeholders. totalling EUR 84 million. The fair value of Sponda’s investment properties amounted Sponda’s efforts in sustainability were to approximately EUR 3.8 billion at the end once again recognised when the GRESB of 2018. scores for the property sector were “Our achievements reflect announced in September 2018. We were our long-term commitment ranked first in Finland and second in the to sustainability.” Nordic region in our peer group and also among the leading companies in Europe as a whole. 5 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Sponda was awarded five new environSeeking environmental certification Another significant new property develness premises are also emerging as a new mental certificates during the year. Our remains a significant priority for Sponda. opment project completed in 2018 was the competitive factor between companies. newly developed property on VäritehtaCertificates provide stakeholders, customoffice and retail property on Väritehtaan­ ankatu received LEED Gold certification ers and end users with reliable informakatu in Vantaa’s Tikkurila district. The A growing number of customers are also and Ruoholahden Tähti became the first tion on the extent to which sustainability LEED Gold certified property is an example looking for assistance in establishing an office building in Finland to be awarded has been integrated into our operations of sustainable life cycle construction in a environmentally friendly corporate culBREEAM In-Use Excellent certification. The and processes. location that provides the property’s users ture. We have created an environmental Forum shopping centre also improved its with eco-friendly transport connections partnership programme in response to BREEAM rating by two grades. SPONDA COMPLETED THE and a wide range of services. this need. The aim of the programme is to LARGEST DEVELOPMENT expand the lessor-tenant relationship into LONG-TERM COMMITMENT PROJECT IN COMPANY HISTORY We also started two significant new propa genuine partnership that helps the cusTO SUSTAINABILITY The biggest milestone of the year was the erty development projects in 2018. Ratina tomer company evolve into a comprehenOur achievements reflect our long-term April 2018 completion of the largest develOffices, an office and retail property to be sively sustainable operator and communicommitment to sustainability. Sustainopment project in Sponda’s entire history: built in Tampere, and the renovation of cate its environmental efficiency. ability is considered throughout the the Ratina shopping centre in Tampere. our property on Arkadiankatu in Helsinki property life cycle and Sponda’s manageBuilt according to BREEAM environmental are both scheduled to be completed in ment and personnel are highly committed certificate standards and with a strong spring 2020. to the company’s sustainability efforts emphasis on sustainable values, the shopand targets. Nevertheless, our excellent ping centre has created approximately SUSTAINABILITY IS EMERGING results cannot be taken for granted. We 1,000 new jobs and attracts some 600,000 AS A COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE strive to continuously develop our operatmonthly visitors, in line with the compaAccording to customer surveys conducted ing models and find even more effective ny’s targets. by Sponda during the year, sustainability approaches and technologies to improve has taken on an increasingly significant sustainability. Ratina was developed using a new comrole in our customers’ business. Our ”The biggest milestone of munity-based concept. Instead of being a customer organisations choose enerthe year was the April 2018 Launching the renewal of Sponda’s ICT traditional shopping centre, it is a hub of gy-efficient properties and a responsible completion of the largest systems was the most significant step services and entertainment that changes business premises partner to support their taken in technological development during the cityscape of Tampere and creates new sustainability targets and create netdevelopment project in the year. Modern information systems will urban culture. works with other companies that operate Sponda’s entire history: the provide strong support for our work in the sustainably. Through their impact on Ratina shopping centre in area of sustainability going forward. employee well-being and motivation, busiTampere.” 6 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT The primary cornerstone of the No Pizza ON A MISSION TO TAKE THE BUILDING AN EVEN restaurant in Citycenter is sustainability ENTIRE INDUSTRY FORWARD STRONGER POSITION AS As a leading operator in our industry, we AN INDUSTRY LEADER want to contribute to the development of Employees are the foundation of successcorporate responsibility. During the year, ful and sustainable businesses. 2018 was we engaged in close co-operation with an active year for the company, and I want various associations and, as in previous to take this opportunity to thank all of our years, invested in R&D and the manageemployees for making our accomplishment of risks related to responsibility. ments possible and helping us drive the company forward. Going forward, we will Our MOW coworking concept facilitates focus even more on providing comfortable the adoption of innovative business premand productive working environment for ises solutions and allows our customers our employees. to react quickly to changes in how people and organisations work. During the year Co-operation was essential in all of our under review, the MOW offering was comsustainability achievements and the steps plemented by meeting rooms and event we took during the year. In addition to our spaces that are open to everyone and employees, I wish to thank our customers instantly bookable around the clock. and stakeholders for their role in what we have achieved. We could not have done MOW expanded to Tampere at the end it without you. In 2019, we will maintain of the year with the opening of the a strong focus on our core business—the latest hub, MOW Supernova. The new development and leasing of retail and hub’s Grand Opening was celebrated in office properties and working environ­February 2019. ments—and the continual development of “Sustainability has taken our sustainability work. on an increasingly Kai Aejmelaeus, significant role in our President and CEO customers’ business.” 7 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT How we create value With our operations, we want to create value for our customers, personnel, society and various communities on which our operations have direct or indirect effects. At the same time, we are environmentally responsible. By developing properties into unique and Responsibility plays an important role comfortable working environments, we from the point of view of value experifacilitate the success of our customers. enced by our personnel. Engaging and With our energy-efficient properties, our recruiting professionally skilled employcustomers will also achieve concrete ees is key to the success of our business savings in their energy consumption. In operations. We want our employees to feel addition to reducing energy consumption, that they can be part of our responsibility. the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions Therefore, we invest in creating a posiand water consumption and optimum effitive and responsible atmosphere at work ciency in waste recycling are at the core of through good management and support our environmental responsibility. the professional development of our employees through high-quality training. We make significant investments in the development of our properties each year, while creating value for our partners and society in general. We also engaged Responsibility is an integral in developing comfortable urban envipart of Sponda’s strategy ronments in co-operation with various and day-to-day operations. stakeholders. Our customers, partners and other stakeholders play key roles in the implementation of our corporate responsibility. 8 Sustainability Review 2018 Helsinki city centre 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Sponda’s value creation model SPONDA’S CAPITAL OPERATING MODELS VALUE CREATED BY SPONDA Financial capital SPONDA’S VISION Value for customers • Value of investment properties 3,756 M€ • Office spaces that support operations • Property development investments 84 M€ The first choice for customers • Development of the property portfolio • Maintenance investments (capex) 42.3 M€ • Savings from the reduced energy consumption looking for business premises. of business premises Personnel • Number of personnel 125 • Academic background: university 49%, polytechnic 19%, vocational school level 31%, other 1% • Training days per person: 1.23 Value for society • Development of the urban environment Manufactured capital • Taxes arising from Sponda’s business operations 17.1 M€ • Quantity of properties 165 • Property development investments 84 M€ • Total floor area of office properties 567,000 m2 • Total floor area of shopping centres 303,000 m2 • Value of land 47 M€ Intellectual capital • Environmental partners: 16 • Properties in energy efficiency programme 102 • Development of business premises and services SPONDA BUSINESS Value for the community • Corporate planning OPERATIONS • Employment • Sharing knowledge and expertise Sponda owns, leases and develops Social capital office and retail properties and • Activity in industry organisations shopping centres. With innovative • Extensive subcontractor network customer-focused solutions and high-quality property maintenance, Natural capital we provide our customers with Impact on the environment • Water consumption 405,796 m3 comfortable, safe and energy• Reduction of energy and water consumption • Electricity consumption 140,297 MWh • Heating consumption 167,838 MWh efficient business premises. • Reduction of CO2 emissions • Maximising waste recycling • District cooling consumption 15,053 MWh Information dated 31 Dec 2018 9 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Responsibility at Sponda Responsibility is an integral and inseparable part of our strategy, day-to-day work and business expertise. Active co-operation with our stakeholders to achieve sustainable development is at the core of our responsibility. We listen to our customers, partners and organisations so that we can lay the foundation Our responsibility priorities and preconditions for strong co-operation and thereby a dynamic customer-driven approach. WE LISTEN WE BUILD WE STRENGTHEN WE LISTEN TOENERGY OUR AND WE ARE BUILDING OUR ENHANCING WE ARE INVESTING IN THE commit to theTAKING THE development of responsible PROPERTY INVESTING IN STAKEHOLDERS ENVIRONMENTAL OPERATIONS THE CUSTOMER INDUSTRY LOCATIONS WITH THE HELP OF FUTURE BY STRENGTHENING EMPLOYEES properties together – it is an investment in EFFICIENCY EXPERIENCE FORWARD Our responsibility efforts are guided by RESPONSIBILITY PRINCIPLES CO-OPERATION a sustainable future. our vision of being the most trusted and We build the foundation and preconditions Listening to our stakeholders and build• The energy profitable operator efficiency in the of sector property • for Taking environmental co-operation between stakeholders • Working by environments • Improving professional ing preconditions for co-operation with Sponda has• Active participation properties in stages of in all properties aspects into account and property services that expertise development work in real and the most responsible • Greenhouse gasimplementer emissions e.g. committing decisionsto in making onthe values of communidiverse operators will •strengthen support the customer’s Occupationalour wellbeing the life cycle. Whether estate new development and construction of sustainableand renewable energy development. The emerproperty ties investments important to us and ethical conduct. operations and joband operations also in the future satisfaction push industry or renovation, ourorganisations objective is to create • Increasing environmental • Focusing on properties • Comfort of the indoor • Safety of personnel • Sharing expertise and gence of trustawareness on listening to our is based among Our responsibility located in cities, efforts are based on environment the industry forward sustainably. • Equal and non-We healthy and safe working professional environments in competence stakeholders andcustomers and employees goal-oriented activities accessible by public our strategy as well as our values, Code • Customer safety and discriminatory are engaged in continuous co-operation treatment co-operation our research with own • Sponda’s stakeholders. People • The sorting and recovery transportation health of employees and development work appreciated by our stakeholders. of property waste • of Conduct and Concentrating the UN Global Compact on prime • Supporting thein property-sector organisations and customer’s feel good in flexible and comfortable build• Environmental areas responsibility principles. In 2018, we responsibility goals networks to promote best practices and ings that retain their value. certification of properties • Investments in property We have defined • Watersix responsibility consumption at priorextended assets the Code of Conduct to cover responsible conduct in the industry. Manities with the properties help of our stakeholders, Sponda’s entire supply chain by preparing aging properties in co-operation promotes and we have set both longand short-term a separate Supplier Code of Conduct. sustainable development in society as a objectives for each one. We will report on whole, as buildings account for a signifithe progress of the objectives annually in cant proportion of the world’s energy conour responsibility review. The targets are sumption and carbon dioxide emissions. presented on pages 22–45. Therefore, it is important for all parties to TRANSPARENT • Economic value generated • Transparent communications • Business • Purchasing management • Good governance AND ETHICAL 10 for stakeholders and reporting principles and responsible purchasing and risk management Sustainability ReviewOPERATIONS 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY “We require all members of our supply chain to observe transparency and the principles of sustainable development in their operations.” Pirkko Airaksinen Sustainability Manager 11 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT General operating principles guiding responsibility Responsibility is one of the cornerstones of our strategy and an integral part of our day-to-day work. We have defined six responsibility priorities significant to our operations, the management of which is decentralised and the related responsibilities are assigned to the appropriate roles at the Executive Board level as well as the operational level. Sponda’s responsibility and its development are led by the Sustainability Manager, who is a member of the Innovations and Sustainability unit established in 2018. Sponda’s President and CEO and the Executive Board are in charge of the manageAdditional information about the priorities and their objectives is presented on pages Our responsibility priorities ment of responsibility and the achieve22–45 of the review. ment of targets. Sponda’s Executive Board discusses responsibility-related issues Our responsibility efforts also assist us WE LISTEN WE BUILD WE STRENGTHEN and progress towards goals quarterly. The in risk management. The assessment sustainability steering group, comprised of of potential environmental risks is an representatives of the Executive Board and integral aspect of Sponda’s ongoing risk the management, convenes regularly 4–6 management process. The Executive Board ENERGY AND times a year. Where necessary, responsialso evaluates the climate change-related INVESTING IN ENVIRONMENTAL EMPLOYEES bility matters also discussed by the Board risks and opportunities related to our EFFICIENCY of Directors. operations as part of the company’s decision-making. Our goal-oriented responsibility work is TAKING THE guided by six responsibility priorities, In addition to the priorities, our operaPROPERTY INDUSTRY LOCATIONS and we have set both longand neartions are guided by internal and exterFORWARD term objectives for each one of them. Our nal commitments. The most significant responsibility priorities are: of them is the Code of Conduct, which lays the foundation for the company’s ENHANCING TRANSPARENT • Energy and environmental efficiency responsibility efforts, the management of THE CUSTOMER AND ETHICAL • Property locations responsibility and stakeholder relations. EXPERIENCE OPERATIONS • Enhancing the customer experience The guideline covers Sponda’s responsibil• Investing in employees ity principles, including good governance, • Transparent and ethical operations responsibilities and expectations in terms • Taking the industry forward of key stakeholders, transparent business 12 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT operations, anti-bribery and anti-corrupthe WWF Green Office targets for the head tion practices, environmental responsibiloffice and MOWs. ity and responsibility as an employer. The Code of Conduct has been approved by Our objective for 2019 is to update the Sponda’s Board of Directors and it is commateriality analysis of responsibility. The We use the term Spondability to OUR RESPONSIBILITY AS AN plemented by internal policies, operational responsibility priorities will be re-defined describe our holistic approach to EMPLOYER guidelines and commitments. and long-term responsibility targets will responsibility and sustainability. It Social responsibility at Sponda primarbe set based on the materiality analysis. covers all areas of responsibility: ily concerns responsibility for employThe extended Supplier Code of Conduct social, economic and environmenees and their well-being at work. Our tal, and it is at the core of Sponda’s goal is the fair and non-discriminatory adopted in 2018 is the foundation for all day-to-day operations. Over the treatment of employees, from recruitnew and renegotiated subcontracting years, Spondability has developed ment to termination. agreements. The Supply Chain Code of into Sponda’s permanent value and Conduct highlights responsibilities related mindset that inspires and makes work to areas such as transparency, environmeaningful. OUR RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE mental responsibility, labour, human ENVIRONMENT rights and safety. In addition to requiring As a responsible property owner, we OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO OUR compliance with the Code of Conduct take environmental perspectives STAKEHOLDERS into account in all of our operations. among Sponda’s personnel, we require all As a significant operator, we are Together with our customers, we members of our supply chain to observe responsible to many different are committed to reducing energy transparency and the principles of susstakeholders: customers, invesconsumption, carbon dioxide emistainable development in their operations. tors, business partners and society. sions and water consumption, and We will adopt a digital whistleblowing We promote responsible operating increasing the waste recycling rate, at channel in 2019, through which any mispractices in the property sector in our properties. co-operation with our stakeholders, conduct and suspicious activities can be aiming for active and open dialogue reported anonymously. Responsibility is one of based on reliability and integrity. We We want to be the first choice of customers, skilled employees and Our operations are also guided by being the cornerstones of our regularly report to our stakeholders on investors, which is why sustainability our actions and achievements related a Climate Partner of the City of Helsinki, strategy and an integral to responsibility, and we continuously is an integral aspect of our strategy. commitment to the property sector’s part of our day-to-day work to develop this reporting. energy efficiency agreement TETS, and work. 13 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Responding to trends Kalevankatu 30, Helsinki and changes We actively develop our operations in the long term to respond to megatrends with impacts on society and our line of business. At the same time, we are laying down the foundation for growth and new competitive advantages. Urbanisation, climate change and digital transformation are the megatrends with the biggest impact on the property sector. URBANISATION CLIMATE CHANGE The population is increasingly concenClimate change has extensive global trated in cities and around urban cenimpacts. Energy efficiency requirements tres. Urbanisation increases the need for and upward pressure on energy costs are business premises and retail services growing in our line of business. in growth centres and places with good transport access. Our customers increasReducing emissions and increasing the use ingly appreciate retail and business of renewable energy sources play a vital premises being located in city centres. role in mitigating climate change. With The demand for premises will continue our Energy Efficiency scheme, we aim to to grow, especially in Helsinki’s central reduce our environmental impacts among business district. the forerunners of the property sector. The property sector is important to mitigatIn order to respond to this change, we will ing climate change, as buildings account focus our property ownership on prime for a significant proportion of the world’s locations in Helsinki and Tampere, in the energy consumption and carbon dioxide immediate vicinity of rail routes and other emissions. Energy efficiency has been one transport hubs. Properties being centrally of our strategic priorities since 2009. located with good public transport links also encourages our customers to choose Properties are also exposed to extreme environmentally friendly options for getweather phenomena, for which we are ting around. preparing in co-operation with the main14 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT tenance network. In addition, climate In retail, the digital transformation and As working remotely becomes increaschange-related risks are managed with e-commerce have challenged traditional ingly common, there is a growing need environmental certifications and Sponda’s shopping centres and companies to for office spaces that support commudesign guidelines for new and renovated revamp their operations. Shopping centres nality; we have been among the first to properties. are increasingly becoming venues for respond to this need with our proprietary experiences, where people come to spend MOW coworking concept. In addition to DIGITALISATION, E-COMMERCE time and enjoy themselves. In Ratina, for an inspirational working environment AND TRANSFORMATION example, there is a particular focus on and community, MOW offers extensive OF WORKING LIFE families with children; there are lots of services that support office work. The The development of technology and the facilities, services and activities for chilsame facilities can be shared by freedigital transformation have extensive dren. The Forum and Ratina mobile apps, lancers and the development teams of impacts on the society and our custombrainstormed based on wishes expressed major corporations, and workspaces can ers’ operations. As a forerunner in our by customers, help customers get to know be easily booked from MOW’s website. sector, we aim to find the best possible the shopping centre’s shops and services, Sponda’s newest MOW hub opened in the solutions to our customers’ changing upcoming events and the latest customer new Ratina shopping centre in Tampere in needs. The most significant step taken in benefits. The smart application makes it autumn 2018. The MOW hubs’ compliance technological development during the year easier to navigate around the shopping with WWF Green Office standards and was starting the renewal of Sponda’s ICT centres and gives users access to special BREEAM® environmental certification are systems. Modern information systems will offers. For retailers, the app is an effective signs of sustainability. provide strong support for our work in the communications channel. As working remotely area of sustainability going forward. becomes increasingly Work has become increasingly indecommon, there is a growing Digitalisation expands the offering of pendent of time and place through the need for office spaces that digital services in the property sector, digital transformation, which creates new support communality; we providing cost-savings in terms of premdemands on office environments. Howises and personnel. At the same time, ever, people’s need for a sense of commuhave been among the first customers’ expectations of properties are nity has not disappeared. On the other to respond to this need also increasing. hand, companies of different sizes increaswith our MOW coworking ingly need flexible premises adapting to concept. their changing needs. 15 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT We listen to our stakeholders We co-operate with numerous stakeholders and aim to fulfil their expectations by engaging in active stakeholder dialogue. The key principles for our work with stakeholders are reliability, integrity and transparency. Our most significant stakeholders are customers, personnel, subcontractors, media and society. CUSTOMERS – Our customers operate in SUBCONTRACTORS – We work in close SOCIETY – Our corporate and environthe Helsinki metropolitan area as well co-operation with an extensive network mental responsibility efforts are strongly as the Tampere and Oulu regions. Our of subcontractors, and emphasise fluency tied to society from the points of view diverse customer base represents variand transparency in our purchasing and of employment and urban development, ous industries including retail, the public quality processes. We promote responfor example. We work continuously to sector and the banking and investment sible ways of working by requiring our promote the energy efficiency of business sector. Our goal is to create and maintain subcontractors to operate responsibly and premises and closely monitor legislative long-term customer relationships and take the environment into consideration. developments. We develop the property provide our customers with flexible and In 2018, we prepared a separate Supplier sector in co-operation with various organenergy-efficient premises that best match Code of Conduct for our entire supply isations in the sector, such as the Finnish their needs. We systematically collect chain. We aim at reliable long-term partAssociation of Building Owners and Confeedback on the conditions of our premnerships in our contracts. struction Clients (RAKLI), Finnish Busiises and our services from our feedback ness & Society (FIBS) and Green Building and develop our operations based on it. We MEDIA – The cornerstones of our media Council Finland (GBC Finland). also actively guide our customers towards relations are activity, trustworthiness and operations that conserve energy and the timeliness. Our media relations are manOTHER STAKEHOLDERS – Our other We asked four represenenvironment. aged by serving representatives of media important stakeholders include educatatives of our s­ takeholders promptly and by actively communicating tional institutions and various research about their views of PERSONNEL – Motivated, skilled and about our responsibility efforts, for examand development organisations. We ­co-operation with us and committed employees are our key success ple. We continuously develop our methods provide study and thesis opportunities e.g. how responsibility is factor. We invest in the job satisfaction for communicating our operations. to students in the field and take part in visible in the ­co-operation of our employees and an open and equal research and development efforts through and practical work. atmosphere. We also aim to offer Sponda various joint projects with educational employees good development and training institutions. Read more pp. 17–20 opportunities. 16 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Q&A: PERSONNEL How does Sponda listen to its How does Sponda support the job employees in practice? satisfaction of its employees? Our management tends to invite employSponda supports its employees in various ees to talks, say, when thinking about ways. Among other things, we offer a com“Our employees are strongly day-to-day practical work. The heads of pany bicycle as well as culture and sports involved in the development the units also discuss the events in their vouchers. In addition, the joint museum of future ways of working.” areas in monthly Townhall events for the card for the Ateneum national art museum personnel, which provides employees an provides an opportunity to nurture one’s Sampo Ahlsten opportunity to take part in the discussion. imagination and appetite for art. Property Development Manager Sponda Plc What kinds of channels are used Similarly to many other Sponda employfor listening to the employees? ees, I too am a keen cyclist and sports enthusiast. Supported by the employer, In addition to the monthly information and together with my co-workers, I have S ponda’s most important stakeholders and discussion events, we actively use experienced e.g. the Pirkan pyöräily cycling naturally include our employees. The our intranet. Naturally, we have annual event and the Tough Viking race, the well-being and good working condiperformance appraisals, and job satisfacbiggest obstacle course competition in tions of employees play a key role so that tion surveys are also regularly arranged. the Nordic countries. In addition, we have Sponda can also serve its customers in the I personally feel that it is easy to talk to diverse recreational and theme days. best way possible. Property Development anyone here – at any time. The employees Manager Sampo Ahlsten from the Property are strongly involved in the development of It is also important that you can schedDevelopment unit finds it important that future ways of working as well. ule your work flexibly based on your own employees are also listened to in diverse schedules. Remote work is also possible at ways. Sponda. 17 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Q&A: COLLIERS INTERNATIONAL FINLAND How has the co-operation we have achieved significant savings developed over the years? through small individual actions, such as by changing the operating models. Our co-operation has developed astonWe reached the goals set for the energy ishingly, as has the entire real estate and efficiency scheme several years early, and construction sector and, in particular, the in 2018, we reached the calculated energy “Our co-operation has consideration of responsibility-related matefficiency targets already in June. Now, we developed astonishingly, as ters. We began with consumption monare contemplating objectives spanning as has the entire real estate and itoring and energy reviews. Now, energy far as 2030. The climate perspective has construction sector and, in efficiency is taken into consideration as become increasingly emphasised, so it is part of all activities carried out in the propalso important to look into the future for particular, the consideration of erty, whether it concerns service providers, years and years to come. responsibility-related matters.” users of the properties or alteration and Tarja Turkulainen renovation work. The energy efficiency How does Sponda listen to you? Manager, Sustainability & Energy scheme was established in 2010 as a tool Efficiency Services for the systematic improvement of energy In my own work, I feel that our proposals Colliers International Finland efficiency scheme, and after piloting, it are listened to very well, and there is talk has been expanded to cover almost all between Colliers and Sponda at many difproperties. Currently, the co-operation has ferent levels. At the level of the properties, C olliers International Finland, a deepened into a partnership, continuous there is co-operation between our mainprovider of real estate services dialogue and joint development of operatenance managers and Sponda’s account and investment management, is tions. managers. Those responsible for mainteresponsible for maintenance services and nance as a whole both at us and Sponda the management of property mainteWhat kinds of results have are also engaged in close dialogue. Sponnance and other property services in most been achieved through the da’s operational management also actively Sponda properties in Helsinki and Tampere. co-operation? monitors environmental affairs as part of The co-operation with Sponda goes back the responsible maintenance of properties. several years, all the way to 2005, says Both our and the tenants’ interest in and Regular monthly meetings are in fact only Tarja Turkulainen, Manager, Sustainability understanding of environmental affairs the tip of the iceberg, as the communica& Energy Efficiency Services at Colliers has increased over the slightly over 10 tion is daily in practice. Responsibility is International Finland. years enormously. With systematic work, present in all of these forums. 18 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Q&A: CITY OF HELSINKI What kind of practical ity consumption. Sponda is an important co-operation are the City of influencer of attitudes in this respect and Helsinki and Sponda engaged in? makes consumption visible to its own customers. Sponda has been a Climate Partner of the “Helsinki aims to be carbon City of Helsinki since 2012, and the compaHow are the responsibility goals of neutral by 2035, and to reach ny’s goals in the climate partnership natuHelsinki and Sponda aligned? that, energy efficiency must rally go hand in hand with the city. A large be enhanced further. The property owner such as Sponda plays a Sponda is committed to cutting the comsignificant role from the point of view of the parable energy consumption of its proppower of the example set entire city’s goals, as more than one-half of erties in Finland by 20 per cent by 2020 by major property owners is Helsinki’s emissions are generated by the compared to the 2001–2005 average. significantly bigger than that heating of properties, while more than oneThis contributes to the city’s objective of of restrictions and bans.” half of properties are privately owned. being carbon neutral in 2035. Reducing the amount of waste is also important, Mira Jarkko How significant is a player like because it also decreases the quantities Climate Partners Coordinator City of Helsinki Sponda with regard to the city’s of raw materials consumed. Sponda has environmental objectives? improved the recycling rate of shopping centres, for example, significantly in recent Helsinki aims to be carbon neutral by years. 2035, and to reach that, energy efficiency must be enhanced further. The power of T he City of Helsinki aims to be the example of major property owners is carbon neutral by 2035. In order significantly bigger than that of restricto reach the goals, co-operation is tions and bans. A property owner is also required on an extensive front, says Mira significant in tenants paying attention to Jarkko, Environmental Expert at City of their own energy consumption, as much Helsinki. as over one-half of Helsinki’s emissions are caused by heating and 16% by electric19 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Q&A: GREEN BUILDING COUNCIL FINLAND What kind of an impact has Why is GBC Finland needed? Sponda had on the operations of GBC Finland? The property sector and the world have changed very much over the eight years Green Building Council Finland was estabsince GBC Finland was established, and “Simple solutions to enhance lished in 2010. Sponda was active already the discussion of the responsibility of the energy efficiency, for in the planning phase, and it is also one of sector has significantly increased. Simple example, have already been the founding members of the organisation solutions to enhance energy efficiency implemented, so the need in Finland. have already been implemented, so the need for co-operation is increased further for co-operation is increased As a forerunner of responsibility and a large when even more challenging issues need to further when even more player, Sponda has also played a significant be solved. Co-operation makes it possible challenging issues need to be role in pointing the way for other players in to inform and learn about new innovations. solved.” the property sector as well. In its own operations, Sponda has experience in utilising cold river water in cooling Mikko Nousiainen Managing Director How is the co-operation going? properties, for example. Green Building Council Finland Sponda has been an active member of Green Building Council Finland. We have a total of six committees through which the O ne of Sponda’s significant social operations are run. Sponda currently heads partners is Green Building Council the Environmental Certifications task Finland, which in accordance with group, which is natural, as certifications are its strategy aims at a sustainable built-up also important to Sponda’s operations and environment that is carbon neutral, operSponda’s customers. In addition, Sponda ates applying the principles of the circular has played a significant role in establishing economy and facilitates a sustainable the Real Estate Management task group. high-quality life for people. Sponda has also participated in the task group’s work as its member. 20 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES Essential responsibility themes defined in co-operation with our stakeholders guide our responsibility efforts and their development. 21 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Responsibility is based on co-operation Holistic responsibility is only born out of co-operation, so customers and other partners play key roles in Sponda achieving its responsibility objectives. Essential responsibility themes defined in co-operation with our stakeholders also guide our responsibility efforts and their development. We have defined the following responsibilTransparent and ethical operations is Forum shopping centre took part in the Joulupuu charity campaign again in 2018 ity themes as being the most significant to a theme that spans Sponda’s holistic our operations: professional competence responsibility, laying down the foundation of personnel, the energy efficiency of for the other responsibility priorities at properties, customer health and safety, the the same time. Customers and personnel comfort of indoor environments, providare among our most significant stakeholding a working environment that supports ers, so ensuring a high-quality customer the customer’s operations, and Sponda’s experience and seeing to the well-being of ethical business principles. The themes the personnel play key roles in the develhave been selected based on a materiality opment of our operations. Minimising the analysis of Sponda’s value chain produced negative environmental impacts of operin co-operation with our key stakeholders ations and properties located in central in 2014. The analysis is based on industry locations are also essential areas of our and background analyses, key stakeholder responsibility, as they contribute to reducperspectives and an assessment of busiing the in-use environmental load of the ness impacts. properties. We are also actively involved in the development of the property sector in Our six responsibility priorities derived co-operation with other industry influencfrom the material responsibility themes ers. are: Ensuring a high-quality • transparent and ethical operations Both longand short-term objectives have customer experience and • enhancing the customer experience been set for the responsibility priorities, • investing in employees and we monitor their realisation regularly seeing to the well-being of • energy and environmental efficiency in our sustainability steering group and the personnel play key roles • property locations Executive Board meetings. in the development of our • taking the industry forward operations. 22 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Our responsibility priorities WE LISTEN WE BUILD WE STRENGTHEN ENERGY AND ENHANCING TAKING THE PROPERTY INVESTING IN ENVIRONMENTAL THE CUSTOMER INDUSTRY LOCATIONS EMPLOYEES EFFICIENCY EXPERIENCE FORWARD • The energy efficiency of • Taking environmental • Working environments • Improving professional • Active participation in properties aspects into account and property services that expertise development work in real • Greenhouse gas emissions in making decisions on support the customer’s • Occupational wellbeing estate and construction and renewable energy property investments operations and job satisfaction industry organisations • Increasing environmental • Focusing on properties • Comfort of the indoor • Safety of personnel • Sharing expertise and awareness among located in cities, environment • Equal and nonprofessional competence customers and employees accessible by public • Customer safety and discriminatory treatment • Sponda’s own research • The sorting and recovery transportation health of employees and development work of property waste • Concentrating on prime • Supporting the customer’s • Environmental areas responsibility goals certification of properties • Investments in property • Water consumption at assets properties TRANSPARENT • Economic value generated • Transparent communications • Business • Purchasing management • Good governance AND ETHICAL for stakeholders and reporting principles and responsible purchasing and risk management OPERATIONS 23 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Transparent and ethical operations Transparent and ethical operations is one of Sponda’s six responsibility priorities, supported by unambiguous operational guidelines and policies, reporting and corporate governance. Well-implemented operating models help us to work transparently and sustainably, support our work in a changing world and help us to keep up with the accelerating rate of change in the operating environment. Responsibility reporting plays a major peers. We received a full score in the Manrole in communicating about the transagement, Policy & Disclosure sections. We parency and openness of our operations. received a full five-star assessment and, In the Responsibility Review, we report for the sixth year running, we were also the key events and highlights of the year, awarded a Green Star for our sustainability as well as areas for development. We efforts. report comprehensively according to the Core guidelines of the GRI framework International environmental certifications and continuously develop our reporting. are an increasingly important external Our Responsibility Review also covers the indicator of responsibility, with BREEAM® requirements of the UN Communication and LEED® certifications being at the core on Progress (COP) reporting. of property development. We are applying for LEED® or BREEAM® environmental cerEXTERNAL RECOGNITION tification for all new buildings and major STRENGTHENS TRANSPARENCY renovation projects, and aim to raise the In 2018, we again achieved excellent level of existing certifications. In addition, results in the annual GRESB survey, rankwe seek BREEAM in-Use® certifications for ing number one in Finland and number the properties. In all, Sponda now has 21 Citycenter shopping centre, two in the Nordic countries within our certified properties. Helsinki 24 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT The objectives and results of our responsibility priorities in 2018 WE INSTILL RESPONSIBILITY the company’s operations. Sponda already Transparent and ethical operations AMONG OUR STAKEHOLDERS provides an anonymous feedback channel Sponda’s operations and responsibility for employees to report suspected misconLong-term objective Objective for the year Status RESULTS IN 2018 are guided by the company’s strategy, duct via the company intranet or e-mail. Maintaining an excellent The result of the GRESB We received a full five-star values and Code of Conduct as well as No reports were received via the channel level in international sustainability assessments GRESB rating and were sustainability assessments. will remain at an excellent awarded a Green Star for the principles of the UN Global Compact. in 2018. level. our sustainability. We continuously develop our responsible Operating in accordance New Supplier Code The Supplier Code of operating methods. All Sponda employees As the significance of transparency in with ethical principles. of Conduct principles Conduct was approved have completed Code of Conduct training business operations increases, the supply implemented and and is now incorporated incorporated into new and into new and renewed in 2015. New employees receive Code of chain’s role in companies’ responsibility renewed agreements. agreements. Conduct training as part of their orientaefforts grows in importance. Sponda is a Measuring customer Indoor environment Two extensive indoor tion programme. significant purchaser that works in close satisfaction regarding satisfaction surveys environment satisfaction the quality of the indoor conducted at two Spondasurveys were conducted. co-operation with an extensive network environment at Sponda’s owned properties at a In accordance with our objective, we of subcontractors. In 2018, purchases properties. minimum. adopted the new Supplier Code of Conduct from suppliers represented 44.3 per cent Monitoring the operating – The level of maintenance in 2018, and it is an important part of all of Sponda’s total revenue, while property model, control and services was improved monitoring of property further. new contracts and partnerships. During development investments accounted for maintenance services. 2019, we will adopt a public and anony32.4 per cent. Improvement in tenant – Customer feedback mous whistleblowing channel, intended to satisfaction regarding remained on a par with the encourage Sponda’s employees and partproperty services. good level achieved in the previous year. ners to report any misconduct observed in Conducting maintenance – Regular maintenance and energy reviews at and energy reviews were properties. conducted at properties. BREEAM (Building Research Establishment LEED® Certification (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Environmental Assessment Method) is an international is one of the best-known international green building certification environmental rating system for assessing the systems. It aims to reduce the environmental impact of construction environmental impacts of buildings. The BREEAM® and use of buildings as well as the development of healthier working In-Use certification system is intended for the environments. The LEED® environmental classification is awarded by certification of buildings in use. the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC). 25 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Cash flows between stakeholders in 2018 CUSTOMERS’ OPINIONS DO MATTER 44.3% In addition to customer feedback and continuous reporting data, the quality of SUPPLIERS * property services is actively monitored Purchases 114.7 M€ by means of property audits, indoor • Purchases, maintenance 102.3 M€ environment satisfaction questionnaires • Purchases, administration 12.4 M€ and service experience surveys. Property audits are conducted in all properties twice a year, in the spring and autumn. In 2018, we conducted three annual service experience surveys, in addition to which REVENUES 259.2 M€ we used three surveys in on-going produc32.4% tion for e.g. new and former customers. Their results will guide our plans for 2019. CUSTOMERS AND SOCIETY * Sponda will continue to arrange and sysProperty development tematically develop property audits and SPONDA investments, 84 M€ service production training. PERSONNEL Personnel expenses, 16.2 M€ 6.3% * PUBLIC SECTOR Taxes, 17.1 M€ 6.6% * * Of total revenue. 26 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Enhancing the customer experience Working environments and property services that support the customer’s operations, comfort of the indoor environment, customer’s safety and health and supporting the customer’s responsibility goals are all key areas in terms of enhancing the customer experience. FEEDBACK IS A PREREQUISITE FOR WE ADAPT OUR SERVICE PATH The objectives and results of our responsibility priorities in 2018 Enhancing the customer experience A GOOD CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE TO MEET THE CUSTOMER’S Both the continuous development of EXPECTATIONS Long-term objective Objective for the year Status RESULTS IN 2018 services in our properties and functional We continuously assess our operating communications and feedback channels process and service path. Key encounters We will continue to We will continue to focus We deployed a new improve the quantity and on active and high-quality CRM system to improve between Sponda and customers support during the property customer relationquality of our customer customer communications the quality of customer communications. in all of our operations. communications. the emergence of a good customer expeship, starting from the conclusion of the rience. Feedback from customers on the lease, are essential to us: what kinds of We will continue to Overall satisfaction Our customers’ overall improve our customers’ with co-operation with satisfaction with property, its maintenance and services expectations customers have at different overall satisfaction with the lessor will improve co-operation with the lessor and the activities of the lessor is analysed stages of the lease and how they can best their co-operation with compared to the previous remained at a good level, at the lessor. year. 3.88 (1–5). carefully, and an action list is prepared be addressed. together with the customer experience We will improve our Net Customers’ NPS NPS declined slightly, but Promoter Score (NPS) will improve compared customer satisfaction manager, account manager and head of In 2019, one of the key items in terms of further. to 2018. remained on a par with the maintenance services for both actions to customer experience will particularly be previous year. be taken at the property and communicarelated to the rental operations of office tion with the customer. This ensures that properties and enhancing the customer feedback received from customers is taken relationship-related customer experience into consideration as well as possible in through diverse measures. Our aim is to practical operations and the customer is allow the customer to focus on their own OBJECTIVES FOR 2019: also kept informed of this. business while we handle all property-re• Effort is made to enhance customer • The long-term objective is for our lated services in co-operation with our communications by reinforcing the customers’ overall satisfaction with the property management partners. customer work resources and devellessor co-operation to exceed 4.0 (on a oping the customer experience related scale of 1–5). to leasing and customer relationship management in particular. 27 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Minna Kröger Ari Saarinen Director, Corporate Responsibility CRE Management Manager Elisa Plc Elisa Plc ENERGY EFFICIENCY IS A SHARED GOAL T he telecom company Elisa and heat generated by Elisa’s data centre went Sponda have a long history. An to waste, but it has been used for heating environmental partnership was conthe premises after the renovation. cluded between Sponda and Elisa already in 2011. Its aim has been to enhance both “We want to help Sponda in achieving the energy efficiency and recycling in co-operhighest possible energy efficiency in the ation. property and continuously monitor the conditions inside the building very carefully. Elisa’s main location in Tampere is in a Following the renovation, the premises can Sponda-owned property on Näsilinnanbe heated using waste heat while reducing katu. Energy efficiency and climate change environmental noise, as it has been possible are important responsibility priorities for to reduce the use of condensers with the both Sponda and Elisa, and a major energy more effective cooling capacity provided by investment was made in the property in heat pump technology,” says Ari Saarinen, summer 2017 by Sponda. Previously, the CRE Management Manager at Elisa. 28 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Sponda’s new Ratina Offices will Minna Kröger, Director, Corporate ResponQuarterly meetings review diverse condibe completed in 2020 sibility at Elisa, notes that also other tion analyses and consider how, in co-opresponsibility-related factors, such as the eration, the results could be enhanced well-being of employees, are important in further. The employees also have a say in the choice of premises besides energy. At working conditions four times a year. The Elisa, the way of working is flexible, and the close co-operation has continuously proemployees have also been listened to in vided better results in terms of both energy the choice and development of premises efficiency and indoor climate, for example. so that they will optimally support working. Elisa has a multispace office, and remote The co-operation will continue in the future working is supported whenever it is posas well; Elisa is about to move to Sponda’s sible. When the office calls, the location in new Ratina office building under constructhe city centre allows easy commuting by tion, located a stone’s throw from the curpublic transport. rent premises. Elisa did not want to leave the city centre, as many of the employees “The well-being of employees and live nearby. The new office will be built next employer image go hand in hand. Employto the Sponda-owned Ratina shopping ees can equally influence our environmencentre, and the aim is to harness IoT both tal footprint, so our aim is that the enviin the maintenance of the property and for ronmental footprint from commuting is as Elisa’s own use. the Ratina office building. Customers have displays the vacant meeting rooms and small as possible,” Kröger says. been closely involved in the design of the their location straight away. The same app Sponda’s new Ratina office building has new property, and so has Elisa. can be used for booking the room or checkThe technical systems of the current over 13,000 square metres of leasable floor ing the lunch menus of nearby restaurants, property have been enhanced gradually. area, and it will be the most modern office “We do not want to heat waste space, and for example,” Saarinen adds. For example, lighting currently works and retail space entity in Tampere. Approxit is naturally easier to design new premises completely without switches using motion imately one thousand people will work in to be optimal – also in terms of floor area – The Ratina office building will be completed detectors, and lights are on only where the property in the future. With new techwhen starting from scratch, ensuring that in 2020, when Elisa will also move into the there are people. The company has also nology, the utilisation rate of the premises, there is enough space and it’s nice to work new premises. Until then, fine-tuning the migrated to emission-free electricity at the such as meeting rooms, can be monitored in,” Kröger says. energy efficiency of the current premises level of the entire group. more closely in the Ratina office building to be even better will be continued in close so that their cleaning, for example, can Guidance is also digital in the new premco-operation. Both Kröger and Saarinen praise the co-opbe optimised based on use. The indoor air ises. “Elisa’s internal route guide already eration with Sponda as exceptional, with conditions will also be monitored closely. works in some of our sites, and it will also the communication being close and regular. LEED Gold certification will be sought for be deployed in the new location. The app 29 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Investing in employees Skilled and motivated personnel are a key resource for Sponda. We invest in our professionals by placing a high priority on occupational well-being and a positive work atmosphere as well as by developing our management practices and managerial work. Sponda’s employees are a community of top specialists, and their well-being is of paramount importance to us. Sponda aims to systematically maintional safety card training for the employtain the high professional skill of its ees of the Property Development and The objectives and results of our responsibility priorities in 2018 employees. We offer in-house training Maintenance units in 2018. Investing in employees programmes for our personnel as well as opportunities to participate in training WE ENCOURAGE OUR PERSONNEL Long-term objective Objective for the year Status RESULTS IN 2018 outside the company. We also encourage TO ENGAGE IN SPORTS AND We develop skills and – Changes in the company’s our employees to take initiative in develSUPPORT THEIR COPING practices for sharing structure and organisation knowledge and expertise offered a wealth of opportunities oping their work and expertise. Customer We invest heavily in the occupational as well as our culture of for sharing knowledge and interaction and feedback. expertise as well as interaction orientation guides all of our development well-being of our personnel and provide and the development of a strong of professional skills: feedback is taken diverse support to help our employees feedback culture. into consideration in planning training. cope with the demands of work. In dayInvesting in good leadership – A total of 135 training days, with to-day work, the immediate supervisor by utilising evaluations middle management training days of managerial work and representing 37% of this total. We see to coping at work by actively monplays an important role in maintaining coaching. itoring the working capacity and job satjob satisfaction. Opportunities for motiWe promote occupational – The use of the mobile virtual isfaction of our personnel. The equal and vating tasks, good leadership, an encourwellbeing and individual coach was continued and responsibility for focus was placed on organising non-discriminatory treatment of employaging atmosphere and development maintaining a positive work common events. ees and ensuring occupational safety are ­opportunities are emphasised in an expert atmosphere. also core themes of our human resource organisation. We invest in providing – A total of 135 training days and strategy, and we monitor these aspects development and training performance and development opportunities for our reviews covered 90% of regularly. Fair and non-discriminatory We also engage in close co-operation with personnel. employees. The company’s treatment applies to the entire employour occupational health partners and progrowth created several entirely new jobs. ment relationship, from recruitment to vide comprehensive occupational health termination. care services. Together with occupational health professionals, we invest in activities As a significant investment in physical to maintain health and prevent disease. occupational safety, we organised occupaThe investments in occupational health30 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT care have proved to be profitable, as the it was based on the company’s common rate of sickness absence has remained at goals and on personal annual targets set a low level at S ­ ponda. We also continued specifically for each employee. The compato invest in comprehensive occupational ny’s environmental goals were one of the well-being and motivation in 2018 by indicators in the company-level goals. providing recreational benefits to support sports and cultural activities. One of our key objectives for HR management in 2019 is to support employees on a Sponda encourages its employees to cycle day-to-day basis through good leadership to and from work and supports it with and management. We will also continue company bicycles. Thanks to this, many to develop competence management and Sponda employees commute by bicycle, occupational well-being in 2019. ecologically and healthily. OBJECTIVES FOR 2019: We support the motivation and engage• Developing competence management ment of our personnel also by way of • Investing in good leadership rewards. We use an incentive scheme that • Developing occupational well-being Sponday 2018 annual covers the entire personnel, and in 2018, personnel event PERSONNEL* AGE RATIO* EDUCATIONAL STRUCTURE* SEX RATIO* 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2018 1% Persons % 31% 40% 140 25 120 20 100 15 49% 80 60 10 40 5 20 0 0 60% 19% 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 9 4 9 4 9 4 9 0 –2 –3 –3 –4 –4 –5 –5 >6 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 University education College education Men Polytechnic qualification Other Women * Sponda Group * Sponda Real Estate Ltd * Sponda Real Estate Ltd * Sponda Group 31 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Energy and environmental efficiency Long-term work to enhance energy and environmental efficiency is an important holistic goal for Sponda. Our most concrete indicators are increasing energy efficiency, new certifications and increasing the recycling rate. We reached many of the key environmenParis Agreement and the EU climate and The objectives and results of our responsibility priorities in 2018 tal goals set for the Energy and environenergy goals through our own operations. Energy and environmental efficiency mental efficiency responsibility priority We have invested in enhancing energy Long-term objective Objective for the year Status RESULTS IN 2018 for 2018. Our CO2 emissions decreased efficiency by implementing Sponda’s by 1.9%, Guarantee of Origin certificates own energy efficiency programme and Energy savings of 20% by 2020, We promote our energy 16 percentage points of using the average consumption efficiency programme the target was achieved. and renewable energy sources taken into by joining the voluntary business premin 2001–2005 as the baseline. each year. consideration, and the one per cent enerises energy efficiency action plan, TETS. Total like for like energy Total energy Energy consumption gy-savings (TETS) through energy effiThe energy efficiency agreement covers consumption of properties will consumption of increased by 1.3% decrease each year. properties to be reduced. compared to the ciency measures was exceeded and more all of Sponda’s wholly-owned properties. previous year. new environmental certifications were Energy efficiency is also an increasingly The CO2 emissions arising CO2 emissions arising Like for like CO2 achieved than targeted. We succeeded in significant factor in the property-related from total like for like energy from the like for like emissions decreased by improving the sorting of waste considerdecisions of our tenants, who are the users consumption will decrease each energy consumption to 1.9%. year. be reduced. ably but fell little short of the goals: the of our properties. Improving energy efficiency in Energy efficiency The annual target was actual result is 48%, while the goal was line with the property sector’s improvement measures exceeded. set at 49%. Our total energy consumption The goal of our extensive energy efficiency energy efficiency agreement produced one per (TETS) by 7.5% by 2025, using cent in energy savings increased by 1.3% year-on-year. Underlyprogramme is to enhance energy effienergy consumption in 2015 as (2,110 MWh) compared ing the figures is the exceptionally warm ciency by 20% by 2020 when compared to the baseline. to the total energy consumption in 2015. summer of 2018 compared to the previous the 2001–2005 average. By the end of 2018, year, because of which the cooling of the we had enhanced our energy efficiency Seeking environmental At least two properties We were awarded five certification (LEED®, BREEAM®) will be certified in 2018. new certificates and the properties consumed more energy. programme by 16 per cent and we had for all new property level of two certificates reached 82 per cent of the goal of our development projects and major was increased. renovation projects. FOCUS ON ENERGY energy efficiency scheme. At the end of EFFICIENCY AND ENHANCING 2018, our energy efficiency programme Increasing co-operation on Two new environmental No new partners, but environmental responsibility partnerships. co-operation continued. WASTE MANAGEMENT covered 102 properties, which represents with our customers. Enhancing energy efficiency has been one 87 per cent of the properties fully owned Increasing the waste recycling Waste recycling rate at The waste recycling rate of our strategic priorities since 2009. We by Sponda. rate each year. 49% by the end of the increased from 45 % to year. 48%, but the target was also want to contribute to reaching the not achieved. 32 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT ELECTRICITY, HEATING, WATER AND ELECTRICITY, HEATING, WATER AND CARBON FOOTPRINT ARISING FROM CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSION DISTRICT COOLING CONSUMPTION DISTRICT COOLING CONSUMPTION THE ENERGY CONSUMPTION OF THE INTENSITY FROM ENERGY OF THE PROPERTIES* INTENSITY OF THE PROPERTIES* PROPERTIES* CONSUMPTION OF THE PROPERTIES* MWh | m3 kWh/GFAm2 | l/GFAm2 t CO2 kg CO2/GFAm2 500,000 300 80,000 50 250 400,000 40 60,000 200 300,000 30 150 40,000 200,000 20 100 20,000 100,000 50 10 0 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Electricity District cooling Electricity District cooling Electricity District cooling Electricity District cooling Heating, normalised Water, m3 Heating, normalised Water, ltr/GFAm2 Heating Total Heating Total Heating, measured Heating, measured * Sponda’s properties in Finland * Sponda’s properties in Finland * Sponda’s properties in Finland * Sponda’s properties in Finland Comprehensive energy reviews are regabout the environmental certifications ENVIRONMENTAL At the end of 2018, Sponda had 21 propularly conducted at the properties that of properties. Also, collection containers CERTIFICATION FOR ALL NEWLY erties certified under the international are included in the programme. Based are requested for an increasing number CONSTRUCTED PROPERTIES LEED® and BREEAM® environmental ceron these reviews, adjustments are made of materials. We are developing the waste Sponda’s properties were awarded five tification systems. The certified properties at the properties in accordance with recycling opportunities to be more diverse new environmental certificates during represent approximately 34 per cent of their use, as well as energy efficiency as part of our environmental responsi2018, and the level of two certificates was Sponda’s total leased floor space. investments that are profitable from a bility and customer service. In 2019, we successfully raised. As the most signifitechnical-economic standpoint. A total are initiating plastic packaging waste cant certifications, the Väritehtaankatu Going forward, our strategic aim is to of 101 energy reviews were conducted in recycling in our office properties. Also, the 8 office and retail space building was continue to seek environmental certificaproperties in 2018. possibility of charging electric vehicles awarded the LEED® Gold certificate and tion for all new construction projects and and good access by public transport are the Ruoholahden Tähti office property was significant renovation projects. EnvironWaste sorting and energy efficiency are taken into consideration in property develthe first office building in Finland to be mental certification processes were underincreasingly emphasised in supporting the opment projects. awarded the BREEAM® In-Use Excellent way at the end of 2018 for Sponda’s new responsibility goals of our customers. Tencertification. In addition, the Forum shopproperty development projects, the new ants are increasingly aware of the enviping centre improved its BREEAM® In-Use Ratina shopping centre in Tampere and ronmental impacts of properties and more certification rating to Very Good. the Ratina office building, and with regard frequently want additional information to significant renovation projects, for the 33 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Erottajankatu 7, Helsinki Arkadiankatu 4–6 property in Helsinki. TOTAL WASTE VOLUMES OF THE PROPERTIES* Up-to-date information on our environmentally certified properties is available t on our website. 9,000 OBJECTIVES FOR 2019 6,000 • Comparable total energy consumption (electricity, heating, district cooling) 3,000 will decrease from the 2018 level. • The CO2 emissions caused by the com0 parable total consumption of energy 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 will decrease from the 2018 level. Energy recovery Mixed waste to landfill Material recovery • Our energy efficiency measures implemented in 2019 will achieve at least 1% * Sponda’s properties in Finland in energy savings relative to the total energy consumption in 2015. • Seeking environmental certification (LEED® or BREEAM®) for all new propWASTE RECOVERY RATES erty development projects and signifiOF THE PROPERTIES 2018* cant renovation projects, or In-Use cer51.9% tifications will be sought for properties. • At least two environmental certificates will be obtained in 2018. 7,333 • Sponda’s overall waste recycling and tonnes in reuse rate in Finland will be at least 50% total At the end of 2018, by the end of 2019. our energy efficiency • During 2019, we will continue and 48.1% ­programme covered deepen the co-operation with our environmental partners. 102 properties, which Energy recovery Material recovery represents 87 per cent of the properties fully owned * Sponda’s properties, like-for-like, in Finland by Sponda. 34 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Visa Kivisaari Environmental Manager Lassila & Tikanoja Plc GOOD CO-OPERATION LIFTED FORUM’S RECYCLING RATE TO NEW HEIGHTS T he finiteness of natural resources has been conducted in co-operation with and negative environmental Lassila & Tikanoja. impacts from increasing consumption have made material efficiency Environmental coordinator activity was more significant worldwide. Enhancing launched in Forum in 2018, aiming to steer material efficiency in properties is in fact Forum’s tenants and other employees an important part of responsibility objectowards more effective recycling. Visa tives. A concrete example of this is the Kivisaari, the environmental coordinator Sponda-owned Forum shopping centre in responsible for Forum at Lassila & Tikanoja, Helsinki, where goal-oriented and sucemphasises that good co-operation undercessful work to increase the recycling rate lies the good results. 35 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT “The material recovery rate improved the collection of biowaste during the year, significantly already during the first year of Kivisaari praises. operations, and the employees, shop managers, Forum’s management and Sponda “While 17 tonnes of biowaste was colas the owner deserve thanks for that. I am lected in the shopping centre in Januthere to help and give advice, and once we ary 2018, of which packaged biowaste have identified the issues with recycling, it accounted for 15 tonnes and unpackaged has been easy to solve them together with for 2 tonnes, the amount had almost all the personnel of Forum. Feedback has doubled by the autumn. The increase in the also been received very well.” amount of biowaste is the result of more effective sorting.” The environmental coordinator reviews the waste fractions and required measures In fact, the material recovery rate has to enhance waste management together increased considerably in Forum, amountwith each shop and organisation operating ing to more than 60 per cent at the end of in Forum. Particular attention has been the year. At the same time, the amount of paid to recycling plastic waste globally mixed waste has decreased considerably. in recent years, and also Forum wants to While municipal waste used for energy shoulder this responsibility. Forum began amounted to 60 per cent of all waste at the recycling of film plastic used in clothing the end of 2017, it only accounted for 1.3% packaging and around roller cages during of waste at the end of 2018. The waste uti“While municipal waste transport in 2018. lization rate in the shopping centre is 100 used for energy amounted per cent. The material recovery rate has to 60% of all waste at the Collection started in April, and more than increased by one-fifth within a year. beginning of 2018, it only 5,000 kg of plastic was collected for recycling in less than six months. Kivisaari The excellent results can also be seen as accounted for 1.3% of estimates that 2019 will see more than external recognition granted to the bestwaste at the end of 2018.” 12,000 kg of plastic being collected. There known shopping centre in Helsinki. In 2018, Visa Kivisaari has also been astonishing development in Forum was granted the BREEAM® In-Use Lassila & Tikanoja Plc 36 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Very Good certification. The certification Sponda regularly monitors the progress rating improved by two grades compared of its environmental objectives and aims to 2016. to co-operate with its partners to continuously pursue new ways of promoting “Waste management plays a major role environmental and energy efficiency. Going in environmental certification, as a shopforward, sorting training will be adopted ping centre of this scale generates a lot at Sponda properties, for example, and it of waste. With regard to environmental can also be taken online. The new form of footprint, enhancing recycling, on the other training will be introduced in Forum as well. hand, is significant,” Kivisaari sums up. In practice, all parties working or leasing premises in the property have access to an easy and flexible way of learning about the circular economy and recycling online. “This is one of the new tools with which we are starting to develop operations together with Sponda. Employees and tenants change at steady intervals in shopping “The recycling rate centres, and with regular training, we can contribute to ensuring that everyone has improved significantly access to up-to-date information. Natualready during the first rally, the aim is to achieve an even better year of operations, and the recycling rate in properties and further employees, shop managers, reducing the amount of municipal waste,” Forum’s management Kivisaari says. and Sponda as the owner deserve thanks for that.” Visa Kivisaari Lassila & Tikanoja Plc 37 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Property locations Location plays a crucial role in the lifecycle and environmental impacts of a property. Taking the wellbeing of the environment into consideration is of great importance for us in developing our property portfolio. We are focusing our property portfolio on prime areas and locations with good public transport links which helps reduce the environmental impacts of the properties during their use. Sponda’s investment strategy is sustaincentres and are easily accessible with property offers different types of visitors INVESTMENT PROPERTIES BY able both financially and environmentally. public transport. an opportunity to go about their daily LOCATION AND BY FAIR VALUE* 31 Dec 2018 The central location of our properties is errands with ease and take part in experi2.1% a key strategic choice for us: our properAt the end of 2018, Sponda had 165 leasences that modern shopping centres offer. 2.4% ties are located in central and growing able properties with a combined floor area 13.7% areas in the Helsinki metropolitan area of 1.2 million square metres. The majority In our newest properties, particular attenand Tampere. Location in city centres of the leasable space is office premises, tion has been paid to the needs of cyclists with good accessibility is ecologically with shopping centres accounting for and those using electric and hybrid sustainable, offering opportunities for slightly more than one-fifth of the total vehicles in the building design. Privileged environmentally-friendly commuting and and logistics properties slightly less than parking space is offered for low-emission thereby reducing emissions. The demand one-fifth. Some 33.4 per cent of the total vehicles, as well as charging points for and rental levels for properties located in value of our property portfolio is located in electric vehicles. The Ratina shopping the central areas of cities are more stable, Helsinki central business district. centre in the very heart of Tampere is also 81.8% which also supports the success of our a noteworthy example of a location that Helsinki metropolitan area Oulu property portfolio. ACCESSIBILITY IS A favours environmentally-friendly access. Tampere Russia CONSIDERATION In 2018, we continued to implement our Good accessibility is an increasingly Location is one of the criteria applied in * Excluding Property Development strategy by focusing our property portfolio important factor in the decisions compathe environmental certification of busion prime areas. The highlight in 2018 was nies make regarding business premises. ness properties. The BREEAM® and LEED® the opening of Ratina Shopping Centre It is a way of supporting the mobility of certification processes take into account in Tampere in April. Also, our new office customers and employees, as well as an not only the energy and water consumpproperty, Väritehtaankatu 8, next to the opportunity to reduce emissions caused tion of the building, but also factors such Tikkurila railway station in Vantaa, was by commuting. With good accessibility, as public transport links, parking facilities finished and opened. Both properties have we take into consideration the needs of for bicycles and low-emission vehicles been built at top locations in growing city diverse target groups and ensure that our and green spaces. The BREEAM® In-Use 38 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Market Square, Helsinki The objectives and results of our responsibility priorities in 2018 Property locations Long-term objective Objective for the year Status RESULTS IN 2018 Increasing the share of – Implemented in accordance shopping centres and office with strategy. properties in Sponda’s property portfolio. Developing the property – 33.4% of the property portfolio portfolio by concentrating is located in the Helsinki Central ownership on prime areas. Business District (CBD) area. Developing the property – Implemented in accordance portfolio by concentrating with strategy. Ratina shopping on locations with public centre and Väritehtaankatu 8 transport links. property were opened and are centrally located in transport hubs. Excellent certification achieved by the ute to reaching the objective through our Ruoholahden Tähti office property proves own efforts and by influencing attitudes. our investment in the well-being of the environment when deciding on property Active co-operation with Green Buildinvestments. ing Council Finland, on the other hand, strengthens our ability to discuss and URBAN ENVIRONMENTS ARE experiment with innovations to resolve BUILT THROUGH CO-OPERATION increasingly challenging environmental As we focus our property portfolio on issues in the future. GBC Finland aims prime areas in city centres, we participate at e.g. sustainable built-up environment in building vibrant urban environments in in accordance with the principles of the co-operation with many partners. Our clicircular economy and facilitating sustainmate partnership with the City of Helsinki able high-quality life for people, which is is a concrete example of our continuous aligned with Sponda’s strategic objectives. co-operation in making Helsinki carbon neutral by 2035. The heating of properties accounts for more than one-half of Helsinki’s emissions, so we can directly contrib39 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Mervi Ahola Shopping Centre Manager Sponda Plc TAMPERE’S LARGEST SHOPPING CENTRE RATINA BRINGS CITIZENS TOGETHER T he historical study factory chimrapid rate in recent years, and that is the neys in the centre of Tampere got reason why homes, a new tram line and a new neighbour on the opposite retail space are all constructed actively in shore when the Ratina shopping centre ­Tampere. opened next to the Tammerkoski rapids in April 2018. For the residents of Tampere, There has also been demand for a new the centre is located optimally, as Ratina is shopping centre in the city. Ratina has easily accessible by bus, foot and bicycle. introduced a lot of new things to Tampere, as the shopping centre offers up to 40 new The planning of Ratina started together brands not previously found in the city. with the City of Tampere already a decade In addition, Ratina offers jobs for about a ago. The city has been growing at a thousand people. 40 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT providing an opportunity to discuss the experiences during the first year as well as wishes for the future. There have been encounters in Ratina from day one both in the new cafeterias and restaurants of the shopping centre and the numerous events already during the first year. Among other events, a major recruitment event previously held in the Tampere Exhibition and Sports Centre was organised in Ratina in 2018. The Researchers’ Night event introduced the residents not only to “The first year has been a busy one, but universities and universities of technology absolutely in a positive way. We have had but also to robots, while the Finnish Red an average of 600,000 visitors per month, Cross’ teddy bear hospital offered its help and we are very satisfied with it, as it to beloved but ragged plush animals. complies with the full-year visitor count goals,” says Shopping Centre Manager The events of the neighbouring Tampere Mervi Ahola. Stadium are also seamlessly linked to the life of the retail centre; for example, the The residents have also been involved opening ceremony of the World Junior in the design of Ratina. The aim was to Championships in athletics was held at develop the shopping centre into a meeting Ratina’s Olympia Square. place that serves the needs of all Tampere residents, and a separate resident “When we were thinking about our role in panel was established for that purpose. the very early stages of the planning, we The panel convened once every couple of aimed at a meeting place. We have also months during the construction phase. A succeeded in that respect, and people do new meeting will be arranged in the spring, not only come here to shop, but also to 41 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT spend time. There are cafeterias, restauingly want to live in the city centre instead rants, events and various activities for the of detached homes, and that means that whole family regardless of age,” Ahola says. services must also be found here,” Ahola remarks. In terms of its location, Ratina is easy to get to, whether you are from Tampere or Ratina is a combination of old traditional elsewhere: The train station is located only Tampere and completely new modern a few blocks away, while the bus station is architecture. In addition to the new buildon the other side of the road, and one does ing, the 53,000-square-metre shopping not even have to cross the road, as the centre comprises fully renovated listed station is also connected to the shopping functionalist buildings from the 1920s, centre with a tunnel. Motorists are taken which are also significant in terms of the into consideration with a massive parking cityscape. garage that also features 26 points for charging electric and hybrid vehicles. The new business complex was built to be as environmentally friendly as possible, and The location of the Ratina shopping centre BREEAM® Very Good certification will be in the very centre of the city also supports sought for it. Cold river water drawn from the more general trend: people increasthe Tammerkoski rapids is used in coolingly want to live and spend time in the ing the shopping centre; this reduces the centre. The phenomenon is known from consumption of electricity for cooling by an Recycling opportunities have also been the Helsinki region, and a similar trend has estimated 75 per cent compared to typical taken into consideration diversely with also been visible in Tampere. Increasing the cooling systems. Heat generated by shop regard to both tenants and visitors. In addiattractiveness of the centre further is the refrigerators, on the other hand, is utilised tion, there is an environmental coordinator joint goal of both the City of Tampere and in heating the property and the warm air of to assist the tenants in enhancing the Ratina. the indoor premises of the shopping centre efficiency of recycling. Ahola reports that is utilised in heating the parking facilities. the recycling rate was around 50 per cent “Just ten years ago, the surrounding Lighting is based on energy-efficient LED already during the first year of operation, municipalities attracted people also in the lights. but the aim is higher for future years when Tampere region, but a clear turn has taken operations become more established. place in that respect. Now, people increas42 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Taking the industry forward We want to contribute to taking the property sector forward through active participation in development efforts by property and construction sector organisations, distributing our expertise and professional skill and by carrying out in-house research and development work. WE ACTIVELY TAKE PART IN ment of MaaS services from the points of The objectives and results of our responsibility priorities in 2018 DEVELOPING THE SECTOR view of different parties (property owner, Taking the industry forward We develop the property sector in longcity, service provider) so that the urban term co-operation with other industry environment can be developed with an Long-term objective Objective for the year Status RESULTS IN 2018 influencers. We are active in e.g. the Finneye to future mobility needs. We are also Being the most reliable, – Business profitability, profitable and responsible excellent results in the GRESB ish Association of Building Owners and included in the FiBS (Finnish Business & player in the property sustainability survey. Construction Clients (RAKLI) and Green Society) corporate responsibility network sector. Building Council Finland, an organisation aiming to promote economically, socially Promoting best practices – Opportunities for using new focusing on sustainable development, and ecologically responsible business in in the property sector technology at properties and to support sustainable piloting new solutions. environmental certification of properties Finland. We also again contributed to KTI development. and energy practices of the property secProperty Information’s annual publication Active participation in – We were active participants tor. Sponda’s activities in it include chairResponsible Property Business. RAKLI and GBC Finland in the activities of RAKLI’s activities and projects. sector-specific management ing the Environmental Certification and teams and committees and Assessment Methods task group, and the WE SHARE OUR EXPERTISE GBC Finland’s committees. company has been involved in establishing AND PROFESSIONAL SKILL Promoting responsible – Progress in environmental the Real Estate Management task group, We want to give guidance and distribute operating methods partnerships and in co-operation with responsibility-related among other things. our expertise in the choice of premises our customers and co-operation with customers. and identifying energy efficiency and envisubcontractors. The Supplier Code of Conduct was approved and is now During the past year, we actively took ronmentally-friendly solutions in properincorporated into new and renewed agreements. part in the operations of working groups ties in particular. in various organisations. In 2018, we e.g. joined the MaaS (Mobility as a Service) and We support our customers in the differurban development clinic established by ent stages of choosing premises, taking RAKLI and the City of Helsinki. It aims to both the business and environmental find out the prerequisites for the developobjectives of the company into consider43 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT MOW Challenge at the InnoEvent Tampere 2018 in November ation. We actively guide our customers towards choices that conserve energy and the environment. We also want to share our expertise with students aiming at the property sector by offering them study opportunities and engaging in joint projects with educational institutions in the field. Responsible development of properties and urban environments while listening to the residents and communities and responding to their wishes is one of our ways of taking the industry forward and sharing our expertise. For example, the progressive solutions of the Ratina shopping centre and the office and retail space entity built next to the shopping centre are the result of Sponda’s investments in urban planning. BOLD INITIATIVES TO RESPOND TO THE NEEDS OF Work) coworking concept to respond to the TRANSFORMING WORKING LIFE changing needs of working life. The idea New ideas and initiatives always require of MOWs is to offer communal, flexible a change in thinking and culture, and it and cosy spaces for developing new ideas also applies to the developers of business and running business operations. Our premises and working environments. newest MOW hub, Supernova, opened this Sponda has determinedly continued the year at the new Ratina shopping centre in development of its MOW (Mothership of Tampere. 44 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Tero Välkkilä Asset Manager LOGICOR Nordics MOW SUPERNOVA IN TAMPERE FOSTERS COURAGE T he smell of popcorn greets the kitchens where popcorn is also part of dayvisitor in the lobby of the historic to-day life. Autotuonti building in Ratina, Tampere. However, we are not in a movie theMOW offers both permanent memberships atre but in Sponda’s new coworking space or the chance to hold a meeting for a single MOW Supernova that opened in November day. The premises can be booked with 2018. MOW offers flexible and comfortable exceptional ease; rooms and hot desks can workspace for small and large companies. be booked directly on the MOW website One of the basic ideas behind MOW is that regardless of time and place. MOW can in work has to be fun, and the premises have fact be an easy and convenient solution therefore been made casual and easy to when facing a sudden need for a meeting adapt. Communality has been emphasised room or place. with cosy and inviting leisure corners and 45 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT The new MOW in Tampere has been renoTampere has been developing at a rapid vated in an old functionalist building at the rate in recent years, and the need for Ratina shopping centre, right next to the flexible and communal office space has Tammerkoski rapids. One of the first memincreased. Companies spring up both within bers of Supernova is Tero Välkkilä, Asset and around the city, and many companies Manager at Logicor. The head office and with head offices in Helsinki have also other employees of the international comwanted to expand into Tampere. This can pany are located in Helsinki, and Välkkilä also be seen in MOW. has been holding an office in Tampere alone for a longer time. Previously, the office was “A few years ago, Tampere might not located a stone’s throw away on Hämeenhave been ready for an office space of this katu, but the hundred-square-metre kind, but the situation is now completely premises seemed unnecessarily big, inefdifferent, and there are certainly enough ficient and impractical. Therefore, Välkkilä members for diverse business centres and and Logicor grabbed the opportunity right communal workspaces,” says Katta Heikaway when they heard that Sponda’s MOW kilä, Head of Hub & Community at MOW concept would be expanded into Tampere. Supernova. “This is an excellent solution for me. MOW According to her, the arrival of MOW takes Supernova is a great combination of an the corporate culture of Tampere forward excellent location, communality and need in both companies and working commufor a room of my own. My work is also quite nities. “Many companies today recognise mobile, and as I can park my car in the different ways of working, and at MOW, parking garage downstairs with a direct everyone can find a place that suits them, connection to an exit route to the Hatanbe it on a sofa, rocking chair or a quiet pää highway, things couldn’t be any better. room. Each company and member decides It actually bothers me that I don’t have for themselves what kinds of premises more time to be here,” Välkkilä says. they need, and the premises can also be adapted flexibly,” Heikkilä says. 46 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT “You do not need courage to come to looking forward to continued co-operation MOW, but we definitely want to nurture with the students of Tampere. courage. We want to offer slightly different solutions and new ideas, such as these “We already previously took part in uniflexible workspaces. It is also a strong versities’ InnoEvent, and there we found differentiating factor for us that we are incredible visions of what future workphysically present here and have a keen ear spaces could be like with smart walls meato the needs of those working here.” suring stress levels, or how virtual reality could also be utilised in workspaces. We Välkkilä also commends the ease of workdefinitely want to be forerunners in testing ing in MOW. “Everything works smoothly, new things such as these.” and if there are problems with printing, for example, help is near. Technical solutions MOW Supernova is part of the Ratina are there too – even those that one might shopping centre that combines new not have even considered needing.” development and old renovated properties. BREEAM® Very Good certification will The location of MOW Supernova at the be sought for the entity. Cold river water Ratina shopping centre, in the very centre drawn from the Tammerkoski rapids is used of Tampere, also makes it easier to find in cooling the Ratina shopping centre, and it work/life balance. Shops, restaurants, is also used in cooling MOW Supernova. pharmacies and other services are located on practically the same block, and the Sponda’s previous MOWs in Helsinki are location is easily accessible by public transenvironmentally-friendly premises pursuThe legendary facade of the Autotuonti dolphins that have already been relocated port, bicycle and car. ant to the WWF Green Office scheme. The building located on the shore of the rapids from Tampere are featured on the kitchen new MOW in Tampere also aims to become exudes the history of Tampere, but the walls, while one of the meeting rooms feaMOW Supernova’s Katta Heikkilä and a Green Office in the future. For MOW’s inside has been brought back to life. tures the colours of both local ice hockey Logicor’s Tero Välkkilä both believe that member companies, environmental values teams in peace and harmony. Depending encounters of parties from different secand responsibility are often an important “The building alone is familiar to Tampere on the user, the room is named alternators under the same roof can give rise to thing from the point of the company’s own residents from history, and we have also tively the Tappara and Ilves room,” Heikkilä surprising new insights and also new busibrand as well. wanted to respect it with the garage spirit laughs out. ness in the future. Heikkilä is also anxiously of the interior decorations. In addition, 47 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT KEY FIGURES 48 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Sponda’s responsibility key figures 2018 2017 2016 Enhancing the customer experience Overall satisfaction index regarding co-operation with the lessor 3.88 3.93 3.79 Personnel Sick leave % of working hours, Sponda Real Estate Ltd 2.03 2.58 1.23 Environmental responsibility* Energy intensity, kWh/GFAm2 200.5 203.6 197.8 Total CO2 intensity, kg CO2/GFAm 2 45.0 46.4 43.3 Total waste recovery rate, % 100% 100% 100% Material reuse and recovery rate, % 48% 45% 45% Water intensity, l/GFAm² 274.2 277.1 249.6 * Sponda’s properties in Finland 49 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Environmental responsibility key figures Electricity, heating, water and district cooling consumption of Sponda’s properties in Finland Change Number of properties 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2017–2018, % 2018 Total energy consumption, all properties, MWh 323,188 297,984 293,565 269,813 329,343 8.5 Total energy consumption, all properties, GJ 1,163,478 1,072,743 1,056,833 971,327 1 185,635 Total energy consumption, like-for-like properties, MWh 288,623 284,906 257,447 1.3 Total energy consumption, like-for-like properties, GJ 1,039,044 1,025,662 926,808 Electricity, all properties, MWh 140,297 127,747 128,045 111,502 150,072 9.8 127 Tenants' electricity purchased by landlord, MWh 35,293 36,787 32,441 Electricity consumption in common areas, MWh 105,004 90,960 95,605 Electricity, like-for-like properties, MWh 122,742 120,798 108,683 1.6 119 Heating, normalised, all properties, MWh 167,838 158,508 153,160 150,185 169,453 5.9 125 Heating, normalised, like-for-like properties, MWh 151,320 152,543 139,348 -0.8 118 Heating, measured, all properties, MWh 159,652 146,564 146,900 122,769 152,469 8.9 125 Heating, measured, like-for-like properties, MWh 144,218 140,973 133,810 2.3 118 District cooling, all properties, MWh 15,053 11,729 12,359 8,126 9,818 28.3 27 District cooling, like-for-like properties, MWh 14,561 11,565 9,416 25.9 23 Water, all properties, m3* 405,796 386,291 366,747 327,161 365,682 5.0 123 Water, like-for-like properties, m3 360,227 356,011 305,885 1.2 116 * Supplied from a municipal or city water supply network. 50 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Electricity, heating, water and district cooling consumption intensity of Sponda’s properties in Finland 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Energy intensity, kWh/GFAm2/year 200.5 203.6 197.8 203.5 206.7 Electricity intensity, kWh/GFAm²/year 88.1 89.1 84.2 86.1 81.5 Heating intensity, normalised, kWh/GFAm²/year 105.3 109.5 110.6 116.5 109.9 Heating intensity, measured, kWh/GFAm²/year 100.4 101.2 106.3 95.2 99.1 District cooling intensity, kWh/GFAm²/year 24.3 19.3 19.4 26.4 32.0 Water intensity, ltr/GFAm²/year 274.2 277.1 249.6 265.0 253.3 Energy and water consumption of Sponda’s properties by main segment Office properties Shopping centres Logistics properties 2018 2017 Change, % 2018 2017 Change, % 2018 2017 Change, % Total energy consumption by main segment, MWh 178,624 177,241 0.8 87,481 85,705 2.1 22,519 21,960 2.5 Electricity, MWh 71,708 70,334 2.0 44,052 43,702 0.8 6,983 6,761 3.3 Heating, normalised, MWh 100,337 102,494 -2.1 35,447 34,851 1.7 15,536 15,198 2.2 Heating, measured, MWh 95,794 94,582 1.3 33,700 32,344 4.2 14,724 14,047 4.8 District cooling, MWh 6,579 4,413 49.1 7,982 7,152 11.6 Water, m 3 207,629 216,470 -4.1 133,706 124,065 7.8 18,892 15,476 22.1 Energy and water consumption intensity of Sponda’s properties by main segment Office properties Shopping centres Logistics properties 2018 2017 Change, % 2018 2017 Change, % 2018 2017 Change, % Energy intensity by main segment, kWh/GFAm2 /year 178.5 185.1 -3.6 290.3 284.4 2.1 155.7 153.0 1.8 Electricity intensity, kWh/GFAm /year 2 74.8 76.9 -2.7 147.1 145.9 0.8 50.5 48.9 3.5 Heating intensity, normalised, kWh/GFAm²/year 101.1 107.9 -6.3 117.6 115.6 1.7 109.7 107.3 2.2 Heating intensity, measured, kWh/GFAm²/year 96.6 99.6 -3.1 111.8 107.3 4.2 104.0 99.2 4.8 District cooling intensity, kWh/GFAm²/year 18.0 12.2 47.7 34.4 30.9 11.6 Water intensity, ltr/GFAm²/year 228.5 248.2 -7.9 443.6 411.6 7.8 190.3 155.9 22.1 51 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Energy and water consumption of Sponda’s head office Energy sources and emission factors Change 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2017–2018, % 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Total energy consumption, MWh 1,087 1,056 1,101 1,017 1,195 2.9 Purchased electricity Electricity, MWh 331 324 339 327 362 2.3 Market-based emission factor, kg CO2/MWh 255 256 282 278 216 Heating, normalised, MWh 657 681 697 647 715 -3.6 Renewables, % 20 15 13 11 17 Heating, measured, MWh 637 625 680 551 657 1.9 Non-renewables, % 46 44 45 43 33 District cooling, MWh 100 52 65 43 118 92.5 Nuclear power, % 34 41 42 46 50 Water, m3 1,177 1,542 1,838 1,523 1,613 -23.7 Location-based emission factor, kg CO2/MWh 164 164 181 209 220 Heating Market-based emission factor, kg CO2/MWh 188 191 188 144 151 Electricity, heating, water and district cooling Renewables, % 19 17 15 14 7 consumption intensity of Sponda’s head office Non-renewables, % 81 83 85 86 93 Location-based emission factor, kg CO2/MWh 188 188 176 183 186 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 District cooling Energy intensity, kWh/GFAm2/year 184.4 179.2 186.8 172.5 202.7 Market-based emission factor, kg CO2/MWh 61 61 68 62 67,5 Electricity intensity, Renewables, % 94 94 88 86 81 kWh/GFAm2/year 56.2 54.9 57.6 55.5 61.4 Non-renewables, % 6 6 12 14 19 Heating intensity, normalised, kWh/GFAm²/year 111.4 115.5 118.2 109.8 121.2 Location-based emission factor, kg CO2/MWh 61 61 68 62 67,5 Heating intensity, measured, The share of renewable energy of Sponda total energy usage 23% kWh/GFAm²/year 108.0 106.0 115.4 93.3 111.4 District cooling intensity, kWh/GFAm²/year 16.9 8.8 11.0 7.3 20.0 Water intensity, ltr/GFAm²/year 199.7 261.6 311.8 258.4 273.7 52 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Carbon footprint arising from the energy consumption Carbon dioxide emission intensity from energy of Sponda’s properties in Finland consumption of Sponda’s properties in Finland Change Change t CO2 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2017–2018, % kg CO2/GFAm2/year 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2017–2018, % Total carbon footprint from energy Total CO2 intensity 45.0 46.4 43.3 40.2 33.8 -3.1 consumption 65,707 62,591 64,636 52,503 58,382 5.0 CO2 intensity from electricity 22.0 23.6 23.6 23.9 17.6 -6.8 Electricity 35,805 32,650 36,137 30,998 32,135 9.7 CO2 intensity from heating 21.5 21.7 20.9 16.9 16.0 -0.7 Heating 31,528 30,252 28,760 21,560 25,584 4.2 CO2 intensity from district cooling 1.5 1.2 1.3 1.6 2.2 25.7 District cooling 918 715 841 504 663 28.3 CO2 emission reductions from seft generated renewable energy and Guarantee of Origin certificates -2,545 -1,026 -1,102 -559 Carbon dioxide emission intensity from the energy Total, like-for-like properties* 61,281 60,872 0.7 consumption of Sponda’s head office Change Total, like-for-like properties** 58,737 59,846 -1.9 kg CO2/GFAm2/year 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2017–2018, % Total, location-based 55,480 51,465 50,973 51,292 64,911 7.8 Total CO2 intensity from head office energy consumption 20.2 20.4 20.5 26.0 26.3 -0.8 * Excluding Guarantee of Origin certificates and self generated renewable energy. ** Including Guarantee of Origin certificates and self generated renewable energy. CO2 intensity from electricity 0.0 0.0 0.5 15.4 13.3 CO2 intensity from heating 19.2 19.9 19.3 10.1 11.6 -3.6 CO2 intensity from district cooling 1.0 0.5 0.7 0.5 1.4 90.6 Carbon footprint arising from the energy consumption of Sponda’s head office Change t CO2 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2017–2018, % Sponda’s indirect carbon dioxide emissions Total carbon footprint from head office energy consumption* 119.3 118.7 120.7 153.2 154.8 0.5 Change t CO2 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2017–2018, % Total carbon footprint from head office energy consumption** 206.4 205.8 215.7 153.2 154.8 0.3 Total indirect carbon dioxide emissions 369.6 346.8 311.9 376 420 6.6 Electricity 87.4 85.5 97.7 91.0 78.2 2.2 Emissions from waste management 227.6 190.4 166.6 225 253 19.5 Heating 112.9 117.1 113.6 59.5 68.6 -3.6 Emissions from leased cars 86.0 90.5 85.5 70 102 -5.0 District cooling 6.1 3.2 4.4 2.7 8.0 90.6 Emissions from business travel (flights) 56.0 65.9 59.8 81 65 -15.0 CO2 emission reductions from Guarantee of Origin certificates -87.1 -87.1 -95.0 * Including emission reductions from Guarantee of Origin renewable energy certificates. ** Excluding emission reductions from Guarantee of Origin renewable energy certificates. 53 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Carbon footprint arising from energy consumption of Sponda’s properties by main segment Carbon footprint arising from energy consumption of Sponda’s properties Carbon dioxide emission intensity from energy consumption of Sponda’s in Finland by main segment (t CO2) properties in Finland by main segment (kg CO2/GFAm2/year) 2018 2017 Change 2017–2018, % 2018 2017 Change 2017–2018, % Office Properties 36,824 37,368 -1.5 40.0 41.5 -3.4 Shopping Centres 17,205 17,935 -4.1 57.8 60.2 -4.0 Logistics Properties 4,709 4,544 3.6 48.2 46.5 3.7 Sponda’s Energy Efficiency Programme 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Change 2017–2018, % Number of properties included in Sponda's Energy Efficiency Programme at the end of the year 102 101 106 109 113 1 Share of properties included in the programme, % of the total property portfolio 87 89 91 88 88 -2 Annual consumption change achieved by the energy efficiency programme, MWh 903 -4,201 7,243 -6,279 109 -121 Annual consumption change achieved by the energy efficiency programme, GJ 3,250 -15,124 26,076 -22,604 392 -121 Number of energy reviews conducted per year 101 63 91 95 68 60 Sponda’s Environmental partnership 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Change 2017–2018, % Total energy consumption of Sponda's environmental partners, MWh 75,119 86,638 98,689 91,769 69,076 -13.3 Electricity, MWh 31,467 35,571 40,527 37,492 29,754 -11.5 Heating, normalised, MWh 37,867 45,840 52,918 49,474 33,621 -17.4 District cooling, MWh 5,785 5,226 5,244 4,803 5,701 10.7 Water, m 3 114,670 126,439 132,101 122,227 94,582 -9.3 CO2 -emissions, t CO2 13,362 16,213 19,545 16,661 11,067 -17.6 Number of environmental partners 16 20 24 23 22 -20.0 54 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Waste volumes of Sponda’s properties in Finland Waste recovery rates of Sponda’s properties in Finland 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Total, t 8,193 7,217 6,571 6,297 6,591 Overall waste recovery rate, % 100.0 100.0 100.0 97.1 96.0 Waste recovery rate, Helsinki metropolitan area, % 100.0 100.0 100.0 99.9 98.0 Energy recovery, t 4,278 3,963 3,610 3,264 3,394 Waste recovery rate, rest of Finland, % 100.0 100.0 100.0 80.0 79.0 Material Recovery, t 3,915 3,252 2,960 2,852 2,910 Energy recovery, % 52.2 54.9 54.9 51.8 52.0 Biowaste, t 1,528 1,230 1,022 928 932 Energy recovery, Helsinki metropolitan area, Paper, t 296 378 476 576 620 % 50.6 54.7 55.2 54.5 54.0 Paperboard, t 1,464 1,303 1,135 971 1,011 Energy recovery, rest of Finland, % 56.1 56.2 53.2 34.0 38.0 Cardboard, t 100 92 102 118 134 Material recovery, % 47.8 45.1 45.0 45.3 44.0 Glass, t 112 91 78 76 78 Material recovery, Helsinki metropolitan Metal, t 135 103 87 65 59 area, % 49.4 45.2 44.8 45.2 44.0 Plastic, t 14 1 2 2 2 Material recovery, rest of Finland, % 43.9 43.8 46.8 45.7 40.0 Sludge, t 112 21 31 92 53 Mixed waste to landfill, % 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.9 4.0 Other waste, t 147 16 19 17 15 Mixed waste to landfill, Helsinki metropolitan area % 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 2.0 Hazardous waste, t 7 17 10 7 6 Mixed waste to landfill, rest of Finland % 0.0 0.0 0.0 20.0 21.0 Mixed waste to landfill, t 0 1 1 181 286 Total carbon dioxide emissions arising from waste, t CO2 228 190 167 225 253 This includes Sponda-owned properties where the property owner is responsible for waste management. 55 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Total like-for-like waste volumes and recovery rates of Sponda’s properties in Finland Waste volumes by main segment of Sponda’s properties in Finland in 2018 2018 2017 t Office Properties Shopping Centres Logistics Properties % t % t Energy recovery 2,196 1,903 134 Total like-for-like waste weight 7,333 6,880 Material recovery 1,601 2,192 93 Total like-for-like, Helsinki metropolitan area 5,642 5,308 Mixed waste to landfill 0 0 Total like-for-like, rest of Finland 1,691 1,572 Energy recovery, like-for-like 52 3,803 55 3,763 Energy recovery, Helsinki metropolitan area 51 2,850 55 2,917 Energy recovery, rest of Finland 56 952 54 846 Material Recovery, like-for-like 48 3,530 45 3,116 Material recovery, Helsinki metropolitan area 49 2,791 45 2,390 Material recovery, rest of Finland 44 739 46 726 Mixed waste to landfill, like-for-like 0 0 0 1 Mixed waste to landfill, Helsinki metropolitan area 0 0 0 1 Mixed waste to landfill, rest of Finland 0 0 0 0 Waste volumes and recovery rates of Sponda’s head office 2018 2017 2016 % t % t % t Total 65.6 66.9 71.7 Energy recovery 47 30.7 46 30.9 43 31.0 Material recovery 53 34.7 54 35.9 57 40.6 Mixed waste to landfill 0 0.1 0 0.0 0 0.0 Waste volumes and recovery rates of Forum 2018 2017 2016 % t % t % t Total 1,318 1,252 1,019 Energy recovery 47 616 62 776 62 628 Material recovery 53 702 38 476 38 392 Mixed waste to landfill 0 0 0 0 0 0 56 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Social responsibility key figures Key figures for the personnel 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Parent Parent Parent Parent Group SRE* Russia Group Company Russia Group Company Russia Group Company Russia Group Company Russia Personnel at the year-end 125 117 106 102 3 102 96 3 103 96 7 105 95 10 In average 119 110 106 101 3 107 98 5 103 94 9 118 108 10 Average age 43.23 43.67 46.35 46.40 50.5 45.68 46.30 42.67 44.55 44.80 41.14 43.52 45.63 41.40 Sick leave, days in average 4.98 4.87 5.67 5.83 0.00 2.64 2.80 0.00 2.41 2.55 0.43 3.85 4.00 2.40 Sick leave, % of working hours 2.03 2.58 1.23 1.12 1.60 Training days in average 1.23 1.23 1.91 1.75 8.00 1.92 1.79 8.00 2.30 2.07 5.43 2.19 1.75 6.4 Training hours per employee 9.33 9.33 14.33 13.13 60.00 14.41 13.44 60.00 17.26 15.55 40.69 16.45 13.13 48.0 Training, % of working hours 0.59 0.77 0.79 0.91 * Sponda Real Estate Ltd, established in 1.1.2018 Collective bargaining agreements and employee turnover Days of training by personnel group* % % of working hours Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements* 100 Total Men Women men women Turnover, Finland (Sponda Real Estate Ltd) 26.96 Middle management 50.4 35.2 15.2 1.11 0.67 In employment relationships that are valid indefinitely 96.58 Experts 60.8 20.3 40.5 0.30 0.62 In fixed-term employment relationship** 3.42 Total 135.0 55.5 79.5 0.51 In full-time employment relationship 99.15 Only personnel groups with three women and three men at minimum reported. In part-time employment relationship 0.85 * Sponda Real Estate Ltd * The collective labor agreement covers all personnel in Finland excluding the Executive Board. ** Fixed-term employment relationships are family leave substitutions exceeding 6 months in duration. Sick days by personnel group* % of working hours Total Men Women men women Middle management 36 8 28 0.25 1.24 Experts 203 86 117 1.27 1.79 Total 536 224 312 2.03 Only personnel groups with three women and three men at minimum reported. * Sponda Real Estate Ltd 57 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Job satisfaction and security, Finland* Employees that left the company in 2018, Finland* Age group Total Men Women Accident frequency under 0.0001 under 20 0 0 0 Occupational diseases 0 20–24 0 0 0 Fatalities 0 25–29 0 0 0 Number of discrimination cases, their handling 30–34 2 2 0 and related corrective action, amount of cases 0 35–39 1 0 1 * Sponda Real Estate Ltd 40–44 4 3 1 45–49 3 2 1 Employees hired in 2018, Finland* Age group Total Men Women 50–54 4 3 1 20–24 0 0 0 over 55 7 3 4 25–29 7 3 4 Total 21 13 8 30–34 7 3 4 * Sponda Real Estate Ltd 35–39 6 4 2 Comparison of salaries and rewarding of men and women* 40–44 10 5 5 45–49 4 2 2 Comparison group I, experts 50–54 2 1 1 The salary of women is % of the corresponding salary of men Basic salary Rewarding over 55 1 1 0 2018 94.65 62.77 Total 37 19 18 2017 89.91 69.93 * Sponda Real Estate Ltd 2016 90.19 70.28 Personnel Groups* Comparison group II, middle management Persons 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 The salary of women is % of the corresponding salary of men Basic salary Rewarding Administration 48 36 2018 86.13 87.22 Property development 12 12 2017 90.82 74.07 Transactions and Portfolio Management** 15 2016 85.89 72.56 Shopping Centres 16 17 The comparison includes task-specific groups with three women and three men at minimum. The comparison figure has been Office Properties 26 26 calculated on the principle of how many per cent the average salary and rewarding for women is of the corresponding salary and rewarding for men. * Sponda Real Estate Ltd ** New business unit established in 2018. * Sponda Real Estate Ltd 58 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Economic responsibility key figures Group key figures* 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec Key financial figures 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Key figures per share 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Income statement key figures 13. B  asic and diluted earnings per share attributable to parent company 1. Total revenue, M€ 259.2 263.7 259.0 230.5 246.7 equity holders, € (EPS) 0.10 0.21 0.41 0.78 0.24 2. Operating profit, M€ 155.1 173.5 206.7 178.1 151.7 14. Equity per share, € 3.67 3.97 5.16 5.26 4.65 3. % of total revenue 59.8 65.8 79.8 77.3 61.5 4. T  otal amount of financial income and expenses, M€ -107.9 -75.2 -51.2 -48.9 -55.9 5. Profit/loss for the period, M€ 33.8 76.6 137.5 227.2 73.6 6. % of total revenue 13.0 29.0 53.1 98.6 29.8 Balance sheet key figures 7. Shareholders’ equity, M€ 1,247.4 1,350.1 1,849.9 1,585.0 1,411.5 8. Investment properties, M€ 3,755.8 3,935.3 3,755.5 3,101.7 3,142.1 9. Total liabilities, M€ 2,948.6 3,404.7 2,066.6 1,856.0 2,037.7 10. Interest-bearing liabilities, M€ 2,705.9 3,186.4 1,862.5 1,660.9 1,731.2 11. Interest-bearing net liabilities, M€ 2,599.2 2,457.3 1,849.6 1,440.9 1,710.8 Profitability and financial key figures 12. Equity ratio, % 29.8 28.5 47.4 46.2 41.0 *The financial figures related to the reporting year are comprehensively presented in the company financial statements 2018, which is available at Sponda web site https://www.sponda.fi/sites/default/files/report_by_the_board_of_directors_and_financial_ statements_2018.pdf. 59 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT 60 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT The scope and principles of the report DESCRIPTION OF THE REPORT ASSURANCE • The section Our responsibility priorities regard to the scope or method of calculaThis Sustainability Review contains Selected information from the Finnish vercovers Sponda’s actions and results tion of the reporting principles. general information about the economic, sion of the Sustainability Review regarding related to corporate responsibility in social and environmental impact of energy, emissions and waste management 2018. CALCULATION PRINCIPLES FOR Sponda’s operations between 1 January have been assured by an independent • The Key figures section covers key ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING and 31 December 2018, unless otherwise third party, PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy, sustainability indicators pertaining to The calculation of environmental indicaindicated. and congruence between the Finnish and environmental, social and economic tors takes into account properties located English versions has been checked. The responsibility. in Finland in which Sponda’s ownership SCOPE OF REPORTING assured information is identified in the • The scope and principles of the report, is at least 50 per cent. The reporting does Sponda reports on its responsibility GRI Content Index. The external assurthe GRI index and the independent not cover properties leased cold net leased, according to the Core guidelines of the ance report is provided in the Principles assurance report are in the Reporting meaning properties in which the tenant Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainof the report section of this Sustainability principles section. is responsible for property maintenance, ability Reporting Standards 2016. The GRI Review on pages 65–66. • The reporting boundaries correspondenergy purchasing or waste management. G4 Construction and Real Estate Sector ing to material aspects of corporate The exception to this rule is the Zeppelin Disclosures reporting guidelines have also REPORT STRUCTURE responsibility are presented on Sponda’s shopping centre located in Kempele, which been applied in this report. In particSponda’s Sustainability Review for 2018 website. is reported in full even for the real estate ular, the CRE indicators related to the follows the GRI Standards reporting companies in which Sponda’s ownership real estate sector are reported on where guidelines. Sponda’s Sustainability Review SCOPE OF THE REPORT is less than 50 per cent. The scope of the applicable. is divided into the following main sections: AND DATA COLLECTION environmental indicators is calculated as • The strategic significance of responsibilThe figures that appear in the report are a share of Sponda’s total property portfolio Sponda’s Consolidated Financial Stateity to Sponda and Sponda’s approach to based on the figures of Sponda’s operaon 31 December 2018 and depends on the ments are IFRS (International Financial corporate responsibility are discussed tions in Finland, unless otherwise indiindicator being reported. Reporting Standards) compliant. Sponda’s in this report in the sections Year 2018 cated. Figures for the company’s subsidSustainability Review 2018 meets the and Managing responsibility as well as iaries are mentioned separately. Unless From the beginning of 2014, office premreporting requirements of the UN Global in the Responsibility section of Sponda’s otherwise indicated, there have been no ises located in 16 investment properties Compact initiative. website. changes from the previous report with are included in the offices segment and 61 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT retail premises as part of the shopping ties. In assigning properties to segments, were excluded from the calculation. These Energy consumption monitoring extends centres segment. In assessing the scope, investment properties are assigned to the changes have also been updated to the key to all properties for which Sponda is divided properties are only included once segment that corresponds to their priindicators relative to the gross floor areas responsible for energy purchasing. A total in the overall property portfolio. Unless mary use, also for the properties that are of 2014–2017. of 128 (128) of Sponda’s fully or partially otherwise mentioned, any references to divided between the Office Properties segowned real estate companies were subject the property portfolio refer to the portment and the Shopping Centres segment. Sponda monitors the development of the to energy consumption monitoring in folios included in the aforementioned environmental indicators for its head 2018, representing 97 (96) per cent of Sponportfolio list. There is a certain degree of annual varioffice separately. The consumption figures da’s property portfolio. Of these, 121 (125) ability in Sponda’s property portfolio due for the head office are presented in sepaproperties are subject to hourly monitorThe scope of environmental indicators as to sales and purchases as well as extensive rate tables in the report. ing, while consumption at six (3) propa share of the completed properties owned renovation projects, which affect the comerties is monitored by means of manual by Sponda is presented separately for each parability of the annual environmental Sponda monitors the development of meter reading. reporting section below. indicators. For this reason, environmental environmental indicators separately for indicators are reported for all properties the properties in which the customers are Cooling is monitored separately for those Sponda’s reportable environmental indias well as comparable properties. Like for Sponda’s environmental partners. The properties that use district cooling. If cators are related to energy consumption, like consumption is reported separately calculation is based on Sponda’s environcooling is performed by compressors, it is water consumption, carbon dioxide emisfor the following environmental indicators: mental partners as of 31 December 2018. included in the electricity consumption. sions and waste management. energy consumption, water consumption, carbon footprint, total waste management The 87 (87) per cent coverage of Sponda’s The unit used in monitoring the conThe primary reporting period for environvolumes and recovery rates. energy efficiency programme is calculated sumption of purchased energy is the mental indicators is five years, consisting based on gross leasable properties, i.e. MWh. Total energy consumption is also of the reporting year and the four precedThe total figures for energy consumption Sponda’s fully owned properties. There are reported in GJ using the conversion rate 1 ing years. The following exceptions apply intensity and like for like carbon dioxide 117 (115) such properties according to the MWh = 3.6 GJ (Source: IEA, International to the reporting periods: emissions also include properties that property list. The energy efficiency proEnergy Agency). The denominator used • Like-for-like consumption figures are joined the district cooling network during gramme does not include properties under for calculating specific consumption is the presented for two years. the year, as district cooling is seen as a property development. gross floor area. Data on gross floor area • Segment-specific consumption figures replacement for cooling based on electric(GFAm2) corresponds to consumption data. are presented for two years. ity consumption. The denominator used ENERGY Properties that were sold or bought, propin calculating the specific consumption The energy consumption of Sponda’s properties that were covered by consumption Sponda’s key environmental indicators are figures for all environmental indicators is erties consists of purchased energy, elecmonitoring for part of the year and properreported as total figures as well as segthe gross floor area (GFAm2). In 2017, the tricity, heating and district cooling, as well ties under renovation are not included in ment-specific figures. During the reporting accuracy of the calculations of specific as solar power produced on site. During the calculations on consumption intensity. year under review, the segment-specific electricity consumption was increased and the reporting year, Sponda had on-site Energy consumption is divided by the reporting included Office Properties, properties where the electricity consumpsolar power production at one property. number of Sponda’s properties excluding Shopping Centres and Logistics Propertion does not cover the entire property sold properties and properties included 62 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT under property development (major new Sponda has no direct greenhouse gas the actual emission factor for each year. sions calculations for waste management construction and renovation projects). emissions. The CO2 emissions for 2017 have been cover 100% of the waste management The figures presented by segments do not updated according to the emission factors Sponda is responsible for, including waste include properties under property develGreenhouse gas emissions from purchased for 2017. The emission intensities and oritransportation as well as treatment. Emisopment. energy (Scope 2) have been calculated by gin of electricity are based on the producsions from business air travel are based multiplying energy consumption (MWh) tion breakdown of electricity produced in on flight miles and the emission factors WATER by the emission factor corresponding to its Finland, deducted by the amount of elecreported by airlines. The emissions from Water consumption monitoring extended production (kg CO2/MWh). The emissions tricity produced from renewable energy leased cars are based on Sponda’s emisto 123 (126) of Sponda’s fully or partially have been estimated using two methods, sources of verified origin. The share of sions data on leased cars as of the last day owned properties in 2018, representing 93 based on information reported by the supguarantees of origin (certificates of origin of the year and kilometres driven per year. (94) per cent of Sponda’s property portpliers of purchased energy and based on for Nordic wind power) and electricity Indirect greenhouse gas emissions are folio. Of these, 118 (121) properties are subFinland’s country-specific emissions data produced by Sponda itself from renewable reported at the company level. ject to hourly monitoring, while consump(marketand area-specific calculation). At energy sources has been deducted from tion at five (5) properties is monitored by present, Sponda does not report on greenthe CO2 emissions figures reported by The use of renewable energy sources means of manual meter reading. house gas emissions other than carbon Sponda. In 2018, they represented 7.1 per includes solar power generated by the dioxide, or their global warming potential. cent of Sponda’s total emissions caused by properties themselves as well as electricWASTE electricity consumption (2,545 tCO2). ity and heating produced from renewInformation on waste covers all properties Greenhouse gas emissions have been able energy sources and purchased from for which the responsibility to arrange calculated for electricity and district For the sake of comparison, Sponda’s energy companies. waste management lies with a Sponcooling based on measured consumption total CO2 emissions are also reported da-owned property or mutual real estate data and, for district heating, based on using Finland’s country-specific factor for EARLIER REPORTS company. The monitoring extended to 124 normalised (weather-adjusted) consumpelectricity and heating production (Source: The previous sustainability review was (123) properties, representing 94 (92) per tion. The normalisation of consumption is Motiva Oy). Due the unavailability of a published in March 2018. Sponda reports cent of the properties owned by Sponda at based on the heating requirement figures country-specific factor for district cooling on its progress in terms of responsibility the end of 2018. Waste covered by tenants’ reported by the Finnish Meteorological production, the reporting is based on a each year. own waste management agreements is not Institute, which facilitates year-to-year supplier-specific factor. included in the reporting. The reported comparisons of heating consumption. Sponda’s annual sustainability review also information on waste is based on waste With respect to indirect greenhouse gas serves as a Communication on Progress volumes reported by waste management The calculation of CO2 emissions for 2018 emissions (Scope 3), Sponda reports on (COP) report on the implementation of service providers. is based on emission factors reported by carbon dioxide emissions from waste the UN Global Compact principles. There the suppliers of purchased energy in 2017. management, business air travel and were no changes in COP reporting in 2018 CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS The emission factors are reported in the leased cars. Waste management emissions compared to the previous year. Greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) Energy and environmental efficiency secare the most significant of Sponda’s Scope totalled zero during the reporting period. tion of the Annual Report. Data for other 3 emissions and their emissions calculareported years has been calculated using tions are based on the GHG protocol. Emis63 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Management approach Responsibility Transparent and Enhancing the customer Investing in Energy and environmental Property locations and priorities ethical operations experience employees efficiency taking the industry forward Objective of the Sponda’s objective is to maintain and improve its financial Customer health and safety are key By investing in employee training and the develThe energy and water consumption of properties have With regard to property locations, Sponda management performance and profitability while also creating stakeholder facets of the customer experience in opment of management practices, Sponda aims significant environmental impacts, which is why energy strives for sustainability from the perspective approach value through transparent communications and reporting as addition to the provision of comfortable to ensure the high professional competence of its and environmental efficiency is one of the key priorities of of the economy as well as the environment. The well as good governance and risk management. Due to the working environments that support personnel, which is a key resource for the Group’s Sponda’s sustainability efforts. Sponda aims to continuously Group also aims to develop urban environments large subcontracting network, the responsible management of customers’ operations. Sponda also aims operations. Sponda also strives to maintain and improve the energy efficiency of its properties as well as in co-operation with various parties. Sponda procurement activities is also important for Sponda. Anti-corto support its customers’ responsibility improve the work ability and functional capacity waste recycling and sorting. Managing the energy efficiency is actively engaged in taking the property and ruption and the observance of human rights are a material objectives through its own sustainability of its personnel and ensure the equal treatment of of the extensive supply chain is also an integral part of construction industry forward from the perspective aspect of the management of Sponda’s own operations as well efforts. employees. Sponda’s sustainability. of sustainable development by being involved as the supply chain. in various industry organisations, sharing its knowledge and expertise and carrying out research and development. Reporting The effects of transparent and ethical operations are directly Sponda’s operations have indirect Measures related to employee health, safety, Sponda’s energy and environmental efficiency has primarily Property locations have direct impacts on Sponda’s boundary related to Sponda’s business and the operations of its impacts on customer health and safety training and equality have direct impacts at Sponda’s direct impacts at the properties owned by Sponda. The business as well as its customers’ business. personnel. Through subcontracting, the impacts also extend to at the properties owned by the Group, own business locations. impacts of waste management at properties and supplier Sponda’s operations also have indirect impacts on partners at the properties owned by Sponda. as external property managers are assessments are indirect and they concern Sponda’s customers, partners and society in a broader sense responsible for the safety of properties. customers and partners. through projects related to urban development and taking the industry forward. Management Sponda’s operations are based on its Code of Conduct, which The continuous development of Personnel development is managed at Sponda based Energy and environmental efficiency are managed in The objectives related to property locations are approach covers good governance, responsibilities and expectations in property services and maintaining on the Group’s strategy as well as feedback from accordance with Sponda’s energy efficiency programme managed in line with Sponda’s strategy by focusing terms of key stakeholders, transparent business operations, effective communication and feedback customers and stakeholders. Employees are offered as well as short-term and long-term targets. Sponda’s the property portfolio on prime areas. The President anti-bribery and anti-corruption practices, environmental channels are a material aspect of opportunities to participate in Sponda’s own training environmental responsibility is also guided by the Finnish and CEO and the Executive Board are responsible responsibility and responsibility as an employer. Sponda is also Sponda’s management of the customer programmes as well as external training. Sponda’s property sector’s energy efficiency agreement (TETS), the UN for the achievement of these objectives. Sponda committed to the UN Global Compact sustainability principles. experience. Sponda’s external property occupational healthcare action plan has been Global Compact principles and the City of Helsinki Climate engages in co-operation on urban development The observance of ethics in business is the responsibility managers manage the safety of propdrafted in co-operation with Terveystalo and it is Partners programme. with partners including the City of Helsinki and the of Sponda’s Human Resources Manager and Sustainability erties by ensuring that the contractual updated in three-year intervals or more frequently. Green Building Council Finland. Sponda is also an The management of energy and environmental efficiency is Manager. obligations of the partners they use are active member of the Finnish Association of Building Employee diversity and equality are managed in the responsibility of the Sustainability Manager. She reports fulfilled in accordance with occupational Owners and Construction Clients (RAKLI) and the Financial performance is managed through the owner, accordance with Sponda’s equality plan. Sponda’s to the Senior Vice President, Property Development, who is safety regulations. FIBS corporate responsibility network. Sponda’s strategy and targets and the financial administration HR management in Finland complies with the appliin charge of environmental responsibility at the Executive function. The President and CEO and the CFO are in charge of The customer experience is managed cable legislation, collective bargaining agreements Board level. the Group’s financial performance. through the use of leases and the and Sponda’s human resource policy. The HR policies Energy and environmental efficiency in the supply chain is Supplier Code of Conduct as well as by are also based on Sponda’s Code of Conduct and the The responsibility of the supply chain is managed through managed through purchasing agreements and the Supplier applying the relevant legislation. The principles of the UN Global Compact. purchasing agreements and the Supplier Code of Conduct. Code of Conduct, which is incorporated into the agreements. Customer Experience Manager, Account It highlights responsibilities related to transparency, The HR Director is in charge of human resource Sponda’s Purchasing and Quality Manager is in charge of the Managers and Property Managers are environmental responsibility, labour, human rights and safety. management at Sponda. Activities aimed at mainresponsibility of purchasing. in charge of the customer experience The Purchasing and Quality Manager is in charge of managing taining work ability are implemented in co-operation at Sponda. Sponda’s supply chain. between the occupational healthcare provider, occupational health and safety representatives, supervisors and management. Evaluation of the The achievement of the objectives concerning transparent and The enhancement of the customer Employee satisfaction and organisational effecSponda monitors energy and water consumption, carbon Progress towards the objectives related to property management ethical operations are monitored in Sponda’s Executive Board experience is regularly evaluated tiveness are monitored by conducting a regular footprint and waste management volumes at its properties locations are monitored by Sponda’s Executive approach meetings on a quarterly basis and by the Board of Directors through customer satisfaction surveys, employee survey as well as through performance on a monthly, quarterly and annual basis. Sponda’s Executive Board and the Board of Directors. The external as necessary. The sustainability of Sponda’s operations is also property surveys and measurements. reviews. The progress and achievement of each Board monitors the progress of Group-level environmental BREEAM ® and LEED ® environmental certification evaluated annually by the external GRESB survey. Sponda has also introduced fault employee’s personal goals is assessed with the targets on a quarterly basis. Energy and environmental processes also take the location of properties into reporting channels for its properties. help of appraisal discussions, customer feedback efficiency and related progress is also reviewed more account as one certification criterion. Sponda uses an anonymous feedback channel for employees The health and safety of premises is and employee surveys. The implementation of comprehensively by the environmental responsibility steering and partners to report suspected misconduct via the company Progress in practices aimed at taking the industry reviewed regularly and the feedback the occupational healthcare action plan is also group, which meets 4–6 times per year. Sponda’s energy and intranet or e-mail. In 2019, Sponda will introduce an electronic forward is evaluated by, among other things, received from customers is used in the monitored regularly. environmental efficiency are also measured by independent whistleblowing channel to facilitate the anonymous reporting participation in RAKLI and GBC Finland activities development of customer relationships third-party assurance reports, GRESB surveys as well as of misconduct. Sponda has an anonymous channel for reporting and projects as well as the results of environmental and co-operation with partners. LEED® and BREEAM ® certification processes. violations of the Code of Conduct. All reports are partnerships. The responsibility of the supply chain is evaluated through processed by Sponda’s HR Director, Chief Legal The energy and environmental efficiency of the supply chain regular reporting and meetings with partners. Separate audits Counsel and the Executive Board. No reports were is evaluated through regular reporting and meetings with are also carried out as necessary. received via the reporting channel in 2018. partners. Separate audits are also carried out as necessary. 64 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report (TRANSLATION FROM THE FINNISH ORIGINAL) TO THE MANAGEMENT Estate Sector Disclosures of the Global PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy applies (ISAE) 3410 “Assurance Engagements on OF SPONDA PLC Reporting Initiative as well as where International Standard on Quality Control Greenhouse Gas Statements”. These StanWe have been engaged by the Manageapplicable, the CRE indicators related to 1 and accordingly maintains a compredards require that we plan and perform ment of Sponda Plc (hereinafter also the the real estate sector. The Management hensive system of quality control includthe engagement to obtain limited assurCompany) to perform a limited assurance of Sponda Plc is also responsible for such ing documented policies and procedures ance about whether the Selected environengagement on selected environmental internal control as the management regarding compliance with ethical requiremental indicators are free from material indicators for the reporting period 1 Jandetermines is necessary to enable the ments, professional standards and applicamisstatement. uary 2018 to 31 December 2018, disclosed preparation of the Selected environmental ble legal and regulatory requirements. in Sponda Plc’s Sustainability Review 2018 indicators that are free from material misIn a limited assurance engagement the on the Company’s website (hereinafter statement, whether due to fraud or error. PRACTITIONER’S RESPONSIBILITY evidence-gathering procedures are more Selected environmental indicators). The Our responsibility is to express a limited limited than for a reasonable assurance assured information is indicated in the PRACTITIONER’S INDEPENDENCE assurance conclusion on the Selected engagement, and therefore less assurance Company’s GRI index 2018. AND QUALITY CONTROL environmental indicators based on the is obtained than in a reasonable assurance We have complied with the independence procedures we have performed and the engagement. An assurance engagement MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY and other ethical requirements of the Code evidence we have obtained. We conducted involves performing procedures to obtain The Management of Sponda Plc is responof Ethics for Professional Accountants issued our limited assurance engagement in evidence about the amounts and other sible for preparing the Selected environby the International Ethics Standards accordance with the International Staninformation in the Selected environmenmental indicators in accordance with the Board for Accountants, which is founded dard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) tal indicators. The procedures selected Reporting criteria as set out in Sponda on fundamental principles of integrity, 3000 (revised) “Assurance Engagements depend on the practitioner’s judgement, Plc’s reporting instructions (described objectivity, professional competence and Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical including an assessment of the risks of in Sponda’s Sustainability Review 2018), due care, confidentiality and professional Financial Information”, and, in respect of material misstatement of the Selected the Global Reporting Initiative Standards behaviour. greenhouse gas emissions, International environmental indicators. Guidelines and the G4 Construction, Real Standard on Assurance Engagements 65 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Our work consisted of, amongst others, When reading our assurance report, the the following procedures: inherent limitations to the accuracy and completeness of sustainability information • Interviewing a representative of senior should be taken into consideration. management of the Company; • Visiting the Company’s Head Office; Our assurance report has been prepared • Interviewing employees responsible for in accordance with the terms of our collecting and reporting the Selected engagement. We do not accept, or assume information on environmental indicaresponsibility to anyone else, except to tors at the Group level; Sponda Plc for our work, for this report, or • Assessing how Group employees apply for the conclusions that we have reached. the reporting instructions and procedures of the Company; Helsinki, 27 March 2019 • Testing the accuracy and completeness of the information from original docuPricewaterhouseCoopers Oy ments and systems on a sample basis; • Testing the consolidation of informaSirpa Juutinen tion and performing recalculations on a Partner sample basis. Sustainability & Climate Change LIMITED ASSURANCE CONCLUSION Jussi Nokkala Based on the procedures we have perDirector formed and the evidence we have Sustainability & Climate Change obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that Sponda Plc’s Selected environmental indicators for the reporting period ended 31 December 2018 are not properly prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting criteria. 66 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT GRI index This review has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The review presents the General Standard Disclosures according to the GRI Standards as well as the Topic specific content concerning the management approach, environmental, economic and social indicators. General Disclosures External Global Code GRI Standard Disclosures Included Location in the Sustainability Review assurance Compact Comments Organisation 102-1 Name of the organization Sponda in brief, p. 3 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Sponda in brief, p. 3 102-3 Location of headquarters Back cover 102-4 Location of operations Property locations, p. 38; Report by the board of directors and financial statements, pp. 3, 5–6 102-5 Ownership and legal form Sponda in brief, p. 3; Report by the board of directors and financial statements, p. 6 102-6 Markets served Sponda in brief, p. 3; We listen to our stakeholders, p. 16; Property locations, p. 38 102-7 Scale of the organization Sponda in brief, p. 3; Yes Economic responsibility key figures, p. 59 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Investing in employees, p. 31; Yes The reported information on employees has been retrieved from the Social responsibility key figures, p. 57; Personec HR and Nepton systems. https://www.sponda.fi/en/responsibility/ Sponda purchases the management of property services for the properties spondability/supply-chain it owns from external property managers. Properties are maintained on behalf of Sponda by contractual partners who do not report genderspecific employee statistics to Sponda. 102-9 Supply chain Transparent and ethical operations, pp. 24–25; https://www.sponda.fi/en/responsibility/ spondability/supply-chain 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its Sponda in brief, p. 3; New CEO appointed. supply chain Chief Executive’s review, pp. 5–7 Included Partly included 67 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT General Disclosures External Global Code GRI Standard Disclosures Included Location in the Sustainability Review assurance Compact Comments 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Report by the board of directors and financial Yes statements, p. 7 102-12 External initiatives Responsibility at Sponda, p. 10; General operating principles guiding responsibility, pp. 12–13; Transparent and ethical operations, pp. 24–25 102-13 Membership of associations We listen to our stakeholders, p. 16; Taking the industry forward, pp. 43–44 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Chief Executive’s review, pp. 5–7 Yes The company’s senior management approves the report. 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Responding to trends and changes, pp. 14–15; Partially reported. Responsibility is based on co-operation, p. 22 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of Responsibility at Sponda, p. 10; Yes behavior General operating principles guiding responsibility, pp. 12–13; https://www.sponda.fi/en/sponda-company/ strategy/vision-mission-and-values 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Responsibility at Sponda, p. 10; Yes A digital whistleblowing channel will be adopted in 2019. General operating principles guiding responsibility, pp. 12–13 Governance structure 102-18 Governance structure https://www.sponda.fi/en/sponda-company/ organization-and-governance; General operating principles guiding responsibility, pp. 12–13 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and Report by the board of directors and financial its committees statements, p. 6; https://www.sponda.fi/en/sponda-company/ organization/board-directors 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Report by the board of directors and financial The Chairman of the Board of Directors is not an executive officer in the statements, p. 6 organisation. Included Partly included 68 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT General Disclosures External Global Code GRI Standard Disclosures Included Location in the Sustainability Review assurance Compact Comments Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups We listen to our stakeholders, p. 16 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Social responsibility key figures, p. 57 Yes 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders We listen to our stakeholders, p. 16; Stakeholders were reviewed in conjunction with the Materiality Analysis https://www.sponda.fi/en/responsibility/ conducted in 2014. spondability/stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement We listen to our stakeholders, p. 16 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised https://www.sponda.fi/en/responsibility/ Yes spondability/stakeholders Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial Report by the board of directors and financial statements statements, p. 64–68 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries The scope and principles of the report, pp. 61–63; GRI index 102-47 List of material topics Responsibility is based on co-operation, p. 22; The scope and principles of the report, pp. 61–63; Management approach, p. 64 102-48 Restatements of information GRI index No changes. 102-49 Changes in reporting GRI index No significant changes. 102-50 Reporting period The scope and principles of the report, pp. 61–63 102-51 Date of most recent report The scope and principles of the report, pp. 61–63 102-52 Reporting cycle The scope and principles of the report, pp. 61–63 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report GRI index Sustainability manager Pirkko.Airaksinen(at)sponda.fi 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI The scope and principles of the report, pp. 61–63 Standards 102-55 GRI content index GRI index pp. 67–73 102-56 External assurance The scope and principles of the report, pp. 61–63; Certain energy, emissions and waste data in Finnish has been assured by an Assurance, pp. 65–66 independent third party. Included Partly included 69 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Management Approach External Global Code GRI Standard Disclosures Included Location in the Sustainability Review assurance Compact Comments 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Responsibility is based on co-operation, p. 22; If the Boundary is not the Sponda Group, the specific Boundary is indicated Boundary The scope and principles of the report, pp. 61–63; in connection with the table in question. Management approach, p. 64 103-2 The management approach and its Responsibility at Sponda, p. 10; components General operating principles guiding responsibility, pp. 12–13; Transparent and ethical operations, pp. 24–25; Management approach, p. 64 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach General operating principles guiding responsibility, pp. 12–13; Transparent and ethical operations, pp. 24–25; Management approach, p. 64 Economic standards External Global Code GRI Standard Disclosures Included Location in the Sustainability Review assurance Compact Comments Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and Transparent and ethical operations, p. 26; distributed Economic responsibility key figures, p. 59; Report by the board of directors and financial statements, p. 12 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and Responding to trends and changes, pp. 14–15; Partially reported. The implications of climate change are assessed as part opportunities due to climate change https://www.sponda.fi/en/responsibility/ of Sponda’s regular risk assessment. environment/energy-and-environmental-efficiency Indirect economic impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services Property locations, pp. 38–39; Sponda has no assessment programmes related to the needs of local supported Taking the industry forward, pp. 43–44 communities. Evaluated during new construction and major renovation projects. 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts How we create value, pp. 8–9; The extent of impacts has not been specified. Transparent and ethical operations, p. 26 Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about antiTransparent and ethical operations, p. 25 Yes As part of Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct training. corruption policies and procedures Sponda does not report the Group’s internal information if either gender is represented by less than three people. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions GRI index Yes No incidents of corruption in 2018. taken Included Partly included 70 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Environmental standards External Global Code GRI Standard Disclosures Included Location in the Sustainability Review assurance Compact Comments Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Energy and environmental efficiency, pp. 32–33; Yes Yes Sponda did not have any energy production or fuel consumption of its own Sponda’s responsibility key figures, p. 49; during the reporting period. The share or renewable energy of total energy Environmental responsibility key figures, pp. 50–52 consumption during the reporting year is 23 per cent. 302-3 Energy intensity Energy and environmental efficiency, pp. 32–33; Yes Yes Energy intensity refers to the energy consumption of Sponda-owned Sponda’s responsibility key figures, p. 49; properties in proportion to the property’s gross floor area. Environmental responsibility key figures, pp. 50–52 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Energy and environmental efficiency, pp. 32–34; Yes Yes Includes the reduction in energy consumption achieved through Sponda's The scope and principles of the report, pp. 62–63; Energy efficiency programme. The monetary savings achieved through Sponda’s responsibility key figures, p. 49; energy conservation measures are not reported. Environmental responsibility key figures, pp. 50–52 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products Energy and environmental efficiency, pp. 32–34; Yes Yes Includes the changes in certain environmental impacts achieved through and services The scope and principles of the report, pp. 62–63; Sponda's Environmental Partnership Programme compared to the previous Sponda’s responsibility key figures, p. 49; year. Covers Sponda’s environmental partners in 2018. Economic responsibility key figures, pp. 50–52 Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Energy and environmental efficiency, p. 33; Yes Yes Surveys of plumbing fixtures to improve the efficiency of water (2016) Sponda’s responsibility key figures, p. 49; consumption at properties are part of the regular audit procedures. Economic responsibility key figures, pp. 50–52 Plumbing fixtures that conserve water and energy are used in newly constructed properties and major renovation projects. Additionally, in environmental certification processes, attention is paid to not only increasing the efficiency of energy consumption, but also reducing water consumption. Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions GRI index Yes Yes Sponda did not have any direct greenhouse gas emissions during the reporting period. 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions The scope and principles of the report, p. 63; Yes Yes Covers carbon dioxide emissions during the reporting period. Based on Environmental responsibility key figures, pp. 53–54 both the emission factors of energy supplier and country specific emission factors. 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions The scope and principles of the report, p. 63; Yes Yes Covers carbon dioxide emissions during the reporting period. Environmental responsibility key figures, pp. 53–54 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Sponda’s responsibility key figures, p. 49; Yes Yes Greenhouse gas emissions intensity refers to the carbon dioxide emissions Environmental responsibility key figures, pp. 53–54 caused by the energy consumption (Scope 2) of Sponda-owned properties in proportion to the properties’ gross floor area. 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Energy and environmental efficiency, pp. 32–33; Yes Yes Includes the reduction in carbon dioxide emissions achieved through Environmental responsibility key figures, pp. 53–54 Sponda's Environmental Partnership Programme (Scope 2). Covers Sponda’s environmental partners in 2018. Included Partly included 71 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Environmental standards External Global Code GRI Standard Disclosures Included Location in the Sustainability Review assurance Compact Comments Effluent and waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Energy and environmental efficiency, p. 34; Yes Yes Sponda’s responsibility key figures, p. 49; Environmental responsibility key figures, pp. 55–56 Supplier environmental assesment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using Transparent and ethical operations, p. 25; Yes No assessments. Requirements towards environmental responsibility environmental criteria https://www.sponda.fi/en/responsibility/ included in contracts with contractors. The significance of environmental spondability/supply-chain responsibility and environmental responsibility in Sponda's procurement practices are described. GRI Construction and Real Estate Sector Disclosures CRE1 Building energy intensity Energy and environmental efficiency, pp. 32–33; Sponda’s responsibility key figures, p. 49; Economic responsibility key figures, pp. 50–52 CRE2 Water intensity Energy and environmental efficiency, p. 33; Sponda’s responsibility key figures, p. 49; Economic responsibility key figures, pp. 50–52 CRE3 Greenhouse gas intensity of building’s energy Sponda’s responsibility key figures, p. 49; consumption Environmental responsibility key figures, pp. 53–54 CRE8 Certificates Highlights in 2018, p. 4; Transparent and ethical operations, pp. 24–25; Energy and environmental efficiency, pp. 32–34; https://www.sponda.fi/en/responsibility/ environment/environmental-certification Social standards External Global Code GRI Standard Disclosures Included Location in the Sustainability Review assurance Compact Comments Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Social responsibility key figures, pp. 57–58 Yes Occupational health and safety 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational Social responsibility key figures, pp. 57–58 An accurate breakdown cannot be provided due to the small number of the (2016) diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and reporting groups. number of work-related fatalities The reported information on employees has been retrieved from the Personec HR and Nepton systems. Included Partly included 72 Sustainability Review 2018 73 YEAR 2018 MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY OUR RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES KEY FIGURES PRINCIPLES OF THE REPORT Social standards External Global Code GRI Standard Disclosures Included Location in the Sustainability Review assurance Compact Comments Training and education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per Social responsibility key figures, p. 57 Yes employee 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and Investing in employees, pp. 30–31 Yes If an employment relationship is terminated on the employer’s initiative transition assistance programs for a reason deriving from the employer, the employee is offered the opportunity to participate in employment search training and career counselling. 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular We listen to our stakeholders, p. 17; Yes Partially reported. In accordance with the Group’s strategy and performance and career development reviews Investing in employees, p. 30 management system, all Sponda employees are covered by performance reviews. Employees recruited outside the annual cycle of performance reviews are not included in the calculation. Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Investing in employees, p. 31 Yes Sponda does not report the Group’s internal information if either gender is represented by less than three people. 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of Social responsibility key figures, p. 58 Yes women to men Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective Social responsibility key figures, p. 58 Yes No incidents of discrimination in the reporting period actions taken Human rights assesment 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or General operating principles guiding responsibility, Yes As part of the Code of Conduct training for employees. procedures pp. 12–13; Transparent and ethical operations, p. 25 Supplier social assesment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social General operating principles guiding responsibility, Partially reported. No assessments. Occupational safety practises in criteria pp. 12–13; Sponda’s procurement procedure are described. Sponda’s procurement Transparent and ethical operations, p. 25 procedures and practices concerning the prevention of the grey economy and financial crime are described. Also included in Sponda’s new Supplier Code of Conduct, which is the foundation for all new subcontracting agreements. Customer heath and safety 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts Enhancing the customer experience, p. 27; Partially reported. No assessments. Health and safety practises in Sponda’s of product and service categories Management approach, p. 64 procurement procedure are described. Also included in the Sponda Supplier https://www.sponda.fi/en/responsibility/ Code of Conduct. spondability/supply-chain Included Partly included 73 Sustainability Review 2018 73 SPONDA PLC P.O. Box 940, FI-00101 Helsinki Tel. +358 20 43131 www.sponda.com
