HUMAN RESOURCE DEPARTMENT OPERATIONAL MANUAL (Policies and Procedures) HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 1 HUMAN RESOURCE MANUAL CONTENTS SECTION 1. INTRODUCTION 1-1 Purpose of the Manual 1-2 Human Resource Philosophy 2. EMPLOYMENT 2-1 Employment Policy 2-2 Roles & Responsibilities 2-3 Recruitment 2-3-1 Purpose 2-3-2 Recruitment Process 2-3-3 Sourcing Methods 2-3-5 Shortlist Criteria 2-3-5 Reference Check 2-3-6 Harbor Internship Program 2-4 Probationary Period 3. EMPLOYEE INDUCTION & MOBILIZATION 3-1 Offer and Approval 3-2 Employment Formalities 3-2-1 Vetting of Documents 3-2-2 Employment Visa Steps of Visa application 3-3 Induction 3-4 RERA Card Application 3-5 Business Cards 3-6 Company Sim cards 4. WORK SCHEDULE 4-1 Hours of Work HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 2 4-2 Public Holidays 5. REMUNERATION 5-1 Salary Policy 5-2 Tardiness Policy 5-3 Job Related Payments & Reimbursements 6. BENEFITS 6-1 Leave 6-2 Gratuity 6-3 Ticket Allowance 7. PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT 8. TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT 9. DISCIPLINARY & CORRECTIVE ACTIONS 10. EMPLOYEE SEPARATION 11. OTHER DEPARTMENTAL DUTIES HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 3 HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 4 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. INTRODUCTION PURPOSE OF THE MANUAL This manual summarizes all major human resources policies and procedures that are currently in force in Harbor Real Estate (HRE). Any terms and conditions of employment not covered, in part or in whole, in this manual shall be subject to the provisions of labor legislation in force in UAE. The manual is intended to serve as a reference guide to full-time employees on the human resources policies and procedures of HRE as well as the rationale and principles of how they should be implemented and enforced. The provisions stipulated in this manual shall be subject to change from time to time at the discretion of HRE. Where appropriate and specified, certain sections of this Manual, in particular Sections 10 and 11 on House Rules & Ethical & Legal Responsibilities, are also applicable to temporary employees. HUMAN RESOURCE PHILOSOPHY Harbor Real Estate recognizes the contributions of its employees and treats each individual employee fairly and consistently in all matters, with a uniform application of the following human resources philosophies: HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 5 Human resources are best allocated to achieve optimum productivity and efficiency. Pay and benefits offered are fair, equitable and competitive. Employees are always encouraged to well-equip themselves for the present job and future development of HRE Reward is based on merit. High performers are given priority to take up more responsible positions. Two-way communications between employees and the management are promoted as a means of building mutual understanding and trust. Workplace safety is given top priority to protect human health and enable employees to deliver their best performance. The protection of human rights in employment is supported, as guided by relevant internationally accepted principles and is reflected in our Employment Policy and Equal Opportunities Policy. Employees’ freedom of speech and association are respected as long as they are within the legal boundaries. EMPLOYMENT EMPLOYMENT POLICY It is the policy of Harbor Real Estate to recruit the best qualified people and to maintain a pool of human resources according to the manpower requirement and planning of HRE. It is also the policy of HRE to transfer or promote well performing and capable employees to fill vacancies so that employees are provided with opportunities to widen their exposure and further their career development within HRE. All applicants have equal opportunities of employment irrespective of their age, sex, marital status, pregnancy, family status, disability, race, nationality or religion (provided that these do not impede the abilities of the prospective appointees to carry out normal job duties or affect the health and safety of fellow employees). HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 6 Job applicants are treated fairly and equally. Employment is offered only to the best qualified applicants with reference to their merits and abilities to meet the requirements of the jobs irrespective of whether they are referrals or direct applicants. The Human Resources Department provides recruitment advice and services to all Divisions / Departments and is responsible for the entire process leading to employment. HRE will not be bound by offers of employment other than by the Human Resources Department. ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES As per the current organization structure the HR Manager is responsible for the below tasks and responsibilities:Responsible for developing the annual HR strategy in support of the overall corporate and departmental strategies Develops the complete recruitment process for all management levels including headhunting, screening, interviewing and final placements. Maintains the work structure by updating job requirements and job descriptions for all positions. Maintaining the employee compensation and benefits plans such as participation health insurance, company property and car schemes. Maintaining employee personnel data / transactions such as hires, promotions, transfers, performance reviews, broker cards issuance and terminations / resignations. Prepare payroll data on a monthly basis, leave management and end of services as an when required Hands-on, day-to-day support & counselling to managers and employees on a wide range of human resource issues, including the application and understanding of policies, practices, disciplinary issues, performance management, employee relations, recruitment, and developmental opportunities, grievance handling ensuring alignment with corporate objectives. Manages all legal formalities and paperwork related to work permits, Visa and Immigration procedures. Prepares orientation schedules for onboarding and employee exit Preparing the yearly training calendar for all in-house training programs and planning / coordinating for external trainings. HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 7 Creating and monitoring the employee performance appraisal system by adopting 360 rating approach along with developing of SMART KPI’s for each employee. Constantly monitoring the same to address training needs, coaching employees in order to create career development plans Assist with the development of harmonized human resource policies for the organization that support the company’s objective Contribute to a positive work environment by employing processes and practices in effective change management, employee engagement, and communication at the business unit level HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 8 Implementation SECTION 1. INTRODUCTION 1-1 PURPOSE OF THE MANUAL This manual summarizes all major human resources policies and procedures that are currently in force in Harbor Real Estate (HRE). Any terms and conditions of employment not covered, in part or in whole, in this manual shall be subject to the provisions of labor legislation in force in UAE. The manual is intended to serve as a reference guide to full-time employees on the human resources policies and procedures of HRE as well as the rationale and principles of how they should be implemented and enforced. The provisions stipulated in this manual shall be subject to change from time to time at the discretion of HRE. Where appropriate and specified, certain sections of this Manual, in particular Sections 10 and 11 on House Rules & Ethical & Legal Responsibilities, are also applicable to temporary employees. 1-2 HUMAN RESOURCE PHILOSOPHY Harbor Real Estate recognizes the contributions of its employees and treats each individual employee fairly and consistently in all matters, with a uniform application of the following human resources philosophies: Human resources are best allocated to achieve optimum productivity and efficiency. Pay and benefits offered are fair, equitable and competitive. Employees are always encouraged to well-equip themselves for the present job and future development of HRE Reward is based on merit. High performers are given priority to take up more responsible positions. Two-way communications between employees and the management are promoted as a means of building mutual understanding and trust. Workplace safety is given top priority to protect human health and enable employees to deliver their best performance. HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 9 The protection of human rights in employment is supported, as guided by relevant internationally accepted principles and is reflected in our Employment Policy and Equal Opportunities Policy. Employees’ freedom of speech and association are respected as long as they are within the legal boundaries. 2. EMPLOYMENT 2-1 EMPLOYMENT POLICY It is the policy of Harbor Real Estate to recruit the best qualified people and to maintain a pool of human resources according to the manpower requirement and planning of HRE. It is also the policy of HRE to transfer or promote well performing and capable employees to fill vacancies so that employees are provided with opportunities to widen their exposure and further their career development within HRE. All applicants have equal opportunities of employment irrespective of their age, sex, marital status, pregnancy, family status, disability, race, nationality or religion (provided that these do not impede the abilities of the prospective appointees to carry out normal job duties or affect the health and safety of fellow employees). Job applicants are treated fairly and equally. Employment is offered only to the best qualified applicants with reference to their merits and abilities to meet the requirements of the jobs irrespective of whether they are referrals or direct applicants. The Human Resources Department provides recruitment advice and services to all Divisions / Departments and is responsible for the entire process leading to employment. HRE will not be bound by offers of employment other than by the Human Resources Department. HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 10 2-2 ROLES & RESPONSIBILTIES As per the current organization structure the HR Manager is responsible for the below tasks and responsibilities:Responsible for developing the annual HR strategy in support of the overall corporate and departmental strategies Develops the complete recruitment process for all management levels including headhunting, screening, interviewing and final placements. Maintains the work structure by updating job requirements and job descriptions for all positions. Maintaining the employee compensation and benefits plans such as participation health insurance, company property and car schemes. Maintaining employee personnel data / transactions such as hires, promotions, transfers, performance reviews, broker cards issuance and terminations / resignations. Prepare payroll data on a monthly basis, leave management and end of services as an when required Hands-on, day-to-day support & counselling to managers and employees on a wide range of human resource issues, including the application and understanding of policies, practices, disciplinary issues, performance management, employee relations, recruitment, and developmental opportunities, grievance handling ensuring alignment with corporate objectives. Manages all legal formalities and paperwork related to work permits, Visa and Immigration procedures. Prepares orientation schedules for onboarding and employee exit Preparing the yearly training calendar for all in-house training programs and planning / coordinating for external trainings. Creating and monitoring the employee performance appraisal system by adopting 360 rating approach along with developing of SMART KPI’s for each employee. Constantly monitoring the same to address training needs, coaching employees in order to create career development plans Assist with the development of harmonized human resource policies for the organization that support the company’s objective HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 11 Contribute to a positive work environment by employing processes and practices in effective change management, employee engagement, and communication at the business unit level Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT Employee’s job performance is monitored through a 360 appraisal process which forms a part of the performance management system. This system has four major integral components which include: self-appraisal, superior's appraisal, subordinate's appraisal and peer appraisal. This process is also known as Multi-rater Feedback. It involves analysis of their recent successes, failures, strengths and weaknesses in suitability for promotion or further training. This practice aims to measure: Knowledge, skills and attitudes Feedback on how others perceive an employee Focuses on specific objective areas like managerial qualities, team work or leadership effectiveness Helps identify career development plans Timely reviews are conducted after successful completion of probation and on an annual basis. The ratings / score are compared against the objectives and key performance indicators set at the beginning of the year. The KPI’s are categorized into 6 areas and weightage may differ depending on nature of the job. Feedback from the performance appraisal in most cases form the basis for decisions related to Incentives, Promotions, Salary adjustments, Career development or Talent Management. HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 12 During a probationary review the 360 Evaluation is the assessment tool. At this point KPI’s are set / shared for each employee. During an annual review the 360 evaluation, KPI report (filed by the employee) is used as the final assessment tool APPRAISAL PROCESS (AND TEMPLATES) Employee Appraisal form During a probationary review the employee fills out the below form along with 3 more appraisers. During an annual review the below form is filed by 3 appraisers for each employee. The employee fills the KPI objective sheet. HRE_Employee Job Evaluation 2017.pdf Performance Evaluation Summary All responses are tabulated to maintain anonymity and give the employee a clear depiction of his/her strengths and weakness. A score is calculated, ratings are out of 5. Performance Tabulation.pdf Key Performance Indicators During the annual review, employees fill out the KPI and achievements against each of the targets/ objectives. The same are to be discussed with the line manager. A PM meeting is conducted to verify the same with HR, line manager and employee. Ratings are mutually negotiated and finalized to generate a KPI score. HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 13 KPI scoring and 360 evaluations are submitted to the CEO or MD for further review. KPI's Template 2016.pdf (Every employee has their own KPI form which has been set by the employee and the Line Manager) Promotion, increment & Bonus letter (Template) Increment Letter Template.pdf Bonus Template.pdf HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 14 Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour right EMPLOYMENT POLICY It is the policy of Harbor Real Estate to recruit the best qualified people and to maintain a pool of human resources according to the manpower requirement and planning of HRE. It is also the policy of HRE to transfer or promote well performing and capable employees to fill vacancies so that employees are provided with opportunities to widen their exposure and further their career development within HRE. All applicants have equal opportunities of employment irrespective of their age, sex, marital status, pregnancy, family status, disability, race, nationality or religion (provided that these do not impede the abilities of the prospective appointees to carry out normal job duties or affect the health and safety of fellow employees). HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 15 Job applicants are treated fairly and equally. Employment is offered only to the best qualified applicants with reference to their merits and abilities to meet the requirements of the jobs irrespective of whether they are referrals or direct applicants. The Human Resources Department provides recruitment advice and services to all Divisions / Departments and is responsible for the entire process leading to employment. HRE will not be bound by offers of employment other than by the Human Resources Department. ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES( Goals ) As per the current organization structure the HR Manager is responsible for the below tasks and responsibilities:Responsible for developing the annual HR strategy in support of the overall corporate and departmental strategies Develops the complete recruitment process for all management levels including headhunting, screening, interviewing and final placements. Maintains the work structure by updating job requirements and job descriptions for all positions. Maintaining the employee compensation and benefits plans such as participation health insurance, company property and car schemes. Maintaining employee personnel data / transactions such as hires, promotions, transfers, performance reviews, broker cards issuance and terminations / resignations. Prepare payroll data on a monthly basis, leave management and end of services as an when required Hands-on, day-to-day support & counselling to managers and employees on a wide range of human resource issues, including the application and understanding of policies, practices, disciplinary issues, performance management, employee relations, recruitment, and developmental opportunities, grievance handling ensuring alignment with corporate objectives. Manages all legal formalities and paperwork related to work permits, Visa and Immigration procedures. Prepares orientation schedules for onboarding and employee exit Preparing the yearly training calendar for all in-house training programs and planning / coordinating for external trainings. HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 16 Creating and monitoring the employee performance appraisal system by adopting 360 rating approach along with developing of SMART KPI’s for each employee. Constantly monitoring the same to address training needs, coaching employees in order to create career development plans Assist with the development of harmonized human resource policies for the organization that support the company’s objective Contribute to a positive work environment by employing processes and practices in effective change management, employee engagement, and communication at the business unit level Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by our company to implement labour policies, reduce labour risks and respond to labour violations 1-2 PURPOSE OF THE MANUAL This manual summarizes all major human resources policies and procedures that are currently in force in Harbor Real Estate (HRE). Any terms and conditions of employment not covered, in part or in whole, in this manual shall be subject to the provisions of labor legislation in force in UAE. The manual is intended to serve as a reference guide to full-time employees on the human resources policies and procedures of HRE as well as the rationale and principles of how they should be implemented and enforced. The provisions stipulated in this manual shall be subject to change from time to time at the discretion of HRE. Where appropriate and specified, certain sections of this Manual, in particular Sections 10 and 11 on House Rules & Ethical & Legal Responsibilities, are also applicable to temporary employees. 1-2 HUMAN RESOURCE PHILOSOPHY Harbor Real Estate recognizes the contributions of its employees and treats each individual employee fairly and consistently in all matters, with a uniform application of the following human resources philosophies: HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 17 Human resources are best allocated to achieve optimum productivity and efficiency. Pay and benefits offered are fair, equitable and competitive. Employees are always encouraged to well-equip themselves for the present job and future development of HRE Reward is based on merit. High performers are given priority to take up more responsible positions. Two-way communications between employees and the management are promoted as a means of building mutual understanding and trust. Workplace safety is given top priority to protect human health and enable employees to deliver their best performance. The protection of human rights in employment is supported, as guided by relevant internationally accepted principles and is reflected in our Employment Policy and Equal Opportunities Policy. Employees’ freedom of speech and association are respected as long as they are within the legal boundaries. 2. EMPLOYMENT 2-1 EMPLOYMENT POLICY It is the policy of Harbor Real Estate to recruit the best qualified people and to maintain a pool of human resources according to the manpower requirement and planning of HRE. It is also the policy of HRE to transfer or promote well performing and capable employees to fill vacancies so that employees are provided with opportunities to widen their exposure and further their career development within HRE. All applicants have equal opportunities of employment irrespective of their age, sex, marital status, pregnancy, family status, disability, race, nationality or religion (provided that these do not impede the abilities of the prospective appointees to carry out normal job duties or affect the health and safety of fellow employees). HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 18 Job applicants are treated fairly and equally. Employment is offered only to the best qualified applicants with reference to their merits and abilities to meet the requirements of the jobs irrespective of whether they are referrals or direct applicants. The Human Resources Department provides recruitment advice and services to all Divisions / Departments and is responsible for the entire process leading to employment. HRE will not be bound by offers of employment other than by the Human Resources Department. 2-2 ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES As per the current organization structure the HR Manager is responsible for the below tasks and responsibilities:Responsible for developing the annual HR strategy in support of the overall corporate and departmental strategies Develops the complete recruitment process for all management levels including headhunting, screening, interviewing and final placements. Maintains the work structure by updating job requirements and job descriptions for all positions. Maintaining the employee compensation and benefits plans such as participation health insurance, company property and car schemes. Maintaining employee personnel data / transactions such as hires, promotions, transfers, performance reviews, broker cards issuance and terminations / resignations. Prepare payroll data on a monthly basis, leave management and end of services as an when required Hands-on, day-to-day support & counselling to managers and employees on a wide range of human resource issues, including the application and understanding of policies, practices, disciplinary issues, performance management, employee relations, recruitment, and developmental opportunities, grievance handling ensuring alignment with corporate objectives. Manages all legal formalities and paperwork related to work permits, Visa and Immigration procedures. Prepares orientation schedules for onboarding and employee exit Preparing the yearly training calendar for all in-house training programs and planning / coordinating for external trainings. HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 19 Creating and monitoring the employee performance appraisal system by adopting 360 rating approach along with developing of SMART KPI’s for each employee. Constantly monitoring the same to address training needs, coaching employees in order to create career development plans Assist with the development of harmonized human resource policies for the organization that support the company’s objective Contribute to a positive work environment by employing processes and practices in effective change management, employee engagement, and communication at the business unit level Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT Employee’s job performance is monitored through a 360 appraisal process which forms a part of the performance management system. This system has four major integral components which include: self-appraisal, superior's appraisal, subordinate's appraisal and peer appraisal. This process is also known as Multi-rater Feedback. It involves analysis of their recent successes, failures, strengths and weaknesses in suitability for promotion or further training. This practice aims to measure: Knowledge, skills and attitudes Feedback on how others perceive an employee Focuses on specific objective areas like managerial qualities, team work or leadership effectiveness Helps identify career development plans HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 20 Timely reviews are conducted after successful completion of probation and on an annual basis. The ratings / score are compared against the objectives and key performance indicators set at the beginning of the year. The KPI’s are categorized into 6 areas and weightage may differ depending on nature of the job. Feedback from the performance appraisal in most cases form the basis for decisions related to Incentives, Promotions, Salary adjustments, Career development or Talent Management. During a probationary review the 360 Evaluation is the assessment tool. At this point KPI’s are set / shared for each employee. During an annual review the 360 evaluation, KPI report (filed by the employee) is used as the final assessment tool APPRAISAL PROCESS (AND TEMPLATES) Employee Appraisal form During a probationary review the employee fills out the below form along with 3 more appraisers. During an annual review the below form is filed by 3 appraisers for each employee. The employee fills the KPI objective sheet. HRE_Employee Job Evaluation 2017.pdf Performance Evaluation Summary All responses are tabulated to maintain anonymity and give the employee a clear depiction of his/her strengths and weakness. A score is calculated, ratings are out of 5. HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 21 Performance Tabulation.pdf Key Performance Indicators During the annual review, employees fill out the KPI and achievements against each of the targets/ objectives. The same are to be discussed with the line manager. A PM meeting is conducted to verify the same with HR, line manager and employee. Ratings are mutually negotiated and finalized to generate a KPI score. KPI scoring and 360 evaluations are submitted to the CEO or MD for further review. KPI's Template 2016.pdf (Every employee has their own KPI form which has been set by the employee and the Line Manager) Promotion, increment & Bonus letter (Template) Increment Letter Template.pdf Bonus Template.pdf HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 22 HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 23 Implementation SECTION 1. INTRODUCTION 1-3 PURPOSE OF THE MANUAL This manual summarizes all major human resources policies and procedures that are currently in force in Harbor Real Estate (HRE). Any terms and conditions of employment not covered, in part or in whole, in this manual shall be subject to the provisions of labor legislation in force in UAE. The manual is intended to serve as a reference guide to full-time employees on the human resources policies and procedures of HRE as well as the rationale and principles of how they should be implemented and enforced. The provisions stipulated in this manual shall be subject to change from time to time at the discretion of HRE. Where appropriate and specified, certain sections of this Manual, in particular Sections 10 and 11 on House Rules & Ethical & Legal Responsibilities, are also applicable to temporary employees HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 24 3. EMPLOYEE INDUCTION AND MOBILIZATION 3-1 Offer and Approval When a suitable candidate is identified, the Human Resources Department will discuss with the recruiting officer and/or the Head of Division/Department, as appropriate, on the terms and conditions to be offered to the candidate. In determining the entry grade and salary of a prospective employee, the following factors will be considered: Academic, professional and technical qualifications and working experience; Job knowledge and technical know-how; Recent earnings; Prevailing market rate of the vacant position; Availability of suitable candidates in the market; Internal relativity of HRE; and Job grade and salary range of the vacant position. Template Offer Letter (PM).pdf Template Offer Letter (S&L).pdf Template Offer Letter (Standard).pdf 3-2 Employment Formalities HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 25 3-2-1 Vetting of Documents Prior to confirmation of appointment, the Human Resources Department will ensure that the candidates are lawfully employable or other valid identity documents that are acceptable to the Immigration Department. Candidates are required to certify their qualifications and working experience by producing the original copies of their academic and professional credentials, reference letters from previous employers and other relevant documentation. 3-2-2 Employment Visa For prospective employees who require an employment visa to work in UAE, the offer of appointments will be subject to their obtaining a valid employment visa from the Ministry of Labor. The Human Resources Department will assist in the process of visa application when necessary. Steps for Visa Application S.NO Work process Description / Documents Responsibility Time frame for processi ng 1 Submission of 1. Clear colored passport copy (with 6 months validity) Employee 2 -5 days full file 2. Visa copy (prior 3. Cancellation paper from previous employer (labor & verificati immigration) on to be 4. Automatic Ban and details regarding contract type, done at designation, salary with current employer, in case 2 year the time contract is not completed of 5. NOC from previous employer (in case the employee is selection joining without cancellation from previous employer) ) 6. Attested educational certificates 7. Residence tenancy contract copy with Ejari 8. Eight (8) passport size pictures (white background) HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 26 2 Work Permit A. Apply for work permit as soon as documents are received. HR / PRO / 7 – 14 W.E.F. From 01/01/16 job offer / labor contract needs to be Tasheel working prepared at the beginning. days Documents to be submitted in Tasheel:Passport copy, cancelled visa copy Cancellation papers from previous company Designation *no managerial position must be granted without approvals* *refer to RERA designation list to avoid other positions that require an exam* RERA desgnation list that require exam.pdf High school certificates for clerical, sales positions & Real Estate Broker Attested Bachelor’s degree for executive and managerial positions Salary with break up & all details to be mentioned as per New MOL Form mol application form new.pdf 1 passport size photograph Company Trade License Company labor card copy The job offer / labor contract is prepared for each employee following a ratio 40 % as basic and 60 % as allowances. For sales & leasing consultants ratio is as follows:Basic AED 1 HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 27 Remaining amount distributed between accommodation and transport. **Guarantee’s to be ensured from consultants:Undertaking letter / paid dues undated Undertaking for paid dues.pdf 3 guarantee cheques undated, amount as mentioned in the labor contract** Approval for the salaries in labor contract can be taken from management before proceeding Email approval to be taken from the management and filed in the employee’s personnel file B. Employee signs the contract / first party signature is electronic / company stamp required. The same is submitted to the MOL to issue the initial work permit. Submitted with 1 photograph. For class 4 and 5 positions i.e. Archives clerk, employees thumb impression is required instead of signature. C. Once work permit is approved release labor card payment and bank guarantee. Check approval using the MOL website. http://www.mohre.gov.ae/MOLWebsite/en/home.aspx D. Processed by PRO in Tasheel. HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 28 3 Entry Permit After making payments once the final labor approval is received HR / PRO / 2-4 and Change apply for online visa application: Employee / working Status a) If the employee is out of the country, visa will be sent to typing center days the employee for travel b) If the employee is inside the country: Employee may exit the country and come back on the new visa, or Change status can be done within the country Documents required for Change Status: Original passport required for status change. Visa copy Prior intimation needs to be given to the HR department regarding these facilities. All status change and exit charges will be borne by the employee. If any overstay refer to Onboarding policy of HRE. *W.E.F. 01/01/16, employees on Tourist / Visit visa are NOT required to exit the country, above local amendment can be processed* The status change document will be issued accordingly. 4 Medical Test Application is typed by typing center and test to be taken at HR / PRO / 2 and Emirates ID designated centers. AED 135/courier charges to be reimbursed Employee / working typing by Harbor. typing center days Documents for typing application:Passport copy Visa copy with entry stamp (for employees who exit) OR HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 29 Visa copy with status change documents (for employees who opted for local amendment) 2 passport size photograph Company Trade License Company labor card copy *Original passport to be given when employees goes for his/her medical test* Emirates ID Typing is done simultaneously: Documents required : Original passport Visa copy with entry stamp OR, Status change copy ID certificate (if employee has been employed in UAE before) Bio metrics / finger print scanning (if new employment in UAE) *EID application cost to be borne by employee* *Total time frame given to employees for medical & EID is 4 working days* *Emirates ID is issued only after visa stamping, to be collected from post office* HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 30 5 Medical Once the Emirates ID typing is done, HR to apply for the Insurance HR 7 Insurance Card Card while the employee gives the Medical test. working days The Excel sheet should also be filled A. Documents for Addition: Passport and visa copy 1 passport size photograph – scanned Emirates ID Application form/card B. Current Brokers Contact:Maryam Noori National Resources Insurance Services Co. LLC. Tel: 02 44 66 234 – ETXN 211 / Fax: 02 44 66 243 Email: maryam@nrise.ae Airport Road, 10th Floor, S J Tower AbuDhabi,U.A.E. / P.O. Box: 71950 Joseph E. Richmani – Key Account Manager for HRE joseph@nrise.ae Sales & Operations Director National Resources Insurance Co. LLC Abu Dhabi: +971 2 4466234 Dubai: +971 4 3244919 Mobile: 050-5684223 Employees opted for personal insurance HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 31 The below undertaking along with documents must be collected from those employees who are not opting for the company medical insurance scheme. 6 Residence Once the Insurance Card is issued, the below documents are to be HR/PRO/Typing 7Stamping given to the PRO for stamping approval: Center 10workin 1. Original Passport g days 2. Visa copy 3. Medical Certificate 4. Emirates ID form 5. Insurance Card copy **it takes 2 – 3 days for the approval** Once the approval is received, The original passport along with the approval sheet is to be handed over to Zajel for Stamping. Zajel Contact: Filixi – 050-5949468 (if the contact is changed, you can send email to 'info@zajel.com'; 'online@zajel.com'; 'Tahir Hussain' thussain@zajel.com and ask for the new contact person) 7 LC Simultaneously, the signed Offer Letter/Contract needs to be reHR/PRO 3 resubmission submitted in the MOL along with the medical report copy. working days HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 32 8 Employee under Apply for relative labor card only. Work permit will be issued HR/PRO 7 family (follow process as per point 3) Working sponsorship Days Documents:Passport copy with visa page Sponsor’s passport copy NOC from sponsor (in Arabic) Educational certificate as required 1 passport size photograph Company trade license Copy of company labor card 9 Labor card & Ensure to print and file card and contract copy for all employees HR 1 day/ contract through the MOL online portal https://eservices.mol.gov.ae/enetwasal/login.aspx?lang=eng HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 33 3-3 Induction Orientation is a formal welcoming process that is designed to make new employees that join Harbor Real Estate feel comfortable, informed about Harbor, and prepared for their positions. New employee orientation is conducted by the HR department and administrative representative. It includes an overview of the company history, an explanation of the company core values, mission, services, organizational culture, company goals and processes, templates and guidelines. In addition, the new employees will be given an overview of benefits, and legal issues, and complete all necessary paperwork. All new employees must spend ample time reading and studying the Harbor Real Estate official website and its different sections. The induction program spread between 3 -5 days wherein employees are presented with all codes, keys, and procedures needed to navigate within the workplace. The new employee’s supervisor reviews their job description and scope of position, explains the company’s evaluation procedures and address handover details (if applicable) and helps the new employee get started on specific functions. Templates Employee Orientation Final Version.pdf HRE_Employee Handbook.pdf HRE_Employee Leave Form 2017.pdf 4. PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT Employee’s job performance is monitored through a 360 appraisal process which forms a part of the performance management system. This system has four major integral components which include: self-appraisal, superior's appraisal, subordinate's appraisal and peer appraisal. This process is also known as Multi-rater Feedback. HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 34 It involves analysis of their recent successes, failures, strengths and weaknesses in suitability for promotion or further training. This practice aims to measure: Knowledge, skills and attitudes Feedback on how others perceive an employee Focuses on specific objective areas like managerial qualities, team work or leadership effectiveness Helps identify career development plans Timely reviews are conducted after successful completion of probation and on an annual basis. The ratings / score are compared against the objectives and key performance indicators set at the beginning of the year. The KPI’s are categorized into 6 areas and weightage may differ depending on nature of the job. Feedback from the performance appraisal in most cases form the basis for decisions related to Incentives, Promotions, Salary adjustments, Career development or Talent Management. During a probationary review the 360 Evaluation is the assessment tool. At this point KPI’s are set / shared for each employee. During an annual review the 360 evaluation, KPI report (filed by the employee) is used as the final assessment tool 7-1 APPRAISAL PROCESS (AND TEMPLATES) Employee Appraisal form During a probationary review the employee fills out the below form along with 3 more appraisers. HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 35 During an annual review the below form is filed by 3 appraisers for each employee. The employee fills the KPI objective sheet. HRE_Employee Job Evaluation 2017.pdf Performance Evaluation Summary All responses are tabulated to maintain anonymity and give the employee a clear depiction of his/her strengths and weakness. A score is calculated, ratings are out of 5. Performance Tabulation.pdf Key Performance Indicators During the annual review, employees fill out the KPI and achievements against each of the targets/ objectives. The same are to be discussed with the line manager. A PM meeting is conducted to verify the same with HR, line manager and employee. Ratings are mutually negotiated and finalized to generate a KPI score. KPI scoring and 360 evaluations are submitted to the CEO or MD for further review. KPI's Template 2016.pdf (Every employee has their own KPI form which has been set by the employee and the Line Manager) Promotion, increment & Bonus letter (Template) Increment Letter Template.pdf Bonus Template.pdf HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 36 5. TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT Trainings can be defined as “instructor led content-based intervention that leads to desired changes in behavior or skills level”. It involves learning as an iterative process involving action, reflection, change and creation of new knowledge and insight. At Harbor the management and HR Team focuses to deliver the following benefits through various learning initiatives:Increased efficiencies in processes resulting in financial gain Greater capacities to adopt new methods and benchmark industry standards Increased job satisfaction and employee morale Involvement all stakeholders to create a unified workforce Cross training through knowledge transfer Focus on employee career development Emphasis on creating a continuous self-directed learning process The internal and external training programs introduced by Harbor Real Estate include: HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 37 Training Cycle Identify gaps / needs Assign / Reinforce Design learning type of training Comprehensive Learning process Measure training Implement effectivene training ss Identification of Training Gaps / Needs HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 38 The initial stage of the learning cycle begins from identifying gaps between current performance standards and required level of performance. Training needs are received from three sources and are closely linked to job objectives and key performance indicators:Performance appraisals (carried out half yearly and yearly). Supervisor nomination Self-nomination or self-assessment Fault analysis (identifying problems through work process) Assign / Design Training Training content is designed or modified based on relevance to job roles, employability needs, industry practices and objectives to be achieved. This must include the learning theories, instructional design, content, materials and any other training elements. Resources and training delivery methods should also be detailed. Based on the departmental needs and industry standards Harbor has designed 25 internal training programs over 5 broad categories. These cover workplace / Soft Skills Training like Professional Interpersonal & Communication Skills (written and verbal), Customer Relationship Management, Email Tools & Techniques, Presentation Skills, Team Building, Leadership & Motivation. Computer Trainings like MS Word, MS PowerPoint, MS Excel, Professional Social Media Utilization (LinkedIn, Facebook, and Twitter) HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 39 Industry trainings like Professional Sales & Leasing (the entire process of converting lead into customers, Certified Property Manager, Professional Property Inspection/ Snagging, EJARI, CRM Software, Property Management Software (Analyst), Professional Property Listing HR Professional Training like Orientation & Performance Management, staffing and development. Employees, who require special skills or knowledge of specific task functions, are nominated for external courses or conferences like financial modelling or strata Management. Implement Training The methods used to deliver these trainings are lectures; group sessions, interactive workshops that take place within the company premise or outdoor. Once the training details are confirmed an email invite is sent to all participants which helps confirm the attendance. According to the response the training materials, venue etc. are arranged and the session is carried out. Measuring effectiveness Training programs must be continuously monitored to understand its objectivity and identify discrepancies for further improvement. A training evaluation form is sent to participants to gage their feedback on the course content, delivery and objectives they wish to achieve. Reinforce Learning Participants usually identify three objectives or learning points at the end of each program. In order to judge their competencies a post training evaluation is conducted, formally or informally. This creates an involvement from the manager’s side and helps to understand if learnt behaviors or skills are seen during work. HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 40 Templates Orientation Program Evaluation Sheet.pdf 6. DISCIPLINARY & CORRECTIVE ACTION Harbor Real Estate holds each of its employees to certain work rules and standards of conduct. When an employee deviates from these rules and standards, Harbor Real Estate expects the employee’s supervisor to take corrective action. Corrective action at Harbor Real Estate is progressive. That is, the action taken in response to a rule infraction or violation of standards typically follows a pattern increasing in seriousness until the infraction or violation is corrected. The usual sequence of corrective actions includes: Verbal warning Written warning (a maximum of 3 warning letters, the 4th notice will be a termination notice) Fines (time deductions from wages) and then possible termination of employment In deciding which initial corrective action would be appropriate, a supervisor will consider the seriousness of the infraction, the circumstances surrounding the matter, and the employee’s previous record. Harbor Real Estate considers certain rule infractions and violations of standards as grounds for immediate termination of employment. These include, but are not limited to: theft in any form, insubordinate behavior, vandalism or destruction of company property, being on company property during non-business hours without permission, the use of company equipment and/or company vehicles without prior authorization by Executive Staff, working for other companies or leaking company information to any third party, using the company resources for personal or family use or benefit, accepting bribes or gifts from any customers or potential customers, untruthfulness about personal work history, skills, or training, divulging Company business practices, and misrepresentation of Harbor Real Estate to a customer, a prospective customer, the general public, or another Harbor employee. HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 41 These warning letter eventually are a part of the employees personnel file. 1st Warning Attendance Adherance.pdf 1st Warning Code of Ethics.pdf 1st Warning Unacceptable behavior.pdf 1st Warning letter Poor Performance.pdf EMPLOYEE RECORDS The HR department maintains soft copies of all employee documents as well as personnel files for each employee including all documents related to the individual’s employment with the company like:Signed offer letter Job application, CV and evaluation tests Education certificate(s), Passport copy Previous employer cancellation papers Labor card copy Driving license RERA card and certificate copy Emirates ID copy Copy of medical card if applicable, Copies of salary certificates provided, bank loan letters Salary history, leave and attendance history Record and acknowledgments related to handed over company property Records of disciplinary action Job description, employee performance reviews, KPI’s and participation in training events A copy of the tenancy contract or EJARI showing employee name in the tenancy contract or Ejari registration (if any employee doesn’t have his/her name on the tenancy contract because the house is signed under his/her spouse’s name or parent’s name then he/she must submit a marriage certificate or birth certificate showing his/her relation with the family member he/she is living with) HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 42 A copy of a recent DEWA/SEWA bill of his/her apartment showing his/her name or the family member he/she lives with. An employee’s personnel data should be accurate and current at all times. It is the responsibility of each employee to promptly notify their supervisor HR manager any changes in personnel data such as: Home & mailing address Telephone numbers Passports, RERA cards, Driving licenses Name and number of dependents, and individuals to be contacted in case of emergency Employees can request to review their personnel files with reasonable amount of notice and in presence of a HR representative. Checklist.pdf Important notes: The HR is responsible for collecting ALL employee tenancy contracts with Ejari from all employee well in advance. Email reminders are sent 4-5 months in advance and followed up. The contracts can be under their name, spouse (marriage certificate or proof of relation required) or fathers name. New employees must be informed that submission of tenancy contracts is required as part of HR / Company compliance. At the final submission stage latest DEWA bills are needed, they can be collected 1 month in advance. Failure to submit the above results in penalties. Residence tenancy contracts for other Emirates are not acceptable by the Dubai Economic Department (for e.g. Ajman, Sharjah etc). However they are still counted under HRE as submitted and these employees would be exempted from the penalty. HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 43 Only those who do not submit ANY valid document will be charged a penalty for the nonsubmission; (total employee accommodation fee – after discount / number of employees who have not submitted). Penalty amount varies year to year (e.g. AED 755 in 2016 & AED 1000 in 2015). Usually deducted from employee’s salary in installments as agreed with the management. RERA Office Registration Certificate The RERA office registration certificate is to be renewed and can be printed from the Trakheesi system after the Trade License is successfully renewed. Membership Certificate The membership certificate can be obtained and printed by contacting the Dubai Chamber of Commerce via phone or email: Contact Center ContactCenter@Dubaichamber.com Templates:HRE Dubai Chamber Membership Certificate 25.10.17.pdf HRE RERA Office Regestration 25.10.17.pdf HRE TL 25.10.2017.pdf Harbor Documents labor card.pdf HR needs to ensure that reminders are sent at least 2 months before in order to get the tenancy contract from all the employees. ISO CERTIFICATION Harbor Real Estate’s quality management system has been independently assessed, certified and compliant with the requirements of ISO 9001: 2015. The HR Manager is the management representative (MR) to spearhead this process. It is the responsibility of the MR to ensure that all activities are implemented based on the designed QMS. The MR is also to monitor the functions periodically, conduct QMS review meetings, internal audits, identify & analyze non-conformities. As well as spread awareness on importance of customer satisfaction as it is one of the main service scope of HRE. HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 44 The certificate is due for renewal every year after an audit is conducted by the ISO auditor. The first certificate was received in 2017, followed by audits in 2018 and 2019. The certificate is due for recertification every three years i.e. in 2020. A Quality Manual was designed to plot out the inclusions and exclusions in terms of services/ departments / business units. The manual also describes the procedures, resources, processes and monitoring systems that has been formulated for the quality management system. HRE has designed an internal quality policy as well. The quality manual also stipulates on how control of documents should be maintained / revised / updated. Amendments in process must also be advised to the MR. All non-conformities & preventive actions must be reported regularly along with corrective actions. The audit check list covers all the related documents that must be maintained thought out the year. Consultant contact details:Disha Matlani Business Development Division Apex Quality Certifications Phone: (+971) 6 5663794 (+971) 6 5574704 (+971) 50 321 8668 (+44) 20 3807 0187 disha.matlani@apexqualityme.com www.apexqualityme.com London, Warsaw, Geneva, Dubai, Sharjah, Muscat, Islamabad, Pune. Below are the LOGOS of the Accreditations whom we are dealing in: Leading ISO Certification Responsibility through Education and Service THIS COMMUNICATION IS IN REFERENCE TO ISO CERTIFICATION. ANY INFORMATION OBTAINED WILL BE USED FOR THAT PURPOSE ONLY. HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 45 HRE – Human Resource Department 2019 46
