Sürdürülebilirlik Sustainability Report Raporu 2017 2017 Sustainability Report Şekerbank December 2017 The bank with roots reaching to the future Şekerbank is founded on the purpose of sustainable development… Its history dates back 64 years. This long-standing history tells the stories of small savings and immense efforts made by hundreds of thousands of beet cooperative member farmers. Şekerbank’s founding mission is to preserve the fertility of the soil, efforts of our people, the environment and our common future. It takes its strength from its past and proudly supports production, rural development and sustainable agriculture. Today, Şekerbank carries its “Community Banking” mission, which is embedded in its 64 years of history, into the future with the same level of commitment and sense of responsibility. Table of Contents About the Report 9 Message from Our Chairman of the Board 11 Şekerbank in Figures 12 Our Vision, Mission and Values 13 64 Years in Sustainable Development Banking 14 Our Sustainability Strategy 20 The Mission to Add Value to Turkey 21 Country Goals on the Journey of Sustainable Development 22 Our Contribution to the Country Goals 23 Our Focal Points on the Axis of Sustainable Development Goals 24 Our Perception of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and Our Contribution to the Goals 26 Sustainable Agriculture 28 Energy Efficiency 34 People-Oriented Banking 40 Inclusive Growth 46 Sustainability Management Structure 52 Responsible Corporate Management 53 Risk Management and Internal Control 53 Ethical Principles 54 Stakeholder Engagement 56 Appendices 57 Stakeholder Analysis 57 Performance Tables 58 Memberships and Endorsed Initiatives 63 Awards 64 United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Progress Statement 65 GRI Content Index 66 8 9 About the Report GRI 102-45, You may also contact us for any questions and GRI 102-46 comments concerning our report at With this Sustainability surdurulebilirlik@sekerbank.com.tr . Report, we as Şekerbank T.A.Ş. hereby present our In the report, “Şekerbank bank’s environmental, T.A.Ş.”, “Şekerbank”, “Bank” social and economic and “our bank” all refer to impacts, our performance Şekerbank T.A.Ş. unless in these areas and the specified otherwise. The support we give to data and information in the sustainable development to report covers the banking our shareholders. activities of Şekerbank T.A.Ş. in Turkey, which This Sustainability operates with 273 branches, Report, the third we have 9 regional headquarters and published, indicates our the main headquarters in environmental, social and Istanbul. economic performance and banking activities between January 1, 2016 and December 31, 2017 and has been prepared in line with “comprehensive” level of the GRI Standards. In addition to these criteria, the GRI Financial Services Sector criteria have also been taken into consideration in our report. Our report is also aligned with the requirements of the United Nations Global Compact Principles (UNGC) and complies with the guidelines of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). This report has been printed in a limited number to minimize environmental impact in line with our sustainability approach. Therefore, you can also access our report at www.sekerbank.com.tr/en/homepage . 11 Message from Our Chairman of the Board lands not increasing despite today suggest that the next preventing a total of 6.1 the rising demand for food financial crisis will be caused million tons of CO2 emission. as a result of the growing by global climate change. population, the issue of Having a pioneering role food security in the future In this context, the United in inclusive finance due is brought to the forefront. Nations Sustainable to its 64-years of rooted While according to World Development Goals is the experience in broad-based Bank data, 815 million constitution that serves as a banking, Şekerbank utilizes people in the world suffer guideline for the change in its microfinancing technique from undernourishment, the the financial system. which is the only one of demand for food is foreseen its kind in Turkey, to not to rise by at least 20% within With a founding mission only offer banking services the next 15 years. of supporting sustainable to craftsmen and farmers, agriculture and economic who have limited access, While today we are faced growth based on rural but also to support female with a world that is in a development, Şekerbank has entrepreneurs in rural areas Dear Stakeholders, transitional stage seeking developed its long-standing that are involved in homenew balances it is both “Community Banking” based production being We are now going through an obligation as well as a approach, which it has integrated into the economy. a time when all values and necessity that the financial maintained for 64 years, in It is my pleasure and norms are being redefined system, which is the line with the United Nations honor to present to our at a global scale. In order to principal actor in global Sustainable Development stakeholders our 2017 thoroughly comprehend this capitalism, to reposition Goals. Sustainability Report, which process and prepare for the itself. details all of our banking future, it is essential to make Having sustainable activities, each of which an accurate analysis of the It is therefore vital to development banking as the constitute a true success transformation in the global embrace a sustainable common denominator of all story for the development economy and population understanding of finance of its operations, Şekerbank of our country, the structure in the past quarterthat adds value to people, was the first bank in Turkey continuation of production, century. nature and social welfare and in the world to launch the preservation of natural considering the ever“Family Farming Banking” resources and the prosperity While the global economic growing awareness of in November 2014. In the of our people. growth since the start of the international investors scope of this program, which 1990’s has nearly multiplied and to reverse the negative mainly aims to prevent We shall continue to carry by four, the world’s perception of the financial rural-to-urban migration, a on the values of Anatolian population has increased system, which grew total of 5.6 billion TL loans farmers, the very founders by around 40%. In this after 2008 global crisis. were extended to over 87 of our bank; for our country, fast-growth era, while the However, one should also thousand farmer households people, love of nature and number of people joining the remember that it is only in three years. entrepreneurial spirit in global economy as producers those organizations which line with the perspective and consumers has risen adopt sustainable finance Another first we achieved of the UN Sustainable rapidly, in nearly every not merely as an approach, in Turkey is EKOkredi, Development Goals into the country, income inequality but rather as a mission which was recognized as future and will determinedly has increased significantly. integrated in to their midthe best practice in the continue to uphold the role As a consequence of rapid long term strategies, will win category of financing we have undertaken for growth in developing in the future. energy efficiency during the 64 years now on Turkey’s countries, hundreds of Rio+20 UN Conference on development journey. thousands of people moved On the other hand, the fact Sustainable Development. from rural to urban areas, that focusing on sustainable Through EKOkredi, we thereby resulting in a finance has also become a have introduced over 100 Respectfully yours, structural transformation matter of survival for the thousand people to energy where production has shifted financial system. In fact, efficiency since 2009, Dr. Hasan Basri GÖKTAN to consumption, threatening senior members of the thereby saving 28.6 billion Chairman of the Board of the sustainability of natural global financial community kilowatt/hour of energy and Directors resources. With agricultural 12 Şekerbank in Figures In line with our inclusive growth. While Our Financial Performance responsible banking always standing beside mission, we financed the real sector and the production based growth producer, Şekerbank has by continuing to support achieved 32% growth TL Billion 2015 2016 2017 our farmers, merchants thanks to its focused and SMEs all over Turkey banking activities and its Total Assets 24.42 23.82 31.35 in 2017. While our total total assets reached 31.4 loan volume in 2017 billion TL as of 31.12.2017. Total Loans 16.74 17.61 20.68 increased by 17% to 20.7 billion TL, we achieved Total Deposits 14.87 16.14 19.73 the greatest growth with an increase of 24% in SME Shareholders’ Equity 2.52 2.53 2.71 loans in line with our goal to finance production and In 2017... In 2017… A deep rooted network of branches, 70% 40 The portion of SMEs in our total loan portfolio is of branches are located in Anatolia of which have been in service at the same location for over 50 years 50% Resources in the Resources in the scope of the Credit scope of the Credit 24% Guarantee Fund (KGF), Guarantee Fund (KGF), growth in SME loan 73% of which were provided to 62% of which were provided to merchants and SMEs SMEs in Anatolia * Our 2017 Sustainability Report was prepared based on our nonconsolidated financial tables dated 31.12.2017. * Our 2017 Sustainability Report was prepared based on our nonconsolidated financial tables dated 31.12.2017. 13 Shareholding Structure 35.44% Şekerbank T.A.Ş. 9.43% Voluntary Pension Fund (SEMVAK) Şekerbank T.A.Ş. 1.57% Other 19.37% Samruk-Kazyna, 34.19% Publicly Traded the National Welfare Fund of Kazakhstan Our Vision, Mission and Values Our Vision Our Values an interrogative viewpoint; proactively by solving we are willing to work emerging problems together and assume without delay, closely To become the “leading Open responsibility for the monitoring our operations, bank in financing small Communication continuous development of and fulfilling our duties enterprises” among ourselves and others. in a manner to increase Turkey’s top ten private We respect different profitability and efficiency. banks in terms of asset size. perspectives and we are open to any suggestions Customer Our Mission from our colleagues and Orientation and Corporate Loyalty customers. Striving to Acting Locally create added value for our We believe in the value With a Community Banking bank and our colleagues, of contributing to the understanding from village We take heed of meeting we share all kinds of ideas performance of our to city, we are a modern the expectations and and knowledge across the corporation and being bank that considers both needs of all our customers organization in a timely loyal to our corporation by local features and needs, and ensuring customer manner by keeping all working in a respectful, fair, introduces banking services satisfaction by presenting communication channels self-sacrificing, sharing and to those who do not have products and services fast open. participative manner with any bank accounts and and graciously, while also solidarity within our own grows by creating value taking local features into team and with our other together with its satisfied Continuous consideration. colleagues. customers, employees and Development partners, while gaining strength from its deep Result Orientation rooted past. We aspire and strive to acquire new thoughts, We focus on achieving knowledge, and skills with the desired results/goals, 14 64 Years in Sustainable Development Banking The 1980s 1980’ler Şekerbank Şekerbank Kültür Serisi began adı altında publishing kültürel books to protect The 1950s mirasımızı 1950’ler our cultural heritage under Şekerbank was founded inyüz thekorumaya yönelik title Culture Series. Şekerbank, Anadolu’daki kitaplar yayımlamaya Eskişehir on October binlerce kooperatif üyesi12, başladı. 1953 under the name Pancar The Şeker Çocuk magazine, pancar çiftçisinin küçük which has been accessed Kooperatifleri Bankası birikimleriyle üreticinin, A.Ş. 34 yıldır Türkiye’nin dört with the small savings of by every corner of Turkey kırsal kalkınmanın ve tarıma bir köşesine ulaşan Şeker thousands of sugar beet for 34 years, began dayalı sanayinin Çocuk Dergisi yayın farmers in Anatolia to Ekim support publication. desteklenmesi için 12 hayatına başladı. rural developments and 1953’te Pancar Kooperatifleri agriculture The ŞekerbankSporSports Club Bankası adıylaindustry. A.Ş.based Şekerbank established. waskuruldu. Kulübü Eskişehir’de kuruldu. In 1956, the Main Headquarters was moved Şekerbank opened one of 1956 yılındato Ankara and Genel Şekerbank, Turkey’s Türkiye’nin firstsanat art galleries the name was Ankara’ya Müdürlüğünü changed to ilk banka Şekerbank Türk Anonim Şirketi founded by a bank,birini galerilerinden the taşıyarak Bakanlar Kurulu Ömer Sunar ArtSanat Gallery, in by a Council kararıyla of Ministers Şekerbank Türk Ömer Sunar ruling. Şirketi adını aldı. Ankara. Galerisi adıyla Anonim Ankara’da açtı. The 1960s 1960’lar 1970’ler The 1970s Şekerbank, sektöründeki Şekerbank, kooperatif Şekerbank undertook one of Şekerbank began kademeli a ilkfirst sosyal sorumluluk bankacılığından the social responsibility transition from cooperative faaliyetlerinden birine olarak, üretimde değer activities in the sector by banking to her a structure imza atarak, zincirinin halkasını building schoolsokulu in five that providesşekilde kapsayacak all banking bulunmayan villages beş have that didn’t köyde products and services to okul yaptırıp ülkemiz tüm bankacılık ürün ve any, making it the first bank cover every link hizmetlerini of the sunan birvalue tobankacılık embark upon sektöründe building chain yapıyaindoğru production. geçiş okul yapımı konusunda schools. ilk adımı attı. başlattı. The 100% Şekerbank affiliate Şekerbankiştiraki %100 Şekerbank T.A.Ş. was olanfounded Şekerbankin Cologne T.A.Ş. in 1973. Köln, 1973 yılında kuruldu. 15 1990’lar The 1990s Şekerbank bir kamu 2002 2004 iştiraki olmaktan çıkarak 2002 özel sektör Şekerbank bankası was restructured Şekerbank, en büyük 2004 Şekerbank, tarım, işletme anlayışıyla by privatizationyeniden and entered atılımınımade finansal Şekerbank kriz its greatest ve KOBİ bankacılığındaki Şekerbank started to be yapılandı an ve hızlı era of rapid bir growth. döneminde duringgerçekleştirdi advance the financial köklü uzmanlığı accepted ile as a key bank atılım dönemine girdi. ve bankanın crisis period andkuruluş accelerated uluslararası reaching out tofinans locals with One of the pioneering itsamacını daha etkin transformation yerine to become kuruluşları its expertise innezdinde agriculture, Kurumsal steps takenyönetim in corporate getirmek amacıyla a customer-focused müşteri and yerele ulaşmada anahtar business and SME banking alanında öncü management adımlardan was the odaklı ve çok multichannel kanallı bank bir to better bybanka kabul edilmeye international finance biri atılarak offering of 15% Şekerbank’ın of bankaya serve dönüşüm its founding süreci mission. başladı ve banka institutions rekabette and gained %15 oranında Şekerbank shareshissesi to the hızlandı. anönemli bir atılım important advantage halka arz edildi. public. bygöstererek moving itsGenel Main Müdürlüğünü Headquarters toİstanbul’a Istanbul. ŞekerbankInternational Şekerbank International 2000 taşıdı. BankingUnit Banking UnitLtd. Ltd.was 1994 2000 yılında Lefkoşa’da founded in 1994, in Nicosia, majorityçoğunluk Bankanın The shares of 2003 kuruldu. Cyprus. hisseleri the bank wereŞekerbank acquiredT.A.Ş. by PersoneliT.A.Ş. Şekerbank Munzam Sosyal Personeli 2003 In its 50th anniversary, 1996 In 1996,yılında bir Şekerbank a Şekerbank Güvenlik Munzam ve Yardımlaşma Sosyal Güvenlik ve Şekerbank, Şekerbank 50’nci became one of iştiraki and affiliate ve özel sermayeli a bank with the Sandığı Vakfı’na Yardımlaşma geçerek Sandığı Vakfı theyılında, yaygınof cornerstones the ağı şube yerel bir ticari banka status of private capital in soŞekerbank’ın the owners ofsahibi Şekerbank ve yerel Turkish bankacılıktaki banking sector with statüsünde local olan bank form, commercial çalışanları became ve emeklileri its employees and itsköklü deneyimi widespread ile Türk network of Şekerbank (Kıbrıs) Şekerbank (Cyprus) Ltd. Ltd.was oldu. retirees. bankacılık sektörünün branches and its deep rooted kuruldu. founded. köşe taşlarından experience biri in local banking. YurtFaktoring Şeker içi ve yurtbegan dışı konumuna ulaştı. Yatırımwas ŞekerYatırım Şeker 1996 yılında founded faktoringtohizmetleri operating provide domestic ve Şeker Leasing 1997 in 1996 and Şeker Leasing and foreignüzere sunmak Şekerservices. factoring yılında was kuruldu. founded in 1997. Faktoring faaliyete başladı. 16 64 Years in Sustainable Development Banking 2009 2009 Türkiye’nin Şekerbank ilk enerji verimliliği 2006 Şekerbank developed finansmanı ürünü olan 2006 EKOkredi, Turkey’s EKOkredi’yi geliştirdi. Şekerbank, finansal first energy efficiency kapsayıcılığı As sağlamak a first in Turkey, Şekerbank için daha önce ekonomiye financing product. Şekerbank, 2010 began implementing the sürdürülebilirlik dâhil olamamış microfinance loanesnaf, model to çiftçi veinclusive özel kadınlarafinance Şekerbanksektöründe alanında achieved The “Bütün Çocuklar achieve kredilendirme and süreçleri developed special loan bir ilkeinimza a first atarak, IFC the field 2010Olmalı!” (All Mutlu geliştirmek amacıylageared rehberliğinde of sustainability by Children CDP (Carbon MustDisclosure Be Happy) processes especially kredilendirme implementing the Social and Türkiye’de to tradesmen, ilk olarak birfarmers and campaign Project-Karbonwas brought mikro finansman süreçlerinde Environmental Sosyal ve Management to life through Saydamlık the Şeker Projesi) 2010 women, who had not been Çevresel Yönetim System (SEMS) in its kredilendirme included in the modelini economy Çocuk raporuna magazine and ilk Türkiye’den uygulamaya başladı. Sistemi’ni application(SÇYS) processes under ADEV (Research kez giren Support 5 bankadan biri before. uygulamaya the guidancebaşladı. of IFC. Education ŞekerbankFoundation). oldu. Şekerbank EKOkredi With the Project Şekerbank Şeker Çocuk became one Dergisi veof 2008 2008 kapsamında developed inyalıtım the scope of ADEV the first(Araştırma 5 banks inDestek Turkey konusunda EKOkredi byTürkiye’nin Şekerbank Eğitim Vakfı) participate tovoluntarily aracılığı ile Türkiye’nin kurumsal önde gelen sivil toplum Şekerbank became yönetim notu ilk first alanthe and İZODER, Turkey’s “Bütün in the CDP Çocuklar (Carbon Mutlu bank in Turkey to receive kuruluşu İZODER ile bankası Şekerbank oldu. a leading nongovernmental geliştirdiği projeyle Olmalı!” kampanyası Disclosure Project) 2010 corporate governance rating. organization on insulation, hayata geçirildi. report. şubelerinde Şekerbank began yalıtımproviding danışmanlığı hizmeti insulation consultation Bireysel müşterilerin yanı Şeker Finans, which offers vermeye services in başladı ve enerji its branches and sıra, term esnafhousing ve çiftçilere verimliliği konusundakiwork long and conducted promotional uzun vadeli individual konut veloan financing farkındalığı throughout the artırmaya country to bireyselserving finansman yönelik ülke genelinde options bothkredi raise awareness about energy seçenekleri individual sunan Şeker customers as iletişim efficiency.çalışmaları Finans kuruldu. and 2007 gerçekleştirdi. well as merchants Şekerbank, odaklandığı farmers, was founded. By supporting production Şekerbank began supporting Bir Dünya Bankası Grubu alanlarda üretime ve Şekerbank, WWF-Türkiye kuruluşu olan the in the areas of its focus and the “Earth Hour” event Samruk-Kazyna, sürdürülebilir (Doğal Hayatı Koruma International Finance sustainable development, conducted by the WWFNational Welfare Fund kalkınmaya verdiği Vakfı) tarafından Corporation (IFC), Şekerbank was listedThe as Turkey (World Wildlife of Kazakhstan became a destekle büyüyerek yürütülen ve dünyanın en Şekerbank’ın “Turkey’s Banker Fastest Growing Dergisi’nin Fund) which is one of the büyük çevre shareholder ofKOBİ, Şekerbank. largest environmental events işletme ve tarım Bank” according yaptığı çalışmayatogörea survey etkinliklerinden biri olan organized in the world. segmentlerindeki The International Finance conducted byEn “Türkiye’nin TheHızlı Banker “Dünya Saati” (Earth uzmanlığına,(IFC), Corporation bu a World Magazine.Bankası” oldu. Büyüyen Hour) kampanyasına alanlardaki destek olmaya başladı. Bank Group bilgi company, birikimine invested in ve istikrarlı Şekerbank Şekerbank, Büyüyen veataşıdığı bank that was yönetim kadrosunun growing and potansiyel ilebeginning sektöründeto shares based on the bank’s verdiği güvene istinaden stand öne out in çıkan the sector with Şekerbank, expertise and extensive Şekerbank’a hisse Kazakistan its potential,menşeili acquired a knowledge of SMEs and yatırımı yaptı. yabancı bir hissedarfrom foreign shareholder the confidence provided by edindi. Kazakhstan. its stable management. 17 2011 2011 Şekerbank, kültür ve Şekerbank launched sanata erişimi artırma Açıkekran amacıyla New MediaYeni Açıkekran Arts Medyato increase access Sanatları’nı to ve açtı culture and the şubelerinde artshalk yerel and ile began çağdaş introducing sanatı modern 2013 Şekerbank started art to the publicbaşladı. buluşturmaya through the project “Meetings its branches. 2013 are encouraged Consumers with Anatolia’s Şekerbank, dünyanın to shop fromhayata Şekerbank local Producers”,her Şekerbank which bir ilin Şekerbank issuedilk ve Türkiye’nin the first KOBİ merchants through geçirdiği “Kapımız the Esnafa included special dinamiklerine özel courses Asset Guaranteed kredileri teminatlı Security “An Open Açık” adlıDoor to Small platform ile and products içerikle each hazırladığı (VTMK) backed byMenkul Varlık Teminatlı SME tüketicileri platform Businesses” esnaftan preparedAnadolu “Üreten specifically loans Kıymetin Turkey (VTMK) and in the ihracını brought alışveriştoyapmaya life by teşvik to the dynamicsbaşlatarak Buluşmaları”nı gerçekleştirdi. world. Şekerbank. etti. of each province Anadolu’daki to firmaları encourage branding markalaşmaya teşvik Şekerbank, Şekerbank wasBrand listed Şekerbank,signed Şekerbank Dünyathe amongst etmek içincompanies özel eğitimler Finance with tarafından 11 other banks fromher yıl 2012 2012 Energy Efficiency Sürdürülebilir İş in ve Anatolia. in ürünler sundu. yayımlanan Turkey that made“Dünyanın it on the Şekerbank, Rio+20 Buildings KalkınmaInitiative Konseyi En Değerli “World’s Most 500 Bankası” Valuable ŞekerbankMilletler Birleşmiş was at the (WBCSD) by organized ve the World Şekerbank published Şekerbank, GRI Küresel listesine 500 Banks”Türkiye’den announced Rio+20 United Nations Sürdürülebilir Kalkınma Business Council Sürdürülebilir for Kalkınma its first Sustainability Raporlama Girişimi giren 11by annually banka Brand arasında Finance. Sustainable Türk Zirvesi’nde Development finans Sustainable Derneği (SKD) Development tarafından (Global Reportingwith Report complied yer aldı. Summit as the sektörünün teksole temsilcisi (WBCSD) organize and Business edilen Binalarda GRI (Global Initiative) Reporting GRI A Şekerbank began representative olarak yer aldı of ve the Council for Sustainable Enerji Verimliliği Initiative) GRI seviyesindeki ilkA level. Şekerbank,the supporting görme “The sector and Turkish financekalkınma sürdürülebilir Development in Turkey Bildirgesi’ni (BEV) Sürdürülebilirlik engelliI Touch” Colour çocuk ve gençleri Project presented ve its EKOkredi yeşil ekonomi (BCSD Turkey). imzaladı. Raporu’nu yayınladı. run by theçeşitli sanatın dallarıyla Istanbul Project, whichen alanlarındaki wasiyichosen ülke buluşturmayı Modern Art Museumhedefleyen as one of the uygulama best country örneklerinden Şekerbank Şekerbankprovided 60. kuruluşan yılı İstanbul with Modern the goal Sanat of helping biri casesseçilen EKOkredi of sustainable insight into Turkey’s için hazırladığı “Bizim Müzesiimpaired “Dokunduğum visually children projesini developmentsundu. and green sustainable Hikâyemiz development Türkiye’nin Renk and Projesi”ne young people destek being economy. Hikâyesi” journey isimli with eserle its own 60 olmaya başladı. introduced to various 60 yıllık year tarihi history ile birlikte through fields of art. Türkiye’nin “Bizim sürdürülebilir Hikâyemiz kalkınma yolculuğuna Türkiye’nin Hikâyesi” ışık tuttu. (Our Story is Turkey’s Story) prepared for the Bank’s 60th anniversary of its foundation. 18 64 Years in Sustainable Development Banking 2014 2015 by establishing a accordance with the Şekerbank started “Family In the scope of cooperation with Filli GRI‘s G4 Sustainability Farming Banking” to “Family Farming Boya to encourage energy Reporting Guideline. reinforce its support in Banking”, Şekerbank efficiency and Baymak to sustainable farming and to began supporting the encourage solar energy Şekerbank received the prevent migration from the “Empowering Women production. “ETİKA 2015 Turkish village to city. Entrepreneurs in Ethics Award”. Agriculture Program” Şekerbank became For its 60th year initiated by the Ministry the first bank to join Şekerbank became one anniversary, Şekerbank of Food, Agriculture and EBRD’s Financing of of 65 companies in the organized the “Sustainable Livestock to encourage Energy Efficiency in world to sign the Business Development Financing the spread of women’s Turkish Homes Program World’s Leadership Conference” with the enterprises. (TuREEFF) and provided Criteria on Carbon Price participation of the first loan in the by attending the United Nobel Prize winner program to an energy Nations Climate Change Şekerbank started its Robert J. Shiller. efficiency building Conference (COP21). “Young Producers Project” transformation. to introduce university Şekerbank received the students to the banking Şekerbank signed the UN “ETİKA 2014 Turkey’s Most sector. Global Compact. Ethical Company” award presented by the Ethical In order to support Şekerbank published its Values Center Foundation sustainable development, second Sustainability (EDMER) to exemplary Şekerbank increased its Report prepared in companies and managers. real sector collaborations Şekerbank became the first bank to deserve the “Ahi Community Service Award” with its efforts for merchants. 19 2017 2017 Şekerbank was one of the The fifth Sustainable four banks that attended Finance Forum organized the COP23 Climate Change under the cooperation of Conference as a speaker by the Business World and 2016 2016 invitation of the Ministry Sustainable Development The fourth Sustainable of Environment and Foundation (SKD Turkey), Şekerbank voluntarily the United Nations participated in the CDP Finance Forum organized Urbanization. with the cooperation of Environmental Program Water Program and was Finance Initiative (UNEP listed among the Leaders of the Business World and Şekerbank received the Sustainable Development “ETİKA 2017 Turkish Ethics FI) and Global Compact Turkey. Turkey took place with the Foundation (SKD Turkey), Award”. the United Nations support and cooperation of Şekerbank received Şekerbank. the “Best Syndication Environmental Program Şekerbank signed the Loan Supporting Energy Finance Initiative (UNEP Declaration on Sustainable FI) and Global Compact Finance – a statement of Şeker Proje Geliştirme Efficiency” award by the ve Gayrimenkul Yatırım world’s leading finance Turkey, took place at commitment to consider Borsa Istanbul with environmental and social A.Ş. was founded for the journals, EMEA Finance. transformation into a Şekerbank’s support on impacts in project finance the theme of “Inclusive – together with six leading real estate investment Şekerbank signed partnership. the United Nations Finance for Inclusive banks in Turkey. Environmental Program Growth”. By the end of 2017, Finance Initiative the number of farmers (UNEP FI). Şekerbank provided support to so far in the scope of Şekerbank signed the “Family Farm Banking” Women’s Empowerment reached to 87 thousand. Principles (WEPs). While continuing to support production in line with its mission of “Community Banking”, Şekerbank provided 73% of loans in the scope of the Credit Guarantee Fund (KGF) guarantee to SMEs. 20 Our Sustainability Strategy The tradition of responsible determines its own goals banking derived from its by aligning its business deep roots is the driving procedures exactly with force of all of Şekerbank’s the “United Nations activities as it was founded Sustainability Goals”. on October 12, 1953 to support economic With the goal of carrying development based on rural the heritage of responsible improvement by providing banking from its founders finance for production and into the future, Şekerbank agricultural industry whilst presents an exemplary continuing to carry out this banking model for social mission. development, preserving nature and improving For 64 years now, welfare; and knowing Şekerbank has developed that banking is not just its sustainable development numbers, Şekerbank mission, which is defined continues to increase the as “Community Banking”, social and environmental within the framework benefits provided through of the United Nations its activities. Sustainability Goals that were embraced for a better and more livable future and grouped its operations according to these goals to further contribute to Turkey’s development in 2015. The strategy shaped in four main fields including sustainable farming, people-oriented banking, energy efficiency and inclusive growth, is enforced at the level of the Şekerbank T.A.Ş. Board of Directors and comprises the main axis of the Bank’s operations. Considering strong knowledge based on a solid history in finance to be an important competitive advantage in terms of environmental sustainability and socially inclusive growth, Şekerbank 21 The Mission to Add Value to Turkey While trying to keep up this process and in light with the technological of these initiatives takes trends and rapidly changing special care to make sure its economic balances in own goals are in harmony the world, Turkey is also with the global goals in the shaping its strategic goals framework of sustainable with a sustainable growth development. and development approach by taking the necessary Şekerbank, founded with measures against the the objective of adding threat of climate change value to the community, and global economic risks. the country and nature, Our country has shown it determines the steps to be is striving for sustainable taken for the future and the development and growth goals to be set and shapes in many areas through its its strategy in the scope of 5 year main development these goals which serve as plans to annual plans, a guideline for our country; from mid term plans to and aims to carry this role it more short term policies in has undertaken in Turkey’s specific areas; and included development journey for these headings in these the past 64 years into the development plans in the future by presenting a determination of achieving global model example for relevant goals on a global sustainable development scale. In this context, there banking. are significant tangible outputs like the National From production based Environment Strategy and balanced growth to Action Plan and the Project ensuring employment, to Integrate Sustainable from increasing a qualified Development with Sector work force to creating a Policies. self-sustaining economy, in light of the many goals By also participating included in all of the in international efforts guidelines that base their undertaken within the focus on equal, fast and scope of sustainable sustainable development, development, Turkey has as Şekerbank, we continue been a part of many steps to grow by contributing to taken on a global scale the country’s sustainable such as the Sustainable development, the Development Goals environment, our people (SDGs) prepared by the and our prosperity. United Nations to ensure that economic and social welfare is provided equally throughout the whole world and to minimize damage to the environment during 22 Country Goals on the Journey of Sustainable Development Agricultural While the demand for water rises every year, water resources are decreasing as a result of climate change which significantly affects sustainability in agriculture. By conducting efforts to increase irrigation efficiency with policies that support agricultural production and security of supply it is aimed that vegetable and animal products will be transformed into sufficient and reliable nourishment. Economic Growth The goal is to increase the level of income in rural areas, support small to medium scale businesses to ensure integration of agricultural production and agriculture based industry*, to help SMEs become brands and institutionalize, to support the development of new business models and help enabling easier access to international export markets**. Energy Efficiency The goal is to increase the share of renewable energy in the supply of electrical energy, search for new sources and increase the impact of the energy efficiency sector.*** Employment The goal is to support sustainable projects that increase the employment of women and young people in rural areas.* The objective is to increase the participation of women in the workforce to 41% by 2023.**** (*) Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock Strategic Plan (2013-2017) (**) Medium Term Program (2018-2020) (***) Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources Strategic Plan (2015-2019) (****) National Employment Strategy Action Plans (2017-2019) 23 Our Contribution to the Country Goals Agricultural Productivity We have been supporting the agricultural sector since our establishment 64 years ago. Agricultural loans represent 11% of the total loans portfolio. We provide services to 350 thousand customers who are farmers throughout Turkey. We reached 50 thousand farming families in the scope of “Family Farming Banking” and provided 1.7 billion TL in new financing. Economic Growth We achieved the highest growth rate of 24% in SME loans, which is where our strategic focus is on. We extended 62% of the resources provided through the Credit Guarantee Fund (KGF) to SMEs in Anatolia. We extended 81% of our agricultural loans within the scope of “Family Farming Banking” to “sustainable agriculture”. We allocated 39% of the resources we acquired from foreign financing institutions to SMEs. Energy Efficiency We provided savings of 14 million m3 in natural gas and prevented 400 thousand tons of CO2e emissions through the energy efficiency investments of our customers financed with EKOkredi. We saved 1,700 tons of CO2e in Scope 1+2 greenhouse gas with operational efficiency. We saved 2,626 m3 in water through renovations of our branches. Employment By hiring 645 employees in 2017, 45% of which were new college graduates, we contributed to helping young people participate in the work force. By providing 65,663 man/hours of training in 2017, we contributed to the self-improvement of our employees. We provided over 204 million TL in financing to around 4,000 women entrepreneurs in 2017. 45% of our new employees were hired amongst women candidates throughout Turkey, including in branches in rural areas. Based on the results of our 2017 operations. By maintaining the tradition of responsible banking we have undertaken from our foundation we continue to finance Turkey’s inclusive growth and contribute to our country’s development goals. 24 Our Focal Points on the Axis of Sustainable Development Goals GRI 102-47 groups and the social/ approach by integrating By addressing our environmental impact our strategy built performance under these While evaluating the they create. In 2015, we under the Sustainable headings within the performance of our paired up the Sustainable Agriculture, Energy framework of SDGs and bank in sustainable Development Goals and Efficiency, Inclusive our contribution to our development within our sustainability strategy, Growth and Peoplecountry’s development the framework of our since they have a common Oriented Banking focus we solidify the role that responsible banking ground and aligned areas into our work our bank has undertaken tradition that stems our strategy under four processes in line with within our country’s from our foundation, Sustainable Development both global goals and our sustainable development we assess our activities Goals. We pursue to shape country’s development journey. under; subjects, customer our responsible banking goals. While could be distinguished After determining our “Sustainability Survey” the most as a part of focus areas, we aimed in our bank with a Determining the finance sector when to assess the priority of participation rate of 83% Our Focal determining our focus these areas and related to obtain the detailed Points: areas that we are effective subheadings for our views of our internal The in. While conducting bank. In this scope, we stakeholders. these analyses we as conducted interviews with Sustainability much as possible tried different departments and As a result of all of our Survey to examine companies managers from various efforts and under the GRI 102-42, that have similar levels to hear from our guidance of the SDGs we GRI 102-44 characteristics with our internal stakeholders and were able to determine bank’s mission, vision and organized a workshop the 4 focus areas most future goals. In addition with participation of the compatible with our bank We have conducted both to our sector analysis, Board of Directors to and were able to establish national and international we benefited from the receive the opinions of our areas of priority sector analysis to correctly guidance of international our senior management within the framework of observe the fields in establishments that have on our focus areas. these topics. which our added value expertise in sustainability. We also conducted a 25 Sustainable Agriculture Energy Efficiency Agriculture, in which technological To make sustainable and modern energy applications are used to provide the accessible to everyone and reduce the needs of family owned farms and future amount of energy consumed per unit of generations by supporting agricultural service or amount of product without production and rural development that compromising the quality of the natural resources and human health are production or service. protected. People-Oriented Inclusive Growth Banking Provide access to broad based financing from In addition to providing customers with urban to rural and general economic growth services that meet their needs and creating in which the entire community benefits from value for them by ensuring a broad based and where the economic rights of the people economic welfare environment; creating a in a community are protected equally. fair working environment in which employees are treated equally and have the same opportunities. 26 Our Perception of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and Our Contribution to the Goals The “United Nations We have been supporting with the responsible Sustainable Development family-owned farms and banking culture that comes Goals” accepted in sustainable farming for from our roots. 2015 is a guideline for generations to make companies, governments sure that rural living and Within this context, by and nongovernmental agricultural production taking as our reference the organizations. The finance continues. SDGs that best correspond sector plays a critical role to the 4 focus areas we base in these goals which are With awareness that our sustainability strategy regarded as a roadmap culture and environment on and that we feel will be to a more prosperous, are inseparable parts of the best guide to our desire inclusive, sustainable and collective development, to create a measurable flexible world. Financial we take a leading role in difference in a sustainable institutions are developing financing energy efficiency future, we are carrying our new methods and ways and work to keep local “Community Banking” for compliance with these culture alive. mission inherited from our goals that include many founders into the future. topics from clean energy By supporting women’s to befitting employment, entrepreneurship in rural from gender equality to areas, we are helping our partnerships to fulfilling women farmers become the goals. business owners and making it easier for the As Şekerbank we shape producing women of our strategy in line with Anatolia to access financial the United Nations resources. “Sustainable Development Goals”; and we are carrying We encourage our loan out our business plans customers to invest that we have aligned with in energy efficiency global goals as well as our by measuring the country’s goals and our environmental and social tradition of responsible impact of the projects we banking we have been finance. practicing for 64 years and will continue into the To go beyond financing future. Thus we plan to loans, we create social serve both national and platforms including the real international development sector, the public and NGOs goals. to create value for our customers. We prioritize the number of people we reach rather than As Turkey’s first bank volumes with our people to achieve a corporate and community oriented governance score, we are banking approach and maintaining our leadership we serve as companions role also in this field. to our merchants, micro In a nutshell, we place businesses and SMEs on sustainable development at their journey. the center of our operations 27 Sustainable Agriculture Current Status Relevant National Impacted SDGs and Targets in Turkey Plans and Strategies 2.3. By 2030, double the agricultural According to Turkish • 10th Development Plan productivity and incomes of small-scale food Statistics Institute (TÜİK) producers, in particular women, indigenous data as of 2017, the total • Medium Term Program peoples, family farmers, pastoralists and agricultural planted area (2018-2020) fishers, including through secure and equal in Turkey is 23 million 384 access to land, other productive resources and inputs, thousand hectares and • Annual Programs knowledge, financial services, markets and opportunities the total farming area is (2016 -2017) for value addition and non-farm employment specified as 38 million, 2 thousand hectares • Ministry of Food, 2.4. By 2030, ensure sustainable food production systems together including Agriculture and and implement resilient agricultural practices that increase pastures and meadows. Livestock Strategic Plan productivity and production, that help maintain ecosystems, (2013 -2017) that strengthen capacity for adaptation to climate change, According to this data, extreme weather, drought, flooding and other disasters and it has been calculated • Rural Development that farming land has Action Plan (2015-2018) that progressively improve land and soil quality decreased by about 4% in the last 10 years. According • National Employment 5.5. Ensure women’s full and effective to the World Bank’s data, Strategy Action Plan participation and equal opportunities for there are 87 countries in (2017-2019) leadership at all levels of decision-making in the world that are smaller political, economic and public life than the amount of farming land that Turkey 17.17. Encourage and promote effective has lost. public, public-private and civil society partnerships, building on the experience and In Turkey, where 49.8% of resourcing strategies of partnerships the population is women, the rate of employed women reached to 30% in 2017. The second highest share of this ratio at 28.3% is composed of women employed in the agricultural sector. 30 64 Years of Şekerbank was founded sustainable agriculture. In this context, and with to support economic While providing the 2014 being announced Experience development based on financing needs of our as “International Family in Financing agricultural production customers for efficiency in Farming Year” by the Sustainable and rural development. We embrace the agricultural production we also provide support for United Nations (UN) in line with the World Agriculture economic growth shaped the plans and strategies Food and Agriculture on the dynamics of our country has made Organization’s (FAO) Rural Development is production in line with in this context and recommendations, we defined as reinforcing our bank’s “Community within the Sustainable started a project that was rural economy and Banking” mission as Development Goals 2, the first of its kind in the employment, improving 5 and 17. world in November 2014 human resources and called “Family Farming decreasing poverty to improve the working Rural Banking” with which we aimed to prevent farmers and living conditions Consistency: abandoning their land of the rural community where they are located1. “Family for economic reasons, migration from rural areas Although non agricultural Farming to the city and the loss of economic activities are aimed to be developed in Banking” land being divided due to our main goal and we inheritance. addition to agricultural create partnerships by As a bank that has been activities in our providing products and serving farming families country’s rural areas, the services that support all over Turkey for three importance of agriculture rural development, generations, we are and having a competitive reinforce the role of aware of the importance edge in agriculture is women entrepreneurs in of farming families for always emphasized. agriculture and encourage sustainable agriculture. 1 The 10th Development Plan (2014-2018), 1.3.44 Rural Development, p. 156, paragraph 1017. 31 Products for Financing Sustainable Agriculture We offer the Field Expansion Loan under the “Family Farming Banking” project to our farmers in the scope of our efforts to keep family farming alive by expanding farming lands and gaining back the lands that are idle due to inheritance or migration for farming. Thus we are contributing to one of Turkey’s policies mentioned in the 10th Development Plan, which is “achieving integration in farming operations of land parcels dispersed in many pieces and preventing the partitioning of lands2” The awareness this project. Our bank and in the meantime won the “Best Customer that comes Focus” and “Best New directly serving the third sub target of UN’s with “Family Product/Service” at the SDG-2 goal of “providing Best Business Awards Farming organized by Awards access to land that is the Banking” Intelligence with its “Family Farming Banking” basic need of families doing farming and We have created project in addition to increasing their income”. significant awareness being awarded in the This action solidifies Banking”, in line with category of “Financial on the importance of our determination to the importance we place Services and Investment resilience in sustainable contribute to the goals by on the small producers Relations” of the 15th production among both the solutions we provide who are the backbone of “Golden Compass Turkey our target audience in to fulfill the needs of our rural development. We Public Relations Award cities and farmers with the stakeholders. won a total of 25 national Competition” organized creative communication and international awards by the Turkish Public efforts we prepare for advertisements Relations Association for “Family Farming prepared in the scope of (TÜHİD). 2 The 10th Development Plan (2014-2018), “Innovative Production, Consistent Growth”, Agriculture and Food, p.114. 32 As Şekerbank we believe the agricultural sector that in order to ensure as mentioned in the that farmers continue 2018-2020 Medium Term to work their lands, Program. agricultural machinery need to be modernized Energy and therefore we offer our farmers “Agricultural Efficient Equipment Loans” Agriculture under Family Farming Banking. While helping We believe that achieving to modernize the farmers’ energy efficiency in way of working, we also agriculture will have help them to increase a great impact on our their productivity. Thus country’s efficiency in we are contributing to total production and reducing the impacts of the goal of high added climate change. Therefore, value production3 by we aim to support our increasing the technology farmers to produce more based capacity in efficiently by reduction of production especially in their energy consumption through Agricultural Development Plan and the EKOkredi, offered under 2018-2020 Medium Term our EKOkredi product Program. which finances energy efficiency. Thanks to the “Modern Irrigation Equipment Loan” we developed in this scope, we enable our farmer stakeholders to use less water in a more efficient way and therefore decrease their cost of production due to the savings on labor and energy for a better yield. Thus we support the popularization of modern irrigation systems that has been determined as one of the policies in the 10th 3 2018-2020 Medium Term Development Plan, III. High Added Value Production, p.50 33 Local Banking customer representatives, that is specified under most of whom are also the heading of “Raising Competence agricultural engineers, the standard of living experts in local banking and achieving rural While continuing to and very familiar with development” in goal provide financial support their areas of origin. 14 of the Strategic Plan4 to our farmers with our We visited over 700 prepared for 2013-2017 products, we also present villages and supported by the Ministry of Food, solutions to increase farmers on achieving Agriculture and Livestock. agricultural efficiency and more efficient farming in Thus, we are also provide information about 2017. With this service, supporting the country our products that deliver not only are we raising goals in this area just solutions to sustainable awareness on sustainable as we are doing with all farming through the farming in Anatolia, we of our other services on visits we made to farmers are also contributing to sustainable farming. at the field or at village the goal of providing coffeehouses by our over guidance to farmers in 250 agricultural banking terms of information 4 Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock, 2013-2017 Strategic Plan, Strategic Goal 14: Raising the standard of living and achieving rural development, p.67. Energy Efficiency Current Status Relevant National Impacted SDGs and Targets in Turkey Plans and Strategies 7.2. By 2030, increase substantially the share In 2017 37% of our • 10th Development Plan of renewable energy in the global energy electricity production distribution was obtained from natural • Medium Term Program gas, 33% from coal, 20% (2018-2020) 7.3. By 2030, double the global rate of from hydraulic energy, 6% improvement in energy efficiency from wind energy, 2% from • Annual Programs geothermal energy and 2% (2016 -2017) 17.17. Encourage and promote effective from other sources. public, public-private and civil society • Ministry of Food, partnerships, building on the experience and At the same time our Agriculture and resourcing strategies of partnerships country’s natural gas Livestock Strategic Plan import has increased (2013 -2017) over 10% compared to the previous year. • Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources The aim is to reduce Strategic Plan Turkey’s energy intensity (2015-2019) by at least 20% compared to 2011 by 2023 through • Renewable Energy energy efficiency efforts. Action Plan (2014-2019) • Turkey’s Climate Change Strategy (2010-2023) 36 We are efficiency and climate Development Plan were systems, efficient lighting change with the products discussed. systems and modern Financing and services we have irrigation equipment. We Turkey’s Energy developed in Turkey as a are proud to be the first first and by participating EKOkredi bank in Turkey to develop Efficiency in the planning process a project in this field and of the country’s strategic for Energy to represent our country at documents and plans. Efficiency the Rio+20 United Nations Sustainable Development Not only have we signed Investments Summit as an example of the UN Global Compact’s Business Leadership With EKOkredi, which we Criteria on Carbon Pricing developed in 2009 within and the United Nations the scope of financing Environmental Program energy efficiency, we not Finance Initiative (UNEP only aim to support all FI) but we are also attaining investments in energy effective results with the savings, but also to create projects we have brought to public awareness on the life in line with our mission importance of energy one of the best practices. Considering that resources efficiency and thus protect are rapidly being depleted, and goals. We have won many national the environment and our and international awards increasing energy efficiency common future. In this to secure energy is one We participated in the with EKOkredi, which we preparation process for the context, we support all developed to support the of the most important kinds of projects which issues that Turkey needs to National Energy Efficiency sustainability of natural Plan published in 2017, in increase energy efficiency resources. In 2017, with our address. In the meantime, such as insulation, solar the fact that Turkey’s which the points of action “EKOkredi” project we won were determined to achieve and wind energy systems, the “Best New Product/ demand for energy is waste treatment and increasing and only 26% energy efficiency in the Service” award at the Best Building and Services, management, natural Business Awards, one of of the existing demand gas conversion, A class is being fulfilled by local Industry and Technology, England’s most prestigious Energy, Transportation electrical devices, efficient awards. sources5 has made energy heating and cooling efficiency efforts essential. and Agriculture sectors Therefore we see that and other parallel the importance of energy subjects for 2017-2023, efficiency and renewable by providing ideas to energy is being underlined encourage energy efficiency in all of our country’s and recommending that development plans, certain indirect taxes not strategies and short term be collected from loans energy focused plans. extended in the scope of energy efficiency. We We as Şekerbank are were also invited to the supporting the efforts workshops where issues like of our country in this preserving the environment scope with steps to and natural resources raise awareness in the and energy efficiency community on energy in the scope of the 11th 5 http://www.mfa.gov.tr/turkiye_nin-enerji-stratejisi.tr.mfa 37 Impacts of EKOkredi, we ensured One of the actions and partnerships we have the insulation of over 145 projects that is planned built with international EKOkredi thousand homes thus to be implemented in this development banks and preventing the waste of scope is to raise awareness funds. As a bank that has To date we have introduced 135 million cubic meters of on energy efficiency among extended about 20% of over 100 thousand natural gas. SMEs to stimulate its the foreign resources it people, among whom practice. has acquired specified on many are merchants In the meantime, we are its financial statements to and farmers, to energy introducing SMEs to energy finance energy efficiency efficiency with EKOkredi. efficiency with EKOkredi International and renewable energy With investments made to give our support to Resources and investments through its to support the energy an important field in the international recognition efficiency of 92,426 sustainable development Cooperation in financing sustainable individual customers and journey of our country. development, we cooperate 8,134 SME customers in As specified in the SME We believe that establishing with the European Bank the scope of EKOkredi, Strategy and Action Plan, cooperation with for Reconstruction and not only did we prevent one of our goals has been international organizations Development (EBRD). the waste of 28.6 billion “Increasing the ability as well as the real sector Within the framework of kilowatts/hour of energy of SMEs to comply with concerning energy this cooperation we became but we also prevented a national and international efficiency will increase our the first bank to participate total of 6.1 million tons of legislation for sustainable impact and awareness in in the Turkish Residential CO2 emissions. Also with development and growth6”. energy efficiency. Energy Efficiency Financing Facility (TuREEFF) and 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 We enable our customers continue to support this to access international program. Within the resources to meet their scope of this program, we 2009/2012 2.5 demands and needs provide loans to demolish through the productive CO2 Million Ton 2013 3.1 2014 3.8 2015 5.2 2016 5.7 2017 6.1 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 2009/2013 13.9 2014 17.2 Billion kWh 2015 24.2 2016 26.50 2017 28.6 6 2015-2018 SME Strategy and Action Plan, KSEP, p. 6. 38 residential buildings The best Environmental being one of the first banks under risk and rebuild in Turkey to implement them according to the environmentally and Social SEMS we review the requirements of energy friendly syndication Impact social and environmental efficiency guidelines. We award impact and possible are serving our global Management in risks of the projects goal by reducing carbon related to the financial emissions, minimizing With “Turkey’s first 5 Loan Process support we provide to year syndication loan” we energy loss and partnering tradesmen, commercial acquired for the financing We place particular in the development of and corporate customers, of energy efficiency, importance on green and energy efficient except for individual we won the “Best measuring the social and commercial and residential customers, based on our Environmentally Friendly environmental impacts buildings through our Social and Environmental Syndication Loan” award of the loans we provide projects developed Management System. in 2016 from EMEA and we are continuously under the guidance of We conduct the SEMS Finance, one of the world’s developing our Social construction companies and in coordination with leading finance journals. and Environmental sector consultants we have our customers and We were deemed worthy Management System established partnerships significantly contribute of this award for the direct (SEMS) which we have with during this process. to the enhancement financing we provide to been practicing upon of their activities by energy efficiency projects the knowledge of one of We continue to cooperate raising awareness and for SMEs and our effective our bank’s shareholder with leading companies in providing feedback on contribution to protect and a World Bank Group the sector in the scope of the improvement of the environment. Our establishment, the EKOkredi. In 2016 and 2017, negative issues and to bank acquired the loan International Finance we cooperated with the ensure sustainability of the in 4 different increments Cooperation (IFC) since Polisan, DYO and Marshall positive measures; and by comprised of TL, Euro and 2009, as an integrated part brands to continue raising following up on the actions Dollars in different terms of our business processes. awareness on this subject. that need to be taken. of up to 5 years under With our experience of the leadership of the Dutch Development Bank (FMO) and the Korean Development Bank (KDB) with the participation of leading Asian and European institutions; and used this loan, which has the feature of being Turkey’s first 5 year syndication loan, for the financing of SMEs, foreign trade and energy efficiency investments. 39 How Do We our new headquarters The activities we Association (ELDAY) building to a great extend where we recycled Manage Our in 2016, by the end of have conducted all of the electronic Environmental 2017, we had already to mitigate our waste generated in our achieved a 10% reduction environmental bank and contributed Impact? of Scope 1 and Scope 2 impact to the planting of 5 emissions. In order to thousand saplings, Carbon and keep this achievement 3 thousand of which Water Footprint ongoing to reinforce the • By being amongst belonged to the bank, in continuity of our emission the companies who the reforestation area database infrastructure have signed the in 2017 by using the In addition to financing improvements and keep Energy Efficiency in e-waste system. energy efficiency to energy efficiency projects Buildings (BEV) by support efforts to raise running, we follow the the World Business • With the special lighting awareness on this issue, studies conducted by CDP Council for Sustainable system installed in our since 2010, we have been on the “Science Based Development (WBCSD) Main Headquarters working regularly to Target” methodology in and Business Council building we have been reduce our own carbon order to develop more for Sustainable automatically switching footprints in the scope of comprehensive goals in Development in Turkey off the lights during the CDP Climate Change 2020. (BCSD Turkey), we lunch breaks since 2016. Program and by reporting assumed a leading We save 117 kWh of the carbon emission we We received the “CDP role and committed energy on a daily basis measure to international 2016 Turkey Water especially to reducing in this scope. investors we fulfill our Leadership” award for the carbon emissions in responsibility in line the work we have done corporate buildings and • In 2017, we reorganized with our responsible on responsible water use. fulfilling the general the service bus routes banking approach. We Our score in the “CDP responsibilities of and achieved a fuel are constantly improving Water Program”, which we sustainability. We review savings of 21% per km. our energy management participated in voluntarily, our efforts on this system to ensure the reached the level of subject every year and • Being aware of the accuracy and reliability Leader (A-) based due share our best practices risks related to water, of our carbon footprint, to the improvements we with our stakeholders. we organized training infrastructure of data collection systems and made in the buildings we for our employees our data by working operate in and our efforts • To ensure the effective to decrease water on efficient water use in and efficient use of consumption. In 2017, together with expert agriculture. energy and energy we trained over 2000 consultants. We determine sources in the buildings employees through our strategies according to we own, we secured an e-training on CDP the results and continue Energy Identification Climate Change and awareness activities Certificate that classifies Water Programs. among our employees. the energy consumption levels. • In the scope of renewal In line with the improvement we have efforts at our branches, made, we have set a target • We became a supporter in 2017, we reduced of the “Atıklar Ağaç 2,626 m3 of our water of reducing our emissions Olsun” campaign consumption by by 5% by the year 2020 conducted by the installing smart faucets based on our 2016 results. Electric and Electronic and toilet tank systems. In this context, since we Recycling and completed our move to Waste Management People-Oriented Banking Current Status Relevant National Impacted SDGs and Targets in Turkey Plans and Strategies 5.1. End all forms of discrimination against all According to Turkish • 10th Development Plan women and girls everywhere Statistics Institute (TÜİK) data, the female • Medium Term Programs 5.5. Ensure women’s full and effective employment rate in (2018-2020) participation and equal opportunities for Turkey reached to 30% leadership at all levels of decisionmaking in political, economic and public life by 2017. The highest share • Annual Programs of this figure constitutes (2016 -2017) women with high school 8.5. By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women level and lower education, • Female Employment at 52%. Action Plan (2016-2018) and men, including for young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value The low profile of female • National Employment participation in the work Strategy (2014-2023) 8.10. Strengthen the capacity of domestic financial force compared to highinstitutions to encourage and expand access to banking, income economies, and • National Employment insurance and financial services for all the high level of informal Strategy Action Plans employment in the (2017-2019) 17.17. Encourage and promote effective agricultural industry, where public, public-private and civil society female employment highly partnerships, building on the experience and occurs, indicates that the resourcing strategies of partnerships structural problems of the work force market is expanding by supporting each other.7 According to the World Bank’s Entrepreneurship Survey, while the rate of companies where female directors constitute the majority is 0.3%, in Turkey, only 5.4% of companies have female senior executives, and only 21.9% of full-time employees are women.8 7 National Employment Strategy 2017-2019 Action Plans (2014-2023), p. 11, paragraph 29. 8 Doğruluk Payı, 2018’de Female Statistics, https://www.dogrulukpayi.com/bulten/2018-de-kadin-istatistikleri. 42 Diversity, Within this context, we We also introduce certain above, which they can issue continue to support women practices in Turkey, such as through their Bütçem Benim Equality and entrepreneurs through enabling women to manage Bonus Cards. Inclusion our range of products and services within the scope their own budgets for the first time. We have developed of gender equality and Bütçem Benim Bonus Kart Support In order for Turkey to achieve its goal of being women’s participation in the (My Budget Bonus Card) for for Women work force, one of the most our female clients who are among the top 10 economies important principles we careful with their budgets Entrepreneurship of the world, which is one of Turkey’s 2023 targets, advocate as Şekerbank. so that they can set their in Agriculture monthly spending limits, it is essential to increase the existing rate of 33.6% We Ensure We acknowledge that female participation in the strengthening the role of work force to a much higher Women’s Access women in the agricultural level. As also set forth in to Financial sector, where female the latest Development employment is very high Plan and Medium Term Resources in Turkey, is of great Program, Turkey’s goal is importance in terms of to use the labor market In line with our individual both rural development, more effectively, and within and community-oriented and agricultural efficiency. banking approach, we reach and save money by investing. this context, to increase Accordingly, within the out to women artisans Through Bütçem Benim the employment of those scope of the “Program for and farmers who have not Bonus Kart (My Budget Bonus groups requiring special Strengthening Women’s yet been introduced to Card), women can keep their policies, especially women. Entrepreneurship in banking services or have expenditures under control, Agriculture”, initiated by the limited access to financial knowing that the amounts Ministry of Food, Agriculture resources, thanks to our they spent before receiving and Livestock, and supported well-established network their bank statements thanks by our bank for the last three of branches, 70 per cent of to monthly payment limits years, we provided a total which are outside the three they have predefined based on support of 155 thousand major cities, and most of their budgets. We offer women TL for 44 projects in 2017. which have been operating the opportunity to regularly Through the program, we at the same location for save each month, with a gold are both extending access almost half a century. We purchase order of 50 TL and to finance by supporting provide service to about 30 female farmers, and also thousand clients who are contributing in solid terms to female business owners Gender Equality, the 5th SDG In the 10th Development and artisans. We offer of the United Nations. Plan9 in particular, the goal products and services to is to increase the female approximately 8 thousand work force participation female clients who are the rate to 35% in 2018, which holders of Üreten Kart (the was 29.5% in 2012, and Producer Card), which is a it was announced that merging of credit card and opportunities for qualified debit card and is a first in employment would Turkey and Europe. continue to be developed. 9 10. Development Plan (2014-2018), 1.1.11. Employment and Work Life, p. 51., paragraph 316 43 Equal Women’s Empowerment provided by our bank. For principles of equality and Unit, in order to further the implementation of the diversity where they can Employment nourish our efforts and service, we first provide improve themselves in Opportunities to introduce new aspects towards gender equality e-training on sign language for our employees so that every area. We ensure that our employees will not be for Women at our bank. We are one of they can provide direct discriminated against based the few banks in Turkey services to our clients with on their ages, nationalities, We are also in compliance that has signed the WEPs, special needs, and we also religions, or disability with the high rate of which is one of the most make arrangements at our during the course of their female employees in the important global initiatives branches and ATMs to allow employment at Şekerbank, banking sector considering of the private sector aimed our clients with special and we guarantee the rights the percentage of female at strengthening women’s needs to receive services of our employees through managers at our bank. positions so that they can without effort. our human resources 49% of our employees are take part in all sectors, policies. Moreover, we females, and the ratio of and at all levels of the believe that our employees female employees who economy. Having signed the Our Employees, can improve us and we are directors or have more initiative with our General Our Most receive all of our employees’ senior titles is 44%. Taking Manager’s support, we have opinions about our bank into account the absence joined the list of leaders Important through our satisfaction of female executives at in the business world that Assets surveys, and through open our Board of Directors, we are pioneering efforts on communication channels. adopted a goal to rectify Women’s Empowerment. the situation by appointing a female to the Board of Directors at the member Barrier-Free elections and increasing Banking this number in the future. We therefore appointed In line with our responsible a Corporate Governance banking approach, we Committee in 2017 to implemented a “Barrierensure equal opportunities Free Banking” project in by establishing a database order to enable our clients of female candidates to with special needs to access be elected to the Board of our products and services Directors. In line with our peopleAs Şekerbank, we operate more easily. Within the oriented banking mission, with the guidance of scope of the project, we the principle of equal Endorsement offer both our existing we continue to work with opportunities, and evaluate clients with special needs, the principle of creating of Global and clients who wish to value, for our clients and our employees with a fair management and Initiatives work with us, priority and our employees. We also provide the awareness of remuneration policy. We free use of several services all our employees with this determine the remuneration In 2016, we signed the of our employees taking principle to increase the Principles of the United into account criteria quality of the work we do. Nations Global Compact, such as internal balance and the WEPs (Women’s within the bank, market Accordingly, we offer Empowerment Principles) conditions, strategic targets, the 3,591 employees at created in partnership individual performance, our bank a safe work with the United Nations responsibilities undertaken, environment under our Gender Equality and and the principles set 44 forth within the Human Training Courses School, we enable our define the responsibilities Resources Policy and Bonus employees to enhance among occupational safety Offering Equal their potential through specialists, workplace Regulations of our bank. We carefully evaluate the Opportunities additional training courses physicians and departments goal management and sales such as elective training, in line with the OHS performance measurements Within the scope of distance learning, training instruction. Within the of business units and our training programs courses outside of the bank, scope of the instruction and branches through our Şeker established with the and on the job transfer of the Occupational Health Kazan System (ScoreCard). principle of “right training experience. and Safety Law No. 6331, In addition, we adopt a fair for the right person at the Head of the Logistics and transparent approach the right time”, we offer In accordance with the Group is appointed with for all our employees by opportunities for our bank prevailing conditions of the the highest responsibility employees to improve developing and changing for occupational health and using a “Competency Based themselves, and we aim to world, we embrace safety activities, and the Performance Evaluation enhance their performance. digitalization not only in responsibilities regarding System” “and “Performance Through the program, we client related processes, the OHS are managed by Measurement Performance offer training courses via but also in faster and more the Logistics Department. System”. the Career School, which accessible training courses is designed specifically we offer to our employees. We raise our employees’ In addition to giving the for the business units of Within the scope of Şeker awareness by providing utmost importance to our our employees, which will Academy, which has been occupational health existing employees, we contribute to their technical in operation since 2005, and safety trainings at also care about our future knowledge on banking, we provide e-training and all branches, regional employees. as well as their personal video training courses for directorates and development. our employees. Through headquarters, which has We therefore act in Şeker Academy, our been obligatory since 2014. accordance with the The Career School also employees can access many In 2017, 2320 hours of OHS principle of gender equality plays an important role training courses at the same training was given to 290 and equal opportunities in the operations of the time, electronically through employees. during our recruitment Bank. Both the experienced their offices, homes or even processes, and offer creative employees and new recruits mobile devices, on a 24/7 Employees’ Rights platforms whereby new as well as the employees basis, without the need to university graduates can who have been transferred travel and be away from GRI 102-41 demonstrate their potential to another position within work. both through the career day the Bank participate in the We offer many financial programs of the Career and social benefits for activities, and the special Occupational Health our employees in order to projects we have designed School. Holding a Career and Safety for young graduates of School certificate is also provide them with better agricultural engineering one of the main criteria for working conditions. We Providing our employees respect the collective faculties. employee promotions. with a safe and healthy bargaining and union rights work environment is one of all of our employees, In addition to the Career of the most important and support the relevant 2016 2017 priorities of our bank. communication efforts Number of Programs Offered at the Within this scope, issues within the bank. In this 402 627 related to Occupational context, 37% of our Career School Health and Safety employees are covered Number of Attendees at the 17,393 34,226 (OHS) are carried out by union and collective Şeker Academy in accordance with the bargaining agreements as Number of Employees Attended Courses 7,041 8,378 Occupational Health of 2017. and Safety instruction Training Hours for Employees 56,637 65,663 offered at our bank, we 45 Through our flexible submit their complaints and oriented banking approach, ensure visually-impaired maternity leave practices, suggestions. on the one hand as we children can also enjoy our in order to ensure the Through our bank’s online stand by our SMEs, magazine as well. continuity of our employees platform “Bir Önerim Var” artisans, and small scale and particularly the regular (I Have a Suggestion), entrepreneurs and women, Through our project “Bütün attendance of female which is one of the on the other hand, we Çocuklar Mutlu Olmalı!” employees, we support internal communication carry out various projects (All Children Should Be them in establishing a channels, we have been to ensure the spread of Happy!), which we have balance of family and work compiling suggestions high quality education been conducting with the life. Accordingly, 91% of from our employees for particularly in rural areas, Research Support Education female employees who took 7 years now particularly and to ensure that everyone Foundation (ADEV) with maternity leave in 2016 on process and operation has equal access to cultural various intervals since 2010, continued working with developing and improving. and artistic activities. we collect books, school the Bank, while 96% of the In this context, we evaluate supplies, and toys that female employees who took each suggestion, and are new, or kept new, and maternity leave in 2017 each month we choose a Support for the deliver them to children in continued working with the “Suggestion of the Month”, Education of Children need in Anatolia. Bank. and reward our coworker for 34 Years who has submitted that In addition to the above, we proposal. Accordingly, we Collaboration to Help We reach out to hundreds offer private health and life received 1,145 economic, of thousands of children Increase Access to the insurance to our employees, 43 environmental, and 89 thanks to the Şeker Arts along with social benefits social suggestions in 2017, Çocuk magazine we such as compensation for and we implemented 58 We are continuing to have developed with the moving, marriage benefits, of these suggestions after support, the “Dokunduğum purpose of supporting the maternity benefits, and a evaluation. Renk Projesi” (“The Color I education of children at clothing stipend depending Touch” Project) organized on their positions and when We respect the opinions village schools with limited access to opportunities by the Istanbul Museum required. of our employees and care in Turkey, which we of Modern Art, aiming about their satisfaction. We have been publishing to introduce various Open Communication therefore regularly conduct for free for 34 years now. forms of art to visually employee satisfaction We distribute the Şeker impaired children and We respect the different surveys. Most recently, Çocuk magazine, aiming youngsters in an interactive perspectives of our we are pleased to discover to support the primary manner through the use employees, and have a 70% employee loyalty education curriculum of of collective activities a high opinion of their rate in our employee elementary school children, for almost 7 years now. contributions to our satisfaction survey to our branches throughout We have been able to bank. We therefore take conducted in 2017 with a participation rate of 85%, Turkey, to every corner of reach out to almost 3,000 into account all kinds of visually impaired children, and we aim to increase this Anatolia through village suggestions and complaints youngsters, and adults by rate even further in the schools, and also to child received from our now with the help of this upcoming periods. care institutions under the employees, and also make project, which aims to Child Protection Agency, sure that our employees can increase access to visually and hospitals to reach as issue sound notifications. Support for many children as we can. impaired individuals to Under the guidance of arts and culture, and thus the principle of “Open Education Furthermore, we have enhance their quality of life, published our magazine Communication”, one of our bank’s core values, we and Social in the Braille alphabet and help them to develop their creativity through art. offer all kinds of internal Development (the tactile writing system for the visually impaired) communication channels to help our employees since 2010, and thus Thanks to our peopleInclusive Growth Current Situation Relevant National Impacted SDGs and Targets in Turkey Plans and Strategies 2.3. By 2030, double the agricultural In the years 2016-2017 • 10th Development Plan productivity and incomes of small-scale food the number of people producers, in particular women, indigenous migrating to another • Medium Term Program peoples, family farmers, pastoralists and region through internal (2018-2020) fishers, including through secure and equal migration in Turkey was access to land, other productive resources and recorded as 2,256,083. • Annual Programs inputs, knowledge, financial services, markets and The ratio of migrants from (2016 -2017) opportunities for value addition and non-farm employment regions other than Istanbul is 81%10. • National Employment 5.5. Ensure women’s full and effective Strategy (2014-2023) participation and equal opportunities for SMEs in Turkey constitutes leadership at all levels of decision-making in 99.8% of the total • National Employment political, economic and public life number of enterprises.11 Strategy Action Plans In addition, in Turkey (2017-2019) 8.3. Promote development-oriented policies between September 2016 that support productive activities, decent job and September 2017 there • Ministry of Science, creation, entrepreneurship, creativity and was an increase of 101 Industry and innovation, and encourage the formalization thousand SMEs.12 Technology, Turkish and growth of micro-, smalland mediumIndustry Strategy sized enterprises, including through access to financial According to data from Document (2015-2018) services Startup.watch, which conducted a research • SME Strategy Document 8.10. Strengthen the capacity of domestic financial on the entrepreneurial institutions to encourage and expand access to banking, ecosystem in Turkey, insurance and financial services for all the ratio of women entrepreneurs in Turkey 17.17. Encourage and promote effective in 2017 was 15% and the public, public-private and civil society amount of investment partnerships, building on the experience and received by women resourcing strategies of partnerships entrepreneurs is $6.6 million. 10 TÜİK, Migration to and Migration from Regions according to Statistical Regions, 2008-2017 11 TÜİK, Small and Medium Sized Enterprise Statistics, 2016, http://www.tuik.gov.tr/PreHaberBultenleri.do?id=21540 12 TEPAV, Employment Monitoring Journal, Issue 67, p.1. 48 Financing of Production Oriented Growth It is of particular importance for Şekerbank to support social development, the development of SMEs, tradesmen, and farmers whom consist of the main producers in our country. This is our priority when establishing all of our banking resolutions, products and services. We support the country goals13 and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals aiming at diversifying the rural economy with different activities such as trade, small-scale production and the food industry, in addition to agriculture by providing local development with services and activities that we pioneer under inclusive growth, which is among our four focus themes. As a bank that allocates 95% of its credit portfolio to the producer segment, segments are not able some of the segments in financial and social namely to its corporate, to access financing and are deprived of such welfare, which creates commercial customers, hence are unable to opportunities and services, equal opportunities farmers, tradesmen, sufficiently participate in this not only prevent the for all segments of the businesses and SMEs; we the economy. development of inclusive population, is evenly define inclusive growth growth worldwide but distributed then we as a global fight against When all segments of also causes obstacles can confirm that we poverty, unemployment the society do not have for the achievement of have reached our goal and inequality which equal access to basic Turkey’s development of achieving inclusive arise when low-income services, resources and goals. We acknowledge growth. opportunities and when that only if the increase 13 10th Development Plan (2014-2018), 1.3.44 Rural Development, p. 156, paragraph 1017. 49 Half of Loans In this context, as products tailored to the Micro-financing Şekerbank, we continued needs of merchants and Go to SMEs to finance SMEs and small businesses. We have for the Nonlocal investments in 2017 developed the “Dükkâna banking Sector especially in Anatolia, Can Veren Paket” (Reviving which are mainly exports Thanks to our well goods and services established, extensive business, to support the network of branches, 70% economic growth to be of which are located across driven by investments and the Anatolian region and production. In 2017, we most of which have served achieved an increase of customers in the same approximately 30% in our location for half a century, medium-sized enterprise we reach out to tradesmen loans. Retail Package), which is and farmers who have never a package for merchants met with banking services In line with our Community and small businesses or have limited access to Banking mission, we who deal with wholesale financial resources. continue to support our and retail with seasonal SMEs which constitute half cash flows. The package, In line with our mission of of our total loan portfolio which offers up to four “Community Banking”, we in regards to their needs. months grace periods of have been using Turkey’s SMEs, which realized 55.1% We provide free foreign financing according to first microfinance lending of Turkey’s exportation trade advisory services to the appropriate periods model since 2006 for which and constituted 73.5% SMEs starting exportation for cash flow in up to 36 the second phase began of employment in 2015, activities for the first time months, provides special in 2015. We continue to are very important to the and at every stage of the advantageous commission contribute to the financing country’s economy14. In documentation process, rates for POS products and of production in rural areas the SME Strategy and which is a first for Turkey. exemption from POS rent by further expanding our Action Plan, it is indicated charges during low cash project with the consultancy that SMEs with high We also continued to flow periods. of International Projekt competitiveness have a offer a variety of sector Consult GmbH (IPC), a significant role in achieving inclusive development goals. In addition, based on their major contribution to the creation of added value especially in the manufacturing industry, small-scale enterprises play an important role in Turkey’s industrial strategy and this is emphasized in the strategy documents15 established in this framework with the aim to improve opportunities for SMEs to access finance. 14 TUİK, Small and Medium Sized Enterprise Statistics, 2016, http://www.tuik.gov.tr/PreHaberBultenleri.do?id=21540 15 Turkish Industry Strategy Document (2015-2018), Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, p. 34. 50 German company with International insufficiency and through Program (TFP) launched in global experience in this an agreement we signed Turkey in 2014. area. This method of Sources for with the Credit Guarantee microfinancing, which SMEs Fund (KGF) and also Support to is also applied in Balkan assumed payment of KGF countries and China, We have been acting commissions for the second Women in Rural is a special example of year on behalf of the Bank’s sustainable development as a bridge between customers. Areas international finance banking to ensure institutions and Turkey’s As one of the most financial inclusion in Within the framework of tradesmen and small important outputs of our developing economies. this protocol, we provided businesses since we issued rural development and We also contribute to the financing of up to 70 Asset Backed Securities inclusive growth strategy, development of financial thousand Turkish Liras (ABS) covered with SME the inclusion of women in literacy in rural areas extended up to 36 months loans in 2011 for the first rural areas as entrepreneurs through our face-to-face to SMEs, which we place communication and lending time in the world. in economic life and their highest importance on, access to finance are among model based on cash flow taking into consideration the issues we support today the total income of households, which aims to increase entrepreneurial capability and production capacity. TÜRKİYE’NİN ESNAF VE KÜÇÜK İŞLETMELERİ DÜNYANIN Since 2015, we have ÖNDE GELEN YATIRIM BANKALARI reached out to thousands of tradesmen and farmers in rural areas with limited access to the banking system and developed customized solutions for their needs, and we In this context, we issued under the ‘Micro credit for disbursed 696 microfinance ŞEKERBANK, ESNAF VE KÜÇÜK İŞLETMELER İÇİN theVTMK 12th İHRAÇ issue ofOLDU!our ABS Micro SMEs’ program in 43 as we did in the past. loans in total, in which 25% EDEN İLK BANKA program with the Dutch cities in Anatolia, in order Şekerbank, gerçekleştirdiği KOBİ kredileri teminatlı VTMK (Varlık Teminatlı Menkul Kıymet) ihracı ile We provide financing for of the beneficiaries were dünyada bir ilke imza attı. Banka, Avrupa’nın ve dünyanın yatırım devleri ile Türkiye’nin esnaf ve küçük işletmeleri to facilitate their access to arasında 800 milyon TL’lik sağlam bir finansman köprüsü oluşturdu. Türk Lirası’na yatırım yapan önde Investment Bank (FMO) women entrepreneurs to women. gelen uluslararası kuruluşlar ise, Türk ekonomisine ve Şekerbank’a olan güvenlerini gösterdiler. Bu güzel haber, ülkemize ve üreten herkese hayırlı olsun… in December 2017, and finance and also increase realize their ideas through With our strategy developed provided a new source of their business. our special products in the scope of the United 192 million Turkish Liras developed for women Nations Sustainable equivalent of 50 million Using almost 40% of our farmers, traders and Development Goals, we US Dollars to support funds obtained from enterprises and we reach aim to expand the ability of tradesmen, enterprises, international finance out to women in rural areas women to access financing SMEs and farmers. institutions to support village by village and town especially in rural areas our SMEs, we are proud by town in order to increase In order to increase under microfinancing and to have been awarded female entrepreneurship our support to SMEs, work to bring international by the European Bank especially in rural areas and we provided financing digital applications to for Reconstruction and support their participation to tradesmen, micro Turkey to increase financial Development (EBRD) in in education and the work enterprises, SMEs and inclusion. 2017 again in the scope force. In this context, we farmers with collateral of Foreign Trade Support extended out more than 51 204 million TL in financing on May 11, 2016 under the to nearly 4,000 women title “Inclusive Financing entrepreneurs last year. for Inclusive Growth”, while the “5th Sustainable Additionally, with the Financing Forum” was held campaign we organized on September 29, 2017, for International Women’s with the theme “Combating Day on March 8th, which Climate Change and has become an annual Finance Sector”. tradition, we provided all of our women traders and farmers customers benefits Contribution to from special discounted Art and Culture financing and many free services throughout the Açıkekran month of March. As a bank that opened the first bank art gallery in the Awareness1980s, we have been one of videos, simultaneously which was published in the greatest supporters of by taking compositions 1999 and written by Tuğrul raising Activities art since the day we were from each exhibition in Şavkay, is a reference for founded. Our bank, which the Açıkekran New Media Ottoman culinary culture. carries out its activities Arts Gallery to certain This unique artwork, with a responsible banking branches in the Anatolian which tells the history of approach, continues to region. We continue to Ottoman cuisine and the carry out its mission to bring art to the branches art of cuisine, is intended support art under the by broadcasting a video to convey the tradition of roof of Açıkekran New work of each exhibition in Ottoman culinary culture Media Arts by integrating sync with the Şekerbank and dining to future local with the global Açıkekran New Media Arts generations as part of our and to increase society’s Gallery in Teşvikiye through cultural heritage. familiarity with art. private monitors at our 9 In 2016 and 2017, we branches in 8 cities, which continued to support the include İstanbul, Ankara With our project in the organization of events by Küçükesat and Kızılay, field of “new media arts” taking an active role in the Tekirdağ Alpullu, Ordu, that we implemented in associations that we are İzmir, Bodrum, Mardin and 2011 under the “Açıkekran” members and volunteers Edirne. theme which targets to of. The “4th Sustainable increase the access of Financing Forum”, was held with the cooperation society to culture and Ottoman Cuisine art, we aim and strive to between Business introduce art lovers to In 2017, we reintroduced Council for Sustainable contemporary art and local the famous “Ottoman Development in Turkey talents and also familiarize Cuisine” book, which (BCSD Turkey), United society with today’s art describes the culinary and Nations Environmental in our country. With this dining culture, which offers Program Financial Initiative project, we aim to transfer a unique reflection of the (UNEP FI) and Global art from the metropolis to rich cultural heritage of the Compact Turkey and localities by broadcasting Ottoman Empire. The book, sponsored by Şekerbank 52 Sustainability Management Structure Within the framework principles that could be of our sustainable considered the basis of our development approach operations to all of our and sustainability stakeholders. strategy, we believe in the importance of a good Within the scope of this governance structure in regulation, we ensure that terms of creating longour employees receive term value for our bank training in order to increase and for all our stakeholders their knowledge and and contributing to the awareness on sustainable country’s targets. Therefore, development, environment we are coordinating all of and social sensitivity issues our operations through the whenever required. Sustainable Development Banking Department, which We consider the fight works under the Executive against corruption and Vice President responsible bribery as one of our for the strategy, in order to main policies within the improve our sustainability framework of our ethical activities and integrate the values as a part of our sustainable development sustainability journey. The approach into all activities ‘Code of Ethics in Banking’ within our bank. The is one of the mandatory Department not only takes trainings assigned to our part in sustainability issues employees, and if there including reporting, but is a concern of nonalso provides information compliance with these to all internal and external policies or in case of any stakeholders about the suspicion, a control system Bank’s activities regarding is implemented through our sustainable development pertinent Internal Systems and carries out the unit. In addition, we provide reporting and compliance an ‘Employee Complaint process with sustainability and Notification Line’, regulations and policies, which protects employees’ which have been confidentiality, to all established at the Board of employees in our internal Directors level. communication portal in order to ensure open and With the Sustainable transparent communication Development Regulation, for the notification of such we demonstrate that matters as violation of such our vision in sustainable regulations. development is a common goal shared by both senior As a Bank, we aim to management and all reflect our sustainability employees, and we explain approach to our entire all of the environmental, value chain. While carrying social and general out the procurement of 53 products and services successful performance in Our Board of Directors, has incrementally within the framework of the field of sustainability determined in accordance become important. We the existing “Regulation are based on these 4 with our transparent and aim to manage these on Purchase-Sale and fundamental principles responsible corporate processes in the best way Bidding Transactions”, we and deep-rooted corporate management approach, possible with our Internal prioritize local companies management approach that consists of 12 members. Systems mechanism. in the selection of suppliers we have composed with our All of the members of We conduct control and to support the national 64 years of experience in the Board of Directors inspection activities to economy and aim to the sector. are responsible for the assess, measure, analyze encourage our suppliers to structure and activities of and monitor the risks carry out their activities in We monitor our compliance our bank being conducted that may arise from our line with the sustainability with the principles of in accordance with the strategies and activities principles of our bank. corporate management legislation, articles of and by using the Internal Currently, the ratio of at the Board of Directors association, internal Systems mechanism, local suppliers for support level and work for its regulations and policies. which is compatible with services of our bank is betterment. In this context, The Board of Directors the structure and scope 100%. we regularly track our work to increase the value of our activities and also corporate management created for stakeholders is responsive to changing rating by requesting within the framework of conditions. We aim to Responsible independent assessments transparency, efficiency ensure the correct and Corporate on ‘Shareholders’, and compliance. effective functioning of ‘Public Disclosure Şekerbank’s Board of all of these processes and Management and Transparency’, Directors, which takes on mechanisms through the ‘Stakeholders’ and ‘Board the effective assistance Internal Audit Department, As a Bank in Turkey of Directors’ practices. As of the organizational Internal Control and to receive a corporate a result of the evaluations structure with certain Compliance Department governance rating and made by Uluslararası corporate management and Risk Management as the first Bank to be Kredi Derecelendirme tools, while fulfilling its Department. included in the Borsa ve Kurumsal Yönetim duties and responsibilities, Istanbul Corporate Hizmetleri A.Ş. (Kobirate), also receives assistance At the same time, to ensure Governance Index in 2008, we continued our activities from the audit, corporate risk awareness within the we conduct our activities with the aim of protecting governance, and loan and bank, we structure our under the principles of and improving our compensation committees. Risk Management System, fairness, transparency, corporate management which we consider as being accountability and within rating by raising our an integral part of the our corporate management Corporate Management Risk Internal Systems, including approach and efficient corporate structure that we Principles Compliance Management organizational, managerial Rating to 9.27 (92.70%) and operational processes, established with principles in 2017, which was 9.19 and Internal and information systems based on responsibility. The foundations of our (91.90%) in 2016. Control processes. Within the scope of the Risk Management For sustainable growth System, we identify, Sub Categories Weight 2016 2017 based on solid foundations measure and monitor the Shareholders 0.25 91.77% 92.45% in terms of continuity of risks that the Bank may Public Disclosure and Transparency 0.25 91.67% 92.84% activities and adaptation be exposed to through all to both legal and marketstrategies, policies limits Stakeholders 0.15 95.34% 95.34% and application procedures based changes, the Board of Directors 0.35 90.81% 91.69% existence of an effective within all decisionrisk management process making and operational Total 1.00 91.90% 92.70% mechanisms. 54 work in harmony and in within the scope of open The scope of Risk Management an equitable way, and we communication which is Board of Directors increase our economic one of our most important value with transparent and principles. Senior management honest management. 30 ethical principles Units forming the Internal Systems that try to refer to every Committees established aspect of management by the Board of Directors within the scope of the and operations are also Risk Management System accepted as business principles of the bank and Committees established compliance with these by the senior management within the scope of the principles is one of the Risk Management System most important elements of our Human Resources Policy. In this context, with Bank’s senior management, the analyses by the Risk both within the framework As Şekerbank, we care Management Department, of growth strategy and not only about our which is responsible for the market conditions. The employees but also senior assessment, measurement, revised and updated management’s compliance analysis and monitoring policies are put into effect with ethical principles. As of the risks that the Bank with the approval of the a result, each newly elected may be exposed to through Board of Directors. Board Member signs a a systematic approach, we For more detailed declaration of “Code of evaluate our risks under information on the Ethics in Banking”, which five main categories, responsibilities of the reflects the corporate namely, loan risk, market Board of Directors and sensitivity of our bank and risk, interest rate risk committees and the includes the professional arising from banking activities of the units on code of ethics of the sector. accounts, liquidity risk the risk management and At the same time, with the and operational risk. At related policies applied for Corporate Management the same time, we monitor different risk types, please Committee, which is one economic and financial see our annual report. of the committees of the developments and banking Board of Directors, the regulations in international https://www.sekerbank. acceptance of the rules of markets through the Risk com.tr/docs/default-source/ professional ethics, cultural Management Department; default-document-library/ and professional behavior and align our risk skr_frae_2017_mtb_eng. by the Board of Directors management practices pdf?sfvrsn=0 have been ensured. accordingly. In this regard, we ensure that corporate management is carried Ethical Not only are our current ethical principles audited out effectively within the Principles by different units of our bank. As an entailment bank, but also alternative of the above mentioned By means of the Code of communication channels structure, the Bank’s risk Ethics of our bank, we have been established management policies are strengthen the trust of through which employees reviewed at least once a all our stakeholders and can communicate their year in cooperation with the ensure our employees suggestions and complaints 55 Relations Announcements with Public and Exchange of Advertisements Entities and Information Organizations Reliability Customer Secrets/Trade Impartiality Keeping Secrets Competition Customers Informed Honesty Service Quality Transparency Customer Applications Respecting Social Security Utility& Environment Teamwork Private Life Compliance Code of to Working Misuse of Ethics Hours Anti-Money Information Laundering and Savings Combatting the Financing of Terrorism No Printed, General Intermediary Visual Career Attributes of and Social Development Employees Media Use of Annual Professional Leave Rules and Compliance Principles of Ethical to the Representation, Principles Regulations and Working and Audits Environment Dressing Cleanliness and of the Unit/ Attitudes Branch 56 Stakeholder Engagement Our bank carries out its activities with the vision of growth while adding value to all its social stakeholders. GRI 102-40, GRI 102-42, GRI 102-43, Reliable and open communication with our stakeholders is GRI 102-44 important for our business manner and values. In this context, we establish dialogue with our stakeholders through different channels of communication to keep in touch. How do we communicate with our stakeholders? GRI 102-40, GRI 102-42, GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44 All authorized communication channels, Public Employee satisfaction survey, corporate Disclosure Platform e-bulletins, call center, performance system, meetings, e-mail branches, website, social media accounts, announcements, e-mail newsletters, Şeker.Net promotional campaigns, special customer portal and “I have a suggestion” platform meetings, art activities General Assembly Our Customers Our meetings, Public Memberships, Employees Disclosure Platform, working groups, annual and interim forums and reports, CMB Corporate conferences Governance Principles NonCompliance Report, Governmental Press Releases, Financial Organizations Statements, Reporting Stakeholder Communication Our Regional Offices and Branches, Channels Shareholders website, social and Investors media accounts, Local promotional Community campaigns Media Public and Reports, meetings, assessments, National and Regulatory Sector meetings, reporting, individual interviews, International Authorities various working groups, Public Disclosure Financial Press conferences Public Disclosure Platform, Platform, The Banks and meetings, various working groups, oral Institutions Association of Turkey press releases, and written notices, press membership, panel news studies, daily releases, legal compliance discussions and economic bulletins, and annual reports forums, working Public Disclosure groups Platform 57 Appendices Stakeholder Analysis GRI 102-40, GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44, GRI 102-47 Priority for Stakeholders Priority for Şekerbank Broad-Based Banking/Financial Inclusion Employee Prosperity Financing Energy Efficiency Customer Satisfaction Sustainable Agriculture Social Contribution Financing SMEs Education Supporting Women Entrepreneurs in Agriculture Financial Performance Contribution to Employment Risk Management Bank’s Carbon Footprint Corporate Governance Financial Literacy Anti-Corruption Climate Change Ethics and Transparency Environmental and Social Criteria in Loan Processes Responsible Procurement Employee Training Digitalization While identifying the priority areas for our stakeholders in the stakeholder analysis, we included all of our internal stakeholders and other banks in the sector as external stakeholders in our analysis. We used the sustainability reports published by the financial institutions that we identified as our external stakeholders while obtaining the opinions of our internal stakeholders through surveys and interviews. 58 Performance Tables Social Performance Tables Number of Employees 2016 2017 Female Male Female Male Full-time 1,790 1,821 1,771 1,813 Part-time 0 0 3 4 Total number of employees 1,790 1,821 1,774 1,817 Number of Employees by Age and Gender 2016 2017 Female Male Female Male >50 years old 10 47 12 63 30-50 years old 1,156 1,263 1,140 1,299 <30 years old 624 511 622 455 Number of Newly Hired Employees 2016 2017 by Age and Gender Female Male Female Male >50 years old 0 3 4 9 30-50 years old 58 136 108 162 <30 years old 141 162 180 182 Top Management by Age and Gender 2016 2017 Female Male Female Male >50 years old 0 4 0 3 30-50 years old 1 7 1 7 <30 years old 0 0 0 0 59 Directors and Upper Level Employees Distribution 2016 2017 by Age and Gender Female Male Female Male Top Management (GM and EVP) 1 11 1 10 Group Managers 1 4 1 4 Managers 108 249 104 252 Directors 606 566 581 596 Prepared in accordance with the title definitions of our bank. Number of Employees Benefitting from Maternal/ 2016 2017 Paternal Leave Female Male Female Male Number of employees benefitting from maternal/pater119 0 112 0 nal leave Number of employees returning from maternal/pater108 0 108 0 nal leave Turnover Table 2016 2017 Female Male Female Male >50 years old 35% 73% 27% 27% 30-50 years old 23% 23% 17% 17% <30 years old 24% 32% 18% 28% Employees under Collective Bargaining Agreement 2016 2017 Female Male Female Male Number of employees under Collective Bargaining 745 583 737 592 Agreement 60 Occupational Health and Safety 2016 2017 Female Male Female Male Number of accidents 6 2 4 4 Number of fatalities related to work 0 0 0 0 Number of occupational disease cases 0 0 0 0 Absenteeism 1 0 0 0 Accident frequency rate 4.16 1.38 2.78 2.78 Occupational disease rate 0 0 0 0 Lost workdays rate 0.55 0 0 0 Absenteeism rate 0.55 0 0 0 Occupational Health and Safety for Suppliers 2016 2017 Female Male Female Male Number of accidents 5 1 0 1 Number of fatalities related to work 0 0 0 0 Number of occupational disease cases 0 0 0 0 Absenteeism 0 0 0 0 Accident frequency rate 3.47 0.69 0 0.69 Occupational disease rate 0 0 0 0 Lost workdays rate 0 0 0 0 Absenteeism rate 0 0 0 0 Occupational Health and Safety Training 2016 2017 Female Male Female Male Number of employees participating in training 151 211 132 158 Total amount of training (hours) 1,208 1,688 1,056 1,264 61 Employee Training 2016 2017 Total amount of training (hours) 56,637 65,663 Number of employees participating in training 7,041 8,378 Environmental Performance Tables Greenhouse Gas Emissions (ton CO2e) 2016 2017 Scope 1* 7,337 3,839 Scope 2** 9,738 11,535 Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1+Scope 2) 17,075 15,374 Greenhouse Gas Emissions per employee (Scope 4.73 4.28 1+Scope 2/number of employees) Scope 3*** 2,199 1,648 * Defra 2017 Emission Factors prepared by the UK government for the emission factors of fuel consumption (such as natural gas, diesel, gasoline). Scope 1 Fuels source is used. ‘Defra 2017 Emission Factors’ prepared by the UK government for the emission factors of refrigerant gases. Scope 1 ‘Refrigerant & other’ and 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, Volume 2, Chapter 1 sources were used. *** IEA CO Emissions from Fuel Combustion, 2017 Edition source prepared by International Energy Agency (IEA) for electricity 2 consumption emission factors was used. *** Scope 3 ‘Defra 2017 Emission Factors’ prepared by the UK government for conversion factors of paper consumption and plane travel data in calculations of greenhouse gas emissions. Scope 3 Material Use / Business Travel Air and (https://www.gov.uk/government/ publications/greenhouse-gas-reporting-conversion-factors-2017) were used. Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions calculations for personnel services, the IPCC’s emission factors for fuels and the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources prepared by the Ministry of Energy and the Lower Thermal Values of the Equivalents of Oil Equivalent Conversion Table. 62 Energy Consumption 2016 2017 Natural gas* (m3) 442,374 538,185 Coal* (ton) 111.81 105.2 Electricity** (kWh) 19,814,099 20,682,200 Diesel* (L) 703,829 736,592 Gasoline* (L) 119,127 107,302 Total Energy Consumption (GJ) 116,299 125,098 Energy Consumption per employee 32.20 34.83 (GJ/number of employees) * Density and conversion coefficient values for natural gas, coal, gasoline and diesel, ‘Regulation on Increasing Efficiency in the Use of Energy Resources and Energy’ (Official Gazette: 27 October 2011/28097: VAL.03 / 09 / 2014-29108), ANNEX-2 : ‘Lower Thermal Values of Energy Resources and Conversion Coefficient to Petroleum Equivalence’ table. ** Since the supply unit for electricity is invoiced in kWh, kWh GJ conversion is made while the energy conversion is performed. 1 kWh = 0.0036 GJ conversion factor was used for this conversion. Water Consumption 2016 2017 Network Water (m3) 48,775 52,608 Total Water Consumption (m3) 50,035 54,058 Energy Consumption per employee 13.85 15.05 (GJ/number of employees) 63 Memberships and Endorsed Initiatives Turkish Organizations, Associations and Chambers Business Council for Sustainable Development in Turkey-BCSD Turkey Corporate Communications Professional Association-KİD Association of Advertisers-RVD The Banks Association of Turkey-TBB Corporate Governance Association of Turkey-TKYD International Organizations, Associations and Chambers United Nations Environment Program Financial Initiative-UNEP-FI Institute of International Finance-IIF Global Compact-UNGC Endorsed Initiatives Carbon Disclosure Project Climate Change and Water Programs-CDP Working Group on Financial Sector’s Role in Sustainable Development-TBB Business Leadership Criteria on Carbon Pricing-CPLC Women’s Empowerment Principles-WEPs 64 Awards Product Name Award Awarding Organization Year Türkiye Halkla İlişkiler Turkey Golden Compass Public Relations Derneği Aile Çiftçiliği Awards: “Financial Services and Investor 2016 (TÜHİD) (Turkish Public Relations” award Relations Association) CCDP Water Program: Carbon Disclosure Project Şekerbank “CDP 2016 Turkey Water Leadership” 2016 (CDP) platform award “Best Syndication Loan Supporting Energy Şekerbank EMEA Finance 2016 Efficiency” award European Bank for Foreign Trade Support Program (TFP): Reconstruction and Şekerbank “Top Bank Using the Program in Turkey” 2016-2017 Development award (EBRD) “Bank Increasing the Commercial Credit Üreten Kart MasterCard 2016 Card Portfolio Largest in 2015” award The Best Client Orientation” and “The Aile Çiftçiliği Best Business Awards 2016 Best New Product/Service” awards EKOkredi “The Best Product/Service” award Best Business Awards 2016 Etik Değerler Merkezi ETİKA 2015 “Turkey’s most ethical Şekerbank (EDMER) (Ethical Values 2016 company” award Center) Körleri Eğitim ve Kalkındırma Derneği Supporting the Disabled: Bank of the Şeker Çocuk Dergisi (Education and 2016 Year award Development for the Blind Association) “Bank Increasing the Commercial Credit Üreten Kart MasterCard 2017 Card Portfolio Largest in 2016” award 65 United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Progress Statement United Nations Global Compact Principles Principles Relevant Report Section Page Number Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection People-Oriented Banking and 43-45, 52-55 of internationally proclaimed human Sustainability Management Structure rights Principle 2: Businesses should make People-Oriented Banking and sure that they are not complicit in 43-45, 52-55 Sustainability Management Structure human rights abuses Labor Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the People-Oriented Banking and 44-45, 59 effective recognition of the right to Performance Indicators collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should uphold People-Oriented Banking and GRI the elimination of all forms of forced 43-45, 76 Content Index and compulsory labor Principle 5: Businesses should uphold People-Oriented Banking and GRI 43-45, 76 the effective abolition of child labor Content Index Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination People-Oriented Banking 43-45 in respect of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Energy Efficiency 34-39 environmental challenges Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote Energy Efficiency 34-39 greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and Energy Efficiency 34-39 diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Sustainability Management Structure 52-55 including extortion and bribery 66 GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number/Direct Source Omissions GRI 101: Foundation 2016 Organizational Profile 102-1 1 102-2 48 https://www.sekerbank.com.tr/en/ 102-3 aboutsekerbank/contact 102-4 12 102-5 13 102-6 12, 23 102-7 12, 43, 48 102-8 43, 58-59 102-9 52-53 During the reporting period, 102-10 there has been no significant change GRI 102: regarding our suppliers. General Disclosures 102-11 53-55 2016 102-12 63-64 102-13 63-64 Strategy 102-14 11 102-15 52-56 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 13, 52-55 102-17 43-45, 52-55 Governance 2017 Annual Report (https://www.sekerbank. com.tr/docs/default-source/default-document102-18 library/skr_frae_2017_mtb_eng.pdf?sfvrsn=0) p. 48-51; 68-69 67 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number/Direct Source Omissions 102-19 52 102-20 52 102-21 24, 52-56 2017 Annual Report (https://www. sekerbank.com.tr/docs/default-source/ 102-22 default-document-library/skr_frae_2017_ mtb_eng.pdf?sfvrsn=0) p. 48-51; 64-69 2017 Annual Report (https://www. sekerbank.com.tr/docs/default-source/ 102-23 default-document-library/skr_frae_2017_ mtb_eng.pdf?sfvrsn=0) p. 48-51 2017 Annual Report (https://www. sekerbank.com.tr/docs/default-source/ 102-24 default-document-library/skr_frae_2017_ mtb_eng.pdf?sfvrsn=0) p. 48-54; 58-59 Şekerbank Conflict of Interest Policy GRI 102: (https://www.sekerbank.com.tr/ General 102-25 docs/default-source/english_doc/ Disclosures conflict_of_interest_policy. 2016 pdf?Status=Master&sfvrsn=6) 2017 Annual Report (https://www. sekerbank.com.tr/docs/default-source/ 102-26 default-document-library/skr_frae_2017_ mtb_eng.pdf?sfvrsn=0) p. 48-51, 56, 68-70 2017 Annual Report (https://www. sekerbank.com.tr/docs/default-source/ 102-27 default-document-library/skr_frae_2017_ mtb_eng.pdf?sfvrsn=0) p. 64-67 2017 Annual Report (https://www. sekerbank.com.tr/docs/default-source/ 102-28 default-document-library/skr_frae_2017_ mtb_eng.pdf?sfvrsn=0) p. 64-69 102-29 38-39, 52-56 102-30 52-56 102-31 38-39, 52-56 102-32 24, 52-55 68 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number/Direct Source Omissions 102-33 24, 52-53, 56 2017 Annual Report (https://www. sekerbank.com.tr/docs/default-source/ 102-34 default-document-library/skr_frae_2017_ mtb_eng.pdf?sfvrsn=0) p. 60-63 Şekerbank Renumeration Policy (https://www.sekerbank.com.tr/en/ 102-35 aboutsekerbank/human_resources/ remuneration-policy) 102-36 43-45 Şekerbank Renumeration Policy (https://www.sekerbank.com.tr/en/ 102-37 aboutsekerbank/human_resources/ remuneration-policy) 2017 Annual Report (https://www. sekerbank.com.tr/docs/default-source/ 102-38 default-document-library/skr_frae_2017_ mtb_eng.pdf?sfvrsn=0) p. 69-70, 72 2017 Annual Report (https://www. sekerbank.com.tr/docs/default-source/ 102-39 GRI 102: default-document-library/skr_frae_2017_ General mtb_eng.pdf?sfvrsn=0) p. 69-70, 72 Disclosures Stakeholder Engagement 2016 102-40 56-57 102-41 44-45 102-42 24, 56 102-43 56-57 102-44 24, 56-57 Reporting Practice 102-45 9 102-46 9 102-47 24-25, 57 During the reporting period, there has 102-48 been no rearrangement in this scope. During the reporting period, there has been no significant change 102-49 in the focus areas and limits of the previous period. 69 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number/Direct Source Omissions 102-50 9 The previous sustainability report 102-51 covers 2014-2015 data and was published in 2016. GRI 102: The sustainability report is published 102-52 General every two years. Disclosures 102-53 9 2016 102-54 9 102-55 66-78 There is no external assurance service 102-56 obtained for the sustainability report. GRI 200: Economic Standard Series 2016 Economic Performance GRI 103: 103-1 24-25, 57 Management 103-2 24-51 Approach 2016 103-3 24-25, 57 201-1 12 201-2 38-39 GRI 201: 2017 Annual Report (https://www. Economic sekerbank.com.tr/docs/default-source/ 201-3 Performance default-document-library/skr_frae_2017_ 2016 mtb_eng.pdf?sfvrsn=0) p. 117-118, 211 2017 Annual Report (https://www. sekerbank.com.tr/docs/default-source/ 201-4 default-document-library/skr_frae_2017_ mtb_eng.pdf?sfvrsn=0) p. 120 Market Presence GRI 103: 103-1 43-45 Management 103-2 43-45 Approach 2016 103-3 24-25, 57 GRI 202: 202-1 43-45 Market Presence In senior management, this rate is 202-2 2016 100%. 70 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number/Direct Source Omissions Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 103: 103-1 28-51 Management 103-2 24-25, 57 Approach 2016 103-3 24-25, 57 GRI 203: 203-1 34-39 Indirect Economic 203-2 28-43, 48-51 Impacts 2016 Procurement Practices GRI 103: 103-1 52 Management 103-2 24-25, 57 Approach 2016 103-3 24-25, 57 GRI 204: Procurement 204-1 52-53 Practices 2016 Anti-corruption GRI 103: 103-1 52 Management 103-2 24-25, 57 Approach 2016 103-3 24-25, 57 205-1 52-53 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-2 52 2016 During the reporting period, no 205-3 notification was received. Anti-competitive Behavior GRI 103: 103-1 52 Management 103-2 24-25, 57 Approach 2016 103-3 24-25, 57 GRI 206: 52-55, During the reporting period, Anti-competitive no cases are filed regarding anti206-1 Behavior competitive behavior, anti-trust or 2016 monopoly practices. 71 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number/Direct Source Omissions GRI 300: Environmental Standard Series 2016 Materials GRI 103: 103-1 39 Management 103-2 39 Approach 2016 103-3 39 We do not have significant amount of material and raw material consumption in our products and 301-1 services due to our field of activity, so there is no reporting under this indicator. We do not consume significant amount GRI 301: of recycled material and raw material Materials 301-2 for our products and services due to 2016 our field of activity, so there is no reporting under this indicator. We do not have significant amount of packaging material consumption in our 301-3 products and services due to our field of activity, so there is no reporting under this indicator. Energy GRI 103: 103-1 39 Management 103-2 39 Approach 2016 103-3 39 302-1 62 302-2 62 GRI 302: Energy 302-3 62 2016 302-4 62 302-5 38-39, 62 Water GRI 103: 103-1 39 Management 103-2 39 Approach 2016 103-3 39 72 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number/Direct Source Omissions 303-1 62 GRI 303: There is no water source significantly Water 303-2 impacted by Şekerbank operations. 2016 There is no water recycling or reused 303-3 water for Şekerbank operations. Biodiversity GRI 103: 103-1 39 Management 103-2 39 Approach 2016 103-3 39 We do not have significant effect on biodiversity due to our field of activity, 304-1 so there is no reporting under this indicator. We do not have significant effect on biodiversity due to our field of activity, GRI 304: 304-2 so there is no reporting under this Biodiversity indicator. 2016 304-3 39 We do not have significant effect on biodiversity due to our field of activity, 304-4 so there is no reporting under this indicator. Emissions GRI 103: 103-1 39 Management 103-2 39 Approach 2016 103-3 39 305-1 61 305-2 61 GRI 305: Emissions 305-3 61 2016 305-4 61 305-5 61 73 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number/Direct Source Omissions We do not cause direct emission of indicated substances due to our field of 305-6 activity, so there is no reporting under GRI 305: this indicator. Emissions We do not cause direct emission of 2016 indicated substances due to our field of 305-7 activity, so there is no reporting under this indicator. Effluents and Waste GRI 103: 103-1 39 Management 103-2 39 Approach 2016 103-3 39 306-1 62 GRI 306: 306-2 39 Effluents and Waste We do not have significant impact on 2016 leakage of any substances due to our 306-3 field of activity, so there is no reporting under this indicator. Environmental Compliance GRI 103: 103-1 39 Management 103-2 39 Approach 2016 103-3 39 GRI 307: Within the scope of environmental Environmental 307-1 compliance, there are no fines or Compliance penalties filed. 2016 Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 103: 103-1 52-53 Management 103-2 52-53 Approach 2016 103-3 52-53 GRI 308: We do not have a supplier that is 308-1 Supplier subject to environmental evaluation. Environmental We do not have a supplier that is Assessment 308-2 subject to environmental impact 2016 evaluation. 74 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number/Direct Source Omissions GRI 400: Social Standard Series 2016 Employment GRI 103: 103-1 43-45 Management 103-2 24-25, 57 Approach 2016 103-3 24-25, 57 401-1 58-59 GRI 401: 43-45, https://www.sekerbank.com.tr/ Employment 401-2 en/aboutsekerbank/human_resources/ 2016 opportunities 401-3 44-45 Labor/Management Relations GRI 103: 103-1 43-45 Management 103-2 24-25, 57 Approach 2016 103-3 24-25, 57 2017 Annual Report (https://www. GRI 402: sekerbank.com.tr/docs/default-source/ Labor/Management 402-1 default-document-library/skr_frae_2017_ Relations mtb_eng.pdf?sfvrsn=0) p. 61, 117. The legal 2016 notice period is applied in our bank. Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103: 103-1 44 Management 103-2 44 Approach 2016 103-3 44 403-1 44 GRI 403: 403-2 60 Occupational Health and Safety 403-3 60 2016 403-4 44 Training and Education GRI 103: 103-1 43-45 Management Approach 103-2 24-25 2016 75 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number/Direct Source Omissions GRI 103: Management 103-3 24-25 Approach 2016 GRI 404: 404-1 61 Training and 404-2 44 Education 2016 404-3 43-44 Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 103: 103-1 43-45 Management 103-2 24-25, 57 Approach 2016 103-3 24-25, 57 GRI 405: 405-1 43-44 Diversity and This rate is 1 because there is no Equal Opportunity 405-2 gender-based wage discrimination in 2016 our bank. Non-discrimination GRI 103: 103-1 43-45 Management 103-2 43-45 Approach 2016 103-3 43-45 2017 Annual Report (https://www. GRI 406: sekerbank.com.tr/docs/default-source/ Non-discrimination 406-1 default-document-library/skr_frae_2017_ 2016 mtb_eng.pdf?sfvrsn=0) p. 61 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining GRI 103: 103-1 43-44 Management 103-2 43-44 Approach 2016 103-3 43-44 GRI 407: Freedom of Association and 407-1 43-44, 59 Collective Bargaining 2016 76 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number/Direct Source Omissions Child Labor GRI 103: 103-1 42-44, 54-55 Management 103-2 42-44, 54-55 Approach 2016 103-3 42-44, 54-55 GRI 408: Şekerbank has no operations with child Child Labor 408-1 labor risks. 2016 Forced or Compulsory Labor GRI 103: 103-1 43-44, 54-55 Management 103-2 43-44, 54-55 Approach 2016 103-3 43-44, 54-55 GRI 409: Forced or Şekerbank has no operations with 409-1 Compulsory Labor forced and compulsory labor risks. 2016 Security Practices GRI 103: 103-1 52-55 Management 103-2 52-55 Approach 2016 103-3 52-55 As security personnel are not GRI 410: employees of the Bank, there is Security no reporting under this indicator. 410-1 Practices However the security personnel 2016 working for Şekerbank are provided with the relevant training. Rights of Indigenous Peoples GRI 103: 103-1 52-55 Management 103-2 52-55 Approach 2016 103-3 52-55 GRI 411: Since there is no such risk due to our Rights of 411-1 field of activity, there is no reporting Indigenous Peoples under this indicator. 2016 77 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number/Direct Source Omissions Human Rights Assessment GRI 103: 103-1 43 Management 103-2 43-45 Approach 2016 103-3 43-45 GRI 412: Human Rights 412-3 43 Assessment 2016 Local Communities GRI 103: 103-1 28-33, 46-51 Management 103-2 24-33, 46-51 Approach 2016 103-3 24-33, 46-51 GRI 413: 413-1 28-33, 46-51 Local Communities 2016 413-2 28-33, 46-51 Supplier Social Assessment GRI 103: 103-1 52-53 Management 103-2 52-53 Approach 2016 103-3 52-53 GRI 414: Supplier We do not have suppliers that are Social 414-1 subject to social evaluation. Assessment 2016 Public Policy GRI 103: 103-1 52-55 Management 103-2 52-55 Approach 2016 103-3 52-55 GRI 415: Şekerbank does not offer any political Public Policy 415-1 donations. 2016 78 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Number/Direct Source Omissions Customer Health and Safety GRI 103: 103-1 52-55 Management 103-2 52-55 Approach 2016 103-3 52-55 We do not have products and services that have significant impact on 416-1 customer health and safety due to our GRI 416: field of activity, so there is no reporting Customer Health under this indicator. and Safety We do not have products and services 2016 that have significant impact on 416-2 customer health and safety due to our field of activity, so there is no reporting under this indicator. Marketing and Labeling GRI 103: 103-1 53-55 Management 103-2 53-55, 57 Approach 2016 103-3 53-55, 57 Code of Ethics (https://www.sekerbank. 417-1 com.tr/en/aboutsekerbank/human_reGRI 417: sources/code-of-etnics) Marketing and Labeling There are no cases of non-compliance 2016 with regulations and voluntary 417-2 codes regarding product and service information and labeling. Customer Privacy GRI 103: 103-1 53-55 Management 103-2 53-55, 57 Approach 2016 103-3 53-55, 57 GRI 418: There are no complaints regarding Customer 418-1 customer privacy during the reporting Privacy period. 2016 Contact Information ŞEKERBANK T.A.Ş. Emniyet Evleri Mah. Eski Büyükdere Cad. No: 1/1A 34415 Kağıthane/İstanbul TR T: (+90) 212 319 70 00 F: (+90) 212 319 74 29 Please send us your questions and suggestions. surdurulebilirlik@sekerbank.com.tr Report Consultant PwC Disclaimer All rights of this Şekerbank Sustainability Report, belongs to Şekerbank’s itself which is prepared by Şekerbank with the support and consultancy of PwC Danışmanlık Hizmetleri A.Ş. (PwC Turkey). This report, has been disclosed to the public only to provide general guidance to those concerned, not as professional advice. The information and the analysis in this report, have been compiled from the information and data obtained within the reporting period from the sources that regarded reliable and have aim to be informative. PwC is not liable to confirm the information or assure the reliability of this resources. PwC and/or the Bank does not undertake any express or implied warranties related to the accuracy or completeness of this report. Do not act according to the information in this document without the advice of professionals who are specialized in their field. PwC is not obliged to ensure the reliability of these resources or to confirm the information obtained. Any individual or company (PwC Turkey and /or Şekerbank, its members, employees and representatives) who have contributed to the generation of this report have no liability, responsibility or duty of care to any person who acts, have acted or makes decisions based on the information contained in this report and aforementioned parties (legal entity or person) have no liability for any damage which may occur as a result of the use of information provided in this report. 80
