Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 This report is a translation from the Hebrew and has been prepared for convenience only. In case of any discrepancy the Hebrew will prevail. Table of 05 The Employees Nurturing of Discount Bank’s human capital 100 102 Contents Discount Bank’s employees 104 Diversity and equal opportunity 112 Investing more in employees 118 Maintaining employee rights 137 Goals 144 01 About the report 06 Greetings from the Chairman and the President & CEO Discount's Seventh Corporate Social Responsibility Report Dialogue with stakeholders 08 10 13 06 Suppliers Promotion of responsible purchasing Goals 148 150 155 The process of identification of material Topics Reporting to the Global Compact  iscount Bank and the United Nations' sustainable D 13 16 07 Discount for the community Discount for the community Discount Sprint for the Future  156 158 159 development goals16 Discount volunteering in the community 164 Assurance examination 19 Investment in the community 166 02 Group profile and financial data Discount Bank General Overview 22 24 Herzelilinblum  Goals 170 173 08 Mercantile Discount Bank General Overview 30 Green Discount 176 Israel Credit Cards Ltd. ( ICC ) General Overview 33 Policy 178 IDB Bank General Overview 37 Green credit  179 Membership of organizations and external Initiatives 38 Promoting green building 180 Social Responsibility Ratings 39 Responsible consumption of resources 182 Commendations and prizes 40 Goals 193 Contributing to the economy 41 03 Discount spirit Formation of the Discount Spirit  44 46 09 Corporate governance The General Meeting of Shareholders The Board of Directors 194 196 197 Vision, Values and Everything in Between 47 The Bank's Management 212 The Code of Ethics 50 Remuneration of senior officers 212 04 The Customers Policy Suits you better Quality of Service 52 54 58 Principal control functions Corporate Governance Code for the Discount Group Goals 214 217 226 10 Innovation 70 Index 228 Financial education 76 Thank you's! and Responses to the Report 229 Services and products for the advancement of populations 81 GRI Content index combined with UNGC 230 Fairness in products 90 Principles of the Global Compact initiative 237 Customer privacy and information security 94 Appendices 238 Goals 98 List of tables and charts 246 06 > About the report About the report > 07 01 About the report Greetings from the Chairman and the President & CEO  08 Discount's Seventh Corporate Social Responsibility Report 10 Dialogue with stakeholders  13 The process of identification of material Topics  13 Reporting to the Global Compact  16  Discount Bank and the United Nations' sustainable development goals  16 Assurance examination  19 08 > About the report About the report > 09 Greetings from the Chairman and the President & CEO We are honored to present the Corporate Social Responsibility Report ( CSR ) of together with the employee representative committee to grant tenure to dozens of employees Discount Bank for 2017. The publication of the CSR Report reflects Discount with disabilities. We have positioned the value of volunteering as a leading organizational Bank's deep commitment to the subject of social and environmental responsibility, value, and we encourage our employees to volunteer and contribute to the community. including in matters of corporate governance. Discount Bank has a long-standing tradition, which began with the founding generation, The Vision of the Bank was formed and approved in 2017: We shall endeavor to become the whereby the Bank is involved and active in Israeli society and its communal life. Within the best Bank for its customers, permitting over a period of time, growth and financial solidity scope of its social involvement and commitment, the Bank will continue to take action to by means of adapted, professional and fair banking. Within the framework of assimilating advance weak populations and encourage its employees to participate in activities for the co the Vision, the Bank adjusts to the changing world and creates innovative banking models mmunity, thereby strengthening its social contribution as an organization and as individuals. providing customers with an advanced service tailored to their needs. In the meantime, the Furthermore, the Bank is acting and will continue to act in order to integrate environmental Bank has invested in a number of innovative initiatives in the fintech and innovation field. considerations as part of its business strategy and credit policy. This is the seventh CSR Report published by Discount Bank. In our 2015 Report, we have The Discount Group works determinedly and continually to strengthen aspects of corporate included for the first time the principal subsidiaries in Israel: Mercantile Discount Bank governance and the group management, supports the integration of risk management and ICC. The disclosure regarding the said subsidiary companies has been enlarged and processes and aspects of fairness and decency within the ongoing endeavors. intensified in this report, reflecting their acclaimed activity in the social responsibility field. In 2010, the Bank joined the United Nations Global Compact initiative. This report Within the framework of this process, in this report we have begun the process of gradually constitutes also an annual update of this initiative in respect of 2017. In this respect we integrating the subsidiary IDB Bank, a process that will continue also in the next reports. In reiterate the Bank's commitment to the Global Compact initiative and to its ten principles. addition, we decided this year to strengthen the CSR management at the Bank and the Group Publication of the CSR Report was made alongside additional reporting frameworks: in a gradual, multi-year process, within the framework of which, the policy and goals of some to the Maala Organization, to the VIGEO EIRIS research body and to the greenhouse material topics were examined and validated. Over the coming two years, we will continue gas emission reporting and recording center of the Israel Ministry of Environmental with this process until all the topics defined as having high materiality have been covered. At Protection. This reporting structure reflects the Bank's and the Group's commitment for the same time, the report itself has been upgraded both in its preparation and in its design. transparency and for broadening its activity in social responsibility areas. Within the framework of the Group's activity towards the creation of joint value for the The CSR Report presented below is not only a report or summary of activities, but is also, customers, Discount Bank acts to develop and offer banking products for the advancement and mainly, a promise to continue the activities of the Bank and its employees in servicing its of designated populations, such as households ( the family program), small and minute customers, with fairness and decency, continuing to work opposite the stakeholders of the businesses, freelancers, women being victims of violence and students, while promoting Bank and for the community alongside we work. access to and knowledge in the financial education field. MDB focuses on creating value for the non-Jewish customer population and for the Jewish ultra-orthodox (Haredi) customer On behalf of ourselves and the members of the Board of Directors and Management of the population. Furthermore, during the recent decade, MDB, jointly with the relevant government Discount Group, we support all the volunteers being employees of the Discount Bank Group, factors, developed expertise in extending credit to small and medium businesses by means and all those involved in the social activities and projects led by the Group. of governmental funds for the support of businesses. We believe that the nurturing of the human capital is a central factor in the promotion and Shaul Kobrinsky Lilach Asher-Topilsky success of the Bank. Therefore, also in the current year we made considerable efforts in the December 23, 2018 Chairman of the President & CEO development and enrichment of our employees and among other things, we have worked Board of Directors 10 > About the report About the report > 11 Discount's On developments the the issue background of of regarding corporate ICC. The reports of these subsidiaries are at the Core reporting level, and as regards many topics, they are very writing this report, the Bank strives to describe with maximum transparency its activities in relation to topics that Seventh responsibility reporting, and in view of the importance that the Supervisor of Banks attributes to the activity of near to the Comprehensive reporting level. In addition, in this report, we have begun the process of gradually are material to its stakeholders. The Report addresses, in the relevant contexts, the activities of the different Corporate social banking corporations in this respect, the banking corporations heading the banking groups, in accordance with the integrating the subsidiary IDB Bank, a process that will continue also in the next reports.The differences in divisions of the Bank, including the senior levels of Management. The data presented in the Report were Responsibility Reporting to the Public Directives, are required since 2012 to publish reports concerning corporate responsibility for the regulatory, social and economic environment in which the companies in Israel operate, compared to the processed according to the reporting of the Bank's various units, striving to build a data base that will enable Report 1 a period of up to two years. The Bank was the first banking corporation to issue a CSR Report in environment in which the New York subsidiary operates, requires the exercise of considerable care in the inclusion of information about IDB a comparison with data from past years. The calculation methods that are used have been noted in the places where the relevant data are presented. The publication of the CSR Report forms an Israel in 2005 (for the years 2003-2004). Bank. Moreover, IDB Bank is in the The report does not contain any data The second CSR Report was published midst of assimilating a complex and that are in contradiction with the data expression of the Bank's commitment for in 2009 (for the years 2007-2008). The challenging strategic plan, which presented in previous CSR reports social responsibility issues and for their Bank's Third CSR Report (for the years requires substantial management published by the Bank. In cases where 2012-2013) was published in 2014. The resources. In view of these previously published data had been importance as part of the DISCOUNT GROUP Bank's fourth CSR Report (for the year considerations, the inclusion of IDB changed or corrected, this fact was organizational culture. We at Discount 2014) was published at the beginning Bank in the CSR Report will be done distinctly noted. of 2016. The Bank's fifth CSR Report gradually over a number of years. believe that this Report will serve the (for the year 2015) was published The CSR Report complements the variety of categories of our stakeholders at the end of 2016. The Bank's sixth In order to reflect to stakeholders the corporation's financial statements. CSR Report (for the year 2016) was reporting position in these companies Whereas one presents the corporation's and will facilitate the promotion of published in November 2017. The in a transparent and orderly manner, financial performance, the second dialogue, intensifying the relationship and publication of the Seventh CSR Report the Index contained in the Appendix to presents the manner in which things forms an expression of the Bank's the report assigned separate columns are done, the degree of importance heightening cooperation. commitment for social responsibility to MDB, ICC and IDB Bank. that the corporation attributes to the issues and for their importance as part aspirations of its stakeholders, and of its organizational culture. It is the It is noted that the sections describing its efforts to promote areas requiring Bank's intention to continue to publish policy or work procedures at Discount improvement. a CSR Report every year. Bank apply also to MDB and to ICC, unless otherwise stated. On the other In the process of writing this report, The report has been prepared on the hand, in light of the difference in the Bank strives to describe with basis of the GRI Standards, of the GRI the environment in which IDB Bank maximum transparency its activities in organization, in accordance with the operates, wherever the description relation to topics that it considers are Comprehensive option and reviews the relates to it this will be stated of interest to its stakeholders. We at Bank's processes in Israel. specifically. Discount believe that this Report will serve the variety of categories of our In this report, we are continuing and The CSR Report is not just a reporting stakeholders (customers, employees, expanding the process of including framework, but a platform for ongoing suppliers, shareholders, the community the principal subsidiaries in Israel dialogue between the corporation and and environment), and will facilitate 1 102-45, 102-48, 102-49, 102-54. Mercantile Discount Bank ( MDB ) and its stakeholders and in the process of the promotion of dialogue, intensifying 12 > About the report About the report > 13 the relationship and heightening ICC has appointed a social responsibility In certain cases, the report refers to the understanding that in this way the Bank may cooperation. director, who is responsible for reports of MDB and of ICC. These reports reach a better understanding of the needs managing all social responsibility in Hebrew are available on the website and wishes of each group. This dialogue Compilation of the data and its validation issues at ICC. The director of social of MDB8 and on the website of ICC9 (in allows the Bank to enrich and improve was made with the assistance of responsibility management reports English annual reports only). the existing partnership with each group, many functions at the Bank and at the directly to the General Manager of ICC. to listen to and understand the different principal subsidiaries. The final draft perspectives existing in the field, and to of the Report was passed for perusal and approval by members of the Bank's The Board of Directors of IDB Bank has appointed a Community Development Dialogue with adapt the products and services offered by the Bank in a way that would respond in an Management. Act (CRA) Officer. The CRA Officer is responsible for administering IDB Bank's stakeholders10 optimal manner to these needs. Social Responsibility Director CRA program and for ensuring the Bank The dialogue platforms are numerous The Bank has a social responsibility meets the procedural requirements of Corporate responsibility reporting and varied, and include inter alia, round director appointed by the Bank`s the CRA. rests on the approach that a table meetings, surveys, conferences Management. The appointment is corporation must be accountable to the and discussions in accordance with the intended to strengthen the management Distribution of the Report society and the environment in which it character of each group. of the social responsibility field at the The CSR Report in Hebrew may operates, and not only to its shareholders, Bank and reflects the importance be viewed on the Bank's website2 and we at Discount Bank believe that this The dialogue with each group and the attributed by the Bank to this subject. The and in English on the Bank's Investor report will serve all our stakeholder issues that arose from this discourse director’s task is to intensify the social Relations page3, on the website of the groups, and will facilitate the promotion are detailed later in the report, under the responsibility awareness of Bank GRI4 and on the GC website5. In of dialogue, intensifying the relationship various stakeholders. employees as well as of stakeholders, and addition, Bank employees may view and heightening cooperation. to formulate plans of action to achieve the the Report also on the employees' goals designated for this area. portal. A stakeholder is anyone that Discount Bank influences or is influenced by: The process of The social responsibility director reports to the head of the Human Resources and In certain cases the report includes reference to details presented in the customers, employees, shareholders, the community and the suppliers, identification of Properties Division, who is in charge of managing social responsibility at the Bank's 2017 Annual Report and 2018 quarterly reports. These are available environment (it should be noted that as a financial corporation, in its main field of material TOPICS11 Bank's Management level. for perusal at the Bank's website activity financial brokerage the Bank's see above) (translation into English vendors are essentially its customers, Within the framework of the MDB has appointed a social responsibility of these reports is to be found in the which their activity as depositors serves preparations for the 2017 Corporate director, whose duty is to increase Investor Relations page, see above). the Bank in providing financial resources. Social Responsibility Report (this Report), awareness to social responsibility Furthermore, the reports are available Another significant party is contracted and in accordance with the requirements among the bank's employees. The for perusal (in Hebrew) also at the workers, who are discussed in the of the GRI Standard according to which social responsibility director reports to Magna website of the Israel Securities chapter dealing with employees). this Report is being written, the Bank had the Head of the Human Resources and Authority6 and at the Maya website of conducted a process validating and Administration Division. the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange Ltd7. Discount Bank promotes and encourages updating the material topics, which an open discourse with all groups defines the corporate responsibility topics of its stakeholders, arising from the to be reported by the Bank and at what 2 www.discountbank.co.il 3 www.discountbank.co.il/IR 4 http://database.globalreporting.org /companies/view/1806 8 http://www.mercantile.co.il/MB/private/about-mercantile/financial-reports/annual reports 5 http://www.unglobalcompact.org/participant/12568-Israel-Discount-Bank-Ltd 9 http://www.cal-online.co.il/he-il/Cal/CalServices/about/pages/financialReports 6 https://www.magna.isa.gov.il/details.aspx?reference=2014-01-017514&file=2&id=011 60 10 GRI 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 7 http://maya.tase.co.il/bursa/report.asp?report_cd=885621 11 102-46 14 > About the report About the report > 15 The material topics matrix Material topics reporting Boundaries12 High Medium Low A material topic in the Report The GRI topic Limit of the impact Prevention of corruption Anti-corruption Within the organization Prevention of corruption Customer privacy Economic performance Economic performance Within the organization Fairness of products Marketing and Labeling Within and outside the organization Accessibility for persons with disabilities Advancement of Financial Education Marketing and Labeling Within and outside the organization Regulatory Compliance Socio Economic Compliance Within the organization High Work environment and conditions of Employment Within the organization employment Occupational Health and Safety Within the organization Labor/Management Relations Within the organization Diversity and equal opportunities Non Discrimination Within the organization Diversity and Equal Opportunities Within the organization Economic performance Social/environmental products Accessibility regarding Involvement in the local community Local Communities Within and outside the organization Fairness of products disadvantaged populations Indirect economic impacts Indirect Economic Impacts Within and outside the organization Customer service Training and development of employees Training and Education Within the organization Stakeholders Advancement of financial education Corporate governance Medium Regulatory compliance Work environment and terms of employment the topics. In this framework, overlapping Presented hereunder are the material Diversity and equal opportunities topics belonging to the same content changes made to the material topics matrix Involvement in the local community world had been merged, with the intention of the Bank: that focusing would enable the Bank to manage and advance in a more efficient 1. F  ive new topics have been added to Indirect economic implications Responsible procurement manner the corporate responsibility topics, the materiality matrix of the Bank: and enable readers of the Report to obtain accessibility regarding handicapped Training and development of Customer diversity employees a clearer image regarding the central topics persons ; customer service ; customer Environmental and social risk on the agendas of the Bank and of its diversity ; corporate governance ; Low management stakeholders. accessibility regarding disadvantaged Management of the populations . environment field The combination of the stakeholders' interests and those of the Bank enabled It is noted that these topics had also been the creation of the materiality matrix, in reported by the Bank in earlier reports, which a list of 20 topics had been formed. though they had not been defined as Discount Bank material reporting topics. Community Environment Employees Customers Corporate Governance Of the 20 corporate responsibility topics, 10 topics had been identified as material 2. A merger of topics dealing with the same requiring report. These topics are issue was made in several cases: scope and order of importance. and corporate responsibility group at topics rated at a high importance level BDO Consulting. The said analysis rated with respect to the Bank. In addition,  Work environment and employment The process of validation of the materiality the material topics with respect to the the Report also includes information terms includes also the topics matrix and identification of the list of topics stakeholders according to a high, medium regarding topics not defined as material, of employee welfare , work having a material impact regarding the or low level of importance. due to the wish of the Bank to promote environment complaints mechanism , stakeholders in the Bank for the year 2017, a high level of transparency and the Management-employee relations and included a comprehensive analysis of At the same time, the Bank has need to report data required by different employee union . the material topics existing at the leading conducted a rating of the material topics initiatives and frameworks of which the banks in Israel and in the global networks of with respect to the Bank. Bank is a member.  Responsible procurement includes stakeholders (GRI, SASB), which had been prepared for the Bank by the sustainability The process included also the focusing of 12 102-47. 16 > About the report About the report > 17 also topics of evaluation of the Goal No. 8 of long-term savings, sensible financial supplier's work environment , Discount Bank and Decent work and conduct, investment channels in the evaluation of the supplier's influence economic growth pension savings field and more. over human rights and environmental evaluation of the suppliers . the United Nations' Meaning of the goal for Discount Bank: MDB focuses on the creation of value for  Diversification and equality of sustainable As part of its business activity, the Bank contributes to the growth of the economy the non-Jewish customer population and for the ultra-orthodox (Haredi) customer opportunities includes also topics of gender equality and prevention of development goals and the society in Israel. population. discrimination . The Bank aspires to be the best bank for Goal No. 10 193 member states of the United its customers, enabling economic growth Reducing inequality  Management of the environment Nations adopted in September 2015 and financial stability over a long period of field includes the topics of energy the new agenda for the sustainable time, by providing adapted, professional Meaning of the goal for Discount Bank: consumption and higher efficiency , development towards the year 2030, by and fair banking services. The Bank views with importance the emission of greenhouse gases and air means of determination of the global goals diversification in employment, while pollutants , environmental investments for sustainable development the The Bank diligently maintains its offering employment opportunities to and consumption of materials . Sustainable Development Goals (SDS's). employees' dignity, proper labor relations populations in the community which are and employee rights, in accordance with under-represented in the labor market. 3.  The topics concerning business The development goals include 17 goals the law and labor agreements. continuity , asset management and and 169 targets, covering a wide range The activity at the Bank: screening and sewage and waste of sustainability issues, which have been The activity at the Bank: Prevention of discrimination the Bank were found to be immaterial to the adopted with the aim of replacing the Promotion of small and minute opposes discrimination of any kind operations of the Bank and therefore no Millennium Development Goals, the validity businesses one of the strategic focus whatsoever, and applies this principle longer appear in the matrix. of which expired at the end of 2015. points of the Bank is the small and minute when hiring employees, promoting them businesses segment. The Bank assists and determining their employment terms; The State of Israel is an active member of all these businesses in various ways, among Reporting to the relevant platforms for the implementation of the goals, being represented by officers which, promoting convenient solutions for management of business (such as Employment of populations which are under-represented in the labor market Global Compact from the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Ministry of Foreign iCount) and development of a designated and adapted service for freelancers; Employment of handicapped persons, persons of Ethiopian origin and ultraAffairs. Realization of these goals requires orthodox (Haredi) women, employment The Bank joined the United Nation the cooperation of all sectors in the country Family program a program enhancing of persons with special needs and Global Compact initiative in governmental, business and civilian. the financial power of customers having employment in the summer months of September 2010 and since then submits As inferred from the definitions of the family ties who hold different accounts youth having vision deficiencies; an annual progress report regarding the United Nations, a considerable part of the with the Bank, by focusing on the needs of Bank`s social and environmental implementation of the goals is based on the customer and his family, turning them Promotion of peripheral areas activities. This report, as well as previous the business-private sector. into a single financial group enjoying a establishment of a telephone call center CSR reports, constitutes an annual variety of singular services and benefits, at Nesher. ICC operates a service and progress report in respect of the years An analysis of the corporate social in accordance with the combined data of marketing center in Ashdod; 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013, responsibility aspect activity of Discount the participants in the program; respectively. An Appendix to this report Bank, as compared with the United Nations Employment of persons belonging to includes an index comprising a crossgoals, found 5 goals being most relevant Financial education the Bank minority population groups MDB is reference table between reportable to the operations of the Bank. The efforts approaches its customers and the public one of the largest employers of persons items in accordance with the Global made by the Bank in promoting these at large making the financial language belonging to minority population groups; Compact initiative and their reference in goals are widely described in the relevant accessible to all age ranges, inter alia, by this report. parts of this Report. increasing the awareness and importance Sprint Discount cooperation with the The following goals are presented in accordance with their relevancy to the Bank's activities. 18 > About the report About the report > 19 Sprint for the Future Association, which Goal No. 4 its operations, and acts to fight bribery develops and operates programs for the Quality education and corruption. Assurance advancement of youth at risk in peripheral areas, with a view of reducing social gaps and increasing social mobility by means of Meaning of the goal for Discount Bank: The Bank sees the education field as a The activity at the Bank: Code of Ethics based upon the Bank's examination education and knowledge; generator of personal and social success vision and values and comprises a of the individual. Respectively, the Bank compass for the employees, directing The report has successfully Granting donations and sponsorships acts to promote quality education and them towards proper, ethical and undergone the GRI Materiality the Bank focuses the human and financial learning opportunities. appropriate conduct; The principal Disclosure Service. resources on activities in aid of children subsidiaries have a code of ethics of and youth at risk and distress situations, The activity at the Bank: their own; The Bank's CSR Report has undergone conducted mainly in the education and Sprint Discount program the flagship an assurance examination by an outside, knowledge fields. This is based on the program of the Bank for the advancement of Corporate governance code application objective body The Center for Quality concept that these fields comprise the education and knowledge in geographical of the 'best practice policy with respect Assurance of CSR Reporting that operates generator for personal and social success and social peripheral areas; to corporate governance, which is based within the framework of the CSR Institute of the said target populations. upon the provisions of the law and at the College of Law and Business which Herzlillienblum Museum a private regulations applying to the Bank in this determined that Discount Bank meets the banking museum intended to increase field; The principal subsidiaries have also GRI requirements for the In Accordance Goal No. 9 knowledge in economics and financial adopted a corporate governance code; Comprehensive reporting. The Report Industry, innovation education fields; presents fairly Discount Bank's activities and infrastructure Avoiding conflict of interests within the for the given period. Furthermore, the Assistance to students the Bank and MDB Board of Directors in addition to abiding Report is balanced and properly presents Meaning of the goal for Discount Bank: offer students a variety of finance solutions by proper conduct of banking business Discount Bank's activities in the various Within the framework of its strategic designed to respond to their special needs. directives, the corporate governance code material topics, in financial sector activity plan, the Bank aims at implementing MDB operates a unique program for the of the Discount Group states that the in Israel and for the Bank itself. technological means which will intensity promotion of higher education in the Board of Directors shall determine a policy customer experience, and aspires to minority population groups. and rules for the treatment of conflict of lead the personal and humane service experience, based on listening to and interests designed to protect the Bank from improper or illegal operations; QUALITY ASSURANCE understanding the customers' needs, while Goal No. 16 STATEMENT: creating innovative and clear solutions. Peace, justice and Whistle blower mechanism a hot strong institutions line has been established at the Internal The activity at the Bank: Audit Division for the handling of DISCOUNT BANK 2017 Fintech and innovation The Bank Meaning of the goal for Discount Bank: anonymous calls in respect of suspicion CORPORATE SOCIAL creates innovative banking models The Bank holds the funds and financial of fraud and embezzlement, improper RESPONSIBILITY REPORT intended to provide customers with assets of its customers. In such accounting treatment, non-compliance advanced services adapted to their needs. operations, the most basic condition for with the provisions of the law or material INTRODUCTION In doing so the Bank invests in several conducting business is the confidence deviations from the Bank's procedures. The Corporate Social Responsibility innovative initiatives in the fintech and that the customers show towards the Furthermore, a circular in this matter Institute is an independent public innovation fields, such as iCount, PayBox, Bank. has been published to the employees, body that works to promote the concept and Didi the digital representative; in which it is clarified that the Bank's of Corporate Social Responsibility The Accordingly, Discount Bank diligently Management shall not allow any action Institute operates within the framework of Promotion of environmental credit maintains the rules of ethics and taken against employees who bona fide the College of Law and Business, which extending credit to the solar energy field; conducts its business in a legal and had submitted complaints. A similar is a private college (recognized by the fair manner, strictly abiding by the mechanism operates at the principal Council for Higher Education) for the Sponsorships in the environment field. provisions of the law and regulations in subsidiaries. study of law and business administration. The following goals are presented in accordance with their relevancy to the Bank's activities. 20 > About the report About the report > 21 The Institute’s work includes, inter alia, the 3. Responsiveness – reporting regarding the design aspect, it is clear that there has D  ialogue with stakeholders – This convening of professional meetings, the topics raised by the stakeholders. been a significant change for the better approach, under the GRI’s guidelines, is writing of reports, research and market since the previous report for to 2016. aimed at opening up the organization surveys, the “conversion” into Hebrew of FINDINGS The report is now more readable and is to receiving feedback concerning applied methodologies from the rest of This is the seventh report that Discount easier to understand for readers. With its operations from the public and the world, etc. In April 2018, Discount Bank has published and joins the trend regard to the service aspect, Discount from the social organizations that Bank requested that the Institute instigate of sustainability reporting adopted by Bank is taking a major step in making are also involved in financial and a quality assurance process with respect the whole of the Israeli banking sector, its services accessible to freelancers. banking issues. A review of external to its 2017 corporate social responsibility with this being in conformity with the With the expected changes in the labor methodologies, such as those of the report. requirements of the Supervisor of Banks. market, it would appear that more and GRI or the SASB, important as this The report adopts the latest reporting more people are making their living as may be, is no substitute for direct It is hereby declared that the Institute guidelines of the GRI and the SRS, while freelancers from home or from shared interaction with local stakeholder. receives a payment to cover the time it complying with the broad reporting workspaces. This change also requires This dimension of dialogue is missing invests in this process. Furthermore, it framework known as ”Comprehensive”. I adaptation on the part of the providers from the report. should be noted that neither the Institute hereby declare that the Discount Group of banking services and there can be nor Mr. Liad Ortar (who performed the has indeed complied with the scope of no doubt that this measure by Discount Consistency in the presentation of work) has any consultative business disclosure and reporting at the requested Bank is a step in the right direction. goals – Some of the report’s chapters relationship with Discount Bank and level and has demonstrated that it is in present clear goals, while others that the quality assurance process was compliance with the three principles REMARKS REGARDING THE REPORT: do not. The setting of goals and conducted independently and without presented above. T  iming of the report’s publication the ability to track their realization bias. During the course of the quality – This report is being published in the coming reports constitutes assurance process a draft of the report This report, the seventh of its kind, toward the end of 2018 and in fact an important factor in gaining was examined, comments were made and continues to show a trend of noteworthy represents the Bank’s performance an understanding regarding the the above quality assurance statement professional development. The linkage in the period a year and more earlier. operational aims of the organization was drafted. to the United Nations’ sustainability This was also the case regarding the on social and environmental issues. goals (the SDGs) undertaken by the previous report which was published It is therefore recommended that WORK APPROACH Bank this year is also worth noting. This in November 2017. It is a well-known – to the greatest extent possible – The quality assurance process for the is a laudable measure that is in line with and recognized fact that the banks’ measurable goals be presented in corporate social responsibility reports a trend of adoption by corporations financial reporting process is a tight each of the chapters and, of course, is a process the object of which, first throughout the world. I would like to and meticulous process, supervised that suitable attention be paid to and foremost, is to improve the quality emphasize that this linkage is, as stated, by the responsible regulator, and the these in the next report. of the reporting products by means of important and positive, but in the course target date for publication is the end of providing professional feedback. As part of the assimilation process it is expected the first quarter of the year following Congratulations on your good work, of the process, it is examined whether that the Bank will learn to identify not the year being reported. Despite all the report adequately complies with only the mega goals but also the specific the difficulties and organizational three central principles: secondary objectives and even the challenges involved in doing so, appropriate performance indices and the target date for publishing the 1. Inclusiveness – relating fully to the will include such specific reporting in its sustainability report should be as topics covered in the reporting process future reports. close as possible to the publication itself and the how these are reported, of the financial statements. The ideal as well as the inclusion of a wide range Furthermore, I would like to note situation would obviously be to publish Liad Ortar of stakeholders’ in the reporting. favorably the two following aspects that the two reports simultaneously, Manager of the Corporate Social find expression in the report: the first is thereby providing the interested Responsibility Institute 2. Materiality – relating to the topics the change in the report’s design and parties and the stakeholders with a The College of Law and Business that are material to the Company’s the second is in the area of the banking complete picture of the organization’s operations. services for freelancers. With regard to performance. 22 > Group profile and financial data Group profile and financial data > 23 02 Group profile and financial data Discount Bank General Overview 24 NIS Million 8,374 Mercantile Discount Bank General Overview 30 The total economic value produced by Israel Credit Cards Ltd. ( ICC ) General Overview 33 the Group IDB Bank General Overview 37 Membership of organizations and external Initiatives 38 188 Branches in Israel Social Responsibility Ratings 39 Commendations and prizes 40 Platinum Contributing to the economy 41 Plus Discount Bank and ICC were rated by the Maala rating with the highest rating 24 > Group profile and financial data Group profile and financial data > 25 Group Discount Bank General overview banking. The Bank has a banking subsidiary in Israel Mercantile Discount Bank Ltd. (hereinafter: MDB ) a commercial bank serving Securities portfolio management the subsidiary, Tafnit Discount Asset Management Ltd. (hereinafter: Tafnit ) which manages securities investment profile & customers in all fields of financial activity portfolios for private customers, Israel Discount Bank Ltd. through 7714 branches. corporations, not-for-profit organizations (hereinafter: “the Bank”) was and institutional bodies; incorporated in Israel in 1935, as For details regarding the distribution of financial data a public company under the Companies Ordinance. The Bank is a banking corporation having a banking license under the provisions of the Banking Law activity according to geographical regions, see p.245 in the 2017 annual report. The activities in Israel include additional Non-financial investments and underwriting the subsidiary Discount Capital Ltd. is engaged in investments in companies, in private equity funds, in The economic value produced by the (Licensing), 1981. areas, including: venture capital funds, in the investment Discount Group results from its being banking field, as well as in initiating and The Bank was established by the late Mr. Credit cards The Bank controls “Israel assisting public offerings and private a large economic entity, one of the five Leon Recanati under the name of Eretz Credit Cards Ltd.” (hereinafter: ICC ) placements and providing underwriting major banking groups in Israel, which Yisrael Discount Bank Ltd. , in cooperation and “Diners Club Israel Ltd.” (hereinafter: and distribution services by means of a with the founders, the late Mr. Joseph Albo Diners , a company wholly owned and subsidiary company. provides its customers comprehensive and the late Mr. Moise Carasso. The offices controlled by ICC), which issue and market banking services in all areas of of the Bank and its first branch office were “VISA”, “Diners” and “MasterCard” credit International activity at first located at No. 39, Yehuda Halevi cards, both for domestic and overseas use; The international activity of the financial activity Street in Tel Aviv. In 1939 the offices of Discount Group is conducted by a the Bank were relocated to No. 27, Yehuda Halevi Street and in the fullness of time were transferred to 23 Yehuda Halevi Street, Discount Group Structure the site on which the Discount Tower is situated today, in which most of the Head Israel Office units of the Bank are located. Discount Bank Ltd. During the years of its operation the Bank has developed a chain of branches and a wide Banking corporations Banking corporations Capital markets and Credit card in israel abroad investments companies companies variety of commercial banking activities in all banking spheres. As from December 3, 100% 100% 100% E-71.8% V-79% 2013, the Bank turned into a bank having Mercantile Discount Discount Bancorp, Inc. Tafnit Discount Israel Credit no core controlling interest and is subject Bank asset Management1 Cards (ICC) to the instructions applying to banking 100% 100% 100% corporation having no core controlling IDB Bank Discount Capital Diners Club Israel interest, in accordance with the Banking Act (Legislation amendments), 2012. 55% Domestic Operations Discount Capital Underwriting Discount Bank grants its customers 100% comprehensive banking services in all areas of financial activity, through 11113 Discount Note: 1 Directly and Indirectly Manpikim branches in Israel, direct banking and digital 13 The number of branches updated as of December 14 The number of branches updated as of December 31, 2017 31, 2017. 26 > Group profile and financial data Group profile and financial data > 27 subsidiary company in the United States. a leading goal: leading in the Bank's 2. Transformation in traditional banking in the Israeli economy in the coming IDB Bank is the largest of the Israeli banks customer satisfaction by means In order to create a lead in the Bank's years, and also legislative and regulatory operating abroad, and at the present time of customer adapted banking, and customer satisfaction by means of initiatives that are currently known, operates branches in the New York area, comprises three principal layers: customer adapted banking, the Bank is whose enactment is expected with a Florida and in California. This bank has focusing on a number of principal topics: high degree of probability. Material representative offices in Latin America and 1. Growth and efficiency changes in the state of the economy in Israel. The international activity is This layer represents a continuation of A. Development of communication and the situation of the customer public, characterized as business-commercial and the original strategic plan from 2014, channels, including upgrading of legislative and regulatory changes having private banking. which includes the following tiers: digital channels and the opening of a material effect, material changes in new communication channels; the competitive landscape and material A. Efficiency and stringent management B. Upgrading of service centers (including changes in the security situation could Goals and of expenses, including: Reducing the size of the Discount the branch layout, the TeleBank and the back office); have an impact on the degree to which the targets of the strategic plans are business strategy Group's workforce; Merging branches and extensions, C. The formation of a synchronized multichannel management platform achieved. A further cause of uncertainty arises from the limited ability to as well as making efficiencies in that ensures a quality service for accurately forecast the implications of The updated strategic plan the Bank’s head office space; customers; some of the future processes and their The Bank is engaged in realizing Making savings in procurement  D. Producing information-based business impact on profitability. the vision of the Bank in costs and other expenses. perceptions aimed at enabling accordance with its multiannual customers to receive the value offer Dialogue with the investors strategic plan that was approved in B. Customer focused growth: that is best and most suited to them. The first and principal layer of 2014 and updated in 2016 in accordance Growth in the retail segment, with communication with investors in with market developments (as emphasis on private and small 3. D evelopment of Innovative Banking securities of the Bank is the layer of extensively discussed in the 2016 business customers, at the Bank Models regulatory reports reports in financial report pp. 18-20). and at the subsidiaries, MDB and The Bank is putting to the test a number accordance with instructions and ICC; of solutions and innovative banking guidelines of the Supervisor of Banks With the refreshing of the strategy,  Nurturing the connection with models. This, with a view of expanding and in accordance with the provisions the projects map was also updated so the Bank’s customers by means to new customer populations and to of the Securities Act and the Regulations that at the end of 2017 the Group is of upgrading suitable and useful additional platforms and services, as under it. These reports include annual, managing 25 strategic projects. The value offers across the spectrum part of the value offer by the Bank. quarterly and immediate reports. change administration established in of distribution channels, while 2014, continues to lead the coordination implementing technological Forward-looking information. The main Within the framework of the dialogue of the change programs, to assist in improvements and enhancing the points of the strategic plans presented their implementation, to monitor and customer experience; in this chapter include assessments with investors, the Bank conducts twocontrol their progress and to report Transferring operational activities that fall into the category of forwardway communication with investors in to Management and the Board of from the branches to the backlooking information, such as the Directors. office “the Banking Service estimate of profitability, the efficiency securities from the Bank outward, and Center”, as well as assimilation and growth targets that have been set, from stakeholders inward. Within the framework of the strategic of faster and more simple work and so forth. These assessments are plan, several financial goals were set, processes at the branches. based on the latest information and The Bank maintains an additional the principal of which are achieving a estimates available to the Bank and its layer of communication with investors return on capital of approx. 10% by 2021 C.  Assimilating a change supporting subsidiaries. in securities of the Bank (existing and achieving an efficiency ratio approx. organizational culture; and potential), as well as with other 60% by 2021. The strategic plans are based on parties (such as: analysts and research D.  Focus and reducing non-coreassumptions regarding developments agencies) in Israel and abroad, by The updated strategic plan is based on business activities. 28 > Group profile and financial data Group profile and financial data > 29 means of the investor relations unit grow in 2017, mainly in the field of is active in creating innovative banking between the Bank and factors in the of the Planning, Strategy and Finance credit granted to target populations, models, that would provide customers credit card market on the other hand, Division. This communication is bias defined in the strategic plan. The with advanced service modified to see the Financial Statements as of directional from the Bank to the management of the capital of the Group their needs. Within this framework, the September 30, 2018 (pp.200-201); outside, through conference calls, is strict. The Group's financial base is Bank entered in 2017 into cooperation presentations and other materials robust and has become even stronger. agreement with the fintech company assisting in the understanding of the As of December 31, 2017, the ratio of iCount and acquired the PayBox The Bank adjusts itself to the Bank's results and its operations, maintaining meetings and conferences common equity tier I capital amounts to 10.0% and the liquidity coverage operations in Israel. The cooperation with iCount comprises the first changing world and is active of the Bank's Management with such ratio amounts to 126.7% (on the basis business-technological application in in creating innovative banking stakeholders, distribution of updates of an observation average). This is the the banking sector in Israel, applying an models, that would provide regarding events and more. And in the capital infrastructure that allows the open banking concept for an interface other direction from stakeholders Group to continue growing. with third party suppliers, which is customers with advanced service to the Bank, through the reflecting applied by way of the Application modified to their needs. Within this of opinion and analysis of the The implementation of efficiency Programming Interface ( API ) platform, relevant stakeholders and providing measures continued in 2017, including which is of the most advanced in the framework, the Bank entered in Management and the Chairman of the Lean processes, basing the activity world, enabling a secured connection 2017 into cooperation agreement the Board (and alongside the decision making process on relevant matters, of the banking service center, reducing the floor space being used by the Bank, on the basis of a global standard. with the fintech company iCount also before the Board of Directors) with including the merger of branches and Furthermore, as part of the actions for and acquired of the PayBox feedback on the results of the Bank and the continuing vacating and sale of the promotion of innovation, the Bank operations in Israel its activities, as well as the integration buildings (used by branches and the initiated, developed and introduced in of such contents in the decision making head office), as well as additional 2017 Didi the digital assistant in the process at the Bank. measures leading to direct savings in Discount application , which enables The Bank has continued to devote and Bank expenses. customers to perform transactions, invest considerable managerial efforts The activity of the Bank's investor access information and get insights and attention to the preparations and relations unit is based on the concept Issue of Subordinated Debt Notes regarding the activity in their account, upgrading of the infrastructure required that transparency, cooperation and a (Series L). On January 9, 2017, the Bank by means of a request in simple to deal with cyber risks and crossfruitful dialogue create value for both completed the issue of subordinated language, either in writing or orally. The border risks, all this alongside the sides and enable stakeholders to debt notes in a total amount of NIS 784 service is based on advanced analytic continued integration and assimilation make long-term educated investment million, which include a mechanism for capabilities and artificial intelligence, of the risk management, compliance decisions. The Bank's Management the absorption of capital losses, being and is the first of its kind in the banking and conduct culture. believes in strengthening and capital instruments classified as Tier 2 sector. See expanded discussion in the preserving relations with investors in capital for the purpose of inclusion in Chapter Customers below. securities of the Bank, and has even the Bank's regulatory capital. The said defined this field as part of its strategic issue contributed approx. 0.5% to the Additional Issues. Both the Bank focusing for the coming years. overall capital ratio. and ICC have reviewed the possible implications of changes in the financial Principal operations and central Formation of the Discount Spirit . A system, following the conclusions and events during 2017 widespread move for the formation of recommendations of the Committee 2017 was the third year of the vision, values and ethical code. For for the Increase of Competitiveness in operation in implementing the additional details, see the Chapter The Banking and Financial Services in Israel strategic plan announced by the Discount Spirit below. ( the Strum Committee ; see the 2017 Discount Group in August 2014. Annual Report (pp. 371-374). For details Fintech and Innovation. The Bank in respect of agreements between ICC The Discount Group continued to adjusts itself to the changing world and and certain banks on the one hand, and 30 > Group profile and financial data Group profile and financial data > 31 acquisition by Discount Bank of all This comprehensive framework of offer and a step up in online channels. Mercantile the interests of Barclays Bank in MDB, the Bank changed its name into the operation enables MDB to provide to its customers the full range of banking Major projects implementation. Discount Bank present name. The Bank is defined as a banking corporation under the and financial solutions and grant them professional service of the highest level, Execution of the said strategic plan involves the implementation of General overview Banking Act (Licensing), 1981, and through diverse communication lines structural changes and changes in it holds a banking license under the for all banking products prevailing in the work processes, which are integrated at Mercantile Discount Bank said Act. MDB is a private company market, adapted to the specific needs MDB within the framework of projects, will celebrate 100 years of that is wholly owned and controlled by of the customers. The said services are including: operation in 2018. Discount Bank. The larger part of the provided to customers of MDB through Head Office of MDB is located in the a countrywide network of branches, A  change in the organizational The financial activity in Israel of Yovel Tower in Tel Aviv while another numbering 77 branches. structure of the Retail Division the banking institutions that were part is located in the city Holon. and adjusting it to operating in the predecessors of MDB began in 1918, The strategic plan of accordance with targeted segments; with the conquest of Israel by the British, MDB is engaged in financial commercial Mercantile Discount Bank Performing  segmentation of when the Anglo-Egyptian Bank, activity and provides services to all The Board of Directors of MDB customers; operating at the time in Egypt, operating segments, including: diverse approved in 2015 a strategic plan  Greater efficiency of branch established three branches: in credit activity and foreign trade and for the years 2016-2020. The plan distribution; Jerusalem, Jaffa and Haifa. At a later foreign currency services. In the contains two main lines of action: the Encouraging customers to increase date, in 1921, a fourth branch was mortgage loan field, MDB offers its one expansion of retail operations the use of online services. opened in Nazareth. In 1925, Barclays customers services through mortgage (households and small businesses), Bank DCO (a bank owned by the British centers operating within the branches. within the framework of which, MDB is Principal activities and events at Bank Barclays Bank which provided The bank specializes in business, intended to focus on specific sections Mercantile Discount Bank in 2017 financial services to the authorities all from minute businesses to middle of the population, in respect of which The year 2017 was the third work over the British Empire) acquired the market businesses, in all sectors of this bank has many years of experience year for the implementation of the shares of the Anglo-Egyptian Bank, thus the economy. In the course of the in the granting of banking services strategic plan of MDB. The carrying out turning it into a part of the Barclays last decade, the bank, in cooperation matching their unique needs. The other of the strategic plan involves the Bank Group. In 1971, Barclays Bank with relevant governmental agencies, streamlining operations by means of implementation of structural changes as DCO changed its name into Barclays developed expertise in the granting of strict management of operating well as changes in work procedures Bank International . credit to small and medium businesses expenses and improvement in income implemented at MDB within the by means of governmental funds structure. framework of projects, including: Mercantile Discount Bank (MDB) was supporting businesses. The bank incorporated in October 1971, by provides to its customers, among 2016 plan. The Board of Directors of Expanding the activity of the back Barclays Bank International of England other things, divers services regarding MDB approved in the second half of office unit within the framework of (hereinafter: Barclays Bank ) and by their securities operations through a 2016, a strategic retail plan, prepared which certain operational activities are the Discount Group, under the name of: wide layout of consultants located at by Management of MDB with the transferred from the branches to back Barclays Discount Bank Ltd. . the bank branches and markets credit assistance of external consultants. office operational centers, with the cards offered by ICC and Diners club. The plan is intended to intensify the aim of increasing the resources of the Soon after its incorporation on activity in the retail segment, including branches available for customer service December 7, 1971, MDB acquired all Furthermore, MDB has international the focusing on designated segments and for the continuing development of the assets and liabilities of the Barclays relations with brokers, enabling customers of population, in respect of which the the Bank's activity; Bank branches in Israel (by that time to transact business also on foreign bank has acquired over many years some 40 Barclays Bank branches had securities markets. The Bank offers its specialization in providing banking Improvement of the computer been in operation in the State of Israel). customers an array of online banking services, as regard to both households infrastructure including the services by means of the telephone and and small businesses; segmentation infrastructure relating to the On February 28, 1993, following the the interactive internet website. and adjustment of customer value development of operations in the 32 > Group profile and financial data Group profile and financial data > 33 retail segment, such as: expansion commercial Division ), within the financial arm of the company for the of the channels used for providing banking services, improvement of the framework of which the operations of the corporate wing of the Division was Israel Credit Cards purpose of providing credit to holders of the company's credit cards), Diners technological infrastructure allowing transaction not requiring the physical merged into two commercial wings; Ltd. ( ICC ) Finance Ltd. (engaged in financing the credit for a part of Diners credit cards), signature by the customer, the Organizational change in the Retail General overview Iatzil Finance Ltd. (engaged in providing upgrading and increase in the number Division Management of MDB financing services to trading houses of automatic teller machines at the approved in the last quarter of 2016 ICC was incorporated in through the discounting of VISA , branches and the development of organizational changes in the Retail 1979 as a private MasterCard , Diners , American advanced digital applications enabling Division, which include: company under the Express and IsraCard credit card bank customers to obtain available Companies Act. The vouchers) and ICC Deposits Ltd. all of information and transact banking A  n organizational change at the company is engaged in which are wholly owned subsidiaries of operations through mobile means of marketing wing, derived from the credit card operations and in the ICC. communication; implementation of the new strategic development of payment solutions and plan, whereby referents have been financial products. ICC is considered In addition, ICC has a 20% stake in Reorganization at the Commercial appointed for the marketing of an auxiliary corporation under the the share capital of Shlomo C.A.L Banking Division A reorganization banking products and services for Banking Act (Licensing), 1981. Discount Ltd. (a company providing credit was implemented on January 1, 2017, designated populations which are Bank holds 71.8% of the equity rights to private individuals interested in at the Commercial Banking Division adapted to their special needs; and 79.0% of the voting rights in ICC. purchasing new vehicles by leasing (in its former name: the CorporateThe First International Bank of Israel transactions), and a 10% stake in the E xpanding the operations of the Ltd. holds the rest of the rights in ICC. share capital of Casponet Ltd. (which credit and control wing, including The company offices are located in is engaged in installing and operating the appointment of referents for the Givataim. of cash withdrawal machines at trading operational risk and compliance risk houses). These companies provide to management fields. The main two lines of business in which their customers, in cooperation with ICC is engaged are the issue of credit ICC, supplemental services to those The assimilation of these organizational cards and the clearing of transactions provided by ICC, with the view of changes was implemented in the course made by credit cards. offering customers as wide as possible of 2017; services platform. The income of ICC is composed Risk management continuing the mostly of commission fees on the ICC issues, markets and operates upgrading of compliance activity at operation of credit cards and on the directly VISA , Diners and the Bank, including appointment of providing of payment solutions, as well MasterCard credit cards, valid in compliance officers; as from credit financing income paid Israel and abroad, and is also engaged by its customers: credit card holders in joint issue agreements with banks The Code of Ethics A process of and trading houses. ICC has several participating in the arrangement. ICC structured integration of the Code for subsidiary companies and one affiliate, is also engaged in the clearing of all bank employees was conducted through which it provides to customers transactions made by VISA , Diners in 2017, in continuation of the a part of its services. Such services and MasterCard credit cards, valid introduction of the new Code in 2016; were provided in 2017 through Diners in Israel and abroad, as well as by the Club Israel Ltd. (franchise holder of IsraCard brand (in Israel only). Continuation of the efficiency the global Diners Club chain, which process nine additional employees is engaged in the issue, marketing The strategic plan of ICC retired towards the end of 2017, within and operation of Diners credit On May 23, 2017, the Board of the framework of the 2016 retirement cards, valid in Israel and abroad), C. Directors of the company plan. A. L (financing) Ltd. (operates as the approved the strategic plan for the 34 > Group profile and financial data Group profile and financial data > 35 years 2017-2021. The formed plan, with credit card companies would not For additional details, see Discount Agreement for operating services the assistance of external consultants, apply to ICC but only to its competitors Bank's 2017 Annual Report (pp. 371with Bank Leumi. On March 13, 2018, took into consideration the changes (Isracard and LeumiCard). Only at the 374). ICC, Diners and Bank Leumi Le Israel expected to take place in the credit end of four years would the issue of B.M. (hereinafter: Leumi ) signed card market, in view of the enactment separating the ownership of ICC be reReduction of the cross-commission a memorandum of understanding, of the Increase in Competition and the examined. This and more, if until now rate. The Governor of the Bank of Israel which includes the basic terms for Reduction in Concentration and in the large banks (Hapoalim, Leumi and announced on February 25, 2018 a new the engagement of the parties in Conflict of Interests in the Banking Discount) issued to their customers' outline with respect to the reduction an agreement for the issue of bank Market in Israel Act, 2016. In the opinion credit cards of the credit card of the cross-commission in deferred debit cards to customers of Leumi. of Management of ICC, the companies owned by them (Isracard, charge transactions, from the present The memorandum states that the implementation of the strategic plan LeumiCard and ICC), competition rate of 0.7% to a rate of 0.5%, this in parties shall act towards the signing would enable it to deal, in the best between the companies is now five stages during the coming years. of a detailed joint issue agreement possible manner, with the challenges expected to develop. Concurrently, the In addition, an outline was determined ( the detailed agreement ). The of the financial market in Israel in the banks would be required to move a with respect to the reduction of memorandum states that the parties coming years. It should be noted, that part of the issue of new credit cards the cross-commission regarding would jointly issue debit cards to Leumi the success of the plan depends on a to customers to another credit card immediate charge transactions. customers and that ICC would operate number of factors, the realization of company, at least one, with which they The Bank and ICC estimate that the the issue of such cards. For additional which is not certain. had no previous business. business results of ICC might be details, see the 2017 annual report of materially impaired as a result of the Discount Bank (p. 296). A joint issuing Principal operations and events at From the view point of ICC, although reduction in the commission rate, agreement was signed on August 12, ICC in 2017 there would be a reduction in the issue as stated. For additional details, see 2018. Increase in competition and of credit cards to customers of the Discount Bank's 2017 annual report (p. reduction in concentration Act. The owner banks, ICC would now have the 294). ICC signed new agreements that would Increase in Competition and Reduction in opportunity to compete in the issue enable it to continue in its growth trend Concentration and in Conflict of Interests of new credit cards to customers of For details regarding the draft exemption and establish its competitive position in the Banking Market in Israel (Legislation Hapoalim and Leumi. In the era of terms for the agreement (a new in the credit card market. Included in Amendments) Act, 2017, was published post-entry into effect of the new Act, arrangement in the industry replacing the above is the signing of a document in the Official Gazette on January 31, the different participants in the credit the arrangement expected to expire on of principles with Shufersal Company 2017. card market, banks on the one part and December 31, 2018), published by the and the signing of an agreement with credit card companies on the other Antitrust Commissioner, see Discount GAMA and with Alipay. In the immediate future, the separation part, find themselves in front of an Bank's 2017 annual report (p. 294). from the banks of the ownership of array of moves and action possibilities An agreement in principle with of each of them and of each of the Agreement for issuance operating Shufersal Company. ICC and Diners ICC signed in 2017 new agreements other participants. services with Bank Hapoalim. ICC and Bank Hapoalim B.M. signed on (together the company ) and Shufersal Company Ltd. (hereinafter: that would enable it to continue in The aforementioned could have a January 30, 2018, a letter of agreement Shufersal ) signed on November 2, its growth trend and establish its material effect on the banking system, including the Bank itself and on the for cooperation in preparing the preliminary work towards the signing 2017, a letter of principles for the issuance and operation of off-banking competitive position in the credit credit card market, including on ICC. of a binding agreement for the credit cards to Shufersal customers card market. Included in the above Nevertheless, at this preliminary stage, granting of credit card operating ( the Credit Club and the Cards , prior to clarifying the nature, character, services by ICC to Bank Hapoalim. The respectively). To the best knowledge is the signing of a document of scope and timing of the measures that parties aim at reaching the signing of of ICC, the Credit Club numbers principles with Shufersal Company will be taken, if at all, it is not possible a detailed arrangement. The issuance approximately 0.5 million customers. and the signing of an agreement to assess the aforesaid effects either in terms of materiality or in terms of agreement, if at all signed, requires the approval by the Supervisor of The Credit Club was lunched on January 18, 2018 (date of termination with GAMA and with Alipay. quantity. Banks. of the previous agreement between 36 > Group profile and financial data Group profile and financial data > 37 Shufersal and Leumi Card Ltd., under Israel Act, which includes instructions Delaware holding company it formed to which credit cards had been issued to customers of Shufersal). The the aim of which is to increase competition in clearing operations. IDB Bank hold its shares. agreement shall take effect from Management of ICC estimates that the General Overview IDB Bank provides domestic and the date of signing thereof and until agreement would improve value offer international, personal and commercial December 31, 2027; such period may to the small and middle market trading Israel Discount Bank banking services to its U.S. and foreign be extended for additional periods of houses. of New York also clientele through its main office two years each. For additional details, known by its registered in Manhattan, branches in Staten see the 2017 annual report of Discount Cooperation with Alipay Company. On service mark, IDB Bank , is a full service Island, Brooklyn, and Short Hills, NJ, Bank (p. 297). September 19, 2017, ICC and Alipay. commercial bank licensed by the State of in addition to branches in Beverly com Co. Ltd. (hereinafter: Alipay ), a New York and a member of the Federal Hills and Downtown Los Angeles, An Aggregator agreement with member of the Alibaba group situated Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). California; and Aventura, Florida. IDB GAMA Company. On July 6, 2017, in China, signed an agreement whereby IDB Bank's liquidity and capital ratios are Bank also maintains an International ICC signed an agreement with GAMA Alipay shall provide to ICC processing strong and it is ranked by Crain's New York Banking Facility at its main office; and Management and Clearing Ltd. and and securing payments services in Business as one of the largest commercial representative offices in Chile, Israel, with GAMA Personal Direct Finance respect of transactions cleared by banks in the New York area. Mexico, Peru and Uruguay. IDB Capital Ltd. (hereinafter: GAMA ), whereby ICC in Israel. The payment services of Corp. is the Bank's broker-dealer, and a GAMA acts as an Aggregator Alipay is the leading means of payment IDB Bank is a wholly owned subsidiary of wholly owned subsidiary of IDB Bank. with a view of enabling credit card among customers in China, and this Israel Discount Bank Limited, (IDB Ltd.). transactions through the use of the engagement is designed to provide the IDB Bank specializes in U.S. Private services of GAMA and of the company. best response for the clearing of this IDB Ltd. began its operations in New Banking, International Private Banking, The signing of this agreement is in line means of payment by Chinese tourists York City in 1949, when it established Middle Market Lending, Asset Based with the provisions of the Increase visiting Israel, which in recent years a representative office. At that time Lending, Commercial Real Estate in Competition and Reduction of shows a continuous and consistent there were only a few employees and Lending, Trademark Financing, Centralization in the Banking Market in growth trend. limited contact with the public. In 1962, Factoring, Trade and Finance (Import, IDB Ltd. became one of the first foreign Export and Standby Letters of Credit, banks to open a branch in New York Documentary Collections, Bankers' when the New York State banking law Acceptances). was changed to allow foreign banks to operate branches in the city. In 1967, IDB Bank's broad range of banking Israel Discount Bank Ltd. acquired the services include Personal and Business Hias Immigrant Bank and changed the accounts, Cash Management, Checking name to IDB Trust Company, an FDICAccounts, Money Market Savings insured institution. Ultimately, in 1980, Accounts, U.S. Dollar and Foreign the branch's assets were transferred Currency Time Deposits, Credit to the renamed, wholly-owned IDB Ltd. Cards, ATM/Debit Cards (for personal subsidiary, Israel Discount Bank of accounts), Safe Deposit Boxes (New New York ( IDBNY ). IDBNY also took York main office only), Online Banking, over a major portion of the western Money Transfers, Lockbox Facilities, hemisphere banking operations of Safekeeping and Custody of Securities, its Tel-Aviv parent. Subsequently, the Money Orders and Direct Deposit of Bank took on more contemporary Social Security and other recurring nomenclature with the registered payments. service mark IDB Bank. In March 2000, IDB Bank became a wholly-owned Through its broker-dealer subsidiary, subsidiary of Discount Bancorp, Inc., a IDB Capital Corp, IDB Bank is able to 38 > Group profile and financial data Group profile and financial data > 39 offer investment products such as U.S. Maala The Global Compact is a strategic policy performance of the Bank, for responsible Government and Agency Securities, Maala is an umbrella organization initiative by corporations which have investors around the world. Corporate Stocks & Bonds, Offshore for some 110 of the leading committed to accept, support and apply and Domestic Mutual Funds and Capital companies operating in the Israeli within the framework of their area of “FTSE Russell (the trading name of FTSE Market Instruments. Furthermore, market, which promotes corporate influence, a set of basic values regarding International Limited and Frank Russell IDB Capital Corp can customize a responsibility issues and develops human rights, standards for work and Company) confirms that Israel Discount bond portfolio to the customer's standards for responsible management environment conditions and fight in Bank has been independently assessed specifications (subject to availability in Israel. Maala operates since 1998, its corruption. As part of its participation in according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and prevailing rates), starting with an main object being increasing the this initiative, the Bank has declared its and has satisfied the requirements to investment of US$500,000. awareness of the business sector to the support of the ten universal principles of become a constituent of the FTSE4Good importance of corporate responsibility in this initiative and its commitment to turn Index Series. Created by the global The strategic plan of IDB Bank the Israeli social texture. the Global Compact and its principles into index provider FTSE Russell, the In December 2017, the Board of a part of the Bank's strategy, organizational FTSE4Good Index Series is designed to Directors of IDB Bank approved a Maala leadership leading corporations culture and daily operations. The Bank measure the performance of companies five-year strategic plan for the years in the market which have chosen to submits to the Global Compact initiative demonstrating strong Environmental, 2018-2022. The plan is based upon lead and introduce improvement in the a yearly progress report. The CSR report Social and Governance (ESG) practices. growth while intensifying the old world of corporate responsibility in the since 2013 comprises a progress report The FTSE4Good indices are used by established personal relationship of business sector in Israel. for the relevant years. a wide variety of market participants IDB Bank with its customers, in selected to create and assess responsible sectors in which the bank has expertise The Bank, ICC and MDB are members The Israeli Marketing Union (formerly: investment funds and other products.” and many years of experience, as well of Maala. The Bank is a member of the the Advertisers Union) as leveraging the position of IDB Bank leadership group of Maala. The Bank The Israeli Marketing Union Reporting to the Ministry of as the largest Israeli owned bank in the submits a yearly report to Maala, as part incorporates the marketing Environmental Protection regarding United States. of its participation in the Maala rating. and advertising companies in all emission of greenhouse gases ICC participated this year for the second industries, services and sectors (some A comprehensive annual report, time in the Maala rating. 200 companies). The aim of the Union is voluntarily prepared at present, and Membership of Association of Banks in Israel to lead and promote the marketing profession as a leading profession in the which reviews emission of greenhouse gases by the Bank and organizations and The Association of Banks in Israel was Israeli business world, to serve the needs of Union members in the marketing measures taken to reduce them. The report for 2017 was submitted in June 2018. external Initiatives founded in 1959 as an umbrella organization for all commercial banks and management world and to represent them in front of the various interested parties. The Bank is a member of various mortgage banks. The Association was founded by the banking sector with a view In addition, the Bank reports matters Social organizations. Among prominent organizations in which the the of maintaining an effective dialogue with governmental agencies and with the public related to social responsibility to the following entities and initiatives: Responsibility Bank takes an active roll on a current basis, may be mentioned Maala and private environments with respect to general banking issues. All Israeli banking Reporting to investors through Viego Ratings Organization, the Association of Banks in groups, independent banks and a large Eiris and FTSE4Good Israel of Banks and the Israeli marketing number of the foreign banks operating in An external review of all published Maala rating for 2017 In June Union. In addition, the Bank joined the Israel are members of the Association. reports of the Bank to its investors 2018, Maala published its rating for Global Compact initiative of the United in a condensed format, and its 2017. The Bank has been rated in the Nations. MDB is also a member of the UN Global Compact future action for their improvement in Platinum Plus category (awarded to Association of Banks in Israel of Banks In September 2010, the Bank matters of corporate responsibility. Vigoe companies with an absolute score of over and of the Israeli Marketing Union. ICC is joined the Global Compact Eiris and FTSE4Good are forming the 90). The rating is based on criteria detailed a member of the Israeli Marketing Union. initiative of the United Nations. evaluation of the corporate responsibility in a number of central areas of corporate 40 > Group profile and financial data Group profile and financial data > 41 responsibility: Labor relations, health and ratings are as follows: The CIO for the year Mr. Levy Halevy, Innovate 2017 Within the framework of balancing; responsibility in purchases; the person then serving as Executive Vice the Innovate Competition of the Innovation quality of the environment and “Outstanding” by the Federal Deposit President of Technologies and Operations in Marketing Forum, in cooperation with sustainability; ethical aspects of business Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) CRA at the Bank, won in 2017 the title of CIO the College of Management Academic processes; diversification and containment; Performance Evaluation performed (Chief Information Officer) for the year Studies and the International Advertising contribution to the community; social as of June 6, 2017, and the report was awarded by People and Computers Association (IAA), ICC won also in this involvement of employees; corporate issued on August 31, 2017. Magazine. This title is awarded to only one year the great and prestigious award the governance; corporate responsibility “Outstanding” by the New York State  information technology officer in respect of innovative marketing move of the year, with management and reporting. The rating by Department of Financial Services exceptional performance. The reasons for respect to the introduction of the service Maala covers the largest public and private (“NYSDFS”) CRA Performance the winning stated, inter alia, that Mr. Halevy for the restoration of the secret code. corporations operating in the market, and Evaluation was performed as of sets a model for the perfect execution allows them to be included in the Maala December 31, 2016, and the report was of digital transformation; taking business Superbrand in Israel ICC was also rating and in the Maala Index on the Tel issued on April 5, 2018. responsibility for digital activity, technology nominated in 2017 as a Superbrand in Aviv Stock Exchange. and operations; leading to successful Israel, for the eighth year in a row. The above ratings are the same as the cooperation between President & CEO and This year, ICC was also rated in the Maala prior 2014 FDIC and 2013 NYSDFS CRA Executive Vice President; leading digital Excellence in computers ICC won this rating and was successful in being included, examination ratings. innovation and comprising a source of pride year six awards for excellence in computers for the second time, in the Platinum rating. for the organization; has built a model for the for 2017, within the framework of the combination of innovation and technology competition of the People and Computers BDI rating the best companies to work for Since 2005, the business information Commendations in one organizational framework; has created digital leadership in the banking Group, 2017 IT Awards. and credit risk management company BdiCoface, performs an annual rating of and prizes sector, held in great esteem by customers and employees of the Bank; an innovator, Ms. Irena Fortnik, VP Technologies and Operations at ICC, has been chosen as the the best companies to work for . The rating revolutionist, promoter of computerization excelling CIO in the role model category examines what is important for employees, Discount Bank at the Bank, leader and champion . for 2017, within the framework of the said what are their expectations from the work The computer excellence competition, and there for was granted the place and what are the most desirable competition for 2017 In 2017, the Superbrand in Israel Discount Bank appreciation and excellence token. places to work for. The methodology Bank won eleven awards in the 2017 IT was named in 2017 as a superbrand in includes quantitative parameters (human Awards Competition, for technological Israel for the fifth consecutive year. The The 2017 Service Convention Within the resources characteristics in an organization projects implemented during the year. aim of the International Superbrands framework of the service and customer and the level of investments therein) as This was in addition to winning the Organization is to identify and name experience convention of the Israeli well as qualitative parameters (employee Champion of Champions title for the in each country the brands that have Management Institute, ICC won this year surveys and student surveys). second consecutive year. In the reasons demonstrated brand and marketing the second place in the service competition, In 2017, the Bank was awarded the 17th for the winning, the referees stated that excellence in the local market. The in the digital service and social networks place in the rating and ICC was awarded in the passing year the Bank introduced a Organization is active in some seventy category. the 26th place. series of infrastructure and applicative countries around the world. Since projects, the aim of which was to provide 2009, the Organization is also active in BDI Code A business leadership index rating approximately 500 companies in the greater service and business values to customers of the Bank, as part of the Israel. Contributing to ICC market. In 2017, the Bank was awarded the 19th place in the rating. In 2017, MDB was digital journey that the Bank is undergoing . Product of the year for 2017 Also the economy positioned in the 130th place in the rating A leading bank in the 2017 digital field in this year ICC won the innovation and ICC in the 105th place. In 2017, for the second consecutive year, award within the framework of the product The Bank maintains daily relations the Bank won the Best Digital Banks of the year winning in the category of with the local business community IDB Bank Currently, IDB Bank's overall competition conducted by the Global added value services for businesses in and its members. The Bank is also Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”) Finance Magazine. respect of online credit service. positioned in the meeting point of those 42 > Group profile and financial data Group profile and financial data > 43 wishing to save or deposit funds and those taxes to the authorities as prescribed by law, government support. Financial data of below). MDB is one of the largest employers who wish to draw money for investment and employs a large staff and thus contributes MDB and of ICC are presented in their in the Arab sector. development of their business. The Bank to the livelihood of many families. The annual reports for 2017, available on their contribute to the development of the Group purchases services and products in respective Internet websites. Financial The Bank Group offers services to economy, due to it being a leading bank in a substantial volume, most of which in the data of the Discount Group is presented in customers by means of a widespread the market, which constantly provides a local market. the 2017 annual report of Discount Bank, branch network in the various regions variety of financial and investment solutions which is available on the Bank's website. of the country. This branch network to business entities and to various sectors The economic value created by the contributes both to the availability of of customers. Discount Group Data regarding the activity of the Discount financial services in peripheral areas Hereinafter are presented central Group by operating segments are presented in the country (alongside a variety The economic value produced by the data regarding the added value in the 2017 Annual Report (pp. 231-251). of online banking services) and to Discount Group results from its being created by the Discount Group and Data regarding the activity of the Discount employment in these areas. The Group a large economic entity, one of the five regarding the economic values of the Group by geographical areas are presented specializes in providing services to the major banking groups in Israel. The Bank's Group. in the 2017 Annual Report (p. 245). Data non-Jewish population and to the ultraoperations and its business results create regarding the distribution of the overall orthodox Jewish population by means of value for its shareholders. The Group pays Discount Bank, MDB and ICC do not receive credit risk of the Discount Group according Mercantile Discount Bank. (See Chapter to economic sectors are presented in the Customers below, A wide disposition 2017 Annual Report (pp. 62-65). of branches servicing a wide variety of The economic value created by the Discount Group customers ). 2017 2016 2015 2014 in NIS million Indirect economic The total economic value produced by the Group 8,374 7,996 7,276 7,366 impacts 1 4 4 4 Economic values Total economic value distributed by the Group to its stakeholders2 Total retained economic value3 6,482 1,892 4 6,555 1,441 4 6,291 985 4 6,680 686 The Discount Group is acting towards nis 8,374 million The total economic value Provision for taxes on income from ordinary operations 747 4 741 4 566 4 266 promoting various benefits in favor of produced by the Group in 2017 Number of Group employees 9,374 9,401 9,710 10,190 the public. Among the services for the Employees Salaries and related expenses 7 3,204 7 3,169 7 3,393 7 3,458 benefit of the public may be mentioned the Number of branches in Israel5 188 200 211 218 extensive activity with regard to financial education (see chapter Customers below) Customers Credit to the public ,net Of which: housing loans Credit to small and minute businesses 150,868 28,893 8 30,825 148,562 8 25,764 29,124 129,268 8 21,808 27,207 122,172 20,398 9 and the establishment and operation of the Hertzelilinblum Private Museum (see chapter Discount for the Community nis 747 million Total provision for taxes in 2017 Payment to suppliers 1,467 1,264 1,086 931 below). Suppliers and Purchase in Israel 95.3% 95.9% 97.7% 97.7% community Contributions and investments in the community 6 16.2 17.1 16.3 16.4 In addition, some of the Group's measures An additional indirect impact worth Notes: in the field of employee recruitment, mentioning is the Bank's investment 1  Interest income, net (interest income less interest expenses) together with non-interest income (non-interest financing income, commissions are intended for the empowerment of in its flag ship project in the field of and other income). 2  O perating and other expenses (including among other: salaries and related expenses, municipal tax, donations and community investments) certain populations and to increase their contribution to the community Sprint with the addition of provisions for taxes and dividends. participation in the labor market. The Discount . The project focuses on the 3 The difference between the economic value produced by the Group and the economic value distributed by the Group. 4 Reclassified see Note 1 C 7 to the financial statements as of December 31, 2017 (p. 129). Group acts to promote the employment advancement of youth at risk in peripheral 5 The number includes the Discount Bank branches as well as those of MDB. of women from the ultra-orthodox sector areas with a view of reducing social 6 The volume of monetary donations and donations of an equal monetary value. 7 Reclassified see Note 1 E 3 to the condensed financial statements as of September 30, 2018 (p. 95). (see Chapter Employees below), as well as gaps and increasing social economic 8 Reclassified see Note 12 B to the condensed financial statements as of September 30, 2018 (p. 147). 9 M  easurement of the small and minute businesses segment, in accordance with the directive regarding regulatory operating segments, first employment of special needs personnel leadership by means of education and begun in the 2015 annual report. See Note 1 C 5 (8) to the financial statements as of December 31, 2015 (p.167). (see chapter Discount for the Community knowledge. 44 > Discount Spirit Discount Spirit > 45 03 Discount spirit Formation of the Discount Spirit  46 Vision, Values and Everything in Between  47 The Code of Ethics  50 46 > Discount Spirit Discount Spirit > 47 Discount Formation of the Discount Spirit making it happen, and succeeding together. Some 400 managers had participated in the move for the formation of the Discount spirit , and who are committed to lead the that, in order for this to happen, we need to create added value and shape the experience our customers get at every point of contact with the Bank. Spirit integration process in all units of the Bank. The process of integration will continue We are eager to provide service and In the beginning of 2017, with also in 2018. committed to do so at the highest the passing of two and a half professional standards, from a sincere and years since the beginning of the The plan for the integration of the vision into true desire to work in our customers’ best The Discount spirit incorporates the implementation of the strategic plan, the Bank includes four main lines of action: interests. which outlines the activity in all the core vision, values, rules of conduct and fields of operation and supporting fields Management determining policies and It is important to us that we create value the code of ethics, which guide the of Discount Bank's operations, the need taking value directed decisions, providing over time for all our stakeholders. We treat was found for outlining the organization's personal example, monitoring and control; our customers, colleagues, partners and operations of Discount Bank on its spirit, creation of a change supporting suppliers is how we would have them treat way to become the best bank for its organizational culture, that would Managers Responsible for the integration us: with fairness and integrity, consideration support the success of the organization in the field, in the branches and in the Head and respect. customers. in reaching its business goals, as a Office units; complementary process to the Bank's As a financial organization, we are strategy. At the end of 2016, the Bank's Core processes and strategic projects committed to work diligently in order to Management decided to begin a process tuning all processes and projects in order be deserving of the public’s trust. Beyond for the formation of the Discount Spirit . to reflect the new values; compliance with all laws and binding The process was made of three tiers: procedures, all our deeds and actions Internal communication creation of are conducted transparently and fairly Formation of a vision; an activity for the delivery of messages so as to fulfill the Bank’s commitment Formation of values and conduct rules; encouraging integration all over the Bank, to create and encourage economic and Formation of code of ethics. mainly by means of two communication social growth. platforms: FaceBank the organizational The vision, values and the code of ethics portal and Morning Magazine issue, It is important to us to feel proud of our replaced the previous vision, values and which includes different articles from all workplace and to this end we encourage a code of ethics.The vision of the Bank was units of the Bank. challenging, supportive and pleasant work formed and approved in the first quarter environment. We believe in the people who of 2017. All members of the Bank's senior Integration of the values and the code of work with us and invest in strengthening forum participated in this process. ethics began in the beginning of 2018. them. The vision: We shall endeavor to become All of us together, the Bank’s the We shall endeavor to the best Bank for its customers, permitting over a period of time, growth and financial Vision, Values Management, the managers and the staff, are committed to continuing and vision become the best Bank for its customers, permitting solidity by means of adapted, professional and fair banking. and Everything in promote the Bank’s momentum of change, and the continued future growth over a period of time, growth and financial In the first quarter of 2018, the Bank has Between and success of the Discount Group is the goal we constantly see before us. completed the move for the formation of solidity by means of the Bank's values, principles of conduct We at Discount believe that It is up We at Discount are committed to the adapted, professional and the code of ethics. Values of the Bank: to us to make our customers customer, leading change, making it and fair banking. commitment to customers, leading change, choose us anew every day. We understand happen and succeeding together. 48 > Discount Spirit Discount Spirit > 49 Our Values The ICC vision Committed to the customer Making it happen Vision and values at the ICC aspires to realize the dreams, needs and wishes of its customers with gratification principal subsidiaries and responsibility, at any time and at any place. In accordance with this vision, which is being implemented with professional integrity, innovation The values of Mercantile Discount Bank and courtesy, the communication language of ICC MDB operates in accordance with values is used under the slogan of ICCwhat is good for incorporated in three layers: human, me all this with the aim of enhancing the wishes W  e guarantee a professional and We are innovative and determined organizational and inter-personal. of the company to be attentive to its customers speedy response We take overall responsibility and to grant them exactly what is good for them. W  e customize innovative solutions We stand by our commitments Human W  e provide a convenient, available Responsibility, fairness and integrity for us ICC offers its customers an array of financial tools and transparent service We work with enthusiasm and these constitute an asset. We act taking always and off-banking credit products. In accordance with W  e confer an exceptional service determination to achieve added value personal and organizational responsibility for its business concept, which views the customer at experience and results to the highest standards. our actions.We share joint universal values, the center, ICC has established an organizational We take responsibility for our work which we strictly nurture daily in our work, infrastructure that is focused on the customer and We are aware of our customers’ changing from A to Z and display diligence, principally: fairness and decency, integrity and provides service from one end to another. needs and think from their perspective in initiative and resourcefulness in order compliance with the law. order to provide them with a professional to achieve our objectives. We stand by The values of ICC and speedy response with explicit added our commitments and strive to surpass Organizational Partnership value. We endeavor on tailoring innovative expectations. Professionalism, commitment and excellence Always acting out of commitment and out of solutions to the customer’s needs and for us it is a way of life. mutual responsibility. provide them an exceptional service Succeeding together We maintain high professionalism, personal Integrity experience, with emphasis on availability, excellence and nurture standards of ever Acting fairly, reliably and in accordance with simplicity, convenience and transparency. increasing improvement with commitment for ethical principles. the advancement of the bank and endeavor to Excellence Leading change achieve its business goals. Be ready to face any challenge and overcome it. Our customers are an important and significant Innovation component of our success. The professionalism Always be one step ahead of others. of each of us, whether maintaining a direct Positiveness We cooperate and share knowledge interface with the customer or providing intraEmploy a positive approach, and believe in the We establish a trust relationship organizational service, impacts the excellence ability to succeed. We are considerate and respectful of MDB. Flexibility We see change as an opportunity Acting in accordance with changing situations. We are curious and daring We cooperate, share knowledge, Inter-personal We are open to new ideas consult and think together, thereby Cooperation, mutual respect and tolerance IDB Bank Our Vision creating a multiplier effect. We the path to success. It's not what we offer; it's how we offer it. With We identify change as a growth opportunity establish a trust relationship and relate We believe that in the basis of a steady and longus, it's personal. and display a constant curiosity for to each and every person eye to eye, term business and professional relationship, learning and self-development. We dare with consideration and with respect are to be found values of mutual respect and We dedicate ourselves to providing quality service, to go beyond our comfort zone, to break in order to create a work environment tolerance. personalized attention and innovative products that out of known boundaries and to adopt that is supportive, positive and We act with a feeling of dedication and further the success of our clients. We merge timenew ideas. We display flexibility and act challenging, with an atmosphere that partnership towards all our stakeholders. honored tradition with cutting-edge technology to speedily and diligently in order to adapt encourages personal and professional In accordance with our concept, joint work within create a secure, productive environment where longour operations to the changing world. development. the bank is the key for success and prosperity. term, multigeneration relationships can grow. 50 > Discount Spirit Discount Spirit > 51 its methodical deployment was drawn up so the Ethics Committee and the manner of approach The code of ethics as to ensure that the Code would be deployed effectively within the organization. The code of ethics of the thereto has been publicized by a circular to employees. Recommendations of the Committee regarding cases At the beginning of 2018 a new Code of The executive in charge of ethics at the Bank principal subsidiaries submitted to it are published in the designated website. Ethics was approved at Discount Bank. is Ms. Yafit Gariani, member of Management Control control has been performed over completion The new Code of Ethics was drawn up as part and Executive Vice President, Head of Mercantile Discount Bank of instruction sessions for employees with the of the process of forming the “Discount the Human Resources and Properties Towards the end of 2016, MDB introduced a new collection of feedback and managers' dilemmas. Spirit”, which is the organization’s ethical and Division. Operating together with her is the ethical code serving as a compass in the behavioral basis in building the desired Ethics Committee, whose responsibility organizational and business culture paths, as well as ICC organizational culture within the organization. is to form a policy in the matter of ethics, in the relationship of the bank with the different The officer in charge of Ethics at ICC is Mr. Barak The Code of Ethics relates to moral and monitor the absorption processes and stakeholders (customers, suppliers, employees, etc.). Nardi, a member of Management Deputy CEO ethical behavior, dealing primarily with values deal with dilemmas and ethical issues. The ethical code reflects the leading values of MDB, and Head of the Strategy and Resources Division. The of fairness, honesty, respect and transparency Representatives of the Bank's units officiate and includes three layers: human, organizational and Code of Ethics of ICC was approved in 2014. in its ongoing conduct vis-à-vis various in the Committee. the inter-personal. categories of stakeholders, the principal of New employees engaged by the company are required which are: employees, customers, the The absorption processes integrate The officer in charge of ethics at MDB is a member of to undergo learning for the understanding of the business environment and the community. courseware, the designated Intranet site, Management, Ms. Ronnie Lars VP Head of Human rules and of how to act when facing dilemmas in which contains a collection of dilemmas Resources and Administration Division. the organization, and have to sign that they had read The Code of Ethics was drawn up in a and extended information regarding and understood the principles of the ethical code. process that included examining the codes organizational ethics, integration of ethical The code of ethics was integrated in 2017 in five Furthermore, once in every two years all company of ethics of other financial bodies in Israel dilemmas with professional and managerial routes, as follows: employees must pass a compulsory learning in the and abroad, examining the Bank’s existing qualification processes as well as examining matter by way of interactive learning. Compulsory Code of Ethics, an in-depth examination of and updating the core organizational Introduction the code was distributed in January comprehensive meetings were held in 2017 on the the standards that have been developed in processes in the fields of human resources, 2017, to all Bank employees together with a letter subject of ethics and integrity, for all managers in the this field, and which emphasizes social and customer experience, supplier management, from the Bank's President & CEO. organization. environmental responsibility, preventing etc., all in the spirit of the Code. bribery and corruption and protecting the Guidance instruction sessions were held for all The Code of Ethics of ICC is available to the employees complaining worker on ethics issues, the The reporting mechanisms are an managers of the Bank, who in turn instructed their on the organizational portal of the company and is existing regulation and the requirements of anonymous telephone line and forms subordinates, with the assistance of a designated available to the general public on the Internet website social bodies. addressed to the Ethics Committee also for training layout. The code of ethics was integrated into of the Company. The Bank's Board of Directors and consulting purposes. No approaches were instruction sessions for new employees. Management see great importance in the made in 2017. IDB Bank absorption of the Code and turning it into an Structures and processes the Bank's values have IDB Bank's Code of Conduct is reviewed and integral part of the culture of the organization. The Code of Ethics is available for perusal on been integrated into the annual evaluation of the approved annually by the Executive & Risk Following the drafting of the Code, a plan for the Bank's website15 . employees. An Ethics Committee has been established Committee of the Board of Directors and is headed by the officer in charge of ethics at the Bank subsequently ratified by the Board of Directors. It and the manner of approach to the Committee has was last approved in March 2018. All employees and been regularized. directors annually acknowledge that they have read and understood the principles and standards Reporting and Communication the code of ethics was published contained in the Code of Conduct. Every new on a designated website in the Bank's employees employee is given a copy of the Code of Conduct. Consultation The direct and indirect managers Supervision and control bodies, including the internal audit The Ethics Committee, with an portal, by which it is possible to approach the Ethics The Code of Conduct is administered by the Office Channels function and the compliance and enforcement array approach via the organizational portal Committee and view its publications. A summary of General Counsel in partnership with Human of the code was published on the Internet website Resources. The Code of Conduct is available on the The Ethics Officer, Ms. Yafit Gheriani, Voice mail for making an tel.: 03-5145536, fax: 076-8890418, approach anonymously: of Mercantile Discount Bank. The establishment of Bank’s intranet for all employees to access. email: Yafit.gheriani@dbank.co.il 03-9438811 15 https://www.discountbank.co.il/DB/private/discount-group/about/discount-spirit 52 > The Customers The Customers > 53 04 Policy  the customers 54 432 thousand Active subscribers to the online services 50 thousand Suits you better Quality of Service  58 Customer surveys Innovation  70 Financial education  76 80% Customers satisfied with the last service Services and products for the advancement of populations 81 extended to them by the units Fairness in products  90 Customer privacy and information security  94 13% Reduction in the number of justified Goals  98 approaches made by customers compared with the previous year NIS 30,825 million The volume of credit extended to small businessess 54 > The Customers The Customers > 55 the POLICY new service for freelancers, which includes a personally adapted benefit plan and innovative digital services. Furthermore, the Bank continued to communicating with the banker via mobile application, interacting with Didi The Discount application’s digital assistant and by telephone Customers The vision of Discount Bank: operate the family program , a unique call back service, were expanded We shall endeavor to become program designed for existing and and improved with the aim of the best Bank for its customers, new customers, with existing family improving availability of bankers at permitting over a period of time, growth connections. The family program the branches; and financial solidity by means of also turns the existing family unit into adapted, professional and fair banking. a financial group, enjoying a variety of  Installment began of a new CRM The Bank aspires to be a leader in exclusive services and benefits. system at the Bank branches, In view of the vision, the Bank aspires which allows centralized the experience of personal and to be a leader in the experience of In addition, Discount Bank continues documentation and management people-oriented service, based on personal and people-oriented service, to work toward promoting fairness of customer approaches through all based on listening to and understanding and decency in service values that communication channels; listening to and understanding customer needs, while creating clear constitute an integral part of the customer needs, while creating and innovative solutions and strives ongoing business activity inter alia, by A  command and control center was to create value for its customers in the promoting transparency and by providing established at the Banking Division clear and innovative solutions various banking fields of operation. full disclosure to customers, including intended to regulate the workload at and strives to create value for its the information that has to be provided the branches at all communication Within the framework of assimilating to customers regarding the banking channels: frontal, telephonic and digital; customers the Vision, the Bank adjusts to the products and services offered to them. changing world and creates innovative T  he telephone center was banking models providing customers As part of the strategic plan of the expanded and improved by means with an advanced service tailored to Discount Group, the retail segment of the establishment of a northern their needs. Inter alia in this respect, (households and small businesses) extension at Nesher, with the aim the Bank has invested in several has been defined as a segment under of increasing availability of the innovative initiatives in the FinTech and focus and serves as an engine for the telephone service, while turning the innovation fields. The Bank works to long-term growth and profitability, with TeleBank into a backup center, which integrate a culture of service and insists a focus on strengthening relations with supports the branch service at times on processes of learning lessons in existing customers and improvement of heavy workload, and provides connection with customer relations of the service. The Bank continued in service to customers who were not and dealing with customer inquiries. 2017 to implement the strategic plan served at the branch. and several moves were made in order The Bank is willing to open an account for to reach the multi-annual targets: Service concept customers, and provide them with service, In 2017, the Bank focused on subject to the provisions of the law and T  he move was completed for the differentiating service according accepted banking considerations. From removal of the operational activity to customer segments, including the time to time, the Bank offers different from the branches, with the aim modification of a variety of segment population segments unique solutions of freeing time to be used for adjusted products. Conduct of the and campaigns, on a purely economic improvement of service and sales service is based on the following basis, without involving irrelevant to customers and for changing the principles: considerations of race, nationality, operating perspective; religion or gender. F  ocus on the customer T he communication channels of specialization according to In 2017 Discount Bank introduced a customers with the bankers by mail, segments (customer arenas) instead 56 > The Customers The Customers > 57 of products providing appropriate through a network of 11116 branches in The Bank's website enables to locate terms of lease agreements regarding 3 services and products in accordance Israel. 7717 branches of MDB join the branches according to different properties have been improved. In view with the characteristics and unique above network. This network of sections: business hours, mortgage of the stated above, downward trend requirements of each segment; branches enables the widespread consulting, pension consulting, foreign is evident in the amount of real estate O  ne stop shop A comprehensive offering of banking services country trade, ATM's accepting cash deposits, space used by the Bank (see the 2017 service to the customer at one wide. ATM's disbursing foreign currency Annual Report, p. 319). service point; (according to type of currency), T  eam service Provides a response The Bank offers services to different investment centers, business centers The following branches and extensions for a more comprehensive service at customer segments: households, and accessibility. The website of MDB were shut down in 2017: the Topone address at the branch; small and minute business customers, enables to locate branches according Dan Branch, the Barzilai Extension in M  ulti-channel Enables the private banking customers, large to the following sections: business Ashkelon, the Neot Rachel Branch in customer to perform banking business and the medium business hours, mortgage consulting, business Holon, the Rison LeTzion extension, operations everywhere, at any time, customers. (For details regarding the centers and accessibility. Neveh Shaanan Branch in Haifa, the in every channel and individually definition of the segments, see the Kiriyat-Yam Branch, the Givat Shmuel customized; 2017 annual report p. 231; for details The scaling down of the branch extension, the Shenkin Branch in Tel E  xpert banking Provision of regarding the activity breakdown by layout Aviv, the Romema Branch in Jerusalem, various professional services in business segments, see the 2017 Within the strategic program of the Nahariya Hospital extension in the credit and investment sectors, annual report pp. 234-244; for details the Discount Group, it has been Nahariya and the Rambam extension in including customizing the product to regarding the activity breakdown by decided to reduce real estate areas Haifa. customers’ needs and requirements; geographical areas, see the 2017 held by the Bank and the Group, S  ervice initiative Forecasting annual report p. 245). among other things, in view of the In the beginning of 2017, the Bank customer needs and adaptation of reduction of the labor force. An had conducted a pilot for the product and services; Among other things, MDB specializes in extensive project was put into discontinuation of teller services at T  he integration of standards for providing services to small and minute operation in the last quarter of 2014, two branches, following which, teller handling customer approaches businesses, and in providing services which continued in 2015-2017, within services have been discontinued and the continued reduction in to the Arab and to the Haredi customer the framework of which, examinations until the end of the year at seven complaints; population (for additional details, see are being performed, intended to additional branches. Within the Easy and convenient communication pp.39-40 and 314-315 in the 2017 ensure the efficient and effective framework of the preparations for with the Bank’s customers through Annual Report of this Bank). utilization of the real estate assets. the pilot, clear guidelines had been emails to the banker. The lines of action being examined prepared intended to ensure measures ICC issues credit cards to customers are the reduction in the number of which would reduce, to the extent A system supporting a customer (credit card holders), who use them for branches, reduction in the floor area possible, the inconvenience caused focused marketing was integrated at payments for products and services of branches, merger of branches, by the discontinuation of the service. the Bank's service layouts. This system purchased at different trading houses, improvement in terms of rental Included in the above, the branches places the customer at the center and and also operates VISA , MasterCard agreements or the exchange of rented in which teller services had been customizes the products according to and Diners brand name credit cards. locations, etc. discontinued would have on duty, for his needs and preferences. The two principal lines of operation a period of three months, a banker in which the company operates are Since approval of the strategic plan, who would instruct customers having A wide disposition of branches the issuance of credit cards and the 22 Head Office and branch properties difficulty in using the online services serving a wide variety of customers clearing of credit card transactions (for have been closed (of which 11 in 2017), and also would enable customers to The Bank offers its customers further details, see p.41 of the 2017 merger of 27 branches and extensions reach nearby branches where teller comprehensive banking services annual report of the company). have been made (of which 11 in 2017), services are available. 3 investment centers, 2 branches and 2 Head Office units have been moved MDB continues its operations and 16 As of December 31, 2017. (of which 4 in 2017), the floor area of disposition in accordance with the 17 As of December 31, 2017. 6 branches has been reduced and the outlined strategy. 58 > The Customers The Customers > 59 in the personal and digital services customer satisfaction by means of Quality of service index the main work Suits you better coverage that the Bank renders to its customers. Discount is thus able customer adapted banking, the Bank is focusing on a number of principal tool for evaluating the quality of service in the Bank. The survey examines, Quality of Service to provide a personal touch, a more efficient and high-quality service over topics: on an ongoing basis, the customer's service experience proximate to the a variety of channels, while maintaining 1.Development of communication time the interaction occurred a visit “Discount suits you better” is a concept the family character of the Bank. channels, including upgrading of to or telephone call to the branch. The that aligns with the Bank’s commitment digital channels and the opening of surveys present different parameters to its customers and promises Discount Bank’s service concept new communication channels; regarding the various aspects of the professionalism and excellence at places the customer front and 2.Upgrading of service centers service, which may be considered as every interface. The Bank offers center and sets itself a goal of service (including the branch layout, the indices reflecting customer experience, customers, who expect a reachable, excellence. The Bank aspires to create TeleBank and the back office); such as: professionalism, personal accessible and convenient service, for its customers a personal service 3.The formation of a synchronized attention, availability, initiative multi-focus and multi-channel banking experience, causing them to continue multichannel management platform and customer recommendation that provides optimal solutions over a and choose it as their bank. that ensures customer service quality; regarding the unit and the Bank. The variety of service channels, with the 4.Producing information-based measurement data are conveyed on aim of bring about an improvement In order to create a lead in the Bank's business perceptions aimed at a current basis to managers of the enabling customers to receive the business units at the branches, the value proposition that is best and investment centers and at TeleBank, Class Survey Population Description most suited to them. and comprise an infrastructure for Current Branches After making contact with the Bank, A daily survey on a permanent drawing of conclusions and analyzing surveys private and business customers basis, approaching customers who The Bank is performing a series of current the strengths and weakness of providing and those customers receiving have had a direct service event investment advice at the branches and designated surveys in order to the service. In situations where Branches With no communication with the Daily review on a permanent basis, evaluate the satisfaction of customers. immediate involvement is required, the branch for over thirty days referring to customers who had no These are made by telephone calls and unit manager contacts the customer in communication with the branch for by SMS. The surveys are directed at order to provide a personal response. over thirty days customers of the Bank, and in certain TeleBank TeleBank customers A daily survey on a permanent basis, approaching customers who cases, for comparison purposes, also Measurement is performed all through have had a direct service event at customers of competitor banks. the year with the aim of obtaining Investment centers Customers of investment centers A daily survey on a permanent The surveys measure both shortfindings reflecting the operations of the basis, approaching customers who term satisfaction indices (such as branch, on a current basis and in real have had a direct service event satisfaction from a particular service) time, which provides for an immediate Designated Satisfaction Private banking customers A designated survey surveys as well as long-term satisfaction indices response to customers, as required. Satisfaction Customers of the TeleBank A designated survey approaching (such as hypothetical market share and mortgage center customers interested in a mortgage recommendation index). In 2017, the service experience of the loan Satisfaction Business center customers A designated survey customer was measured at a variety of The surveys include also measurement channels, at the branch, at the TeleBank Satisfaction Browsing on the Bank's application A designated survey of different indices breaking down and at the investment centers. The Satisfaction Browsing on the Bank's Internet A designated survey satisfaction into different components: measurement relied mainly on the website the provider of service, the branch, the satisfaction index of customers from Customer experience Customers of the five largest banks A designated survey Bank in general, service channel, the the most recent service received at interfaces product, the marketing offer. the unit (80%). In addition, branches A “Marketest” survey customer Customers of the five largest banks A designated survey experience post contact who have experienced contact with were measured as to the treatment the Bank In order to further improve the Bank’s of approaches regarding service A “Marketest” survey customer Business customers of all banks A designated survey service, Discount is acting on a number continuity, which comprised 20% of the experience of levels: index computations. 60 > The Customers The Customers > 61 Approx. 50,000 surveys of customers analysis of the results; Improvement Official Facebook page of Discount conventions regarding capital market (telephone and SMS) were performed targets have been defined for each Bank. The Bank opened its official issues, reference to articles in the during this year head of department at a KPI level; Facebook page at the end of 2010. At economic press, etc.). Units requesting assistance in the end of 2017, there were approx. structuring their improvement plans 76,240 followers of the Bank's Facebook Instagram account. The Bank operates and establishing a dialogue with users page (end of 2016 71,240 followers). on Instagram social networking by 2017 Service quality of the service, have been provided with The Bank's Facebook page serves as means of the social network browsers index data: professional assistance. In addition, a convention has been held in honor a platform for the current distribution and publication of marketing activities are exposed to campaigns and current updates accompanied by inspiring Service continuity Satisfaction of outstanding service managers and in various segments and areas, and photos and video clips. rating1 from the service managers of outstanding units with the in addition serves as a platform for experience participation of the President & CEO as chats with surfers and for customer Social networks at ICC. ICC has a 90.77 78.17 well as members of Management. service. Accordingly, public and private Facebook web page with over 156,000 Note: approaches are being received from followers, who currently follow the 1 Service continuity measurement of conformity In addition, a date for the next survey surfers, which are being fully treated in marketing activity of the company with the SLA determined for concluding the treatment of an approach made by a customer and was fixed for the last quarter of 2018. a short period of time. published on this page, the varied \conveyed to the branch by the TeleBank service. services offered by the company Integration of service values in the Twitter account Discount Invest. to customers and more. The page organizational culture In order The Bank is active on the Twitter includes a customer service link Internal services survey Discount to strengthen the service value social network under the name through which are received customer believes that improvement in the level within the organizational culture, Discount Invest . In this account the approaches, questions and comments, of internal service would contribute to the Bank applies several measures: Bank publishes information regarding and immediate answers are given to higher satisfaction of the bankers, and Designated staff meetings on the market data (in Israel and abroad), customers (either privately of publicly, to providing tools and infrastructure subject of service and service films economic and capital market reviews depending on the contents of the for improving customer service. projected at the branches within the by experts on behalf of the Bank and notice). The survey was distributed during framework of the Morning magazine ; other practical information for the November 2017, for the fourth time Focused assistance to branches benefit of customers (lectures and The Diners Company, a fully owned at the Bank, in a cross-organization having relatively low service ratings, format. The results of the survey serve through apprenticeship/training as a base line for a continuous process sessions; Current measurement of of measurement and improvement. service providers in the branches, at The survey measured 475 different the telebank and at the investment services provided by the different centers; Integration of the service divisions to customers of the Bank index target in the excelling branch and of the subsidiary companies. The competition; Control tasks for the During more than a decade, The Marker magazine published percentage of responders reached 91.2%. team; Meetings of the Head of the Banking Division with outstanding Marketest the annual index of Marketest for the customer experience in Israel. The Marketest index examine experiences and managers and with managers who Index positions of customers of the largest corporations in the market, operating in different sectors, such as: finance, The following measures have been failed to reach service targets. adopted within the framework of hotels, cellular and more. The index is based on the parallel feedback and improvement procedures: Dialogue with customers index in the U.S. (ACSI). The findings and results had been In order to maintain a continuing The Bank was rated in 2017 in the first place (a rise from the presented to all heads of divisions and dialogue with customers and to fourth place) with respect to customer satisfaction regarding departments at designated meetings; understand their needs and wishes, the connection with the Bank interfaces, stemming mainly Each service manager received a Discount Bank operates several from improvement in the satisfaction regarding the digital detailed report of the findings and an communication lines: channels headed by the mobile application. 62 > The Customers The Customers > 63 subsidiary of ICC, also has a Facebook problems raised by the customer; possibility of free comment. page with over 39,000 followers, in which it presents current updates of  ervice S targets Branches Quality of service at the In order to test and evaluate private customer its marketing operations, benefits to customers, etc. are allotted annual targets of satisfaction indices. The extent of proncipal subsidiaries satisfaction, the company conducts satisfaction surveys immediately upon conclusion of a compliance with the annual target conversation and approach to the service center, serves as a basis for remuneration Mercantile Discount Bank as well as a club survey conducted following the In order to maintain a continuous of the branches; The above stated in relation to Discount Bank, issuance of the card. dialogue with the customers and  omparative C analysis and regarding the improvements made to service, including evaluation of customer satisfaction, In order to evaluate satisfaction of trading houses, the understanding of their needs and implementation The surveys preservation of customer satisfaction and the company conducts a survey following contact , which wishes, the Bank operates several are analyzed for the identification of weaknesses in customer integration of service values in the organizational culture, applies also to MDB. comprises the central tool for testing the quality of service at the center. The survey tests on an ongoing communication channels in the satisfaction from the Bank basis the service experience of the customer soon after social network. As of the end of either absolutely or relatively The quality of service is measured by the Net Promoter the time of interaction a telephone call to the center. in comparison to competitor Score (NPS). The data is being delivered regularly The survey presents to the managers the strong 2017, the Bank's Facebook page banks. Also analyzed are trends and comprises an infrastructure for the drawing points, which should be maintained, and the aspects has approx. 76,240 followers of satisfaction among different of conclusions. MDB conducts on a regular basis, that have to be improved regarding the interaction of populations in order to identify a telephonic survey testing customer satisfaction the center with the customers. changes in indices. The findings (following contact with the bank). The findings of Diners Company is active on the and insights are passed on to the such surveys (analysis and management), comprise Instagram social network and has over 7,000 followers. On the Instagram webpage, followers are exposed to service group in order to perform an in depth examination and/or a change of policy, as required. The an annual target for the customer satisfaction indices. ICC 3.43 The average grading of the private customer satisfaction survey results for 2017, at the end of the service call. campaigns, benefits and current findings and insights are delivered The service department of ICC has the vision and (on a scale from 1 to 4, with 4 noting excellent ) updates accompanied by inspiring also to the various business factors values of providing excellent service. In addition, photos and video clips. Maintaining customer in charge of customer relations policies. daily instruction sessions are being held and workshops for representatives are being held from time to time on the subject of providing excellent service. In addition, 8.3 as regards satisfaction satisfaction The Bank acts on several levels with respect to the maintenance of customer satisfaction: ICC strictly conducts daily customer satisfaction surveys, both private customers and trading houses, by which it examines the general satisfaction of the service, satisfaction of the quality of work of the representative, 8.4 as regards assessment of professionalism The average gradings of trading houses survey for 2017 and measurement by means of the Net Promoter Score M  anagement in accordance with (NPS; International recommender index). The marking Measurement is being conducted through a survey findings Survey data with by the NPS is a part of the targets of the Key designated surveys system named My Attentive , a low mark of the satisfaction index, Performance Indicator (KPI) of the service department. which allows the measurement of each question in are (subject to the consent of the In addition, the company analyses recurring and onetime the surveys and provides an image of the situation per customer) referred to the Branch events in order to improve the quality of service and employee over a period of time as well as according to Manager for further treatment. The customer satisfaction. the measured parameter. Branch Manager is responsible to refer back to the customer trying ICC conducts a number of surveys, in accordance with In cases where the answers given to the survey are to understand the reasons for the the class of customer, in which it examines the level rated as being below expectation, or where they dissatisfaction of the customer, of customer satisfaction from the company, service, include a verbal comment that needs to be addressed, and to the extent possible try and professionalism of the representative, and presents improve satisfaction by solving the recommendation of the company parameter, and the Continue on next page 64 > The Customers The Customers > 65 Continued from previous page Customer inquiries drawing of conclusions in accordance result of attending to complaints and the feedback is examined with reference to the The Bank attributes great with the standards set by the Supervisor data regarding complaints received feedback provider and is being treated accordingly. importance to listening to its of Banks. The Commissioner has to act in and dealt with have to be reported by customers and to encouraging customers accordance with the standards of fairness the Commissioner to the Supervisor of IDB Bank to inquire about any matter or problem. vis-à-vis the customer and reach a fair Banks once in every six months. IDB Bank has adopted a Complaint Policy The natural and immediate address is the decision in the customer's complaint. In ( the policy ) that provides a mechanism business official who services the accordance with the Directive, the Bank The Management and the Audit whereby all complaints from customers or noncustomer, in a branch or in other business has to adopt a policy as regards the Committee of the Board of Directors customers (collectively “complainant”) are given units. Nonetheless, there are cases in treatment of complaints and publish on received a report regarding the prompt, courteous, and fair attention regarding which another address is needed. the Internet website and in the branches deficiencies, the material findings and any aspect of the bank’s products or services. The a service treaty for the handling of the cross-organization deficiencies. Policy delivers a consistent and constructive The Public Complaints Commissioner complaints. Customers should first refer An annual report by the Commissioner approach to investigating and responding to at the Bank coordinates the handling of their complaint to the Commissioner. is presented to the President & CEO, complaints. Tracking and logging complaint complaints and approaches made by to relevant members of Management information provides the bank an opportunity to customers in different banking issues, Complaints submitted to the Bank and to the Audit Committee of the identify potential compliance issues and including mortgages, interest charges, of Israel would be passed to the Board. The Commissioner reports to opportunities to strengthen and enhance the treatment and service. Commissioner for attention. The Management twice a year and once bank’s products, services, and/or customer Commissioner, in replying to the a year to the Audit Committee of the relations. It is an essential tool in identifying Among the duties of the Commissioner complaining customer, must clarify Board. weaknesses in staff training or with a particular are: maintaining an interface for that the customer has the right to file product or service, and differentiating between a the treatment of complaints and with the Bank of Israel an objection to The Commissioner is required also one-time occurrence or recurring problem. approaches with the various units at such reply. to publish to the public once in each Complaints may indicate a failure in bank the Bank, the Supervisor of Banks, year, on the Bank's Internet website, processes that if not notified by a complainant the Israeli Police and various outside The response time of the Commissioner a concise description of the Bank's could have resulted in violation of a law, regulation, factors; conducting examinations to complaining customers will stand policy in the matter of treatment of or bank policy. The Policy, and information of various banking matters and the at 45 days and in exceptional cases, complaints, the process of treatment obtained from its adherence, will also help to: formation of findings for the business the Commissioner may inform the of a complaint and data regarding functions, the branches, collection customer of a 15 day delay in replying. complaints received and dealt with. r ecognize early warning signs; functions and for the legal advisory A complaining customer who has not identify complainant confusion or potential group; assistance, guidance and received a reply within 45 days may The Bank is required to publish on the issues with a product or service; follow-up of Bank employees in the refer the complaint directly to the Internet website and in the Branches address customer concerns; formation of solutions for customer Bank of Israel. In practice, the average the service treaty adopted by the Bank. highlight potential violations of laws and/or problems; assistance in the drawing complaint response time was 16 days regulations; of conclusions and in organizational in 2017, compared to 18 days in 2016. The service treaty is available to the validate and strengthen controls and identify study. public on the Bank's website as from trends; The Commissioner has the authority March 2015, after its approval by the protect the Bank’s reputation; In September 2014, the Supervisor of to compensate customers. He has Board of Directors. provide a competitive advantage, e.g., quality Banks published a Proper Conduct of to report once in every six months to of service; Banking Business Directive in the matter the Bank's Management and once a Preparations for improving service assist in third party service provider  of the treatment of complaints made year to the Bank's Board of Directors and reducing complaints monitoring. by the public, the entry into effect of regarding the treatment of complaints. In recent years, the Public which was on April 1, 2015. According The Management and the Board of Complaints Commissioner unit in In 2017, the bank received a total of 20 to the position of the Supervisor, the Directors have to discuss these reports cooperation with the Banking Division, complaints: 3 were related to online banking Commissioner represents the customer soon after submission thereof. initiated various measures to improve and 2 were related to branch errors with no vis-à-vis the bank and he has to act, service and reduce the number of other trends identified. handle complaints and initiate the Material deficiencies revealed as a complaints, including: 66 > The Customers The Customers > 67  A nalyzing cases of justified Complaints regarding disturbance Distribution of the subjects of main complaints at Discount Bank complaints are analyzed; as well to the vicinity In 2017 as the transfer of dealing with Three complaints were received complaints received from the Bank of by the Bank in 2017 with respect 24.5% 24.4% 17.4% 12.3% 8.1% 5.2% 8.1% Israel to the personal responsibility to disturbance to the vicinity. One of district managers; complaint was in respect of a noisy Deepening the process of drawing air-conditioning unit of a branch, conclusions in staff meetings at the installed near to the bedrooms of the In 2016 branches; apartment of the complainer. The Improved mapping and reporting of Bank changed the position of the air27.6% 20.7% 15.1% 13.2% 10.7% 4.1% 8.6% frequent failures or system failures; conditioning unit, so as not to disturb Determination of an annual target  the occupants of the building in which for the rate of justified complaints. the branch is located. The second complaint concerned the noise made Means of payment transactions in cash, in checks, by means of the online services and credit cards by the ATM machine when in operation. The quality of service attentiveness and service, call center and the opening and closure of branches Rate of justified complaints The Bank attended to the ATM machine Current accounts the opening and closing of accounts, transactions not in accordance with signature rights to eliminate the noise made by it when at Discount Bank in use. The third complaint concerned or with no authorization Credit 50% the dirt in the entrance lobby to the Additional operations inheritance, foreclosure, debt collection and execution of orders branch caused by passersby. The Bank 43% Securities, deposits and savings deposits took strict measures as to the 40% cleanliness of the lobby, and no further Other complaints have been received in the matter. 30% 27.5% in view of the change in the work format Mercantile Discount Bank One Customer complaints to the Bank as stated above. 20% complaint was received in 2016, of Israel 17.9% regarding disturbance to the The Bank of Israel report in the In 2017, the public complaints unit of 13.6% vicinity caused at night by noisy matter of review of approaches the Supervisor of Banks handled 6,941 10% air conditioning appliances at a made by the public in 2017, was published complaints, requests for information certain branch. The complaint has on August 7, 2018. The year 2017 is the and different requests for ex gratia been handled by the construction second year in which the banking industry assistance. 0% 2014 2015 2016 2017 department. in Israel, including credit card companies, acted in accordance with the new Of 818 public complaints decided by principles introduced by the Bank of the public complaints unit, about 12.3% Israel in the matter of approaches by the (101 complaints) had been found Complaints and enquiries data at Discount Bank public. justified, and the banks or credit cards companies involved were instructed as 2017 2016 2015 2014 The public approaches unit of the to the rectification of the deficiency. Complaints and enquiries received 3,029 2,651 2,666 3,793 Supervisor of Banks acted as an Complaints and enquiries dealt with 3,047 2,577 2,713 3,378 appellate instance, control and The percentage of complaints against supervision over responses provided the Bank which the Supervisor of Banks Completion of dealing with complaints 2,034 1,483 1,859 2,136 by the public complaints officers found to be justified out of the total Completion of dealing with enquiries, requests and clarifications 1,013 1,074 854 1,602 of the banks. No rating for banking complaints against the Bank for which Percentage of justified complaints 13.6% 17.9% 27.5% 43.0% corporations was awarded in this year the regulator adopted a position, stood also, with respect to public approaches, at 17.5% in 2017, compared with 3.5% 68 > The Customers The Customers > 69 coordinates the handling of complaints in writing Distribution of main complaints at ICC Preparing for made by private and business customers of the company, which has one or more of the following In 2017 service improvement characteristics: 35.13% 20.91% 5.6% 7.74% 4.53% 5.6% and reduction in Customer complaints addressed to the General Manager of ICC or to the public approaches complaints at the unit; Deferred charge cards Quality of service Credit (not for housing) principal subsidiaries Customer complaints passed on to the unit by ICC's spokesman office; Online transactions Revolving credit cards Other in Israel C  ustomer complaints, which had not been attended to by the relevant factors at ICC, or respect to the treatment of complaints, this in to all complaints against ICC in respect of which Customer complaints at MDB which, in the opinion of the customer, had not accordance with the format determined in the the Supervisor has stated his position, reached been satisfactorily handled; policy. Management and the Board of Directors 5% in 2017, compared with 4% in 2016. The total Rate of justified complaints at MDB discuss these reports soon after receipt thereof. average ratio as above, in the whole industry was Complex complaints or complaints having a 12.3% in 2017. 35% cross-organization impact which are passed In 2017 ICC and Diners handled 929 complaints 30% 29% 28% on to the unit by internal factors in the company; and approaches. 943 complaints and approaches In certain cases, ICC compensates customers were received in that period. even though their complaint has been found 25% Customer complaints received through external unjustified. 7 cases were recorded in 2017 in 20% entities, such as: the Bank of Israel, consumer which ICC and Diners acted beyond the letter of 20% 15% 16.3% organizations and public complaints units of the banks. Customer complaints the law (out of 21 complaints not found to be justified, which were referred to the company 10% In addition, the Commissioner instructs senior to the Bank of Israel at 33.3%) paying free willingly compensation in the amount of NIS 4,200. 8 cases were recorded 5% officers of the customer service of the company, in case of complaints referred to him, as to the the main subsidiaries in 2016 in which ICC and Diners acted beyond the letter of the law (out of 30 complaints not 0% 2014 2015 2016 2017 manner in which complaints may be settled with the customers. in Israel found to be justified, which were referred to the company 26.6%) paying a compensation in the Note: amount of NIS 1,500. Out of the data of complaints presented for 2017 3% of the For details regarding Proper Conduct of Mercantile Discount Bank justified complaints relate to services provided by and under the responsibility of Discount Bank. Banking Business Directive in the matter of The total number of complaints received public complaints, see above. In accordance by the Bank of Israel in relation to MDB Customer complaints at ICC with this Directive, ICC has formed a policy for was 53 approaches, of which, a position was ICC assigns great importance to attendance the treatment of complaints made by public, as formed in 25 complaints, 3 complaints were to its customers and to encouraging them well as a service charter for the Commissioner found to be justified. In the case of 4 complaints to refer to the company regarding any matter or of Public Complaints, which is available on that were not found to be justified, MDB went problem. The natural and immediate address is the Internet website of the company and at its beyond the letter of the law to the benefit of the the customer service unit of the company or the customer service offices. complainant without making any monetary business factor dealing with the customer. reimbursement. Notwithstanding, cases arise, which require an In accordance with the said policy, the additional address. Commissioner has the duty to report once every ICC six months to the Management of the company The ratio of complaints against ICC, which The Commissioner of Public Complaints at ICC and once a year to its Board of Directors, with the Supervisor of Bank has found justified, 70 > The Customers The Customers > 71 in 2016. This average percentage in the in this field may be noted the establishing a closed group for this advanced business management tools, entire banking system amounted to establishment of the Digital and Data purpose. such as: displaying the balance and approx. 12.3% in 2017, compared with Division and the establishment of a current movements on iCount, smart 11% in 2016. Fintech and innovation unit. The new In accordance with the agreement management of expenditure and cash Digital Division leads solutions concept signed, the Bank would acquire from flows with iCount, integrating banking The ex gratia compensation of in three principal content spheres the company an exclusive license to information in the accounting reports customers In certain cases, the Bank direct channels, the CRM and customer operate the application and the website with iCount and more. decides to compensate customers, concept and current account. The in Israel. The technological changes even though their complaint had been Division is responsible for an in-depth required for its operation by the Bank The collaboration is suitable for the small found unjustified. This is generally understanding of customer needs and have been incorporated in the product business customers handled by the based on business considerations with expectations, and for the initiation and and a permit was recently received Banking Division and supports the Bank’s the aim of preserving long standing development of solutions there for. from the Bank of Israel to acquire the growth targets in this business segment. and loyal customers. In 2017, some activity of PayBox Israel. 40 cases of unjustified complaints The Fintech and innovation unit acts DIDI a digital representative in were received (out of 134 unjustified for the creation of cooperation with At present, the Bank operates this the application complaints approx. 30%) in which ex Fintech companies and the integration service independently in respect of DIDI, which constitutes a gratia compensation was given, in a total thereof in value offers to customers, as individuals having a bank account at breakthrough and is the leading amount of approx. NIS 80 thousand. part of the banking work environment any of the banks in Israel. BOT in the Israeli banking system, and of the systems of the Bank. allows customers to conduct For 2017, the target for complaints iCount transactions, gives them access to found to be justified was set at 17% A dvanced initiatives in The first technological-business information and provides insights of all the complaints received by both the field of FinTech application in the banking sector into account activity by means of the Bank and by the Bank of Israel. in Israel, which implements an open written or spoken requests made The Bank met its target in relation PayBox banking concept into an interface with using simple language. The service is to the total complaints received and A payments application allowing third parties using an Application based on advanced analytical and the rate of complaints found to be the easy transfer of funds. It is Programming Interface (API) platform artificial intelligence capabilities and justified stood at 13.6%. In relation to possible also to transfer funds directly of the most advanced in the world, and is the first of its kind in the banking complaints received by the Bank of to a contact person, or alternatively which enables a secured link based on a sector. Israel, the rate of complaints found to send a payment request and collectively global standard. be justified stood at 17.5%. collect funds. The Bank has introduced a new service In August 2017, the Bank entered for customers using the banking In April 2017, the Bank entered into a cooperation agreement with a application, which enables them Innovation into an agreement with a startup company in the Fintech field by the fintech technology company which has developed a system for the management correspondence and conversation with a digital representative on the name of PayBox Payment Solutions of accounts and cash flows for small application by the name of DIDI. DIDI The Bank adapts itself to the changing Ltd. ( the company ). The company and medium businesses, operating proposes a unique and innovative world and acts to create innovative has developed a cellular phone by means of an Internet website and way for digital banking activity, thus banking models, which will provide application and a designated Internet mobile application under the iCount changing the way in which customers its customers with a sophisticated website under the brand name of brand name. use the application. The conversation service suited to their needs. PayBox , by which it operates and with DIDI is held in an open language. provides payment services intended In accordance with the signed DIDI is able to provide customers with Among the goals of the Bank's to customers of all the banks in Israel. agreement, Discount Bank lets its information regarding their accounts, strategic plan, is the goal of the The service provides for the transfer business customers securely connect to execute banking transactions, to implementation of technological of funds between private individuals, their business account with the assist customers in getting oriented means and increasing customer as well as the collective collection of iCount accounting system, giving with the application and to bring up experience. Among the measures taken funds for a defined purpose by way of them the opportunity to benefit from important insights contributing to 72 > The Customers The Customers > 73 a smart financial conduct. A pilot a credit card through the digital private individuals. Capital market project introducing DIDI started at service, obtain consulting services by At the end of December, the Bank began the end of September 2017, gradually telephone through the countrywide Communication between the Bank and the gradual rollout to its customers of exposing DIDI to all customers until investment center, as well as longer its customers a new, advanced capital market zone the end of December 2017. operating hours. The means of communication between on its website for private individuals. the Bank and its customers were The new capital market zone provides This is unique and primary service The transfer to the Toucher account expanded and improved, including a simplified trading and transaction provided in the Israeli banking is made by means of the mobile correspondence with the banker execution experience, and access to industry. application and of the operations service, an additional tool by which information and analysis tools that website, and a new customer Bank customers may communicate are presented to the customer in a interested in joining this service with the banker and correspond with convenient and intuitive manner. At Direct channels within the framework of opening an him by means of the application, the beginning of 2018, all the Bank’s account on-line, may do so already receive information and conduct customers will gradually get access to The Bank acts on a current manner at the opening of the account on the operations without having to stand in the new capital market zone. in order to provide its customers with website. line. an advanced experience regarding Obtaining information about accounts its direct channels, aspiring for a Discount BOT The world of transfers on the Tools have been added that assist continuous improvement both as A digital help allowing all surfers Internet website and on the mobile the customer in quickly obtaining regards the type and variety of services being customers of any bank to application information about his accounts, and as regards user friendliness and conduct a conversation with a through the use of new technologies: customer experience. digital representative (a robot) on Sending and transferring cash to a a designated Facebook page, on contact. Sending an amount of up to “My Account” widget the widget At the end of 2017, the Bank had approx. Facebook Messenger Discount NIS 2,000 per day to a payee from a displays account information 432 thousand active subscribers of BOT . contact list on the mobile device by conveniently and quickly without the online services. means of the app. The contact will needing to input ID details, similarly Discount BOT is based on be sent an SMS with a one-time code to the “Quick Look” service on the At the end of 2017, MDB had approx. advanced technology enabling digital which he can use to make a cash app: current account balance, last 236 thousand active subscribers of communication with surfers by means withdrawal from a Discount ATM or three transactions, upcoming credit the online services. of chat correspondence. The BOT to transfer the amount to his bank card charges and value of securities identifies and deciphers the contents account by inputting details on the portfolio. The services and products added to the of the approach made by free writing designated page on the marketing operation in the year 2017, are: and accordingly provides an automatic website. 3DTouch on supported iPhone reply, on the basis of the data base, devices, a long press on the app icon Toucher account , the Discount Bank with respect to a range of subject that On Apple devices, this transfer can displays a menu for locating branches, digital account will grow wider. also be made using SIRI, Apple’s digital making transfers, depositing checks Private customers active on the digital assistant. and making cardless cash withdrawals. service, may join the Toucher account The credit card sphere Pressing on one of the topics will take and enjoy an advanced multi-channel In the credit card sphere, options have Future transfer Possibility of a onethe customer to the relevant screen digital service experience. been introduced that make it easier time transfer at a future date (up to 6 in the app after completing the ID and more efficient to obtain a new months ahead) via the website. process. Toucher customers enjoy, inter alia, credit card or to recover one’s PIN: an exemption from current account option has been added to activate a Cyclic transfer (standing order) FaceID identification updating the management fees and from credit card new credit card also through the app, setting up a cyclic transfer to specific app to operate on the new iPhoneX fees, the possibility of communicating as well as recover a card’s PIN and to payee and in a fixed amount, the first device, thereby letting the customer with the banker by e-mail and through immediately display this on the screen payment date of which can be up to six enter the Discount app through the the mobile application, ordering through the website or the app for months ahead. recognition of facial features. 74 > The Customers The Customers > 75 Technological accessibility for the provides a response also for the All the above have been added to the services adult population The Bank is working copiously in needs of the elder population. DIDI , based on advanced AI capabilities, Innovation is ICC introduced in prior years, and have been improved during the year, such as: order to help different allows for easy orientation regarding populations, including the adult the digital services, carrying out of In 2017, ICC continued to establish, promote O  rdering a credit card online development population, in the integration of the operations and obtaining response and modify its assets and products to the and integration of a designated service for correct and safe use of online to a variety of questions regarding challenges of the digital revolution, including the ordering of a credit card online, both services. This, due to the belief in the the conduct of the account, by means development of new initiatives and their on the desktop platform and on the mobile advantages that such services may of a simple free text request (either integration in to the wide array of the digital platform; bring to these populations (availability written or oral) made directly from assets, such as the digital wallet Cal4U, the of the service, time saving, unique the entry screen. The Bank considers, business application Cal4Biz and more. The O  nline credit products availability of credit experience, etc.) and the that accessibility to the various contribution made by the integration of products products to private and business customers understanding of the difficulties that digital services by means of DIDI and services leads to a significant increase in by means of all digital platforms in general accompany the changes in the removes a central block existing at the use made by customers of the online and by the mobile platform in particular; manner of use of the services and the the present time with respect to the channels. Among the central services, may be adoption of new technologies. use of digital services by a part of the mentioned: T  ransfer of funds by means of the mobile said population. All this, alongside phone integration of a service for the realthe continued communication by A  n online immediate loan process that can be time transfer of funds between customers of The Bank invests considerable contents and clips describing new completed within 3 minutes; ICC; efforts in the planning and products and services available design of the interfaces and online, at the branches and in the different media. B  locking a lost or stolen card or replacing a defective card directly via the application; P  ersonal design for the credit card a designated digital asset enabling ICC credit the digital processes, while card holders to personally design the image of especially emphasizing the In addition, in each branch where V  oice search via the Cal4U wallet application; their credit card, a unique service in Israel. teller services are being discontinued, simplicity of the processes, their the Bank places a banker whose duty O  nline secret code viewing on digital assets; From the viewpoint of ICC, the digital media intuitiveness and the language in is to assist customers in obtaining serves as a channel reaching the whole of the service by means of the automatic T  he direct accessibility to the chat service population, which makes important and valuable which they are presented, for the machines, with special attention to from the website or from the application; information accessible also to those who find it sake of ease of use and correct the adult customer population, and to difficult to leave their homes. and safe use, inter alia, by the instruct them in the use of the mobile application and of the operations A  pplication of the Mobile First concept, while making the websites of the company elderly population website, in order to facilitate customer accessible in a responsive version adapted to in performing their operations through the size of the screen of the user; In this framework, the Bank invests these channels. considerable efforts in the planning  Vocal visual answering service used as and design of the interfaces and the Customers over eighty years of age a supporting tool in conversations with the digital processes, while especially are entitled to preference in line service centers; emphasizing the simplicity of the for service. This is brought to the processes, their intuitiveness and the attention of the public by relevant I ntegration of designated tools supporting language in which they are presented. signs and by video clips on LCD the customer in the digital assets, including a screens at the branches, the Bank Google search in the company's websites; In 2017, the Bank introduced DIDI endeavors to integrate by the end of the digital representative on the 2018 the preference in line also into A  n innovative payment through the Cal4U Bank's application, which, inter alia, the line management system. application for the purchase of digital vouchers. 76 > The Customers The Customers > 77 financial language accessible to the time to time is a certain area, such in November 2017, while the other one Financial full range of ages and initiates many activities in the matter: as the financial education week in the Haifa and Northern Region, and was held in February 2018. education C  ustomer conventions at the sometimes a simultaneous activity is being conducted in several regions 700 study classes of 170 schools participated in this activity. Each class branches on matters of sensible nationwide. The activity of the Bank was present at two meetings presenting The present financial world is much financial conduct, family economics in the financial education field is basic contents regarding financial more complex than the one with which and the capital market; conducted at no charge and is open conduct, sensible consumer behavior, the public was familiar a decade or two Lectures  to organizations/ both to Bank customers and to those savings and banking. The activity ago. The offer of financial products corporations at their request; who are not customers of the Bank. included a play set for the second has become wider and the products Financial education workshops for  meeting in the form of decoding a safe themselves more complex. In addition, families and children aged 6-12, Since 2012, date of starting this deposit box code. Discount Bank took in view of changes in regulation, in the 13-17 at the Herzlillienblum private activity, and until the end of 2017, all part in 70 classes and 140 meetings. pension savings field in particular, Museum; of the Bank's branches participated in Over thirty Bank officers from all the individual is increasingly required Designated  study programs it, in over 570 different events. divisions of the Bank took part in the to make complex financial decisions. for high school students at the activity, after being trained by the The public debate has widened also Herzlillienblum private Museum; Financial education forum financial education unit. to a financial debate the growing life  Lectures on pension planning for The Supervisor of Banks expectancy, the importance of longadults; established a Forum in 2016, As known to the Bank, the Supervisor of term savings, consumption culture, Lectures at academic institutions  which includes the Union of Banks as Banks intends to hold in 2018, a week/ sensible financial conduct, the cost of on financial matters intended for well as all banks operating in Israel, month of financial awareness activities living, investment channels regarding juveniles. with the aim of expanding the activity directed at the elderly population. The pension savings, choosing a mortgage on the subject of financial education. focus of such sessions would be the loan, the low interest in the market The conventions are designed to simplify The leading banks, which until then use of digital instruments. which challenges the returns on understanding and make the financial had been engaged in financial the different investment channels, language accessible to the customer education, were Bank Hapoalim, Bank The involvement of the Regulator in the as well as to the growth in credit to public. The conventions focus on Leumi and Discount Bank. Discount field of financial education, driven by households. the explanation of basic terms, while Bank has shared with the Forum a real desire to strengthen the knowpresenting to customers the various members the abundant know-how how of the public at large as regards From a holistic viewpoint of the service layouts and the modification accumulated by the Bank. The Bank financial matters, increases the activity customer's needs at any point of to customer needs of the consulting also participates in the many of the banks in this important area time during the changing stages of life, services available at the Bank. In these committees of the Forum. and stimulates its expansion. It is the starting with the opening of a young conferences, customers also receive intention of Discount Bank to continue person account, continuing as a service responses to their questions. A financial education month, in and increase this activity, expanding it man, student, as a young family, as an participation with the Bank of Israel in 2018 to new focused sectors, such adult family, facing retirement and post In the wake of these conventions, and all banks, was held in 2017, as freelancers, young persons and the retirement, the Bank has devised customer readiness to increase their directed at ninth grade middle school elderly, trying to provide them with an appropriate study/lecture material on involvement in important financial students. The activity was conducted in appropriate and focused solution for the subject of financial education, in decisions during the various stages participation with the national parents the different stages in the lives of its order to assist its customers in making in life is noted. The feedback association, the Ministry of Education customers. educated decisions, as well as created supporting the conventions indicate and other factors, which wrote the financial products, all of which for the satisfaction of the participants and curriculum in a manner suitable for The Bank conducts also intraincreasing its customers satisfaction. their wish to continue being invited to young persons. organizational activity for the similar activities. enrichment of Bank employees and The Bank approaches its customers The activity was held in two rounds. their family members, by means of and the public at large making the Focused activity is conducted from The first and larger of the two was held a capital market workshop of eight 78 > The Customers The Customers > 79 Lectures and Workshops meetings, which takes place at the and pre-demobilization; contents The Bank offers a range of lectures and workshops, including: Bank's meeting rooms and at the relating to students; budget planning, Discount College. Some 25 persons saving in expenses, enjoyment of participated in each such activity, and benefits, in between jobs; contents Enrichment lectures over twenty such workshops had been relating to the family: we and money, held since the beginning of this activity pre-nuptial, pre-childbirth, divorce; Budget management An experiential lecture, presenting an image of the individual's financial in 2012. contents relating to housing and Correct financial conduct in conduct and the way to improve it. • It'll be OK regarding our economic management culture mortgage issues; contents relating to an economically challenging In addition, the financial education current economic management: period • The breaking of myths all inclusive vacation unit is intensively acting to locate new preparing for holidays and vacation, a • Overdraft, loans and credit, management of the monthly budget eradicate the deficit lecture contents regarding financial monthly family budget, how to matters, in the spirit of the times, for the eliminate a bank overdraft, loans, Economics between the • Duality and money, children and money, retirement age and money enrichment of participants in financial deposits and savings; contents relating business and the family • A lecture to freelancers on the subject of conduct knowledge. to retirement: pension savings, Know about money • Lecture to young persons in junior high and high schools preparation for imminent retirement; Internet media as well as a dictionary of capital market Capital market Development of a designated terms including many terms. A lecture describing in a light experiential manner events taking place in Internet website the Bank The Israeli economy vis-àcapital markets in Israel and abroad and preparations to be made for a presents on its principal website, under Printed media Professional vis global recovery and the year in advance, including the economic challenges which face investors the heading of Family and financial literature low interest rate in the capital market at the present time. education wide contents dealing with The Bank leads the subject of financial education, this as part of the development of designated Psycho-finance Bank's coverage for the family, booklets providing knowledge The relation between making economic decisions and investments in the You and your financial stock exchange, and the personal psychological characteristics. modified to the various stages in life, enrichment to customers: a booklet for matters and presenting life events. This begins elementary age, hints booklet and capital with contents for juveniles of primary market booklet. It is the Bank's intension An analysis of the residential real estate market as an alternative Real estate investments, risk school age, continuing with middle and to continue and develop activity in all investment, latest trends in this sector by geographic distribution, when to or chance high school age; contents regarding fields frontal, digital and printed while investments in real estate and who should. issues relating to servicemen; precontinuing the cooperation with leading Workshops enlistment, soldiers on active service factors in this area. 3 meetings, 2 subjects per meeting Meeting 1 Macroeconomics + Bonds Capital market workshop Meeting 2 Mutual funds + ETN's Micro and macro, their relation to private Meeting 3 Shares + Psycho-finances investments and savings The workshop provides participants with basic tools for understanding the financial world and becoming familiar with basic concepts of the capital market. • Family economics Mixed workshop • Pension • Capital market • Israeli economy Seniors field financial • Psycho-finances education • Analytical reading of the financial press 80 > The Customers The Customers > 81 female manager at MDB conducted a financial financial values in accordance with the Financial education education workshop at a female victims of violence shelter in the Arab sector. Services and benefit program chosen by them. at the principal Additional activity. Employees of MDB conduct products for the The Bank offers its customers a unique program which connects a subsidiaries in Israel from time to time financial education workshops for youth groups of different frameworks, advancement of number of customers with different MDB and ICC , as is Discount Bank, view the including within the framework of A Different Lesson , and Ethiopian expatriates within the populations accounts, who have a family absorption of financial education as an framework of the Rakia project in the Tebeka connection, thereby giving the important layer of their activity in aid of the Association. Alongside the diverse financial community, and accordingly, employees volunteer, services provided by the Bank to all family unit financial strength within the framework of the project A Different Cal Lada'at on YouTube. ICC introduced in classes of customers, the Bank develops Lesson to impart basic banking and budget 2014 the channel Cal Lada'at on YouTube. A designated services for specific The connection to the family group management terms to school children, through the set of eleven video strips providing information populations, such as small businesses, grants the family members participating cooperation with the A Different Lesson Association on a variety of financial concepts, in a clear, minority populations, students, etc. in the program, benefits, and everything, and with other organizations engaged in financial common and in simple language. For example: of course, while strictly maintaining bank education (for additional details, see in the Chapter interest and prime interest rate, loans, revolving The Bank is aware of the changing confidentiality so that none of the parties Discount for the community in this report). credit, off-banking credit facility, banking needs of its customers and acts to joining the program share or are involved credit facility, safe purchase on the Internet, provide a professional response having in the accounts of the other family Additional measures by the companies for the immediate debit card, off-banking credit, added value. Discount Bank, as one of members. field’s advancement: CPI linkage. These video strips had reached the large financial corporations, has a hundreds of thousands of views. considerable impact on the economy; The principal products of the family A financial education workshop initiated by therefore, it is active in advancing the program are: the Supervisor of Banks. MDB participates in a different populations while diligently E xemption from commission on Forum initiated by the Supervisor of Banks for adapting solutions to their unique money transfers in Israeli currency the advancement of financial education. Within needs. between accounts of the family the framework of the financial awareness members participating in the program. month, bank employees held in November Discount, the Bank for the family  Family plus offsetting interest 2017 instruction sessions of two meetings for Discount is the first bank in Israel to on overdrawn accounts against ninth grade pupils at some thirty schools. The market a unique and innovative the accounts of the other family workshops were conducted by bank employees program, at no cost, that grants special members. The program allows the using educational material produced centrally benefits to customers who are family customer to enjoy the setting off of and in participation of all members of the members “the Family Program”. interest charged on their overdraft so banking sector in Israel. long as one or more family members The Bank offers its customers a unique participating in this benefit has at that A financial education workshop held at a program, which is designed for existing time a credit balance on their current female victims of violence shelter. Within and new customers who are related account, in accordance with the the framework of a further initiative of the to one another. The idea is to connect principles of the program. Supervisor of Banks with the cooperation of several customers who are related to one  2go key card a rechargeable card the banks, and in an attempt to assist women another having different accounts, to the in the name of the child provides who had left their homes and live now in Family Program in the Bank's systems, parent security and control over shelters for female victims of violence, a senior and thus provide financial strength to expenses, as from the age of fourteen. the family cell. The program allows the An exemption from card fees to utilization of the family's power and customers participating in the family grants family members benefits having program. 82 > The Customers The Customers > 83 S  aving for higher education a having a volume of operations of up Business + website. A designated the growth in this labor market segment monthly saving for fifteen years with to NIS 15 million and indebtedness of website for business customers. The with its particular needs, there exists in a gift from Discount Bank of deposits up to NIS 4-5 million, obtain services website presents comprehensive data Israel no organization that incorporates for one full year. from the business banking teams regarding the accounts of the business and provides support to freelancers. Family loan All-purpose loans at at the Bank branches. Customers and allows customers to transact preferential terms to members of the having higher volumes of operations business independently, directly from With a view of identifying the target family program. and indebtedness than those stated their place of business. population, the Bank had conducted F  amily deposit A shekel deposit at above, obtain services from the Bank's a study focused on the targeted preferential terms to members of the business centers. Freelancer service population, its needs and difficulties program. Discount Bank introduced in 2017 a prevalent in this field. The idea behind B  usiness Family The program grants Small business funds. Since 2012, new service for freelancers, which the plan being offered by the Bank to benefits to customers managing at Discount Bank is operating from its includes a personally adapted benefit freelancers provides response to the Discount Bank their business account, own resources credit models for the plan and innovative digital services. principal requirement of the group lack private account and accounts of financing of funds for small businesses. Introduction of the service was of economic certainty. Freelancers, as family members. The fund is designed for Bank customers accompanied by a wide marketing different from wage earning employees, with an income turnover of up to NIS 15 campaign which emphasized the experience extreme fluctuations in their Promotion of small and minute million. Different classes of funds exist absurdity of the current plus system. monthly cash flows due to fluctuations businesses in accordance with customer needs in the scope of their work, and also due Within the framework of the strategic (business development/ investment in The Bank decided this year to attend to to the payment system of current plus plan, the small and minute machinery and equipment). The balance a segment of the market, which hitherto prevailing in the Israeli market. businesses segment has been defined as of credit in the funds as of December 31, had not received a proper banking one of the focus segments, on which the 2017 NIS 195 million (December 31, attention the freelancers, a segment Furthermore, many freelancers run Group would focus, as a central growth 2016 NIS 135 million). showing a significant growth trend in their business using the family bank engine. In the activity in 2017 emphasis recent years. More and more people account, thus the different income and was placed on the automatization of credit Business credit card. The Bank offers choose to set up a business of their own, expense items make income control processes in the small business segment, a business key credit card to its due either to choice or constraints, and difficult. Additional identified points of among customers having a debt of less customers. This card is intended to become freelancers who provide services difficulty were the lack of a business than NIS 1 million. In addition, the focusing provide business owners with a unique to organizations and private customers, plan adapted to the characteristics of on the segment continued, with an service through the use of a credit card of and who do not employ others. the work, difficulties in dealing with the emphasis on increasing the activity with a key type, which enables the customer authorities, worry about social benefits existing customers, attracting new to obtain discounts at trading houses This change in the employment model and the marketing of the business. business customers and the basing of that are suppliers. is a global trend. In the United States, growth upon improving the models for the rating of business customers as a SMS business packages. A package the freelancer market segment grew by 26% in the years 2006-2013, comprising The small and minute businesses supporting tool for the granting of credit. that allows extension of current account at present about one third of the U.S. segment is considered as one of services. Receiving messages regarding workforce. Estimates indicate that by the the segments on which the Group The services granted to these customers the following matters are available: year 2020, the freelancer segment would include: notice in advance as to the termination comprise 40% of the U.S. workforce. plans to focus. The outstanding Service to small and medium of a guarantee, outstanding balance balance of credit extended to small businesses. The Bank's customers of guaranties relating to the account, Approximately 300 thousand freelancers which are small and middle collection of post-dated checks (balance conduct business in Israel, comprising businesses amounted to NIS 30,825 market businesses obtain services and payments), checks serving as 7.6% of the total workforce in the market. million at the end of 2017 commensurate to their volume of collateral (balance, payments and A study made by the Deloitte Research operations, this in order to provide shortage vis-à-vis the defined amount), Company found that the number of In order to face these challenges, professional service appropriate to the order of check books, dishonored freelancers in the local labor market grew Discount Bank has established a unique customer's characteristics. Customers checks, etc. by 33% in the years 2009-2014. Despite term package for freelancers, which has 84 > The Customers The Customers > 85 solutions and tracks adapted to their “Banking Availability” Covenant coordinator. The Bank has strengthened individual basis to every woman staying needs. Thus, for example, the package In recent years it has become more its personal connection with the shelters in the shelter. In addition, the Bank offers a bridging loan, current plus on widely understood that the that look after female victims of violence assists women planning to leave the our account , in an amount of up to NIS population in shelters for female victims and assist the women by suggesting shelter irrespective of whether they are 30 thousand at an attractive interest rate, of violence, who have mostly been forced relevant financial advice in accordance customers of the Bank. granted against future cash inflows, in to flee their homes without any support with the special circumstances of each order to allow the customer to conduct and resources, lacks the means to survive individual case. Within the framework On July 2, 2018, the annual gathering of an ordinary manner of life with no debts and look after their finances. This situation of these activities, the Bank cooperates the covenant’s partners was held at the while awaiting payment for his work. intensifies the feeling of isolation and fear with the social workers at the shelters in “Herzelilinblum” private museum. The felt by these women at the moment of providing whatever support is needed to event was attended by the Supervisor In addition, the Bank offers a credit their being cut off from their previous life the women staying in the shelter. of Banks, the CEO of the Association of facility of up to twice the average and, not least of all, damages their ability Banks in Israel, the National Supervisor for income recorded in the previous six to cope with difficulties and to begin a When the Bank is contacted by the Family Violence at the Labor and Welfare months, pension savings, assistance new chapter. Due to these difficulties and shelter, the coordinator in cooperation Ministry, the female CEOs of Discount with formation and marketing of a due to their having insufficient financial with the Debt Monitoring Unit, with the Bank, Bank Leumi and First International business plan, as well as additional guidance, the women’s dependence on branch management and with the other Bank, and many other guests benefits, such as a loan to cover their abusive husband/partner could relevant units examines the case with expenses of organizing the new continue or even intensify, sometimes the aim of assisting and preventing any More suitable for students business, exemption from different even leading to their returning home even deterioration in the woman’s situation. With the aim of making higher commissions, and more. though this is not what they want. Together they go over the account education accessible to all printouts, check whether there are youngsters, the Discount Group is Doco-realty Campaign this is how In view of this and as part of the Banking standing orders or direct debits that offering a variety of loan models that you buy Falafel on current plus 60 Supervision Department’s desire to owing to the woman being in the shelter are intended to answer the special terms. Within the framework of the promote the economic independence of are superfluous, examine whether needs of students. Thus, for instance, said move, the Bank introduced a women, it was decided to support female there are outstanding loans and whether with respect to a loan of the Degree marketing campaign in which were victims of violence staying in shelters and assistance can be provided by easing the with peace of mind class at Discount produced video clips of the doco-realty half way homes. To this end, the “Banking repayment schedule, and so forth. Bank, the repayment period is up to style, which reflected the particular Availability” Covenant was drawn up in eight years, and the repayments of the difficulty of persons that have to live January 2016 with the aim of assisting Along with this, the “Banking Availability” principal of the loan may be deferred for on income receivable on the current female victims of violence to embark Covenant calls for the banks to provide three years, while enjoying especially plus basis. The video clips show an on a new and independent economic financial education at the shelters through low repayments during the studies actor, himself a freelancer in non-staged path. Partnering in this initiative are: the the “Banks Adopt a Shelter” program. period. A loan for the splitting of tuition scenes, trying to buy different goods Association of Banks in Israel, the banks fees is granted against the presentation and services on the current plus basis. and credit card companies in Israel, the Accordingly, the Bank has adopted two of a payment voucher (also to the The authentic reactions of the suppliers Banking Supervision Department, the shelters. It should be noted that the parents of the student). The payment have been documented in the campaign, shelters for female victims of violence, Bank’s employees, the manager of the voucher may be split into up to ten demonstrating the economic absurdity and social organizations. Since the Toucher (digital) branch and his team and payments without interest and linkage that freelancers face on a daily basis. covenant’s inception, 540 female victims the manager of the Beit Hakerem branch (the first payment made in cash). The campaign has been accompanied by of abuse have to date received assistance and her team have been volunteering contents which included reports and tips from the banking corporations. at these shelters even before the The overall repayment period for for freelancers. covenant was drawn up. As part of the loans to students studying abroad for Every banking corporation has a adoption, the volunteers further the higher degrees, is seven years, and The Bank has been successful in creating designated coordinator, who is assigned financial knowledge of the women and the repayment of the principal amount awareness to the singular offer, and the to each woman who enters the shelter. At staff working at the shelter through of the loan may be differed for up to campaign led to the opening of hundreds Discount Bank, the manager of mortgage periodic financial training sessions twenty-four months. In addition, loans to of freelancer accounts with Discount. public inquiries has been appointed the and provide personal assistance on an students for any purpose are available 86 > The Customers The Customers > 87 at attractive interest rates. repaid over a long period. accessibility modifications have been In recent years MDB also introduced Promoting accessibility made at Bank properties in accordance with a multiyear work plan. Services and products special credit products to the student population, which are especially In accordance with the Equal Rights for Handicapped Persons In addition, accessibility modifications for the advancement tailored to their needs and abilities, with a special focus on peripheral Act, the Bank has appointed an Accessibility Coordinator which leads have been made at the marketing Internet website and in the operations of populations areas, in the Arab sector and in the Haredi sector: and coordinates the accessibility operations at the Bank and serves as an website, and in addition, training sessions are held to employees on the at the principal Tuition fee loans granted at the address for any approach in the matter. The Bank conducted a Discount accessibility subject. subsidiaries branches students may finance tuition accessible project, within the The above stated relates also to MDB fees by a long-term loan, with a grace framework of which, the Bank made and to ICC. Mercantile Discount Bank period of up to four years during studies accessibility modifications in MDB specializes, inter alia, in providing and beginning the long-term repayment accordance with the new regulation, Information regarding accessibility at services to small and medium businesses of the principal amount one year after both from the aspects of building, branches and in providing services to the Arab and completion of studies. infrastructure and environmental Information is presented on the ultra-orthodox Jewish populations. modifications and the aspects of websites of the Bank and of MDB with Financial tranquility for the student modifications for accessibility to respect to branches and services MDB views the retail segment as a central cooperation with the academic service. accessible to handicapped persons target of its business development and is institutions by means of a tuition fees (including parking for the disabled, diligently following the disposition of branches fund, while in most cases the institution For the purpose of the project, accessibility to the branch, toilets in this sector as well as improving the service pays the interest on the loan while the Bank engaged an association for the disabled, ATM machines to its customers. the student repays only the principal specializing in the matter of modified for persons having mobility amount. access to handicapped persons, or sight difficulties, service stations Within the framework of this segment, MDB in which authorized professionals and aid instruments for persons with provides to private customers, typified by Encouraging higher education in the operate, who accompany the Bank, hearing impairment). household activity, a variety of banking Haredi sector within the framework of providing guidance and advice on services and financial products, including cooperation between the bank, the Haredi the modifications required for easy IDB Bank. IDB Bank complies with services regarding credit, housing loans and Professional Advancement Fund and the access. applicable provisions of the American the capital market. These services are provided Council for Higher Education, students with Disability Act (ADA). The ADA to customers of this segment through a layout receive a subsistence loan during their Within the framework of the project, a requires that disabled persons be of MDB branches, which at the end of 2017 study period and upon graduation receive comprehensive survey of all the Bank's afforded the same access to public numbered 77 branches countrywide and by a scholarship of 40% to 70% of the loan properties had been performed for the accommodations and given the means of the TeleBank, the mobile application (depending on the subject studied), the mapping of gaps and the definition same employment opportunities as and the Internet website. remaining balance of the loan being of modifications to be carried out in nondisabled persons. The ADA is made accordance with the Equal Rights for up of five titles; the two that apply to Handicapped Persons Regulations banks are Title I, Employment, and Title MDB operates 11 branches at Student loans in the years 2014-2017 (Accessibility adjustments to a public III, Public Accommodations and Services the heart of the Haredi sector place being an existing building), 2011. Operated by Private Entities. Specifically, in NIS millions Furthermore, the Bank had mapped all ADA prohibits discrimination against and 36 branches in settlements services which require modification of persons with disabilities in the areas with an absolute majority of the 2017 2016 2015 2014 accessibility to services in accordance with the Equal Rights for Handicapped of employment practices, access to physical facilities, and goods and non-Jewish population. Discount Bank 156 195 214 274 Persons Regulations (Accessibility services offered to the public. MDB 450 455 351 241 adjustments to service), 2013, and Continue on next page 88 > The Customers The Customers > 89 Continued from previous page The small business segment having comprehensive view to their varied with safe and sound operations. Information The service to the general customer population The small business segment at the MDB is businesses. regarding IDB Bank’s CRA activities is available of the Bank in the private sector, is based upon one of the outstanding segments of MDB to the public through the CRA Public File many years of acquaintanceship and the granting and accordingly is a central target in its business A fund for the renewal and purchase of maintained at each of IDB Bank’s seven branch of personal consulting and service, both at development. MDB provides varied banking production facilities. MDB has a designated locations. Additionally, the FDIC and NYSDFS branches and through additional marketing services and financial products to small business fund, established in 2015 in conjunction with the make IDB Bank’s CRA Performance Evaluation channels (Internet, TeleBank, etc.), as well as customers (individuals and companies). Around Manufacturers' Association, for the granting of available to the public through their respective through involvement in the community and one half of the customers of MDB who belong to long-term credit to Association members who website. adapting to its needs. this segment live in areas where the population wish to renew and purchase equipment and has an absolute non-Jewish majority and receive manufacturing facilities, and in this way upgrade Most of the customers of MDB belonging to banking services by means of branches of this the industry and increase production ability and the household segment of this bank, receive bank, 36 of which belonging organizationally to competition. The outstanding balance of the banking services by means of MDB branches, of the Acre and Nazareth regions and additional loans granted by this fund amounted at December which 36 branches located in places having an branches in other regions and areas around the 31, 2017, to NIS 29 million. absolute majority of the Arab population in the country. Acre Region and the Nazareth Region, as well ICC as additional branches in others places in Israel, Governmental funds for the support of business. Service to minute businesses ICC including: Rahat, in east Jerusalem, Wadi Nisnas During the past decade, MDB has developed, in provides clearing services to minute in Haifa, Jaffa and more. cooperation with relevant government agencies, trading houses through Aggregators. When a expertise in the granting of credit to small and trading house leaves its particulars on ICC’s middle market businesses through governmental businesses website, it receives a message that The outstanding balance of funds for the support of business. its application has been forwarded to an loans extended by MDB within aggregator, which will contact it regarding the Small Business Fund. The Ministry of Finance clearing terms. The aggregators with which ICC the framework of the small informed the Bank on January 17, 2016, of its collaborates specialize in providing a solution businesses Fund, amounted decision to accept the offer of MDB (and its to the needs of minute trading houses through institutional partner), as one of the winners in the the use of advanced digital technologies that at the end of 2017 to NIS 480 tender. The maximum volume of credit, which the enable the minute trading house to work with an million. bank (jointly with the institutional body) would application and with the aid of a card-reader be able to grant customers within the framework that conects with either a smartphone or a of this tender, amounts to NIS 650 million. The tablet. Service to the Haredi customer balance of loans within the framework of the population Fund which MDB granted its customers (jointly IDB Bank MDB operates 11 branches at the heart of with the institutional body), amounted as of Credit to local communities Under the the Haredi sector. The branches are located December 31, 2017 to NIS 480 million (2016 Community Reinvestment Act (CRA), IDB countrywide, mostly in the Jerusalem, Bnei Braq NIS 190 million). Bank is required to help meet the credit needs and Ashdod areas as well as in additional areas of the local communities in which they are populated by the Haredi community. The bank The Corporate Banking Segment located. IDB Bank’s CRA activities (i.e., specializes in the development of products and Within the framework of this segment, MDB community development lending, qualified the granting of designated services to the Haredi provides a variety of banking services and investments, grants, and community customer population. The bank has a special unit financial products to large business corporations. development services) are evaluated handling associations and organizations The business of such customers is typified by approximately every three years by federal and belonging to the Haredi sector, which handles significant complexity and sophistication state regulators to assess the Bank’s record in hundreds of such institutions. In addition, the accordingly, the bank provides to these customers helping to meet the credit needs of the entire bank operates its branches at business hours financial products, mostly in the credit field, communities it serves, including low-to that are convenient to this population. tailored to their activity and specific needs moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent 90 > The Customers The Customers > 91 In view of the above and as part of methodologies for compliance risk In accordance with guidelines of the Fairness in the overall risk management concept, and in particular, the compliance and evaluation, the treatment thereof and forming proper reporting mechanisms. Supervisor of Banks, prior to the launch of new products/operations, the Bank products regulation risks, the Bank acts in order to impart and integrate proper and fair The Chief Compliance Officer performs an orderly and systematic process ensuring the identification business principles and values into participates in the planning of the and evaluation of all risks inherent Proper disclosure information the banking operations of the Group compliance risk strategy, including in the new product/operation, while regarding products and services as a whole, including the formation determination of the risk appetite; examining their effect on the risk Banking corporations are required and characterization of products being is involved in major organizational profile and verifying the propriety of the by law to abide by proper disclosure offered by the Bank to customers, changes planned by the Bank; and, infrastructure and controls supporting requirements in everything relating to the in accordance with requirements inter alia, is actively involved in the their operation. The said process has information which is to be provided to changing from time to time, proper preparations towards the introduction been established in a designated policy customers regarding the banking product disclosure to customers with respect of new operations and products by the and in supporting work procedures or service including the Banking Act to the different products, including the Bank. Moreover, the Chief Compliance applied by the Bank and the Group (Customer Service), 1981, the Banking risk components inherent therein, and Officer monitors the rectification of mutatis mutandis. Rules (Customer Service)(Proper the adaptation of the solutions offered material deficiencies and failures in Disclosure and the Delivery of by the professionals of the Bank to matters of compliance. The above stated relates also to MDB Documents), 1992, and the Banking the needs of customers and changing and ICC. Rules (Customer Service) market requirements. The Chief Compliance Officer submits (Advertisements directed at Minors), to the Bank's Management and the 1995. The central principle of this Compliance with the provision of the Board of Directors quarterly and/ While launching new operations/ legislation is the duty of proper disclosure law and regulation is enforced on a or annual reports on matters of products of the Bank, as well as the (transparency) towards the customer regular basis by means of various compliance, which include a summary and the preservation of his right to control and supervision systems the of his activity during the reported marketing and advertising operations receive advice and service from the bank. Chief Compliance Officer, compliance period. of the Bank, messages delivered to officers and trustees and the Internal The Bank strictly adheres by the Audit. In accordance with the provisions of Bank customers are examined by instructions applying to it in this respect Proper Conduct of Banking Business, control factors who verify, inter alia, and maintains strict control procedures. In accordance with Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directives, the Chief the Chief Compliance Officer has the duty of assisting the Managements of that the messages are not misleading At the base of the above subject are Compliance Officer is responsible for the Bank and the Group in the effective customers and are being delivered in found fairness and decency values assisting the Management and the management of risks stemming from a proper and fair manner. comprising an integral part of the Board of Directors, to maintain the violation of compliance instructions. current business activity, interwoven responsibility of compliance with the The Compliance Officer is also actively with the day-to-day operations of the provisions of the law and regulations, involved in the preparations towards Structured infrastructure exist at Bank and comprise a guideline for the and the management of compliance the introduction of new products and the Bank, which assist employees in operations of Bank employees. The risk at the Bank in an effective manner. operations at the Bank. Furthermore, providing service in accordance with above stated requires development In this respect, the Chief Compliance the Compliance Officer monitors the Bank values, a service being of value and maintenance of an organizational Officer verifies that the compliance rectification of material deficiencies also to customers. Thus, for instance, culture, which positions the customer risk to which the Bank is exposed, that had been identified with respect to the systems of the Bank assist the and the business fairness and reliability including conduct risk (see the 2016 compliance issues. Quarterly reports fair and transparent conduct, while at the heart of the decision making annual report, p.101) are being properly that include a summary of his activities providing proper disclosure of all processes conducted both by the managed by the relevant units, and are are submitted by the Chief Compliance data and information relevant to the authorized organs of the Group, and presented to the Board of Directors Officer to the Bank's President & CEO execution of a transaction; also existing by the three lines of defense, and in in the form of a holistic point of view, and to the CEO's of the subsidiaries in is an administrative infrastructure wich particular the risk taking units. and this by outlining a policy and which he acts as a Compliance Officer. regulate proper criteria and manner 92 > The Customers The Customers > 93 Services in different languages of conduct; regulation supporting information sessions are being are being reflected is the introduction process of new operations/products The Bank is working for providing Fairness in products conducted regarding the consumer credit field, which establish fairness of the Bank, as well as the marketing and advertising operations of the Bank. different services in a variety of languages for the convenience of all its at the principal and decency values; frontal guidance Messages delivered to Bank customers customers: subsidiaries sessions are held as regards a variety (including potential customers) are of compliance matters with the examined by control factors who verify, he Hebrew, English and Russian, T ICC assistance of distance learning and inter alia, that the messages are not Arabic and French languages may be ICC is also a signatory of the advertising updates, which help in the absorption misleading customers and are being used on the marketing website; ethical code, and no complaints were of different issues. The guidance delivered in a proper and fair manner. received in 2017 regarding violations thereof. sessions are designed for all Bank  ebrew is the language used on the H MDB has not signed the said Code of Ethics. employees and managers, and a part Proper disclosure in publications operations website, though English of which are designed to agree with the the Bank strictly applies several basic may also be partly used; IDB Bank special work environment concerning principles in the advertising and IDB Bank adheres to all applicable federal designated products and employee marketing of its products:  arketing pamphlets which are placed M and state laws, such as Truth in Savings Act populations. The infrastructure is being in the branches for the customers' (Regulation DD), Truth in Lending Act (Regulation validated and updated from time to Truth in advertising Strict measures convenience are written usually in Z) and Acts dealing with Unfair, Abusive or time in accordance with the regulatory are taken in the publication of valid Hebrew, and in certain cases, according Deceptive Practices, requirements pertaining to environment and the business activity of information, which is being properly to needs or demand, designated proper and timely disclosure of terms and the Bank. These assist also the control examined prior to its release. pamphlets are also produced in other conditions relating to its deposit and lending side of compliance enforcement of the languages (English, Russian, French product and services. provisions of the law and regulations Social correctness The Bank and Arabic); and in the imparting of the compliance publications are being edited in a culture at the organization. respectable and adequate manner while strictly maintaining social  ATMs provide guidance in Hebrew, Arabic and Russian, and with the use of Services in different In order to promote fairness and proper disclosure at the Bank, the Bank acts correctness and avoiding impingement of populations, beliefs, etc. an international card, also in English; languages on a number of levels: T  he Information Desks interface MDB Promoting transparency The Bank Ethics The Bank is committed to the operates in Hebrew, English, Arabic MDB has extensive activity among the Arab acts, inter alia, for the establishment of advertising ethical code adopted by and Russian. It is possible to receive population and the Ultra-Orthodox ( Haredi ) the said values in the core documents advertisers and television channels statements of account in Hebrew or population and thereby the required adjustment is and the basic documents of the Bank, and includes principles designed to English, where the language of the made to the bank's operations with the different and conducts current operations to protect values (such as human dignity), account is marked as English; segments of the population. The marketing integrate them in the field. Among populations (such as children), etc. approach in the Arab sector is generally made in other things, the Bank emphasizes The said code is obligatory both as A  t branches servicing a large number of Arabic (including film-strips, leaflets, etc.). transparency as well as adequate and regards production of marketing foreign residents, such as the Nataniyah, Furthermore, the primary telephonic response proper disclosure provided to the Bank's communication as well as the products Bat-Yam, Ashdod and Herzliyah Pituach (computerized) in branches in the Arab sector, are customers, including the information themselves. branches, service is provided also by in Arabic. Also the approach to the Haredi sector and adaptation which have to be English speaking officers and those is made considering the language in practice provided to customers with respect to No complaint with respect to a violation who speak an additional foreign (without photographs that might offend public banking products or services granted of the published Code of Ethics was language, such as French or Russian; feelings and with a text that is appropriate to the or offered to them. received in 2017. Haredi sector).  he Bank is acting towards the adding T Launching activities and advertising In 2017 no significant fines and/or of the English language at the line ICC new products An additional layer in monetary sanctions were imposed on management positions, in addition to In ICC Service at the call center is provided in which the values of fairness and decency the Bank. the Russian and Hebrew languages. Hebrew, English and Russian. 94 > The Customers The Customers > 95 the privacy of the customer and the Computers Act, Proper Conduct of by the Bank or by the Group, their relation Customer privacy information in his account, and does everything it can to identify malfunctions Banking Business Directives, and particularly Directives Nos. 357 and 361, with customers or the competitive conditions. and information and prevent their repetition. on the basis of which a cyber defense and data protection strategy and policy Structure and processes security 4 cases were identified in 2017: Three cases involving employees who had have been drawn up, as approved by the Bank's Management and Board of First line of defense. A data and cyber protection manager serves at produced information and conducted Directors. the Bank, who is directly subject to the The importance of maintaining transactions in accounts of family Head of the Technologies and Operations and protecting reliability, strength, members without authority to operate Except for the protection of the Division. For details regarding the duties availability and survival of information these accounts, and one case involving computer system, the defensive actions of the data protection and cyber defense technology is ever growing in view of the a female employee who had produced are directed to provide a response to group, see above. enormous technological development in information regarding an account of a significant business processes of the recent years and its implications on the Bank, in view of the cyber threats, which customer in order to disclose his marital status. Bank. In this way, a defense layer focused on a comprehensive-business viewpoint In 2017, no one or more cybernetic are growing in severity and frequency, risk would be stabilized. incidents occurred that materially and in view of the significant growth No complaints were received in ICC affected the products or services of the use of information technology in 2017. One complaint was received As a general rule, threats in the cyberspace products compared with humanly in MDB in 2017, concerning banking are threats that may cause a shutdown offered by the Bank or by the Group, provided products. Therefore, the Bank confidentiality, which had been found of systems, preventing material services, their relation with customers or the views the protection and safety of justified. material damage to confidentiality and information as a central goal and invests completeness of data and performance competitive conditions. large resources in order to protect the No complaints were received in IDB Bank of hostile actions and fraud. information in its possession. in 2017 concerning breaches of customer Attainment of the data and cyber privacy and losses of customer data. In recent period, we are witnessing a protection goals is achieved through the The Bank stringently adopts an global intensification of this threat, both implementation of a set of protection array of actions and measures for D ata protection risks and regarding the scope of attacks as well as means, monitoring and control. Starting retaining customer data in data bases, in cyber protection their sophistication. with policy and procedure outlines, order to protect them from impairment in determination of areas of responsibility durability and exposure to a change to the The principal potential damage involved Set out in these documents are the and authority, installation of protection data. This activity is carried out in in the impairment of data protection basic principles for cyber defense and reinforcement technologies, and accordance with the provisions of the law includes impairment of privacy and management, corporate governance and ending with monitoring methods and and the regulatory agencies. confidentiality of information regarding the duties of the various lines of defense, treatment of incidents. the Bank, its customers and employees, including the coordination and control financial damage, realization of cyber needed in order to establish an effective Data protection surveys and penetration The Bank insists on maintaining banking threats, distortion of data stored in defense; the approach to cyber defense tests to the Bank's systems are performed confidentiality and on protecting the Bank's systems, impairment of the and strategy, the establishment of a by independent external companies the privacy of the customer and the availability and survival of systems and information, impairment of the business framework for the management of cyber risks and data protection, and the core specializing in data protection and IT risks. The frequency of performing a information in his account, and does of the Bank and its reputation. risk management processes, including survey in respect of each system is everything it can to identify malfunctions risk identification and assessment, the determined according to the criticality of Data protection and cyber defense at controls and the reporting processes. the system and the risk inherent therein. and prevent their repetition. the Bank are regulated and directed in accordance with various regulatory In 2017, no one or more cybernetic A cyber unit, which operates under The Bank insists on maintaining banking provisions, including the Privacy incidents occurred that materially similar principles, is defined at the main confidentiality and on protecting Protection Act and Regulations, the affected the products or services offered Group companies. 96 > The Customers The Customers > 97 Second line of defense. The Operational center that operates continuously with Proper Conduct of Banking Business Risks Department, at the Risk Management Wing, which is accountable throughout the year (24 hours per day 365 days per year) the object of Directive No. 357 and 361, risk surveys and Penetration tests are performed at Customer privacy at to the Chief Risk Officer, is in charge of drawing up a methodology for identifying which is identifying risks breaches, exposures and vulnerabilities in required frequencies, following which, reduction measures and required reports ICC Technological and assessing the cyber risks, for their monitoring, for the tracking of the the data protection system, and is responsible, among other things, for are implemented. preparations in the process for their mitigation, and for delivering reports regarding such risks the identification and warning of any activity intended to damage the Bank's Access to information and the levels of authorization are controlled by designated credit cards field to the Risk Managers Committee, to the sites or its customers (by means of teams and systems, the administration Bank’s Management and to the Board of imitation sites). Furthermore, in the processes and management tools As part of its attempts to reduce the Directors. This, in addition to partnering framework of the internal audit, a undergoing significant improvement and phenomenon of improper use of stolen or the first line of defense in instilling the department in the field of IT operates, reorganization. counterfeit credit cards, the international Visa cyber risks management culture within which performs current audits of such organization the MasterCard Worldwide the units of the Bank and the Group. subjects. The Bank's operational sites The Bank conducts current operations for organization and the international Diners Club that provide service to customers over increasing awareness and improvement organization (hereinafter: “the Organizations”) are At the Risk Management Wing, within the the Internet, are protected by several of the organizational culture from the taking various steps to improve the security level of Operational Risks Department, the Cyber layers of defense, which include aspect of data protection, which among the credit cards that bear their brands and to comply Risks Management Unit operates, whose protection components for hardware/ other things include training, publication with the EMV standard. responsibility is to comprise the second communication/and services providing of policy documents, manifests line of defense for managing the Bank’s information regarding attacks and and marketing tools. The Bank has This standard is a collection of specifications cyber risks. The Unit acts to ensure that hostile addresses. Infrastructure established in procedures most of its developed by the Organizations with the aim the cyber exposures and risks are closely systems are monitored and reported to operations and processes, and the data of providing a uniform and secure format for and consistently managed by all the risk the data protection center. protection unit at the Bank is involved in payment transactions using chip charge cards, foci managers, including following up on the approval of all the Bank's procedures which have special features making it harder for alerts suspected as cyber events. As part of risk management, the Bank in order to ensure the early identification such cards to be used by unauthorized parties investigates various incidents, gains of operations causing data protection and/or for them to be counterfeited (hereinafter: The subsidiaries have established an insights and draws conclusions. Such risks and cyber defense. “Smart Cards”), when used in conjunction with organizational structure that supports insights, together with data and cyber ATM’s or POS terminals that support the standard. their cyber risk management, in a similar protection surveys enable the Bank to Mitigating the exposure to cyber risk spirit, mutatis mutandis. The aforesaid map gaps that should be rectified and through purchasing insurance. See The specifications relate to both Contact and organizational structure enables the determine preferences in the treatment the document Disclosure according to Contactless card transactions, and are based on comprehensive and efficient group thereof, which are integrated in the work the third pillar of Basel and additional identifying the cardholder through the input of a management of cyber risks at the Group. plan. information regarding risks , published secret code (PIN) and dynamic protections, using together with the 2017 Annual Report digital signature authentication and by combining the Protection of the Bank's sites Data protection and cyber defense (pp. 77-78). physical component, the chip, with the card reader, In accordance with the Bank's policy activities are being implemented in communications and the payment application. in the matter, systems preventing accordance with the strategic plan, as Aspects of physical safety, to the unauthorized access as well as systems approved by the Bank's Management extent that they might be connected In addition, the Organizations have prescribed monitoring and identifying deviation from and Board of Directors. to data protection, are managed and provisions to create economic incentives for the authorized activities are integrated into implemented by the Bank's security replacement of the existing, old terminals, which do the Bank's systems. Protection of the Systems and projects under development officer, in conjunction with the data not comply with the aforesaid standard, by means marketing sites and of the Bank's and maintenance are being closely protection manager. of a Liability Shift mechanism. operations is continuous. assisted by professional mentors. The above described processes are The said instructions state that in case of forgery/ The Bank operates a data protection In accordance with the risk outline and applied also with respect to MDB. Continue on next page 98 > The Customers The Customers > 99 Continued from previous page misusage of a card: 1. Where a smart card was cleared by a trading house which had not installed a smart clearing device, the clearing agent shall bear the costs. 2. Where a card which is not a smart card, was cleared by a trading housed that had installed a smart clearing device, the issuer shall bear the costs. goals 06 Continuing the deployment of the 11 At least 30 financial education activities CRM system upgrading at branches/ the management of organizations In accordance with Proper Conduct of Banking connection with the Business directives, the preparations have to be completed by January, 2019. 01 Activities in a wide range of segments, economic sectors and customers at the branches and the TeleBank In accordance with instructions of the international credit products, in order to create an optimal distribution of the 12 A financial education lecture for freelancers organizations, ICC has prepared for the transformation to the use of smart cards . In the issuance field, ICC issues at present on a current portfolio 07 Continuing the improvement and upgrading of the service and speed of response basis, VISA, MasterCard and Diners smart cards. These preparations include adjusting of the systems operated by the company and the definition of the 02 Expanding the services coverage to the customers while increasing the risk with respect to the process of extending mortgage loans 13 Leading in customer satisfaction in using the banking application smart card profile as regards producers of the cards. adjusted return In addition, ICC has begun preparations for the issue of VISA and MasterCard smart cards having 08 Adapting the sale of unique products 14 Increasing the number of contactless capabilities. These preparations are expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2019. 03 Continuation of the upgrading of the digital channels and directing activity to these to customers of this segment and approaching sections of designated customers in versions in the year, as a tool for rapidly providing value to the Bank’s customers channels this segment In the clearing field, ICC is preparing for infrastructure in accordance with the EMV standard, which includes adjusting the systems of the company to receive, process and transmit files and messages in the new formats, as defined by Automatic Bank Services 04 The Bank shall avoid credit operations involving concern for impairment of the 09 Expanding the use of online channels, focusing on the upgrading of the designated website 15 A financial education month activity is planned for 2018 – 4 lectures on digital banking aimed at (ABS) in the EMV credit system, as well as making reputation of the Group for customers of this the third-age population the relevant changes to the interface between the or of the Bank, inter alia, segment Business three credit card companies. with respect to money + and a designated laundering and the application for business financing of terror customers ICC has completed the preparations for the transition to the use of smart cards in accordance with the directives of the international organizations. 16 Intensifying operations in the small business segment increasing For details regarding the approach by MasterCard Worldwide to ICC with respect to the preparations 05 Attaching additional customers to the new communication channels, coded mail 10 For 2018 a goal of up to 18% was determined for justified complaints, out of all complaints the customer base while focusing on reducing the desertion of customers, increasing the number of and communication received by the Bank customers using banking for the implementation of different operational application for and complaints received products and increasing requirements, see Discount Bank's 2017 Annual correspondence with a through the Bank of the ratio of customers Report (p. 358). banker Israel accepting credit 100 > The Employees The Employees > 101 9,374 05 The Employees Nurturing of Discount Bank’s human capital 102 employees at Discount Group 5,502 employees at Discount Bank 45.1 Discount Bank’s employees 104 Average age of Discount Bank's Diversity and equal opportunity 112 employees Investing more in employees 118 16.5 average years of seniority at Discount Maintaining employee rights 137 Bank Goals 144 59.4% of Discount Bank's employees have academic education 12.4% of Discount Bank and its principal subsidiaries employees are of underrepresented populations 49% rate of women in management positions 102 > The Employees The Employees > 103 The Nurturing of Discount Bank’s Nurturing the human capital at the principal and at its network of branches. Deployment of the Code of Ethics. During 2017 Employees the new Code of Ethics was deployed among the bank’s employees. human capital subsidiaries in Israel ICC Management of ICC views the human capital It is important to us to take Mercantile Discount Bank as a strategic key in achieving the success of The Bank adopted a policy of pride in our workplace and we As is the case for Discount Bank, MDB the organization, and accordingly, invest in therefore promote a challenging, promotes a people-orientated management employee training and development, in their directed management of personnel, supportive and pleasant work policy and acts to nurture its human capital, through personal and professional progress, in based on the understanding that environment. We believe in the people the operation of numerous management systems compensating them for qualitative performance, that we work with and invest in making for human resources development. Among its main their welfare, their attachment to the business core human capital is a central factor them stronger. (“the Discount Spirit”). activities for nurturing the human capital in 2017 aims, and in an open dialogue with the employees in the Bank’s progress and success. were: with the aim of creating frankness and fairness. Discount Bank adopted a policy of directed Therefore, the Bank works to develop management of personnel, based on the Expanding the operation of the back office unit. As part of the above, ICC operates on a number the human resource from a long-term understanding that human capital is a Within the framework of the plan for business of central levels, including: central factor in the Bank’s progress and focusing and efficiency, MDB continued in 2017 to perspective, by means of and laying a success. Therefore, the Bank works to implement the strategy that changes the operating L abor relations the formation of a new foundation for outstanding, forerunning develop the human resource from a longconcept at the branches and head office operating collective labor agreement for the years 2016term perspective, by means of and laying units of the bank. As part of this plan, additional 2018, which follows the agreements of 2011 leadership, expressed as a basis for the a foundation for outstanding, forerunning operating activities that had been conducted at the and 2015; organization's empowerment and growth. leadership, expressed as a basis for bank branches in the past were moved in 2017 and the organization's empowerment and centralized at designated back office units. D evelopment, training and the mobilization growth. Concurrently, the Bank places of employees, as part of their personal and emphasis on promoting the realization of Implementation of the plan is accompanied by professional development and their career the professional and personal aspirations changes in work procedures at the branches and management; of its employees, by providing them at the back office operating units, and entails with a range of career-development investment of inputs required to instill the concepts  he creation of a leading and strong T opportunities. and new work methods (as well as the need to leadership development of the executive maintain duplicated work procedures at the first echelon through rich and varied development Discount Bank operates many systems stages of the moving of different parts of operation). programs; that support the development and nurturing of the human resource, including Efficiency measures. As part of the efficiency  iversity and equal opportunities diverse D sophisticated evaluation and feedback measures, MDB has taken further steps in the employment and focusing on employment of mechanisms. The management training prosess of reducing its labor force. The reduction handicapped persons; and development systems assisting, in the labor force has been defined as one of the inter alia, employees in coping with the central goals of the multi-annual strategic plan. I nvestment in diverse activities for the professional and managerial challenges Within the framework of the multi-annual efficiency welfare of employees and their families, they face. In addition, Discount Bank plan, in 2017 some 9 employees opted for early such as: company vacations, presents for the attaches considerable importance to retirement. holidays and for personal events, a present and the welfare of its employees and takes gathering for children of employees starting measures to promote this, through varied Attendance clock. During 2017, an attendance first grade or enlisting to the IDF, operation of enrichment opportunities during free time system was deployed at the Bank’s head office a workout room, dining room, etc. 104 > The Employees The Employees > 105 Discount Bank’s Discount Bank’s employees by gender Employees of the Bank and the principal subsidiaries employees as of December 31, 2017 in 2017 5,502 1,431 1,661 483 9,077 60% 40% Employees of the Bank and the principal subsidiaries in Israel, in numbers in 2016 5,529 1,431 1,590 478 9,028 Breakdown of Discount Bank’s employees by employment categories in 2015 5,849 1,490 1,531 464 3,853 1,285 364 2017 5,502 9,334 Discount Bank MDB ICC IDB Bank 3,917 1,304 308 Note: 2016 5,529 1. The data do not include employees on unpaid leave or on maternity leave and contract employees.. 2. The data for MDB does not include employees of manpower and outsourcing companies. 4,149 1,386 314 2015 5,849 Academic education Discount Bank MDB 2017 2016 2017 2016 4,115 1,493 301 The percentage of academics within the total number of employees 59.4% 57.5% 53.2% 52.2% 2014 5,909 The percentage of academics within the total number of managers 84.2% 82.5% 60.0% 56.1% The percentage of academics within the total number of clerical staff 52.8% 50.8% 50.2% 50.3% 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 The percentage of academics within the total number of female employees 56.4% 54.3% 52.4% 51.7% The percentage of academics within the total number of male employees 64.2% 62.5% 54.4% 52.7% Tenured employees under personal employment Temporary employees Software houses contracts and member of management Note: The data does not include employees of software houses. Notes: 1. The data do not include employees on unpaid leave or on maternity leave. 2. T  enured employees – the employment terms of such employees are regulated in the Labor Charter, special collective agreements and various employment arrangements. Average age and average seniority of the employees 3. T  emporary employees – the employment terms of such employees are mainly regulated in several special collective agreements in which said employees’ employment terms and the period of their employment are set forth. Discount Bank MDB ICC 4. P  ersonal contracts – employees whose employment terms are anchored in personal contracts with the Bank and for whom the provisions of the Labor Charter and the collective agreements, which apply to employees with the status of “tenured” employees, do not apply Average age 45.1 43.9 36 Average seniority 16.5 16.5 9 For additional details regarding the Bank’s employment data according to the various categories and the changes that took place therein, see the 2017 Annual Report (pp. 325-326). Note: In 2017, the Employee Calculation Methodology was updated, which the Bank updated retroactively also for the year 2016. 106 > The Employees The Employees > 107 and through providing support in times of The Bank views the transfer of employees Rights of association The tenured budget of the Employees’ Representative crisis for its employees and the members between positions as an opportunity employees of the Bank are organized Committee, in an amount of almost triple of their families. for professional development and within the framework of the national the monthly amount contributed by the enrichment of its employees, and Employees’ Representative Committee. employees. Five of the 21 Committee The Bank insist on protecting the dignity encourages such transfers. For this The Representative Committee is divided members are officers engaged on the of employees, of proper labor relations purpose, inter alia, the Bank publishes on internally in such a way that employees Committee on a fulltime basis and and on protecting employee rights, the employees' website, notice of vacant at the clerical level come under the receiving a full salary. The other members in accordance with the law and labor positions inviting employees to submit purview of the Clerks’ Committee and of the Committee fulfill various positions agreements. The Human Resources their candidature. authorized signatories and managers in the Bank and serve as Committee and Properties Division is responsible, are organized under the Managers’ members in addition to their regular through the Division’s staff and through In 2017, 92% of the executive positions, Representative Committee. Most of the work. In addition, the Bank provides the Human Resources Units distributed were manned by Bank employees. issues are agreed and signed between the office premises for the Committee’s use throughout the Bank’s various divisions, Likewise, 44% of the professional Bank’s management and the Employees’ and covers its maintenance costs. The for dealing with employees, which positions (which do not comprise Representative Committee and the Bank assists the retirees' committee and guides the employee from his hiring of teller positions, service teams or Federation of Labor. A Retirees’ Committee allows it to conduct activities at the Bank until termination, including from the telephonic banking, and which are not also exists, under which retirees of the premises in Jerusalem, Jaffa and Haifa. aspects of: salary, welfare, occupational managerial positions) were manned by Bank are organized. development, employee development, Bank employees. Organizational changes Item 4 of guidance and professional training etc. Tenured employees at the Bank, who are the collective agreement dated April During that year, 55% of the executive organized within the national representative 2, 2000, in the matter of the definition positions and 62% of positions in general, committee, are entitled to vote for or be of the Bank's units, stated that the Employee hiring were manned by company employees. elected, and comprise 73.6% of all the Bank's employees. Bank`s Management shall forward its proposals regarding the definition of The Bank employs a small number units and management duties, and Each year Discount Bank hires of teenagers, according to age and Majority of employees under a collective a joint discussion will be held during hundreds of new employees conditions permitted by legislation, labor agreement18 As of December 31, fifteen days from date of forwarding continuously for a variety of positions. during their summer vacation, within the 2017, the Bank engaged 5,502 employees. the proposals to the managers' The hiring and placement of new framework of projects to the benefit of This figure includes all of the Bank's representative committee. At the employees uses a system of placement the community (see in Chapter Discount employees, as well as workers providing conclusion of the discussions, if the and absorption that is prevalent in the for the community, Employment of services to the Bank by way of different parties have not reached an agreement, market, and in the process thereof, the visually impaired teenagers ). The Bank outside factors. Of the above, 5,043 the matter will be forwarded to the Bank stresses compatibility between the does not employ children in any way or are tenured employees and temporary Bank`s President & CEO, whose decision needs of the candidate, his wishes and form, either directly or through manpower employees, engaged under collective will be final. The period was shortened values, and those of the Bank, using an agencies. agreements and constituting 91.7% of from 15 days to 7 days by the collective organizational approach that champions total employees. By reducing the number agreement dated November 30, 2016. employee growth within the system and of workers employed by external factors, providing diverse opportunities over time. employment Labor relations the number of employees stands at 5,138 and the number of those covered by the Work on the day of rest In accordance with the Work and Rest Hours Act, collective agreements reaches 98.2%. engaging an employee for work on the The placement of employees in the Bank Labor Relations at the Bank are weekly day of rest is forbidden, unless solely on a professional basis, while based on the Labor Charter, Bank participation in the budget of the permitted by a permit issued in terms of considering the candidate's skills and his collective labor agreements and Employees’ Representative Committee the Act. Security and guard employees suitability for the position, and without employment arrangements that are The Bank contributes monthly to the of the Bank are employed on the weekly involving irrelevant considerations such formulated mainly in discussions between as the race, gender, religion, nationality, the Bank’s management and the age or disability of candidates. employees’ representatives. 18 102-41 108 > The Employees The Employees > 109 days of rest in accordance with a general by the collective labor agreement signed who are entitled to be elected or to elect the permit issued by the Minister of Labor, regarding guard work on the weekly in September 2017, by the Bank and the employee representative committee. For Labor relations at the committee's members, is 80.9%. day of rest. Moreover, the Bank and a number of companies providing services additional details, see 2017 Annual Report (p. 326). principal subsidiaries In December 2016, MDB and the representative committee of the bank's employees signed an to the Bank obtained a special permit agreement (following a special collective labor from the Ministry of Labor, Welfare and For additional details regarding labor Mercantile Discount Bank agreement signed between Bank Leumi and its Social Services for the employment of relations at the Bank, see the 2017 Annual Labor relations between Management and employees), whereby the commitment of the computer and data protection operators Report (pp.326-327). the employees of MDB, except for those bank for the payment of seniority awards to its and standby staff, for each weekly day of having a personal employment agreement, are employees has been settled in return for a onerest. The validity of said permit is being The starting wages principally based on a basic labor agreement, time lump sum payment. Following the signing of extended from time to time, as stated The Bank insists on the payment of labor statute , and complementary collective the agreement for the payment of the said amount, therein. wages in excess of the minimum agreements. These agreements determine, among MDB, as from December 31, 2016, no longer carries wage to all of its employees. Accordingly, other things, that wage terms, work and related on its books provisions for the payment of seniority Collective labor agreements Two the starting wage given to most of the terms shall be linked to those of Bank Leumi awards . agreements were signed during 2017: new temporary employees, at the end of Le'Israel B.M.. Besides these agreements, specific 2017, was NIS 29.9 NIS to NIS 34 per hour. agreements are being made from time to time, At the beginning of December 2018, the Management  An agreement dated September 17, As of December 2017, the minimum wage between Management and the employee of MDB and the national representative committee 2017 in the matter of mileage and the in Israel was approx. NIS 28.5. representative committee, with respect to specific of employees of this bank signed a wage agreement definition of organizational units at the issues. The terms of employment of members of for the years 2019-2025. The agreement states, Bank; It is noted, that in accordance with a special Management of MDB are regularized by personal inter alia, that as from January 1, 2019, any wage collective agreement of June 2011, in the engagement agreements. agreements and updates of terms of employment n agreement dated November 26, A matter of employment of tellers by the Bank, entered into by Bank Leumi as from that date, shall 2017 in the matter of supplementary the starting wage for these employees and The collective labor agreements existing at MDB no longer apply to MDB. payment for mobility to employees of for TeleBank employees shall not be less are subject to Section 5 of the labor agreement of the Bank performing the duty of sales than the minimum wage plus 5%. It should May 17, 1968, namely, the validity of the agreement Revision of the bank's liability to provide certain trainer. also be noted that, at the starting salary shall be automatically extended for two additional post-retirement benefits in accordance with the level, there is no gap between the salaries years, unless one of the parties to the agreement Labor Charter, employees of MDB are entitled to Labor dispute Histadrut HAMAOF of men and women in the same positions. informs of his intention to make changes thereto. certain post-retirement benefits, such as gifts for informed the Bank in 2017, of the the holidays, benefits regarding ledger fees at the declaration of a labor dispute by the Wage differences between A special collective labor agreement was signed on bank, etc. Managers Representative Committee at female and male employees April 28, 2015, between Mercantile Discount Bank, the Bank. The labor dispute was terminated A comparison of the wages of all the Federation of Labor and the representative Organizational changes The special collective men to the wages of all women at committee of the employees (for the years 2015 labor agreement of 2002 states that where Discount Bank shows that the average to 2018). This agreement comprises an update Management takes a decision to merge branches salary of female managers in 2017 was of the previous wage agreement, adopting or wings, the decision shall be brought to the 7.1% lower, on average, than the wage of agreements determined in an agreement signed at attention of the employees representative male managers, compared with 9.5% in the beginning of 2015, between Bank Leumi and its committee together with the presentation of the 2016. The average wage of female clerks employees. The rate of workers employed under relevant data, and an intensive discussion is to is 8.4% lower than the average wage paid collective labor agreements in MDB amounts to be held with the committee with respect to the to male clerks, compared with 11.8% in 92.2%. implications of the decision upon the employees 2016 19. involved. Management of MDB may act upon the Tenured employees of MDB are organized within merger decision only after fourteen days have the framework of a national representative 19 In this report, the calculation method was changed, the calculation is done as an average of the average payroll committee. The ratio of the organized employees, Continue on next page differences at the various grades. In previous years, the calculation was done as the difference for the entire employee population. The data for 2016 has been recalculated in accordance with the new method. 110 > The Employees The Employees > 111 Continued from previous page to employees earning low wages. In addition, T he starting wages basic wage. The beginning wage payable by the changes have been made to the arrangements at the principal company is higher by 3.8% than the mandatory passed since the date of notifying the committee that had been in practice prior to the signing of subsidiaries in Israel minimum wage. regarding the decision. the agreement in the matter of jubilee awards . For additional details see 2017 Annual Report Mercantile Discount Bank W  age differences between female ICC (pp. 327). The starting wage per hour payable to most and male employees at the Labor relations at ICC are based upon temporary new employees in 2017 was NIS principal subsidiaries in Israel partnership and trust between Management A collective labor agreement was signed on 32.12 per hour. The basic wage of a new employee of the company, the national committee and the January 17, 2017, by ICC and the national amounted to NIS 5,300. It is noted that at this primary Mercantile Discount Bank employees. A new collective labor agreement representative committee of ICC employees, wage level, and for similar positions, there is no A comparison shows that no gap exists was signed in 2016 for the years 2016-2018, which regularizes past claims of employees difference between male and female employees. between the average salary of female which follows the agreements of the years 2011 regarding the inclusion of an incentive component managers and the average salary of male and 2015. in payments to which they are entitled (vacation, ICC managers. The average salary of female clerks sickness and holiday payments). The company meticulously pays a fair wage, is lower by 18.6% than the salary paid to male The first collective labor agreement at ICC was which is in excess of the minimum wage. The clerks (compared to 28.7% in 2016). signed on December 21, 2011, which regulates Organizational changes The collective labor beginning basic wage payable to employees starting all labor relations in the organization. The agreement of 2011 states that the company work as from January 2018, is NIS 5,500 in respect ICC agreement incorporates all employees of ICC, is entitled to introduce organizational and/or of a full-time position. Most employees are also A comparison of men's wages and women's excluding department managers, vice presidents technological and/or operational and or structural entitled to incentive payments in addition to the wages shows a gap of approx. 20%. and approximately 40 employees engaged under changes, such as the merger of units, integration personal agreements. The organizational aspects with other centers, the closing down of units in of the agreement deal, inter alia, with the mobility accordance with changing work requirements, of the staff, with termination of employment, etc. Material changes that have a material permanent employment and the status of the impact upon the employees would be brought employee representative committee. Moreover, the to the attention of the employee representative agreement deals with all aspects of employment committee no later than fifty days preceding the terms, payroll related benefits, as well as the planned implementation date of such change. In process of the annual updating of wages. the case where no agreement has been reached regarding material changes that have a material On June 26, 2016, a special collective labor impact upon employees of the company, then agreement was signed between ICC, the New each of the parties retains his rights without General Federation of Labor and the national prejudice. representative committee of ICC employees. This agreement amends and continues previous Work on the day of rest – duty personnel from agreements dated December 21, 2011 and March the IT layout, Risk Management, as well as credit 23, 2015. The agreement shall remain in effect representatives, work on the rest days specified until December 31, 2018, and until this date the in the Hours of Work and Rest Law, 1951. Work parties are committed to maintain industrial in these days requires a special permit, which is peace with respect to the matters and terms held by the company and extended once a year. regulated by the agreement. IDB Bank Among other things determined in the The employees are not members of a labor agreement, singular and higher wage increments union. 112 > The Employees The Employees > 113  mployment of persons coming from E experience. They are being trained by the unfortunately also in mourning events. Diversity and equal underrepresented populations and their integration in positions at the Bank in Bank in banking matters and integrate into employment at the call center as temporary The unique contribution to employment opportunity accordance with the Bank's needs; employees, with a status similar to that of the other employees of the center. in peripheral areas made by the TeleBank center stems from the fact that it involves Cooperating with bodies that specialize the training of employees for up-to-date Discount Bank believes that every in employee recruitment and placement This act included the cooperation of banking positions, while supplementing employee is entitled to fair and in order to advance and integrate a Rabbi, who instructed the Bank as knowledge gaps, where required. This, equitable treatment, free of discrimination employees from these segments of regards preparing offices and special in contrast to the prevalent approach in based on race, age, gender, color, sexual the population in an adapted work work environment suitable for the need of peripheral areas, of creating employment orientation, ethnic background, physical environment. women from the Haredi society as well as opportunities in the traditional industries. disabilities, religion or political affiliation, providing transportation from and to their In the last quarter of 2017, the Bank started encourages diversity and inclusion of the I n the employee selection and recruitment place of residence. A female employee the outsourcing of a part of its telephonic other and takes pains to provide a fair processes, which are performed using was appointed as head of the team. At the banking activity where the scope of their and respectful work environment. selection and engagement systems present time, the team is composed of 13 operation in peripheral areas is among the In order to create a tolerant organizational customary in the market, emphasis is employees. It should be noted, that during considerations for choosing the companies culture and one that is accepting of the other, placed on finding a congruence between the years a number of female employees participating in the project. In December Discount Bank acts to advance segments the needs, wishes and values of the from among the team had been advanced 2017, a center in Dimona operated by of society that are underrepresented in the candidate and those of the Bank. to more senior positions within the Tikshuv has currently started operations. labor market, including through recruitment framework of TeleBank. of employees from the Arab society, from Engagement of employees Employment of retirees the ultra-orthodox (Haredi) society, from from the Arabic society Employment in peripheral areas TeleBank employs retirees of the Bank Israel’s geographical periphery, as well as As part of the Bank's aspiration to As part of the encouragement of wishing to return to work, finding in it employees with disabilities. promote the employment of employment in peripheral areas, an additional rationale to their daily routine. populations that are under-represented the Bank has established during 2016 in These retirees have integrated within the in the labor market, the Bank has started Nesher a Call Center. The operations of framework of the different centers and 22% Increase in the number of employees at the TeleBank center in Nesher to cooperate with the initiative Collective impact which aims at encouraging the employment of persons belonging to the Arab sector and their the TeleBank call center in Nesher, within the framework of which are employed persons belonging to different sectors of the population, Jews, Arab, Muslims, Druze provide service to customers of the Bank. The Bank profits from the knowledge and experience which the retirees bring with them, while the retirees enjoy the young and 45% of the employees at the center come from the Arab society progress. As part of this move, the Bank has defined two centers on which the initiative would focus: the online banking center at Nesher and the Technologies and Christians, were significantly enlarged in 2017. The Nesher extension serves today as the central extension of TeleBank numbering 120 employees, of which 45% varied work environment. Multicultural environment As seen from the above Division. belong to the Arabic society. This employee description, TeleBank operates in The Bank’s actions to further the realization population is progressing in the a multi-sector environment, crossing of its policy: Employment of persons from the development routes of TeleBank creating age, community and religion. As a ultra-orthodox (Haredi) society diversity in the work teams and in the result, the Telebank Management  ngaging employees with special needs E A distinctive team of ultra-orthodox managerial echelon. The integration of applies measures creating acceptance and integrating them in positions at the female employee is engaged by the cultures at the extension creates a colorful perception within all sectors. This is Bank in accordance with their abilities online banking unit ( TeleBank ) at Discount and special atmosphere, within the expressed in unique training, adaptation and in accordance with the Bank's needs. Bank. The team was formed in 2013, and is framework of which employees celebrate of goals and assignments in Discount Bank took this action prior to engaged in responding to phone calls together the different Holidays, are being accordance with strengths and abilities, legislation on this topic going into effect regarding diverse banking matters made by exposed to different cultures and tastes at designated ceremonies, noting the and is prepared to comply with the new all Bank customers. Most of the candidates get together events, personal celebrations Holidays of all religions (Jewish, requirements on the subject. have no prior employment background or such as: weddings, childbirth, and Christian, Muslim and Druze). 114 > The Employees The Employees > 115 Employment of Furthermore, the Bank has joined, in Employment of underrepresented populations handicapped employees 2017, entities engaged in the recruitment Employment of handicapped persons and appointment of employees with Discount Bank had been considered a central issue disabilities, such as Call Yachol , the 134 280 25 of importance in the Bank's activity in aid of rehabilitation group of the Ministry the community in Israel, even before the of Defense and the Esek Shaveh 2017 439 Expansion Order regarding employment of initiative, which guide business sector 90 137 20 handicapped persons entered into effect. organizations in promoting employment As part of its policy in the matter of employee of person with disabilities. 2016 247 recruitment, and the shaping of the Bank's 75 126 23 organizational culture as being tolerant and Summarized employment data as one that accepts the other, the Bank regarding the underrepresented 2015 224 promotes acceptance of handicapped populations 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 employees and their integration in positions The Bank's policy does not require at the Bank in accordance with their Bank employees to provide details Arabs Handicapped persons Ethiopian descent capabilities and the Bank's needs. regarding their affiliation to particular Notes: population groups, such as those 1. Handicapped persons the data is not in accordance with the Expansion Order. 2. The estimate of persons with disabilities exclude staff employed on a part-time basis due to prolonged illnesses. In accordance with the provisions of the mentioned below. Accordingly, the data 3. The data as of December 31, 2015 has been restated. Expansion Order regarding employment presented below constitutes an estimate 4. In 2017, an effort was made to improve the counting of employees in the various categories. It was not practicable to make the aforesaid improvement in the 2016 data, retroactively, and accordingly it should be emphasized that Discount Bank’s data for 2017 is not of handicapped persons, and with a view based on the sources stated below. comparable to the 2016 data, and it should not be concluded that the difference in the data reflects a net recruitment in 2017. of integrating handicapped persons in the 5. For details regarding employment of older adults (50+), see employee annexes in the Epilogue Chapter. workplace in a proper and responsible A  rabs employees are not required to manner, employers are required to appoint state their nationality in their personal an officer responsible for the employment details submitted to the Bank, and of handicapped persons. In light of this therefore the Bank has no details Bank keeps specific records of such Complaints regarding guideline, the Bank appointed in January regarding employees of Arab nationality. employees). In addition, a review has discrimination of employees 2014, an officer responsible for the The estimate stated in the Table is been made of employees reporting The Bank's and MDB's Managements employment of handicapped persons. based on the number of employees withholding tax exemption due to have placed emphasis on preventing electing to take their vacations on having disabilities and reviewing discrimination, and this principle is applied In accordance with the collective labor Moslem, Christian and Druze holidays. the number of employees reporting upon engaging employees, advancing them agreement signed in November 2016 U  ltra-orthodox Jews ( Haredi ) there the holding of a disabled certificate. and determining their wage terms. With by the Bank and by the representative is no clear definition of the term Haredi . The said estimate does not include respect to the issue of retirement on committee of the employees, 48 temporary Many Bank employees maintain the absent employees due to lengthy grounds of age, the Bank, MDB and ICC act handicapped employees, who had already Jewish tradition to one degree or illness and employees engaged on in accordance with the law. been employed by the Bank for several another and a number of them would part-time basis due to lengthy illness. years, were converted into the status of definitely define themselves as Haredi . This evaluation does not comprise Discount Bank None of the actions filed permanent employees of the Bank, thus However, as stated, employees are not measurement in accordance with the in 2017 with the Labor Court raised a promoting and securing their employment required to state whether they maintain Expansion Order. claim of discrimination. In one action filed position, as is the case with all permanent the Jewish tradition or whether they are E  thiopian descent as stated, the Bank in 2013, against Discount Bank, a final employees. Haredi , therefore the Bank and MDB and its subsidiaries do not require and conclusive verdict was given in 2017 have no data in this respect. employees to note their country of origin (following an appeal), rejecting the claim of During 2017, the Bank escorted these H  andicapped persons the estimate as part of the particulars submitted by discrimination due to handicap raised by the employees in order to secure their stated below is based on the following them. The reported estimate is based Plaintiff. successful integration in the different sources: employees engaged as part of on the number of employees who had units, and granting them proper and equal a special effort to employ handicapped elected to voluntary state their country Mercantile Discount Bank A legal work terms as granted to all employees. persons (in this exceptional case, the of origin. proceeding opened in 2017, regarding 116 > The Employees The Employees > 117 assists organizations of the business sector in Employment of underrepresented populations Diversity and equal the promotion of employment of handicapped persons. ICC opportunity at the Employment of persons from the ultra-orthodox 5 125 51 2 principal subsidiaries (Haredi) society: MDB has a number of branches in Haredi populated areas, and many of the male 2017 4 125 43 183 in Israel and female staff at these branches belongs to the Haredi sector. Female and male staff of the 2016 4 176 Haredi sector are also employed at the bank's 4 125 43 4 Mercantile Discount Bank head office. Engagement of employees from the Arabic 2015 176 society: MDB is one of the major employers ICC in the Arabic society. Most of the managers and ICC view with importance the diversified 0 50 100 150 200 250 staff of the bank at 36 branches located in employment of employees, including northern Israel and in other parts of the country employment and social containment, while Arabs Ultra-orthodox Handicapped persons Ethiopian descent (such as: Rahat, East Jerusalem, Haifa, Kafr providing employment opportunities to sections Qasim and more) are of Arabic society. In of population that are under-represented in the Notes: 1. The data is not in accordance with the Expansion Order. addition, members of the Arabic society are employment market, a key for the self-realization 2. For details regarding employment of older adults (50+), see employee annexes in the Epilogue Chapter. employed in various positions at the bank's head of the people and for business success. 3. T  he estimated number of Haredi employees at ICC is based, mainly, on the number of persons employed at the service and sales center in Modi'in. office. Engagement of employees from the different segments: In this framework, ICC operates a service and sales center in Upper-Modi'in, serving Employment of as an integral part of the service department, employees (132 employees at the end of 2016). origin, age, disability, genetic status, citizenship underrepresented populations adapted to the needs of female employees of the status, marital status, military or veteran status MDB data for 2017 ultra-orthodox (Haredi) society, residing in the Employment of handicapped employees: As or any other legally protected category in area. At the same time, ICC maintains constant part of the preparations made in respect of accordance with applicable federal state and 441 Arabic 12 Handicapped relations with associations that engaged in integrating different populations into the workplace, including Kav Mashve Association encouraging employment of academics from the the Extension Order for encouragement and increasing employment of handicapped persons, the officer in charge of human resources has been appointed in the company as officer responsible local law. Anti-harassment/anti-discrimination/antiretaliation policy IDB Bank is committed to population persons Arabic society, and Tech Career Association for the employment of handicapped persons providing a professional and productive work engaged in integrating workers of Ethiopian and by means of recruitment and classification, environment free of discrimination, harassment origin in technological positions. training and apprenticeship processes adapted and retaliation. The Bank will not tolerate Employment of handicapped employees: MDB to their need and capabilities, ICC succeeded in discrimination or harassment, including sexual engages handicapped employees and is preparing Engagement of employees from peripheral integrating handicapped employees in a variety harassment, by any employee, vendor, customer, for the implementation of regulations in this areas: ICC encourages employment in peripheral of positions in the different sections of the or visitor or retaliation for reporting or participating respect. For this purpose, the bank has appointed areas. In this framework, a sales and service company. in an investigation regarding discrimination or an officer responsible for the employment of center was opened in Ashdod, which serves as harassment. This policy applies while on bank handicapped persons. an employment hub for residents in the area, and IDB Bank business, at Bank-sponsored events, or when helps in the development of the economy in the Equal employment opportunity as interacting with Bank employees off-premises The bank held meetings with several bodies southern part of the country. discussed in IDB Bank's Code of Conduct, and/or not during normal Bank business hours. engaged in recruitment and placement of the Bank provides equal opportunities to all The Bank will take disciplinary action, up to and handicapped employees. In addition, the bank has Its activity was expanded in 2017 to various areas, applicants and employees without regard to race, including termination., against anyone found in recently joined the Esek Shaveh initiative, which and at the end of 2017 the Center numbered 157 color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, national violation of this policy. 118 > The Employees The Employees > 119 a claim received in 2016, in which a discrimination claim was raised regarding compliance with the requirements of Proper Conduct of Banking Business Development program for team leaders Training of 31 team leaders Investing in refusal to engage an employee on grounds of physical disability, was concluded in a compromise. Directives by means of management and reduction of risk in key positions. A list of key personnel was formed and approved in was conducted in 2017; Managers' website Strengthening employees 2017, and a start was made in delineating management professionalism by means ICC No actions claiming discrimination the actions required to mitigate the risks of current publishing of articles/tools/TED were filed against the company in 2017. in relation to those identified as such. video clips in the matter of management. Investing more Development of acting managers The Bank is aiming at the development of its managers by Personal programs The personal development programs are conducted in a 400 managers in employees means of designated and enriching development programs, including: number of ways: participated in the formation of the Discount Spirit Human resources planning and development Leadership program for senior managers A leadership program was introduced in 2017, for increasing senior managers' Assisting and advising managers entering a new position and/or advising and on the job managerial training. During 2017, some 37 managers were assisted. 194 effective assessments of instruction sessions Development of human resources capabilities and cross-system impact. conducted at the Bank derived from the Fifteen managers of the grade reporting to Conducting development processes at strategic focuses from the focuses of the annual work plans and from the Bank's organizational culture. Thus reinforcing the Bank’s ability to address Management participate in the program; An executive training room Practical-applicative training, subject organic level providing assistance for managers and units, in view of changes made to units, conducting organizational diagnosis processes and providing 91% An average annual general summing-up assessment rate of successfully its business and focused, for the strengthening of the consultation support accordingly. In instruction courses organizational challenges. Accordingly, the development of the human resources in 2017, focused on the following issues: different managerial capabilities and qualifications of managers at the Bank. Some 195 managers participated in 2017 in the executive training room ; 2017, assistance was provided to seven branches undergoing merger as well as conducting an organizational diagnosis regarding an additional branch. 93% An average annual satisfaction rate from Manager development instruction courses During 2017, emphasis was placed on “The drive of management” Professional training building, nurturing and strengthening the whole managerial echelon of the Bank, through the development of managerial leadership supporting the strategy: assimilation of a management approach that enhances employee effectiveness through creating a connection and enabling conditions. In 2017, a pilot was As in each year, professional training for the post intended for new employees was conducted also in 2017. Also provided was instructional 2,400 participated in the digital intensification designated instruction conducted at 4 wings, in the framework of response to needs noted at different Management reserve: Selective training for the first managerial position, which includes behavioral training for the grasping of a grade adapted which a picture of the factors influencing connection and enabling conditions at the wing was drawn up, and work was performed with the wing’s manager and populations, with the aim of improving and preserving their professionalism. During this year, a comprehensive 91% The rate of Bank employees who have participated in managerial roll. Some 32 candidates the management team to construct and response was provided for professional professional and behavioral from eight divisions of the Bank qualified implement an improvement plan; needs by means of training that dealt instruction sessions in 2017 for managerial positions; Formation of a reserve for key positions: Development of organic teams Development of five organic teams in a with the qualification of employees for core banking positions, as well as ongoing on-the-job training. The main 9% The ratio of managerial securing business continuity and number of units was conducted in 2017; guidance focal points were: enhancing instruction sessions to all instruction sessions in the organization 120 > The Employees The Employees > 121 the professionalism of officeholders Bank's application and understanding of the received training. At these experiential mostly from activity for the formation of in the credit field, financial consulting, added value to the customer provided by workshops, employees providing service the Discount Vision and Values massive training in direct banking and use of this service. The move included three to customers experience the perspective in basic banking training for bank stages: instruction, by means of a game of a customer with disabilities. Nurturing excellence and providing tellers and service teams. In addition, riddles and assignments, the solution feedback extensive digitalization instruction of which is delivered by a designated The scope of professional and In accordance with the Bank's took place during 2017, with the aim application. The integration stage by means managerial training strategy, which encourages of assimilating know-how and tools of producing work accessories assisting the Data regarding the average annual performance culture and Cultivating for raising awareness at the branches Bank staff in presenting to customers the training hours per employee for the excellence, several remuneration and at Telebank regarding the use of added value and benefit produced by use years 2016-2017: mechanisms have been determined at the digitalization. of the online services. The measurement Bank intended to appreciate and stage examination of the effect of the The increase in 2017 in the average number Interwoven instructional move on customer service of instruction hours for managers stems Continue on page 120 Within the framework of the strategic surveys and on actual business results. project Interwoven acting for intensifying the means of communication with Bank University for investment consultants THE SCOPE OF PROTESSIONAL AND MANAGERIAL TRAINING customers and the integration of the Under the heading we choose to invest , the connected + system (CRM system) at the Bank is conducting a current enrichment 2017 2016 2015 2014 branches, the Bank formed during 2017, program for investment consultants at the Frontal training days 29,536 26,335 26,130 26,029 the integration and management of change Bank, in the format of the Open University. Interactions of self-study1 37,016 39,914 37,200 27,080 concept in the interwoven project for the Each consultant participates in courses of Note: relevant populations at the Banking Division. his choice, as part of the regularly updated A significant part of the Interactions of self-study was dedicated to the regulation in different areas. In this framework a designated plan has enrichment syllabus in capital market been formed, which included the writing issues, exposure is provided to expert of a communication plan and messages lecturers and capital market trends and for this move, tools have been provided to professional development tools are also AVERAGE ANNUAL TRAINING HOURS PER EMPLOYEE the managerial teams at the branches for made available. 1 2017 1 2016 2015 2014 the management of the change by means Average training hours clerk 40 35 35 32 of workshops and On-the-job training (OJT) Credit instruction strategy and training has been provided to the staff of The Bank activates a study program for Average training hours manager 35 28 31 25 the branches with the aim of technological the development and preservation of Average training hours total 39 34 34 31 acquaintance with the CRM system and professional qualifications regarding credit, Notes: exercising of the new work processes. aimed at holders of different positions 1 The data is based upon the number of employees at end of year. Furthermore, each branch joining this move including managers, and which provides has been accompanied by OJT integration modern and relevant tools for the duty. The experts. All this covered by an extensive scope of the studies, learning methods intra-organizational communication. This and its content are defined as needed, and Training days AT DISCOUNT BANK move is to be continued also during 2018. include event analyses, simulations, expert lectures, e-learning modules, and so forth. 15% 43% 10% 4% 9% 4% 6% 9% Digital intensification An innovative study move connecting Furthermore, in 2017, accessibility an experiential and effective study with workshops continued for new employees integration and business results among who joined the Bank during the course Computer and technology Financial consulting Financial banking Credit to businesses customers. The aim of this move is to of the year. Some 27 workshops were Management and leadership Customer relationship management Compliance and regulation provide employees with tools for locating held at which a total of 344 employees information, an extensive knowledge of the and managers from all units of the Bank External studies and Miscellaneous 122 > The Employees The Employees > 123 standard of professional level in aid of providing Training days at MDB Human resources full service to customers. During 2017, gaps in required knowledge were closed in the branches 7% 27% 1% 10% 4% 15% 17% 19% planning and array, with the aim of creating a service that meets a unified professional standard, by means of training development in sessions, assistance and digital learning. principal subsidiaries Credit General Currenet accounts Computer Passive Foreign currencies / foreign trading Mercantile Discount Bank Management of MDB attaches importance to the development of the human capital in the 28 the average study hours per employee at MDB Regulation Soft skills and management spirit of the bank's values in accordance with the The average study hours per employee during of managers with the aim of cultivating a strong, bank's strategy, and with the aim of continuing the Integration of the compliance culture 2017 amounted to 28. qualitative and leading executive echelon. Some growth and prosperity of the Bank. During 2017, the As part of the support of this process, a variety 70% of the managers of ICC have grown within Bank promoted management and leadership training: of frontal and digital learning activities have been ICC the company into managerial positions. Several conducted, and self-study layouts at the branches Management of ICC views the human capital as programs are in operation in order to develop the Management and leadership have been developed. Fifteen study sessions were a strategic partner in achieving the goals of the executive echelon: Development of acting managers During held for branch managers, compliance trustees and organization, and therefore invests in the cultivation 2017, the training of 45 department managers bankers. In addition, a risk management learning and development of workers and managers, in their I CC leads a development program for managers at branches was completed, who had been course was held for some thirty participants, who personal and professional progress and in their entering office as well as for managers already appointed to their position as part of MDB’s are considered key factors in the field. attachment to the core business goals. ICC invests in office. The development programs deal with aspiration, participated in the course providing many resources in the financing and development of contents matters of ICC and are connected to the training for a first managerial position. Approx. 70,400 organizational study hours were professional study courses, seminars and workshops business focuses of the company. The programs conducted in 2017, of which 15% being nonfor increasing professionalism of employees and are modified to the special administrative needs Personal development computer communication training20. maintaining their competence as a generator for of each level; Newly appointed managers are accompanied organizational growth. Within this framework, ICC by a tutor manager as well as assisted by an 9  9% of all employees participated in study runs a managers’ development program Leading  anagers meeting (expanded management M organizational advisor. In 2017, some 4 new sessions. together , which provides tools and skills to managers forum) once in every quarter meeting are held managers and 2 unit teams were assisted during helping them to lead their units to success. for the updating, formation and strengthening a merger process. 8  5% of employees participated in non-computer of the executive echelon; communication training on the various sites of The program deals with different subjects, such Professional training the bank. as: perception of duties and management routine, E xecutive training room The program includes The learning supports the implementation of the motivation of workers, personal and organizational enrichment learning meeting regarding a variety bank's business strategy and comprise a necessary 44% of the non-computer communication training development, management in an uncertainty of subjects, the aim of which is to continue and layer in the training of an employee for the correct activities were conducted at the branches and at environment, avoidance of wear and tear among develop and cultivate managers and provide performance of his duties and for improving his the Regional Managements (excluding tutorial employees and managers, etc. During 2017, 64 them with management tools and skills; performance. Professional development and training training). managers participated in the program (43 managers in accordance with the procedures and policy, while in 2016) and 7 departmental managers participated I nspiration creating communication for managers maintaining an up-to-date knowledge and strict T  he number of frontal instruction hours amounted in a development program designed for departmental designated communication delivered on a internal control, risk management and compliance, to 30,800. In addition, 13,266 interactions were managers synergy program . monthly basis, dealing with the different world of which are essential for the promotion of a uniform made in self digital study. management and include articles/lectures/ TED Management of ICC believes in the development of videos and more; the executive echelon and conducts a structured 20 Does not include on-the-job (OTJ) training. process of identification, locating and development Continue on next page 124 > The Employees The Employees > 125 Continued from previous page Continued from page 116 senior evaluation managers. Data regarding employee and manager training inputs at ICC: compensate outstanding employees, who Feedback interviews The feedback had attained their business goals and conversations comprise an annual Type of training Population 2017 (hours) 2016 (hours) awarded high appreciation marks by the process forming a most important annual performance evaluation measures. management tool in guiding and Entering the position Managers 28 28 In this framework, the Bank conducts motivating employees. The feedback Employees 8 8 different competitions, at the branch and interview is intended to survey Representatives1 232 232 regional levels, and Vice Presidents award an employee's performance and On the job training Employees and managers 16.50 16.51 remuneration to outstanding employees at functioning during the past year, to the different divisions, as well as special retain and reinforce the strengths Note: remuneration awarded annually by the and achievements, to identify what 1 A representative is defined as one who provides telephonic service to customers (service representatives, service and sale President & CEO to a number of outstanding needs improvement and to set goals representatives, trading house service representatives, etc.). Representatives receive intensive training for about one month, upon entering this position. employees, at a festive ceremony held at for the upcoming year. At the same the Bank. All this in addition to integration time, the feedback conversation is an and employee motivation processes opportunity for open dialogue with the D  evelopment of managers entering office development and enrichment of the employee, conducted on a current basis. In addition, employee. Managers' training course: a course designed for allowing each employee to register and participate in 2017, outstanding managers were managers entering their first managerial office in in a variety of professional courses and training selected to go on professional training at The process during 2017 emphasized the organization. The training focuses on providing programs suitable to his position and his personal IDB Bank. the integration of the Discount Spirit knowhow, perceptions and skills in different areas: and professional needs. The courses and training values. The requirement for the setting perception of the role of a manager, impacting and programs are advertised on the company's Internet up of goals and the linking of goals creating performance, creating motivation, interface management, etc. During 2017, 26 managers participated in the course (in 2016 18 managers); portal and include: technological courses and training programs, proficiency workshops and meetings in matters of process management, knowhow in the credit field. Existing alongside this program is 99% of employees received feedback regarding the performance in 2017 from the level of senior Management to the employee level has been communicated and integrated in the process. Personal development a training program regarding the organization as a Personal attention is provided by the organization to whole, covering cross-organization matters, including An emphasis on the determination of Following the conclusion of discussions, managers entering managerial positions, as well as in business projects, regulation and employee duties. In personal performance goals for all a process of drawing conclusions is case of organizational changes, as part of the change view of the fact that the company focuses on credit, employees was placed in 2017, these made once a year, leading to steps for the management process. many training programs have been conducted in this being derived from the work plan of improvement and updating of the process. matter: strengthening of knowhow and skills regarding the Bank and its strategic focuses. In Assistance ICC operates an assistance and the sale of credit within the general representative forming their evaluation, the evaluating In the first quarter of 2018 the support program for managers upon entry into a population. managers have been guided to make performance appraisal process was first managerial position, which includes personal a distinction between the strengths conducted in respect of performance attention, an absorption kit and an orientation IDB Bank of the employee being evaluated and in the year 2017. In the process, workshop that reviews all knowhow and professional All professional level employees are sponsored the subjects that have to be improved, emphasis was placed on assimilating factors supporting the appointee in his duties as by the bank to complete their continuing in order to encourage personal and the “Discount Spirit” values. An managers. In addition, ICC operates assistance for education credits to uphold their professional licenses. professional development. evaluation was made in respect of 99% managers as support for organizational changes In addition, there is online training that is required for of employees. following the conduct of a diagnostic process, a Regulatory purposes and as best practice in the Towards the performance of the designated development and training program is financial industry. Lastly, IDB Bank is releasing an evaluation process, the Bank Within the framework of the devised. online training system for professional development has conducted training sessions preparations for the process training names Udemy, which will allow for training courses on regarding the process designed for sessions were held for approx. 30 CAL College fields of interest to occur as part of an employee new evaluation managers as well as assessing managers, who have not yet An organizational training program for the personal development. refreshing knowledge sessions for undergone this training. 126 > The Employees The Employees > 127 O rganizational culture Organizational internal communication annual employee evaluation; and dialogue with The Bank is investing in the Nurturing excellence employees development of open and two-sided T  he Proactive excellence program esteem In 2017, the focus was placed on communication with its employees, while strengthening their relations and and providing for outstanding workers of the different departments, and an annual esteem program for the design of a change supporting organizational culture, with an emphasis commitment to the strategy and goals of the Bank, as well as to the community feedback in principal selected outstanding workers of the company, which includes a gift, public esteem and a luxury on performance and service. The Bank acts to promote dialogue and openness and the environment, with a view of broadening employees' knowledge and subsidiaries trip abroad for the Proactive team. with its employees. understanding as to the Bank's total During 2017 two processes of evaluation activities and to promote performance, Mercantile Discount Bank and feedback were held as in each year. The Facebank a variety of communication lines were The annual feedback discussions serve as annual evaluation and feedback process this An organizational portal, in the format of also used during 2017, including 'Senior a platform for the evaluation of employees, process is conducted at the beginning of the news sites on the Internet. This allows Forum' a quarterly meeting led by the their performance and commensurate year and includes a forward looking evaluation updating on news and current updates President & CEO; Morning magazine remuneration with the aim of encouraging a and feedback focusing on both personal and at the Bank, and invites an open dialogue a weekly television newscast presenting culture of transparency and dialogue that fortifies organizational growth. The process assists with senior Management on subjects subjects standing at the core of the the obligation of the employees towards the in focusing the personal capabilities of each that are the center of discussion in the Bank's endeavor. organization focused on results, and comprises a employee in a manner that would contribute organization. Since its establishment, the tool for the identification and nurturing of to personal growth and for the realization Facebank provided, among other things, The marketing communications excellence. of the company's strategy Cal much more a current updates of the employees department works together with the Bank entrepreneurship, innovation, leadership in regarding the new strategic plan, crossspokesperson in all matters relating to the In 2017 an evaluation was made in respect of responsibility . organizational projects operated within organization’s visual communications 100% of employees. Feedback discussions the framework of which, and news (signage in central assembly areas, were made in respect of 98% of the employees. Evaluation of employees was made in 2017 using a regarding the marketing and services screens, and posters), to reinforce the As help for managers, a short video clip guide form reflecting the skills required from employees field. Facebank includes, among others, messages, with emphasis on the Bank’s in preparation for the feedback conversations and managers for achievement of the strategy a designated site Human resources vision and its values. was produced. As in every year, a conclusion and business goals. Moreover, and as part of the for you , intended for the benefit of the drawing session was held in order to improve support provided to managers, workshops were individual employee. The site includes the process. held providing tools for coping with the complexity detailed information regarding employee rights, training and development programs, social responsibility, and more. 10,000 entries by 1,200 managers at the ICC. ICC views excellence with importance and encourages its employees in this respect: of the process, and direction of employees towards the reinforcement of the capabilities r equired for the realization of the strategy. Semiannual feedback conversation this was held in Bank to The Managers website. July and intended to provide feedback regarding A portal managed by the Bank's Ongoing performance measurement; the progress made since the beginning of the year Spokesperson, a fact that allows full and give direction as to the continuation of growth synchronization between the external The Managers website A  n annual and semi-annual employee and achievement of personal goals. information layout and the intraAn internal website, which contains evaluation process, which sets professional organizational information system. tools and content for managers for and personal development targets as well as The annual evaluation and feedback process the integration of cross-organizational measurement of performance in the past year for 2017 included conversations and provided The new FaceBank portal was processes stemming from the Bank's (evaluation in respect of the previous year is a summing-up evaluation for 100% of the introduced in the third quarter of 2017, strategic plan, as well as enrichment and performed at the beginning of each year. Midcompany's employees taking part in the process and it enables advanced user experience development content. Approx. 10,000 year discussions are held in the months of (all employees participate in the process, to the employees and increases entries by 1,200 managers at the Bank July/August); excluding new employees). their involvement in leading change were recorded on the website during processes. 2017. The granting of an annual award based on the Continue on next page 128 > The Employees The Employees > 129 Continued from previous page Communication with the Senior Human resources for you center was IDB Bank Forum The Bank operates a designated launched in order to serve as one clear address for all Bank employees with Organizational Performance Evaluations – Generally, annual performance of employees is channel for communications with the Senior Forum at the Bank and at respect to any approach in the matter of human resources, and to provide a culture and dialogue evaluated by their department supervisor or manager at the end of each year. This evaluation the Group. The Forum consists of some 120 executives in the Group uniform and professional response to all approaches. The establishment with employees in the incorporates factors, including, but not limited to, the quality and quantity of their work, attendance who, through this channel, receive current updates and reports on a daily of the Center allows also control over the response time to employee principal subsidiaries and punctuality, their cooperation with the members of the department , and their ability to basis. In addition, special-purpose activities have taken place in order to approaches. Approaches to the Center may be made through different routes: in Israel achieve compliance with Bank rules, regulations, strengthen joint voluntary activity for telephone, email or service envelops, policies and procedures. The evaluation is the benefit of the community. throughout the day. Mercantile Discount Bank discussed with the employee and any areas MDB has an employee Intranet portal, which requiring improvement are brought to his attention. In order to be attentive to the needs During 2017 some 10,590 approaches includes extensive information serving and and challenges arising at the Bank, were received, of which 1,850 enriching its employees. The bank is upgrading The manager conducts a mid-year performance feedback processes and group approaches by telephone and 8,750 the intra-organizational communication in order evaluation. The evaluation should include, but discussions are held in the format approaches by email. Approx. 79% of to maintain an open and two-way communication is not limited to, what's working well, what could of Round tables face to face the approaches were with regard to with the employees, while strengthening their be working better and how the employees are meetings of the President & CEO or attendance and payroll.Service surveys commitment and linkage to the strategy and the performing against their objectives. of one of the management members conducted by the Bank show that 96% of goals of the bank, as well as to the community with managers and employees, as well employees participating in the surveys and the environment. All new employees are initially subject to a 90-day as monthly “Management in the field” have expressed high satisfaction from probation in order to evaluate their performance, trips, members of Management visit the service. In order to sense the mood, challenges and during the probationary period. branches and field units accompanied questions of employees, meetings at various by senior managers from their head Position Survey levels, group discussions and round-table Incentive Compensation Plans – IDB Bank office. In recent years, within the feedback processes, Management in the field implements Incentive Compensation Plans to framework of the participation of trips and visits to branches are conducted, reward employees for their performance. There the Bank in the BDI survey 100 best similarly to Discount Bank. are specific plans designed for each Line of places of employment , a survey is 96% Business as well as the administrative functions. being conducted with participating A new branch methodology was introduced Bank employee relating to their position at MDB in recent years, based on the desire on issues relevant to the Bank. The to improve the business and marketing of employees participating results of the survey are analyzed capabilities and upgrade the level of service at in the surveys have according to various sections based on the branches, while adapting the workforce and expressed high divisions of office/field, age, gender bridging knowledge gaps. satisfaction from the and seniority. Multi-annual trends in the service of the Human ICC resources for you Center organization are also analyzed as well as trends in comparison to the ICC invests in ongoing and open benchmark of the financial system, in communication with its workers and order to identify differences and managers, in increasing the sense of The Human resources for you Center concentrate efforts to reduce them, relationship between the workers and the Within the framework of a move for respectively. organization, their acquaintance with the the upgrading of the service provided company's activities and strategy and the to Bank employees by the Human The survey relating to the year 2017, Resources and Properties Division, the was conducted in December 2017 Continue on next page 130 > The Employees The Employees > 131 Continued from previous page The plan includes the branding of the process, and covered approx. 20% of all Bank P romoting the employees’ organizational dialogue, fortifying and provision employees. welfare strengthening of the bond between them, as part of tools to departmental managers leading the of the advancement of targets and the company's implementation of the strategy, integration among The findings of the surveys and the Welfare services operated in the Bank business growth. Communication includes a managers, training and qualification of employees perceptions arising there from are Ever since its establishment, variety of means, including: and managers, in order to fortify the knowledge and presented to the Human Resources Discount Bank has been known as conduct required for the success of the strategy. and Properties Division and to the an organization having special sensitivity Organization wide visual communication (on Bank's Management. The insights to the needs and welfare of its employees. computer screens, screen savers and posters); Integration of organizational ethics ICC views being formed following these findings, Already in 1976, the Bank began to operate with great importance the maintenance of are used by the Division in forming the welfare services in an institutionalized The quarterly extended management forum; organizational ethics. The code of ethics of ICC highlights of the work plans. manner, becoming one of the first comprises a valued identity of the organization, organizations in the economy to do so. C  ampaign for the encouragement of excellence, according to which the employees are required ICC. The welfare services at the Bank serve as the climax of which is the exposure of the to conduct themselves with responsibility and In recent years ICC participates in the a connecting and supplementary link in Proactive team, which includes the chosen integrity and maintain proper rules of conduct, BDI survey 100 Best Companies to addition to the community services. The outstanding employees from all sections of the which serve as a basis for the current operations Work for . The results of the survey were very foundation of the Bank's supportive company, who gain wide exposure, appreciation and the business success of the company. analyzed according to different sections welfare area is to take a position that from the CEO of the company and members of and an analysis was made of multipositions the Bank as one who sees itself Management, as part of a toast to welcome the ICC sees in its employees emissaries who have a annual trends within the organization as a partner to the difficulties of employees Holiday and more; direct influence on the position of the company as and trends as compared with the and wants to assist them as much as a company that considers integrity and fairness benchmark of the financial sector in possible in dealing with them. Round table meetings of the different grades towards its employees, the customers and the order to identify gaps and concentrate with the CEO; community a guiding principle, and accordingly had efforts for reducing them, respectively. Treatment and prevention in two circles are defined a code of ethics that describes the way in No such survey was conducted in integrated into the supportive welfare field, C  ampaign for the encouragement of internal which employees and managers of the company 2017. Approximately 37% of company as follows: assisting the individual the mobility of employees and progress to an should deal with ethically sensitive situations, employee participated in the survey worker and his family and the development additional position in the organization. which they may confront in their daily work. conducted in 2016, resulting in ICC of welfare programs and to groups of rising to the 26th place in the rating. employees having a joint interest. The organizational Internet portal of ICC allows Meetings on the subject of Ethics, decency and every employee to find all the information regarding fairness were held in 2017 at the managements Every two to three years, ICC conducts Assisting the individual the terms of employment, the collective labor of all wings at the Bank, with a view of deepening an organizational employee survey. The The Bank aspire to assist the agreement, employee benefits and welfare, rules integration which started at 2016 and climbing an most recent of these was conducted individual in coping better with of conduct, current updates, possibility of direct additional step in awareness and implementation in 2016 with 93% of the employees his/her problems and needs, so that he/ approach to the CEO, and more. The portal includes, of the subject. participating therein. she will be able to function properly both inter alia, professional knowhow with respect to at home and at work, in good times and the company and its products, the Cal College The survey results are presented to in bad. In this framework, the Bank program for professional enrichment and training, the company's Management as well offers a number of support channels: managers portal, open positions and the process of as to all manager, and are serving as the online submission of candidacy, the employee a basis for preparing a comprehensive dvice and treatment in various A representative committee website and hundreds of plan is devised for the gaps, both contexts, personal, familial (children, professional information sites. at organization and unit levels. The spouses, parents), health, economic etc. position survey serves as a supporting Providing information on and referrals to A new strategy for ICC was adopted in 2017. In tool for managers of the different units services in the Bank and the community participation with senior executives, a plan was in order to introduce improvements in order to make the most of rights and/ formed, that would support and assist in the both at the personal management level or treatment, while forging ties with implementation and integration of the strategy. and at the cross-unit matters level. those officials, as needed; 132 > The Employees The Employees > 133 he writing of social reports, as a T complement to individual counseling. The accommodation at other employees of the bank. recommendation for the Bank's internal assistance funds; group meeting enables an employee to learn from the knowledge and experiences of the Welfare activity ICC Advising the officers in charge in facing difficult situations and special events. group members. This intervention includes conversation and training for the unit's at the principal All through the years, ICC maintains a familial and warm work environment, inter The referral to welfare services is management team; individual personal treatment for employees who were hurt subsidiaries alia, due to the support and attention given to employees in significant and sensitive events in generally done by the employee himself, and need support; group conversation held their lives. Beyond the wage terms, the company or by referring parties, such as supervisor, close to the time of occurrence, coordination Mercantile Discount Bank grants awards during the year, to excelling Human resources manager in the unit, and cooperation of parties in the Bank and Over its years of operation, MDB has been employees as well as an incentive program for peers at work, etc. In 2017, the Welfare the community. In 2017, 17 events of group noted as a familial and warm place of work, employees gaining company excellence. In Department dealt with 821 inquiries. pressure situations were treated. inter alia, due to the support and sympathy granted addition, the company provides diverse benefits to employees in sensitive and significant events in and services designed for the welfare of Death of a family relativeThe Bank attends Welfare and leisure programs their lives. In addition to the wage terms and employees and their families. to its employees in sensitive events in their As part of the aspiration for the agreements, which include different related social lives, such as the death of a first degree cultivation of the human resources in benefits, the bank shows appreciation and grants As regards the individual and his family, the ICC family member, sending funeral wreath to the organization and the maintenance of the remuneration to excelling employees. The annual invests in annual vacations, in financing summer the funeral, providing condolence set to the familial work environment characterizing the promotion of employees includes a differential schools, in noting personal events of the individual bereaved family and inserting an obituary Bank, the Bank invests in the welfare of its component that appreciates excellence and employee, an event for employee children starting notice on the Bank's internal website. employees, accompanies them at the encourages it. first grade, gifts for children of employees enlisting significant crossroads in their life, notes the IDF, gifts and gatherings on public holidays, Managers' involvement in treatment personal events and looks after their welfare As regards the individual and the family, the rebates in credit card commissions and interest, process The Bank and ICC encourage also outside working hours. In this bank invests in annual vacation, finances enrichment activities for the different units and the involvement of the immediate superior framework, the Bank gives presents to summers schools during vacations, finances financial assistance in case of need. in assisting an employee in crisis. The employees on Holidays, birthday presents, higher education for employees and their concept on which this approach is based is wedding present, present on the birth of an children, notes personal events of the individual Furthermore, employees enjoy subsidized dining the providing of basic tools for involving the offspring, noting 25 years of service with a employee, such as birthdays and birth of children, services, cafeteria, and sale bazaars at reduced manager with crisis events in an employee's prestigious present, a festive event in organizes events and gifts at public holidays, prices are held once a period. ICC also offers its life, as part of the concept of proper collaboration with the representative grants beneficial commissions and interest rates employees a variety of enrichment activities and management, with the professional support committee of the employees for children of on employee accounts and credit cards, and lectures on different topics. and guidance of the Welfare workers as an employees starting school together with a conducts enrichment and integration activities example, the accessibility on a monthly basis, present (school bag and contents), Bar/Bat for the different bank units. Bank employees Furthermore, in a similar fashion to Discount to data regarding absence of employees Mitzva present and more. In addition, diverse enjoy the service of a cafeteria and of subsidized Bank, ICC accompanies its employees at from work due to medical reasons, as activities for enrichment, leisure and bonding meals. sensitive moments in their lives and provides means of monitoring and promoting direct are offered to employees and their families. assistance on the death of a first-degree connection with the employee. The Employee Committee holds a family day relative; it encourages managers to be involved Workshops and seminars The Bank offers every year in the amusement park, noting the in the treatment processes and in assisting an Treatment of group pressure situations its employees different after work activities, children of the workers who are starting first employee in distress. -Involvement in a pressure situation, such workshops and lectures on various subject grade and gives them gifts. as war, terror events, robbery or attempted adapted to all Bank employees and their IDB Bank robbery in the branch, sudden death of families, at a number of locations around Treatment of group pressure situations The Bank provides a robust Program for an employee, natural disaster, etc., is the country. In 2017, there were 5,887 At exceptional events, such as outbreak of employee benefits, this includes health, accompanied at times by group treatment, participants in these activities, compared war, widespread fire, etc. the bank assists dental, vision, life insurance options, as well as an which provides a solution for the mutual with 5,824 participants in 2016 (the data and supports employees located in vulnerable Employee Assistance Program and various need or difficulty of a group of employees, does not include pre-retirement workshops areas by providing psychological support, Disability program all as governed by ERISA and simultaneously, in addition to and as a (and participation in trips). hotel accommodation where required, and Federal, State and local laws. 134 > The Employees The Employees > 135 Promoting health Medical tests In 2017, 148 employees hazardous matters in their work This area is the responsibility of the officer in charge of safety at received blood insurance by donating blood, compared with 225 employees environment and report them to the relevant factors. Promoting health the Bank, which includes environmental and employment monitoring tests as in 2016. 188 employees, retirees, and their spouses had medical survey tests A plan exists at the Bank for safety at the principal required by Regulations, including the performance of a preliminary survey. performed in 2017, compared with 131 tests in 2016. In 2017, some 220 tests tests for the identification of hazards and in order to provide a safe work subsidiaries Performance control for employment were performed on the Bank's athletes, environment and to ensure the safety medical examination is conducted in compared with 184 in 2016. of customers and those visiting the Mercantile Discount Bank accordance with the duties prescribed Bank’s facilities. Employee populations MDB employees enjoy a social safetynet by legislation relevant to employees The Employee Committee offers to with unique features were identified, which include a variety of insurances, according to the risks involved in their all the Bank's employees and family such as: storekeepers, maintenance including: life assurance for employees and work, in coordination with the Bank's members participation in medical and personnel and so forth, and these spouse, health insurance, surgery insurance, medical officer, heads of the relevant dental insurance arrangements under received instructions regarding the personal accident insurance, dental care for units and Human Resources. improved terms. unique risks relating to their duties. employees and family members and loss of Complaints by employees regarding work ability insurance for employees. suspicion of electromagnetic radiation Sport activities the Bank has 22 sports Within the framework of maintaining generated by the electrical network or teams registered with the Workplace employee safety in the workplace, the The employee enjoy benefits and good regarding the air quality in their League representing the Bank in different Bank has established a safety trustee management fees in th e insurance and pension workplace etc., are submitted to the sport competitions. layout at branches and locations of savings tracks. safety officer for examination using the Bank conducting the ongoing qualified outside experts, and are being Healthy nutrition Insistence on safety testing at their units has MDB encourages sport activities in different treated by the Bank's relevant employee health includes their nutrition been completed. From time to time, fields. The bank has 11 sport teams of performance functions (construction and tests are performed on the quality appropriate environmental tests are employees from all over the country, which are and maintenance department, Human of the food served in the Bank's units. conducted in order to identify factors registered with the work places league. These Resources, etc.). In addition, the Safety Likewise, the meals served in Discount that could endanger the existence of teams represent the bank in the Sportyada Officer initiates tests regarding electric College and the head office units offer a safe and healthful work environment sport games: Basketball, mini-football, tennis, network radiation and air quality issues dietetic and healthy choices. for the Bank’s employees. Should any table tennis, catchball, volleyball and chess. arising from risk factors discovered by events relating to safety occur, these safety surveys performed at units of Safety in the workplace are examined and investigated so as MDB performs tests for the existence of radon the Bank. 27 radiation and air quality Item 41 of the Labor Charter to establish a continual process of gas, as required. tests were performed in 2017, states that the Bank shall employ improvement with regard to this topic. compared with 16 tests performed at all necessary measures, in order to ICC the Bank's units in 2016. Furthermore, provide physical work conditions that Safety events are investigated The handling safety and hygiene in ICC is the Bank diligently conducts periodic protect the health of the employee in and checked, including drawing similar to that performed at Discount tests to check for the existence of the workplace. conclusions. The Bank does not have Bank.Two radiation and air quality tests were radon gas, should the need for such a safety committee. Nevertheless, conducted in 2017 at all the company's premises, testing arise. The Bank has an officer in charge of the manager of the properties and a number of tests identical to that of 2016. In safety, who coordinates matters of construction group conducts periodic addition, at least once a year, a survey of work safety and occupational health at the discussions on safety issues. conditions as well as surveys of radiation are Bank. In each year, the Bank distributes performed. 27 radiation and air quality tests were performed in 2017 at the Bank's units a safety learning to all its employees, which includes information regarding safety hazards at the Bank branches and offices, and which, inter alia, ICC employees enjoy significant health benefits, which include periodic medical examinations, encourages employees to identify Continue on next page 136 > The Employees The Employees > 137 Continued from previous page which includes, guidelines regarding the manner (including bonuses) or even dismissal. medical insurance, and psychological attention. of conduct intended to minimize the number of accidents at the workplace. Maintaining Moreover, the imposition of specific sanctions, with the consent of the Entitled to medical tests are all employees of age 35 and over with at least one year of service with The Company has a safety committee, which employee rights employees representative committee. The said sanctions, are sometimes the company. The company organizes twice a year in accordance with Regulations meets at least accompanied by a change in position, blood donation by employees, and once a year eight times in each year, reviews the safety P reventing sexual everything in accordance with the offers employees flu vaccination. reports, uncovers deficiencies and monitors harassment severity of the case and subject to the the treatment of safety deficiencies. The law and existing labor agreements at the In addition, ICC operates a workout gym and safety committee at ICC is composed of 3-4 Sexual harassment and intrigues of Bank. classes and invests in encouraging a rich sport managers, 7-8 employees and the external a sexual nature damage a person's activity in many spheres. ICC has four teams safety consultant. dignity, choices, privacy and equality of Three cases of concern regarding sexual competing in the Workplaces League: target the sexes, and they violate the law and the harassment were brought to the attention shooting, basketball, soccer and women's IDB Bank Bank's policies and harm work relations. of the officer in charge in 2017. In none netball. The teams number fifty employees and IDB Bank is compliant with all Federal and The Bank invests vast resources in of the instances was it found that sexual managers. State, as well as local Laws and Regulations preventing sexual harassment, in dealing harassment had occurred. The details as it relates to safety in the workplace, this with and putting an end to the phenomenon are as follows: include annual fire drills, emergency evacuation when it occurs, in accordance with the Safety in the procedures in accordance with the local requirements for all the Bank's work sites. Prevention of Sexual Harassment Act, 1998, and the Regulations enacted under In one instance, a sexual harassment complaint was filed by a female workplace at the power thereof. The Bank has appointed an officer, who is responsible of employee. The person accused filed a counter complaint. The findings principal subsidiaries investigating complaints submission of a summary and and the of the investigation revealed that there had been a disrespectful work recommendation to the employer's environment and explanatory action Mercantile Discount Bank representative a duty performed by the was taken at the unit by the female MDB has appointed a work safety officer as Head of the Human Resources and official in order to refresh the rules required under the Organization of Labor Properties Division. It is noted that the pertaining to the prevention of sexual Inspection Act, 1954. During 2017, a safety policy Bank has appointed an additional officer harassment at the Bank and the rules was published and safety checks were conducted in charge alongside the said officer in of conduct pertaining to having a internally. charge , who would serve also as her sexual-harassment-free environment; stand-in, in case of inability to perform her As part of his duties the safety officer performs duties, and has also appointed two In a second instance, an event that had examinations at the branches and provides regional female officials (with been brought to the female official’s guidance concerning deficiencies requiring geographical responsibility for the attention was investigated. During the rectification. northern region and the Jerusalem investigation of the event, the female region). employee refused to file a complaint. ICC In any case, the findings of the inquiry The manager of logistics and assets at ICC In cases where sexual harassment had that was conducted at that time did is responsible for the safety field. For this been found, the Bank acts in accordance not reveal that sexual harassment had purpose, the company is being assisted by an with the punishment range in practice occurred; independent external safety consultant for the at the Bank regarding disciplinary current operation of the whole safety field. As events, which includes a warning, an In a third instance also, no complaint part of the company's work plan, mandatory oral reprimand, a written reprimand, was filed, but an inquiry was study material on the subject of safety and suspension from work, non-promotion, conducted, and it was found that hygiene is distributed annually to all employees, nonpayment of salary supplements sexual harassment was not a factor. 138 > The Employees The Employees > 139 Instruction in the matter of prevention encourages the voluntary retirement of participants obtain information on the Discount Group by approximately one of sexual harassment. The prevention permanent employees, prior to reaching different matters, such as: healthy way of thousand additional employees until the of sexual harassment and intrigues of a retirement age, at beneficial terms, as life, physical and mental health, nutrition, year 2021, by both early retirement and sexual nature in the Bank procedures is detailed below. The administrative relevant legal aspects, economic regular retirement. (For additional details, given to every new employee beginning flexibility in respect of the termination of aspects, rights of retirees, wills and see 2017 Annual Report, pp. 21-22). work in the Bank, hangs on notice boards engagement of Bank employees, who are inheritance, etc. For those interested, in the various Bank units and is being not organized and are employed for a personal counseling can be provided in As part of integrating the retirement plan, displayed prominently on “FaceBank” determined period of time (temporary addition to the seminars. the Bank provided retirees with pension the intra-organizational communications employees) and/or employed under consultation by external consultants, site. Prevention of sexual harassment personal employment agreements, is In 2017, 280 workers participated in financed by the Bank, which assisted and of annoyance on sexual grounds much greater, and indeed termination of retirement seminars, of whom 209 employees in their decision as to the procedures directive was published to all employment of these employees occurs employees who have retired in 2017 within acceptance of the retirement offer and employees also through the procedure generally at the end of the contractual the framework of the early retirement as regards the desirable compensation website of the Bank. engagement period, or on grounds of plan, and 71 employees who are expected channel. dissatisfaction from the employees to retire in 2018 on ground of regular The Bank uses comprehensive learning performance or disobedience, as well as retirement. 110 workers participated in Some 23 employees retired in 2017, material on the subject of prevention of in view of adopted efficiency measures retirement workshops in 2016. and 19 additional employees signed a sexual harassment, which are distributed and cuts in expenditure required by the retirement agreement and retired at the to all Bank employees once in each Bank. The termination of employment, for For additional details, see Note 23 I beginning of 2018. In addition to 342 period. New employees are required to whatever reason, is effected only after the and J to the financial statements as of employees who retired during the year study this material, being a compulsory employee has been made aware of the December 31, 2017 (p. 196). For details 2016 within the framework of the plan study within the framework of the circumstances and reasons for the regarding employee rights in respect of (from the Bank and MDB). introductory courses of the Bank. In termination of his employment, has been severance pay, retirement benefits and addition, once every period, the female given the opportunity to voice their claims pension payments, see Note 23 item A, In August 2018, an additional retirement officials on behalf of the Bank participate against the dismissal, and after the Bank in the 2017 annual report (pp. 183-185). plan was approved. For additional details, in further studies, training and refresher has seriously considered each such case see the 2018 3rd quarter report (p. 16). courses the last of which took place in on its own merits. Early Retirement 2017. The Bank encourages early The Bank's liabilities for the payment of retirement of permanent Retirement and dismissal severance compensation to employees employees, directed at an employee Data regarding employees retirement at the rate of 100% upon termination of population having defined characteristics, Number of Of which: the number Conducting dismissal procedures their employment, including at retirement for which a focused effort is made to retirement of early retirement while maintaining and respecting age, as prescribed by the Severance encourage their early retirement at employees employees the rights of employees Pay Act, is covered in full by deposits in beneficial terms. 2017 107 15 With respect to tenured employees, severance pay funds and by insurance Discount 2016 394 312 Bank1 forming the majority of Bank policies. The retirement of permanent employees 2015 84 28 employees, the Bank acts in accordance has the retiring employee's consent 2017 37 10 with the Labor Charter and agreements Preparation for retirement Retirement and is not imposed (dismissals), and Mercantile with the employees' representative from work comprises the closing of it advances goals like reducing the Discount 2016 54 32 committee, according to which, the Bank a chapter in life and the opening of a average cost per employee position and Bank 2015 23 13 may not dismiss employees unless in new chapter, which involves changes rejuvenation of the workforce and larger 2017 4 exceptional cases, and excluding cases of in the social, economic, psychological efficiency. ICC 2016 2 criminal wrongdoings, dismissal requires and health spheres. The Bank offers its the approval of the said committee, and in employees and their spouses preparatory A plan for the acceleration of efficiency 2015 6 its absence a process of arbitration. In workshops for the imminent retirement. was formed in 2016, the essence of which Note: addition, from time to time, the Bank Within the framework of the workshops, was the reduction in the work force of 1 The data relates to tenured employees only. 140 > The Employees The Employees > 141 E mployee claims in the employee claiming bodily harm was components for nursery school and the finality of the provision (pursuant to field of labor relations caused to him while participating summer camp. The item in the Section 14 of the Severance Pay Act and on behalf of the company in a sport collective labor agreement of June with this being in relation to temporary Two actions against the Bank tournament. One class action suit 2011, regarding the updating of employees and to employees who were served in 2017 at the Labor was filed in 2014, which has not yet grading and stages, changed the have become tenured employees after Court by Bank employees or former been resolved. For additional details, components and terms mentioned having signed the agreement and to Bank employees. These actions refer to see the 2017 annual report of ICC (pp. above, applying to regular employees veteran employees who have elected matters relating to labor laws, and inter 160-161). engaged or converted to this status this option voluntarily, from the date of alia, include motions for monetary as from January 1, 2012. In addition, their having elected to do so). relief in respect of standby payment, Employee remuneration certain components have been severance compensation, provisions cancelled in their respect and In accordance with the general for provident contribution supplements The principal salary components maximum salaries have been collective labor agreement signed and other payments related to of tenured employees are the determined according to grading. in February 2016 (an Expansion employment terms. One of the actions base salary which includes a seniority Order in respect of which was issued is pending at the Labor Court, while the increment, representation and Payment of overtime to eligible in May 2016), starting with July other had been struck off. signature fees for each employee employees is contingent on prior 2016, the share of the employee in based on his seniority and position. approval of his superior. Attendance provident contributions shall not In 2017, six actions served in the years The base salary constitutes the basis reporting at the Bank is made by means be less than 5.75% and the share of 2013-2016 were concluded: two actions for salary increments and for the of an attendance clock (excluding the employer shall not be less than were concluded by verdicts given at the payment of split working hours’ exceptions). 6.25%. Respectively, since January appellate level whereby the appeal by remuneration at the rate of 2.5% of the 2017 the share of the employee have the Claimants had been dismissed; two base salary (for each split working Most of the Bank’s employees are increased to not less than 6% and of actions were concluded by withdrawal day to eligible employees), shift entitled to recreation pay in an amount the employer to not less than 6.5%. with the consent of the parties; and two remuneration (only to eligible significantly higher than the amounts The share of the employer in provident actions (one of which at the appellate employees), overtime and the 13th provided by law. Employees are contributions to an insurance fund/ level) were concluded in a compromise month salary and long term service also entitled to accepted provident provident fund which is not a pension without the Bank admitting any of the award. some of the payroll and continuing education funds fund will include purchase of loss claims raised by the Claimants. components of the employees is contributions, as is customary. of work ability insurance for the linked to the CPI. In cases where the employee, on condition that the rate Mercantile Discount Bank change in the CPI is a negative figure, The Bank’s liability for severance pay of provident contributions in the Two actions were served in 2017. Both the employees' wages are not reduced and provident fund contributions to employer's share shall not be lower actions claiming unlawful dismissal. and the drop in the CPI is setoff its employees is according to the than 5%. Furthermore, the minimum The hearing of both claims has not yet against the rise in the CPI in following employee’s base salary, global overtime rate of the employer for severance been concluded. months. Employees are also entitled contributions (according to grade), contributions shall apply to the full to various additional benefits. In 1/12 of the employee’s 13th month amount of the insured employee ICC accordance with their employment salary and other additional benefits. wage, at the rate of at least 6%, in Two complaints were submitted in status, Bank employees are promoted The employees are also entitled to accordance with the agreements 2017. One of these complaints was by grades only and are also entitled to certain benefits after their retirement, applying thereto, at the work place submitted by an employee of an a long-service bonus equal to several for employees defined as a “pensioner” and no less than the average salary in outside company providing catering monthly salaries plus additional of the Bank. the Israeli economy. services to the company. The Claimant vacation days, at the end of 20, 30, argued that his candidateship for and 40 years of service in the Bank. A In accordance with the collective Payment in respect of public holidays work at the premises of the company collective labor agreement dated agreement from June 2011 that dealt and sabbatical days. The Bank is was rejected due to his medical November 22, 2007 specified that with the topic of pensions, a provision of closed for business on nine sabbatical condition (HIV carrier). The other new employees shall not be entitled to the full amount of severance pay at the days defined by law, as well as on complaint was submitted by a former “long-service vacation” or to wage rate of 8.33% was determined, including Purim (Jewish holiday) and on the 142 > The Employees The Employees > 143 Ninth of Av. In a Knesset General determined according to classes in details, see the 2017 Annual Report (p. include awards payments for previous Elections year, the elections day is line with the accepted administrative 291). years but do include expected awards also considered a public holiday. All grades at the Bank. for the current year an average Bank employees are being paid in full For details regarding awards to officers payment of one salary per employee in respect of these public holidays. No Employees in the last 3 senior grades in 2017, see 2017 Annual Report (p. has been assumed. The main minimum service period is required (senior manager, Assistant to the 195, article 7). assumptions used in the computations in respect of monthly employees. President, Senior Assistant to the regarding employees are: (1) it has A minimum service period of three President) are entitled to receive a car Officers and members of the been assumed that the average months is required by law for hourly from the Bank and full funding for one management group provision customary at the bank for workers. In addition, with respect telephone landline in his home. The principal assumptions used vacation pay, jubilee vacation pay and to employees engaged on an hourly in the computation Discount pension expenses is expected in basis, the day of Purim and the Ninth Awards to employees and Bank. The calculation in respect of the respect of the median employee; (2) of Av are considered unpaid leave managers in 2017 employees has been made after expenses in respect of severance pay days. Tenured employees, who do not In accordance with the wage elimination of the data with respect to have been included based on current belong to the Jewish faith, are being agreement dated November 30, the group of senior officers. The cost actual cost and not according to the paid in full in respect of absence on 2016, a one-time differential award, does not include payroll tax, and the provisions, this in view of the transition their own religious holidays. was paid in March 2017 to tenured cost regarding the employees also to actuarial computation. It should be employees to whom the agreement does not include the long service noted that the 2016 data have been For additional details regarding applies, in an average amount of NIS award ( jubilee award ). The data are restated in order for them to be remuneration , see Disclosure 20,000 and to managers in an average expressed in full-time positions for presented according to the according to the third pillar of Basel amount of NIS 26,000. At the same part-time employees. The data include assumptions made in calculating the and additional information regarding time, a one-time award was also overtime payments. The data do not 2017 data. risks , which is available for perusal on granted to temporary employees and the Bank's website. to personal engagement agreement employees, based on the budget and Special remuneration to managerial model approved by the Bank's Officers and members of the management group personnel Management. For additional details, The difference between the average cost of remuneration of the senior Part of the managerial personnel see 2016 Annual Report (p. 345). officer group and the average cost and mean cost of remuneration of all is entitled to global overtime employees payment. In 2018, an award based on the return on equity was paid in respect 2017 2016 A managerial rank employee who has of 2017. The award was distributed been promoted is entitled to a 5% at the discretion of the manager in The senior Difference Difference Difference Difference salary increase from the salary table accordance with guidelines based on compared with compared with compared with compared with officer group1 average cost2 mean cost2 average cost mean cost (provided that at least 12 months the annual evaluation process. have elapsed since the date of his last Discount Bank by 8.01 by 9.20 by 7.38 by 8.37 entitlement to such increase due to Following the enactment of the promotion). The item in the collective Remuneration Act, the Bank was labor agreement of June 2011, required to make modifications to the MDB by 4.59 by 6.17 by 5.14 by 5.18 regarding the updating of grading and previous engagement terms of the stages, includes changes in some of Chairman of the Board of Directors ICC by 5.88 by 8.14 by 4.57 by 7.18 the employment terms applying to and the President & CEO. The new new regular employees becoming engagement terms state that the Notes: Bank employees of this status as from Chairman of the Board of Directors and 1. Chairman of the Board, President & CEO, members of Management, Internal Auditor. January 1, 2012. In this connection, the President & CEO are not entitled 2. The remainder of the employees and contract workers. maximum salaries have been to an annual award. For additional 144 > The Employees The Employees > 145 goals goals Discount Bank Mercantile 01 The translation of the multi-annual strategic plan into a human resources strategy, including specific planning of resources the definition of new engagements, identification of redundant engagements, changing the Discount Bank 01 Continuation of effective management of the labor force and its cost: The central challenge for the years 20162018 is the strict and restraining management of the labor force and its cost, in a manner ensuring increased recruitment profile. efficiency and restraining of payroll cost. 02 The adaptation of leadership and management concepts for the implementation of the strategic plan, to the continuation of the realization of the Discount spirit 02 Assistance for the branches in the processes for the continuing upgrading of services to customers: Accompaniment of the procedures in continuation of the transfer of operations from the branches to expert centers, and to the management of the change in the digital in order to allow a breakthrough both in the activities environment. and in business development of the Bank, as well as, in continuation of this move, improvement and upgrading of service level at the branches. These actions have different human resources aspects, including the manning of branches with teams having comprehensive knowledge 03 Encouraging the concept of organizational learning and personal responsibility for development and qualification. Encouraging significant career retraining and development of digital skills. regarding the different field of operation and the bridging of knowledge gaps, where required, as well as the creation of an attentive and supporting attitude towards employees and managers expected to experience a change, etc. 04 Creating an open, clear and structured dialogue for the construction of personal goals for employees. Assistance in identifying opportunities for development and 03 Providing supportive tools to the bank's units. Development and enrichment of employees by means of training, mobility and personal development. professional growth. 04 Efficiency and saving. As part of the manpower management at the Bank in 2018, the Human Resources 05 Creation of employment opportunities in peripheral areas, including training and apprenticeship enabling successful integration into the banking world. Division continues to support efficiency and saving measures conducted at the Bank, from the aspect of human resources. 146 > The Employees The Employees > 147 conclusions and recommendations to the Head based upon one month's salary for each year of are fully paid for these days if they had elected Maintaining employee of the Strategy and Resources Division, who serves as the representative of the employer for service, as accepted, is fully covered by deposits with severance pay funds, by assurance policies them as their sabbatical days. rights at the principal the purpose of making decisions. Each new employee who starts work at ICC is obliged to and pension funds and by the provision recorded on the company's books. That part of the For additional details regarding the remuneration plan for the CEO, employees and management of subsidiaries undergo a course of study in the matter of prevention of sexual harassment and read and severance pay not covered by deposits with defined deposit plans, as stated above, is treated ICC, see ICC's 2017 Annual Report (pp.151-154) and Additional Disclosure according to the third sign the company's articles in this matter. The by the group as a defined benefit plan (within the pillar of Basel (in Hebrew) as of December 31, P reventing sexual harassment principle items of the Act are posted on meaning of the term in generally accepted 2017 (pp. 50-56). The said reports are available for at the principal subsidiaries signboards, on which are also published the accounting principles), according to which, a perusal on the company's website. names of officers dealing with complaints. The liability is recognized in respect of employee Mercantile Discount Bank company's set of rules is also published on the rights. Payment in respect of public holidays and Each new employee beginning his service internal Internet portal of the company and once sabbatical days at IDB Bank. with MDB, undergoes a study course in the a year, an all organizational learning is performed, E mployee remuneration Most of the legal holidays observed in New matter of prevention of sexual harassment, and is including a knowledge test. at the principal subsidiaries York State and certain religious holidays obliged to read and sign the company's articles in observed in Israel are designated as holidays of the matter. The principal items of the Act are Punitive sanctions are taken in cases where Payment in respect of public holidays and IDB Bank when they fall on a working day. The posted on notice boards including names of sexual harassment has been found. sabbatical days at MDB. Human Resources Department provides officers handling complaints. Furthermore, the MDB acts in a similar manner to Discount employees with a list of the designated holidays articles are published on the internal portal of the One complaint was received in 2017 in the matter Bank. Furthermore, hourly workers at MDB each year. bank. Each complaint or clarification in this of sexual harassment: the employer received are granted a day off at the expense of the bank respect is being handled discreetly with complete notice that an employee of a contracting company on Purim and on the Ninth of Av. For additional Awards to employees and attention in a swift and optimal manner, to the had been exposed to remarks having sexual details (in Hebrew) regarding remuneration at managers in 2017 in the extent possible. Punitive sanctions are being connotation made by an instructor of an external MDB see Disclosure according to the third pillar principal subsidiaries applied in cases where sexual harassment was company at an external location. Enquiries made of Basel and additional information regarding found. In addition, MDB has appointed a team of with the persons in charged showed that no risks as of December 31, 2017 (pp. 102-110). Mercantile Discount Bank employees comprising officers-in-charge in complaint had been filed and that the project had This report is available for perusal on MDB's The award in respect of the year 2017 terms of the Act, who are entrusted with the been concluded. website. equaled 1.3 times of the salary on an average. clarification of complaints and submit their The award is payable in 2018, as follows: 0.45 of conclusions and recommendations to the VP Retirement and dismissal Payment in respect of holidays and the bonus which comprise a fixed component Human Resources, who acts as the representative at the principal subsidiaries sabbatical days at ICC. was paid in April 2018. The balance, being 0.83 of of the employer for the purpose of taking decisions. The company operates in a reduced the salary, shall be divided differentially and will be Mercantile Discount Bank format on nine sabbatical days defined in paid at the conclusion of the annual evaluation In 2017, information was received that raised The bank's liability for severance pay to its the law as well as on Purim. Working on these process. concerns regarding sexual harassment in a employees is covered by deposits with days are only the employees permitted by a particular unit. Investigation of the complaint severance pay funds and by appropriate work permit issued by the Ministry of ICC through the questioning of employees did not provisions. Economics, to work on the Sabbath ICC paid an annual award in respect of reveal unequivocal findings. This notwithstanding, (approximately 25 employees). Election Day is 2017 to managers and employees in the need for greater attention to be given to Preparation for retirement In 2017, 21 employees also a sabbatical day whenever general accordance with the remuneration policy this topic at the unit was relevant clarified and (excluding spouses) have participated in elections to the Knesset are held. The said approved by the Board of Directors. An award emphasized. preparations for retirement workshops held by sabbatical days are fully paid to all employees. in respect of the year 2017 has been paid to all MDB, compared with 24 employees in 2016. Payment to monthly employees is made with employees and managers, including officers. ICC no reservations. Payment to hourly employees For details regarding remuneration plans for The officer in charge of prevention of sexual ICC is made only if they were scheduled to work on the President & CEO, to company employees harassment at ICC is responsible for The company's liability for the payment of that day. Employees not of the Jewish faith, and managers, see ICC's 2017 annual report clarifying complaints and submission of severance pay to its employees, which is who are off from work on their religious holidays (pp. 151-152). 148 > Suppliers Suppliers > 149 06 SUPPLIERS Promotion of responsible purchasing  150 Goals  155 1.5 Billion NIS payments to suppliers 95.3% Domestic purchases 150 > Suppliers Suppliers > 151 described in the Bank’s Code of Ethics. Refreshment of the internal purchasing Suppliers Discount Bank views with Promotion of responsible purchasing The pool of suppliers of Discount Bank includes different suppliers operating in various areas and having different volumes of operation, who provide the Bank with products and services procedures was made in 2017, which led to stricter control and supervision over purchasing expenditure as well as the computerized purchasing procedure. on a current basis and in accordance The acquisition of manpower services, importance the long-term creation Discount Bank is committed with demand. The Bank maintains long including manpower in the technological to conducting business fairly standing relations with its suppliers field, is the responsibility of the Human of value for all its stakeholders, and to acting on the basis of and is committed to fairness, offering Resources and Properties Division. The among whom are also its suppliers, professional and personal integrity. equal opportunity, transparency and a acquisition of property or its rental is Discount Bank views with importance current dialogue with them. the responsibility of the construction and therefore the Bank treats them the long-term creation of value for all and real estate department, being also with integrity, fairness, concern its stakeholders, among whom are also Purchasing at Discount Bank is mostly a part of the Human Resources and its suppliers, and therefore the Bank performed in a centralized manner Properties Division. and respect treats them with integrity, fairness, for all units of the Bank, by means of concern and respect. the central purchasing department, During the past year the Bank has operating as part of the Planning, mechanized the purchasing process The Bank strictly honors its agreements Strategy and Finance Division. The from the stage of setting-up the request with suppliers and non-adverse department is responsible for the and until the stage of issuing the order utilization of its position towards formation of a purchasing specification to the winning supplier. Mechanization them, endeavors to prevent damage for the internal customers, where of the process has contributed to to integrity, prohibits the granting required, locating suitable suppliers, increased transparency of the whole of benefits and favors, promotes screening them, obtaining offers, process, including the commercial transparency and fair competition, conduct of negotiations, engagement discourse with the suppliers. The maintains confidentiality and data and current follow-up of relations with making of the information accessible protection and does everything them. to the functions at the Bank who possible to prevent corruption and approve the issue of the order allows improper conduct. The purchasing department is responsible an insight to all the stages of the for both technological purchases commercial negotiations, from the Discount Bank chooses suppliers on (hardware, software, projects and services) stage of the primary price offer and the basis of professional, objective and general purchases (operating and until the conclusion of the transaction, and businesslike considerations, while logistical equipment and services, security including an in-depth assessment of striving for engagement with suppliers and safety, gifts and sales promotion the alternatives. meeting the following requirements: products, training). It is also responsible for purchases regarding construction and The mechanization of this process Compliance with and maintenance maintenance (renovation of buildings, completed the full transparency of the of the provisions of the law; systems installation and maintenance, processes, maintaining the fairness Strict observance of legal and fair furniture, etc.). characterizing the Bank in its conduct employment conditions; regarding the suppliers engaged by it.  Maintaining the quality of the As part of the current operations of the environment; department, a renewed examination Ethical conduct regarding suppliers Having an ethical code and a  of existing contracts is being made, The Bank approaches suppliers commitment to its values; as well as the challenging of the new inviting them to submit price offers. M aintaining the norms and standards requirements. The Bank chooses providers of services 152 > Suppliers Suppliers > 153 under competitive processes, while Fair employment and maintenance It should be noted, in particular, that MDB and ICC purchase from social strictly maintaining the confidentiality of rights of outsource workers upon changing service suppliers in these associations, such as AKIM, Beit Issie of the submitted offers, beginning with Within the context of its areas, a comprehensive examination Shapiro and others, in Chanukah and the identity of the offerors and ending purchases, the Bank also acquires is performed to ensure that contractor Purim, personal packages of sweets, with the contents of the offer, while labor services. employees whose employment had which are distributed by employees of aspiring to increase the trust of the been terminated, receive the full rights MDB during their different activities in offerors in the purchasing processes. On June 19, 2012, the Intensification of due to them in respect of their period of aid of the community. The total scope of Enforcement of Labor Laws Act, 2011, engagement with the Bank. this type of purchasing is not material. Already during the competitive process, came into effect, the aim of which is the Bank agrees with its suppliers the to intensify enforcement of labor laws No complaints were filed with the Bank, ICC operates consistently over many terms of payment, in accordance with and making it more efficient . The law MDB and ICC, by outsource workers in years with Hameshakem Company, the date of delivery of the goods or imposes extensive liability on employers, 2017. engaging it for work suitable for services. The Bank strictly adheres as purchasers of services with respect handicapped workers and those with to the agreed payment dates, in order to enforcement and securing the rights Promotion of a responsible supply special needs. to maintain proper business relations of personnel engaged on their premises chain and cooperation with its suppliers. It in guard, security, cleaning and catering In 2015, Discount Bank, in About of the purchases made by is noted that the payment process is duties. The Act prohibits the engagement conjunction with the Maala controlled and that it is being conducted in accordance with the commercial by entities ordering services and contractors supplying such services, Organization, approached selected suppliers, of a medium size scope of 95.3% the Bank are from suppliers operating and employing workers in Israel. terms agreed upon when ordering the in agreements which do not provide operation, with an offer to join the products and services. for basic wage terms for the personnel activities of the Organization and the ratio of foreign purchases The content of this section applies also involved. increase their commitment for the raising of standards and their potency, 5-6% in ICC of total purchases. to MDB and ICC. The Bank strictly observes the fair and increase responsibility all along employment of persons working at its the supply chain, maintaining at the of the Bank's operating and Discount Bank is working on the computerization of the settlement premises and the violation of rights of outsource workers is taken seriously. same time quality and excellence in the services/products being supplied. It 41% other expenses, excluding payroll expenses, in each process with suppliers and on creating The engagement agreements with should be noted that a number of of the years 2016-2017. A transparency for the supplier regarding companies providing cleaning and suppliers responded to this initiative. major part of the non-payroll the process (invoice status) at any given security services comply with the expenses is with respect to time. provisions of the law. In the engagement In 2016, the Bank increased the the acquisition of products and services from entities in agreements of the Bank with providers approach to additional suppliers, with Israel local manufacturers of services, the contractors are required a view of encouraging them to join and service providers, and to confirm, among other things, that they this activity. Eight suppliers had been importers of products that are abide by the provisions of the Act for approached, of whom two joined the manufactured overseas. increasing enforcement of labor laws. Maala rating. suppliers the Bank conducted The Bank has appointed an officer responsible for this matter and has At the beginning of 2018, the Bank approached fifty of its large suppliers 2,410 business with in 2017, in a total amount of approx. NIS engaged the services of an independent offering them to join the activity. 1.5 billion. accountant in respect of monthly sample tests to be performed according to the Social purchasing No complaints regarding discrimination law. Where deficiencies are found, these To the extent possible, the Bank, were raised in 2016-2017 on the part of are rectified by the suppliers and the MDB and ICC engage with factors suppliers. The content of this section Bank monitors the actual rectification employing handicapped persons or applies also to MDB and ICC. thereof. those with special needs. For example, 154 > Suppliers Suppliers > 155 Promotion of advance and is strictly controlled in the presence of at least two participants who are authorized signatories of the bank. box. The opening time of the envelops is determined in advance and is made in the presence of at least three participants. goals responsible Following the processing of the data, the material is submitted to the Purchases The contents of the offers is documented in a protocol, and where these are purchasing at Committee, which is composed of three members of Management, a lawyer complex and not easily documented in a protocol, the original offers are signed to the principal from the legal counsel department and the manager of the Administration and maintain their authenticity. IDB Bank 01 Cooperation with suppliers who employ handicapped staff subsidiaries Payments Department. Where required, the relevant professional function is IDB Bank currently operates a also invited to the discussions of the decentralized Procurement model Mercantile Discount Bank Committee. whereby departments are responsible for Purchases by MDB are made by four main groups: technological purchases IT, marketing purchases, office ICC Purchases by the company are making purchasing decisions for the acquisition of goods and services. Under this model, departments and their 02 Continuing strict integrity, fairness and transparency in relations with suppliers premises and maintenance purchases and mostly made in a centralized manner designated Vendor Relationship general purchases. The general purchases (about 92%), by means of the purchasing Managers (VRM’s) are responsible for the are generally made centrally for all units of department, operating within the entire Source to Pay (S2P) process of the bank by means of the administration framework of the Comptrollers Division. their respective area except for the and payments department of the Human Resources and Administration Division. Most of the purchases are made jointly with The central purchasing at ICC is responsible for technological purchases (hardware, software, projects and Purchase Order (P.O) generation. The P.O generation process falls exclusively under the responsibility of the Procurement 03 Maintenance of a high service level (SLA) to internal customers the purchases of the parent company. The services), general purchases (operational department who report to the Chief department is responsible for the formation and logistic equipment and services, Financial Officer. of the purchase specifications as required printing, security and safety, gift and sales by the internal customers, where applicable, promotion products), purchases of The “Large Purchase Committee” was Replacement and refreshment identification of appropriate suppliers, their screening, obtaining offers, negotiating the purchase, engagement and follow-up of property and its maintenance (renovation of buildings, installation of systems and maintenance thereof, furniture, etc.), the formed in 2016 but became active in 2017. The Committee’s primary goal is to support the Procurement process at 04 of the active supplier pool at a scope of 5% relations with them. rental or purchase of office premises, the Bank by ensuring the Bank’s funds engaging manpower and consulting are committed appropriately and are in Acquisition of manpower services, services, including manpower in the line with the Bank’s policies. The Large including manpower in the technology technology field, credit cards purchase, Purchase Committee meets on an ad field, is the responsibility of the Human Resources and Administration Division. The purchase or rental of office purchase of sales promotion and marketing services, excluding advertising and media. hoc basis and is comprised of the Bank’s Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operations & Information Officer, Chief Internal 05 Completion of the mechanization of the purchasing procedures in order to purchase quality products premises is the responsibility of the Audit, Head of International Private and services at the most construction and property department of ICC conducted business in 2017 with Banking, Bank’s Controller, and Head of beneficial terms the Operations Group. 850 suppliers, in a total amount of NIS Procurement (Committee’s Secretary). 360 million. As a general rule, the bidding in purchase Under the guidance of the CFO, the tenders in significant amounts is made Also at ICC, the submission of offers Procurement department is currently by means of sealed envelopes dropped into a locked bidding box. The opening time of the bidding box is stated in for transactions in significant amounts is made by the quasitender process, into a locked box or by an electronic offer working Management with in IDB Bank centralizing Procurement function at IDB Bank. senior the 06 Continuing search for possibilities and opportunities for higher efficiency and savings 156 > Discount for the community Discount for the community > 157 07 Discount FOR the community Discount for the community  158 Over NIS of investments in the community 810 16 m volunteering employees Discount Sprint for the Future  Discount volunteering in the community  159 164 Approx. 120 different volunteer sites Investment in the community  166 Approx. 19,000 different volunteer sites Herzelilinblum  170 Goals 173 Over 8,500 participants in the Sprint programs in 2017 Approx. 95% of graduates of the Sprint program have completed high school studies with a full matriculation certificate granting of 211 scholarships on behalf of the Nissim Alagem Foundation 158 > Discount for the community Discount for the community 159 Discount Discount Bank has worked for the community since its founding, with comprehensive management approach a to tighten the bond with the community in the different projects. The activity of the Bank in the by a designated unit at the Human Resources and Properties Division. FOR the whereby activity for the community is part of the business, social and cultural commitment. community is expressed in four central channels: Discount Sprint for the Future community a. The flagship project Discount Sprint The Bank's policy is to focus the human for the Future ; Discount Bank's Flagship Project and financial resources on activities in b. Volunteering in the community; in the community aid of children and youth at risk and c. Investment in the community; in distress situation, principally in d. Private museum Herzlillienblum . In 2005, the Bank joined the the education and knowledge fields. Sprint for the Future Association Discount Bank has worked for the This, arising from the concept that The donations policy is a joint policy with a view of advancing education and community since its founding, these fields comprise the generator for of Discount Bank, MDB and ICC in the schooling in the social and geographical personal and social success of the said framework of which General principles periphery in the State of Israel, in favor with a comprehensive management target populations, and a tool for the and a coordination mechanism have been of all sectors of society (Jews, Ultraapproach whereby activity for the creation of economic-social mobility. determined, while maintaining the individual Orthodox, religious, secular, Arab, Druze judgment of the subsidiary companies in and Bedouins) together with which it community is part of the business, As an expression of this concept, accordance with the characteristics of their launched a program that became the social and cultural commitment Discount Bank operates in the operations. This policy is being examined Bank's flagship program Discount educational and knowledge fields, from time to time. Sprint for the Future . During these encourages its employees to volunteer years the Bank was a significant partner in aid of the community, and endeavors The community activities are conducted in the growth in the scope of operations Discount Sprint for the Future 18 100 600 General data as of December 2017 24,000 students a year at 8,500 years of activity, of which schools around universities and colleges 12 years in partnership the country with the Bank young persons have participated in the programs of the Association during its years of activity young persons per year 160 > Discount for the community Discount for the community 161 and budgets of the Association, assists Pre-Atidim Program ( Sprint for areas, towards advanced technological The late Nissim Alagem Fund in the structure of unique projects and excellence ) leads students having and diploma studies; in required In January 2007, the Bank partnerships with government agencies, academic potential to excellence in fields in the employment market. instituted a scholarship fund for such as the Israeli Ministry of Education science studies, attaining a quality The program offers studies for a academic studies named after the late and the Israeli National Insurance Institute, matriculation certificate that admits practical engineering degree, providing and also has founded a student scholarship entry into prestigious faculties at comprehensive and wide coverage, foundation. universities (engineering and sciences); integration in industry and assistance in obtaining work; The Bank joined the Sprint for the Sprint for Industry Program designed to prevent youth in distress from Sprint for public technological Future Association with a view of dropping out of school, lead them to service program provides young advancing education and schooling in technological and professional studies persons engaged in National Service and integrates them into industrial a wide cover of professional training the social and geographical periphery enterprises in their areas of residence. and qualification in the computer and in the State of Israel, in favor of all The Program had begun as a start-up Internet fields, in the route of integrating financed by the Bank and developed cloud computing systems (Office 365). sectors of society, together with into a nationwide extensive scope During their service, the youngsters which it launched a program that project. The Ministry of Education will join educational institutions in the became the Bank's flagship program, and the National Insurance Institute have recognized the importance and communication field. At the end of their service, the program will promote and Discount Sprint for the Future contribution of this program and have encourage the participants to continue taken a strategic decision to participate in their studies and employment in The Sprint for the Future Association in a joint enterprise with the Association the communication field, and will help develops and operates programs for (in which the Bank also participates) and them in integrating into the work circle. advancement of youth in distress to operate it at some thirty centers of from peripheral areas with the aim of operation in peripheral areas. Presently, The Bank is a party to both the reducing social gaps and increasing the program has turned into a national financial support of the Association social mobility through education program of the Ministry of Education and the promotion and advancement and learning, and strives to integrate and is active in eighty-five high schools of its activities. Representatives of the the youth into the academic and in all segments of the community and Bank’s Management are members of employment world. The Association all over the country; the Association's executive board and operates five central programs, which in this framework are partners, inter promote and lead young persons at Sprint for the Academy Program. alia, in the design of the Association's high schools and academic institutions Assists graduates of the programs workplans. Employees of the Bank to make the most of their learning of the Association to enter into the take part in voluntary activity within ability and personal enrichment, and academic world. The students are the Association’s programs, including allow them to integrate in an optimal awarded consultation and assistance in the adoption by Bank branches and manner as independent adults into the in obtaining their first employment Banks units of schools participating social, economic and industrial life in position. The Bank has established a in the project and the accompanying the State of Israel: scholarship foundation, through which and mentoring of students by senior it awards hundreds of scholarships officers of the Bank. Representatives Sprint Program focusing on supporting each year; of the Bank are members of the audit students having study difficulties helping committee of the Association and the them to graduate from high school with Sprint for engineers Project leading Bank's Accounting Division provides a matriculation certificate and continue youth at risk of all segments of society accounting and payment services for with higher studies; from peripheral social and geographic the Association. 162 > Discount for the community Discount for the community 163 Nissim Alagem, who passed away in in the prevention of the dropout of of the pupils have improved their academic 2006. Mr. Alagem worked at the Bank for 40 years, his last post being Vice students at risk from the education system and in directing them to a Sprint for the Future achievements. President, Head of the Commercial Division. Within the framework of the professional future in trades and profession required by the military and project in the Arab In 2017, marking the tenth anniversary of the program, MDB increased its contribution Foundation, the Bank makes in each year a contribution to finance academic by industry; society granting 100 study scholarships. The cost of the program was NIS 730,000, compared with studies of youth graduating from the Some 95% NIS 550 thousand in each of the previous years. programs of the Association. The In 2008, MDB, in cooperation with the The program has created a framework for giving Foundation enables these graduates to of the Sprint program graduates Sprint Association, developed a unique and work for the community and the immediate continue in academic studies at higher completed their high school studies program for the advancement of higher surroundings, and achieves great success in the education institutes with a personal with a full matriculation certificate; education in the Arab society. MDB, through this field and has become well known and sought mentoring and learning support of the project, grants every year over seventy after. Association. Since the establishment Some 86% scholarships for academic studies to students. of the Foundation, 1,083 scholarships MDB views this contribution as an important Within the framework of the program to date: have been granted through it to of the Sprint for Excellence graduates layer in promoting education in the Arab society, students. This number includes both completed their high school studies with as a significant step on the way for the prosperity scholarships donated by the Bank, scholarships donated in the Arab sector marks of 85 and over in their science oriented matriculation certificate. 57% and success of the younger generation the future generation. 3.8 NIS million have been granted as student scholarships; and scholarships by different private of whom reached high distinction with donors, who wished that their donation average marks of over 95. The scholarships are granted on the basis of would serve for scholarships granted socio-economic considerations and the level approx. thousand through the Foundation. 211 scholarships were granted in 2017, an Sprint for Industry : of academic achievements, strictly maintaining geographical spread, while providing response 25.6 volunteer hours in the community; increase of 92% in relation to the to all sectors and genders in the Arab society. preceding year when 110 scholarships were granted. 100% of the students have completed their studies In consideration for the scholarship, students volunteer in assisting the studies of children All programs of the Association are (prevention of dropping out) with a professional diploma; belonging to the areas in which they live. As a result of the work of such volunteers, 95% 487 students from 45 locations participated in the program. being accompanied by evaluation and internal control researches that are based upon data of the Ministry of 70% completed studies with a technological matriculation certificate; Education, the Ministry for Economic Affairs and schools. A part of these programs are being accompanied by an independent evaluation research 35% of the graduates continue to practical engineering studies; performed by the Szold Institute for Social Research . The results of the research made in recent years indicate a high level of achievements 40% of the graduates join technological units of the armed forces; and compliance with the aims of the Association's programs. Furthermore, the results of the research regarding the Sprint for Industry program indicate a clear and proven turnaround 25% of the graduates join the military or national service in meaningful duties. 164 > Discount for the community Discount for the community 165 organized unit volunteer work exists. Employee volunteering data Discount The volunteer coordinators maintain current communication with the relevant Average hours per employee Ratio of volunteering employees (to total employees of the Bank) volunteering in functions at the centers where voluntary work is done, inter alia, in order to test the 30 30 the community needs from a voluntary standpoint and form a response, with the Bank following 25 25 23 22 25 and budgeting the activity and monitor 22% The Bank sees the volunteering its progress. 20 19 20 value as a leading organizational 18% 18% value, and encourages its employees to The voluntary activities of the employees 15 15 15% take part in the different voluntary are carried out during their free time. activities, while stressing the long-term However, there are employees, primarily volunteering. Many units in the Bank have those in the Social Responsibility Unit, 10 10 designated volunteer focuses that they the staff of the Herzelilenblum Museum have adopted, and they encourage their and employees who conduct activities 5 5 employees to volunteer in these focused for the Sprint project (see above under areas. The voluntary activity is mainly “Discount Sprint for the future”), who are 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 conducted within a unit framework. The engaged directly in social responsibility voluntary activity is diverse, providing fields within the framework of their work Note: the calculation is based on the total number of Note: In 2017, a process was carried out of improving volunteer hours per year in relation to the total number the volunteers data after retirement steps, and therefore a assistance and support to a broad range hours. The Bank's Management finances of volunteer employees in that year. decline in the rate of volunteering in the Bank is reflected. of elements in the Israeli population: the costs of the activity itself (such as the Children and teenagers, students, soldiers, cost of purchasing materials used in the disadvantaged population, the elderly, volunteering activity, purchase of gifts to parcels is conducted by employees of persons having special needs, the infirm, residents of the volunteer center etc.). the Bank in the food center of the etc. Association. In 2017 approx. 810 Bank employees The volunteering activity continued engaged in volunteer activities on a Children and youth A Different Lesson Project during the year 2017, within the regular basis. These volunteers were A voluntary project in cooperation framework of which volunteering Bank active in 120 voluntary positions and Institute for Advancement of with the A Different Lesson employees contribute their time and 19 thousand hours were devoted to Education in Jaffa Association, helping children at risk warm-heartedness. The volunteering voluntary activities. The cooperation with this Institute providing them with enriching and activity effort was centered on continues, including volunteer work experience yielding different lessons. associations for youth in distress and risk The Bank takes pride in the variety by Bank employees and a financial Within the framework of this project, situations, adult population, Holocaust of activities and in the volunteering contribution by the Bank. The Institute members of the senior Forum lectured survivors, children clubs, and assistance employees, providing them with a provides a variety of education, welfare on subjects of banking and the to different associations supporting platform through publications on the and enrichment programs to thousands realization of dreams to the children of these populations. internal organizational media, such as of at-risk children, from families of a low the Sokolov school in Bat Yam (fifth facebank and the Morning magazine . socioeconomic background. Moreover, graders). The project ended at the Promotion and encouragement of the Association assists many Holocaust Bank's Visitor Center, where a tour was volunteer work at the Bank is conducted The volunteering activity is divided survivors residing in southern Tel Aviv conducted for the children, who met a by the social responsibility unit, who into a number of fields children and and in Jaffa. Units of the Bank adopt part of the Forum members (who came initiate, accompanies and funds youth, handicapped populations, nearly all the clubs of the Association in especially to greet them and wish them voluntary activities in cooperation with health and other fields, in which the Tel Aviv, Jaffa and Bat-Yam. In addition, a well on the termination of the project). sixty volunteer coordinators, operating employees volunteer in a wide variety of significant and widespread voluntary Certificates and a present were granted at the branches and units, in which an associations. hereinafter are examples: activity involving the packaging of food at the end to all the children. 166 > Discount for the community Discount for the community 167 activities in aid of weak populations, The scope of investment by the Investment in the health, sporting, cultural, artistic and educational, environmental protection, Discount Group in the community community science, energy and business. These totaled NIS 17 million in 2017 P opulations having sponsorships enable the relevant special needs organizations to raise funds for their Social products bazaar Donations and Sponsorships operations, expose their operations to In 2017, towards the New Year, Hanukkah Voluntary work at the Niv School The Bank's Management annually the general public and pay respect to and Passover Holidays, the Bank held for people with hearing disabilities allots a donation budget, directed the factors involved in their operations. social products bazaars at two areas at in Tel Aviv principally towards associations and the Bank, where Bank employees were Employees of the Internal Audit organizations engaged in education and Various projects able to buy different products made by Division adopt the children of the enrichment of children and youth. Among Assistance to families in need persons with disabilities acting within Niv School in Tel Aviv. Their work included the donations extended by the Bank in In line with the Bank’s tradition, the the framework of various associations, parties for the children at holidays, a tour 2017, may be noted the donations to the Bank rallied also in 2017 to assist such as: Beit Miriam , Ohel Sarah , of the Mount Hermon sight, renovation following assosiations: Sprint , families in need towards the Passover Hayim Association , ALUT , Kelim of the library building and more. Association for the Advancement of holiday, the New Year Holiday, and Sheloovim , and Yeladudes . Income Education in Jaffa, the Ramon Foundation, assists in donations to finance food from sales are dedicated towards the Zoharim Village, A Different Lesson, baskets to families in need. Among continued activities of associations Krembo Wings, Tel Hashomer, Rabin and the Associations through which the employing/assisting population with Soroka Hospitals, Yad Sarah, Reut Medical donation had been distributed, may special needs. center, Ezra LeMarpeh, Loewenstein House, be mentioned Hom Association, Help The health field Alin Youth house, Hom Association, latet, and Remedy Association, Chabad “Discount Fund” at the “Ezra LeMarpeh” the Association for the Wellbeing of Israel's Nataniyah, Latet, the Israeli Spirit Organization Activity with Simcha Layeled (joy Soldiers ( Adopt a Combat Soldier ), and Association and more. The Fund was established in August for the child) Association more. Voluntary work conducted at the RAMBAM Hospital in Haifa and the The control over the use of the actual Shaare Zedek Hospital in Jerusalem. contributed funds and its effectiveness is Volume of Discount's Group investment in the community Employees of different units of the Bank performed taking into consideration the In 2017 entertained the patients and their nature of the project and the amount of the families distributing refreshments at the contribution. A high level of involvement 33% 26% 19% 10% 5% 3% 3% various departments. and control exists with respect to projects where the contribution is of a significant Reuth Medical Center amount such as Sprint . The level of Voluntary work over many years. involvement and control regarding projects In addition to a yearly monetary enjoying small contributions, is low. In 2016 donation for the purchase of medical 32% 25% 24% 7% 6% 4% 1% equipment, the renovation of the Additionally, the Bank contributes on residential unit for holocaust survivors a current basis, office and computer in the place, etc., the staff of the equipment no longer in use by units of Lowland Region maintains voluntary the Bank, to associations requiring such Hertzlillienblum Museum Education and knowledge Indirect and miscellaneous expenses activities. Each employee contributes equipment. Other social targets Having special needs Health Adoption of IDF units his personal talent and together they hold a happening several times a year During 2017, the Bank granted Notes: intended to make a change from routine sponsorship to entities and activities 1 Direct expenses in respect of a financial education project were included in 2017 for the first time under Education and knowledge . The comparative data for 2016 was reclassified accordingly. life for the patients. promoting goals in areas of community, 2 For additional details regarding the scope of investments in the community of the Discount Group, see the 2017 Annual Report, p.317. 168 > Discount for the community Discount for the community 169 Total investment of the Discount Group in the community to participate in the project in 2017 The Bank's Management is in constant (2016 twelve young persons). communication with the units In NIS millions commanders to examine the needs Woman2Woman program of the units and to coordinate joint 8 9 For the third consecutive year, Discount activities. 2017 Bank provides sponsorship for the Woman2Woman program, operated Employment of visually impaired by veterans of the 8200 Intelligence teenagers 8 9 Unit Forum. The program is designed A project with “Ofek Liladenu“ (Our to promote young women having a Children’s horizon Project) Since 2016 potential for excellence, by connecting the summer of 2005, in cooperation them to impressive and influential with “Ofek Liladenu“ Association a 7 9 women holding key positions in all national organization of parents of areas and professions. blind or visually impaired children, 2015 the Bank employs visually impaired The Executive Vice President Human teenagers during the summer. Before Resources and Properties at the Bank they begin employment, the teenagers 6 10 served and is serving as a mentor undergo banking and general training 2014 in this program, and the Bank is in Discount College. 19 teenagers promoting additional cooperations, were employed at the Bank in 2017 (in 00 02 04 06 08 10 12 14 16 18 including participation in professional 2016, 21 teenagers were employed at panels and conventions in order to the Bank). Monetary donations Donations of an equivalent monetary value create added value in the advancement of women's careers and taking Arts professional decisions in different Discount's art collection contains areas. some 2,200 original works and 2007, and the activity continued of the Bank is expressed in financial about 3,800 lithographs of the best of uninterrupted in 2017. The objective support and voluntary activity. Within “Adopt a combat soldier” Project Israeli artists, representing a of the fund is to provide financial the framework of the program, young Discount Bank takes part in the Friends fascinating and varied assortment of assistance in cases of acute and persons excelling in their studies of the IDF's Adopt a Combat Soldier making over more than fifty years and exceptional medical conditions. The and especially outstanding in their Project, adopting “Squadron 916” of includes sculptures, paintings, Fund is a collaboration between community volunteer work, are chosen the Israel Navy, which is responsible for tapestries, video art and photographs. the Bank and the “Ezra LeMarpe” as leaders of social change. the security of Israel’s southern coast, Association. Suitable inquiries and the Regiment Tiger of the Artillery The collection is managed by an received by the Bank are referred to The aim of the program is to encourage Corp. The Bank supports the said units advisory committee numbering four the Association for examination of the excellence and leadership among with a monetary contribution as well as external experts (museum curators case and its various aspects. In cases youth in Israel, in the image of Ilan and with volunteer work. and such like) and two representatives where the Association approves the Asaf Ramon, who represent a personal of the Bank. The committee convenes request, assistance is given from the example in their personality, deeds The annual contribution is NIS 100 several times a year discussing new Discount Fund in the association. and achievements. The elected youth thousand for each unit intended for acquisitions and the structure of the undergo a several months' course financing activities for the welfare of collection. The committee exists since Ramon Foundation increasing their proficiency and skills, the soldiers. In addition to a monetary 2004 and its members are appointed on The Bank is a copartner of the Ramon during which they obtain tools for contribution, the Bank incorporates a voluntary basis for a period of three Award program, the mark of quality, leadership as well as meet figures volunteer activity. Furthermore, years. In recent years the collection excellence and leadership, in memory of having influence over Israeli society. servicemen of the units participate in has been mapped and examined by Ilan and Asaf Ramon. The participation Fifteen young persons were elected various events of the Bank. the committee, which has drawn up 170 > Discount for the community Discount for the community 171 a list of gaps in the collection, with Rogozin School, within the context of The Museum exhibits the economic and organizations (similar to 2016). emphasis on acquiring works that will which the Bank has contributed prints history of Israel simultaneously with complete the collection and represent and lithographs from its collection for the development of the City of Tel Aviv Exhibitions at the Museum young artists. the benefit of the children of immigrants by showing original historical objects Herzelilinblum presents a permanent and foreign workers who learn at the together with films and advance exhibition and changing exhibitions on Discount's art collection contains school. Furthermore cooperation with various museums continue. Within this technological means. varied and different subjects relating to the characteristics of the house. some 2,200 original works and framework the Bank lent works from its The building, declared as preserved Among the outstanding exhibitions about 3,800 lithographs of the art collection. building under strict limitations, has held at the Museum in 2017, may be undergone over three years a detailed mentioned: best of Israeli artists. Some 1,650 In 2017, Discount Bank continued the restoration and preservation process, visitors took part in 2017 in guided project A stage for the Artist intended which included the restoration of “Woman to her Sister” Exhibition, to support and provide exposure to the external architectural outline of opened in March 2017. The exhibition tours of the Discount Tower artists and to encourage creativity and the building as well as the internal presents the oeuvre of women artists original art of all classes. 3 exhibitions architectural motives, in 2011, was from all segments of society, praises In 2017, nine works by young artists were held in 2017 within the framework declared a heritage site by the Society the values of sisterhood and friendship were acquired, at a total cost of NIS of the project. for Preservation of Israel Heritage and the positive power that a group of 150 thousand. In 2016, four works Sites, and is one of some one hundred women friends can and do create and by established artists, not previously similar sites around Israel. reflects the image and diversity of the represented in the collection, were Israeli society. acquired at a total cost of NIS 94 The activities conducted at the private thousand. Herzelilinblum Museum: Since the opening of The Bank's art collection is considered Tours and workshops Tours and Herzelilinblum Private Museum one of the quality collections of Israeli different workshops are being until the end of 2017, the Museum art and guided tours of the Bank's art conducted at the Museum, led by a collection are conducted. 66 tours were skilled team of guides, all of them hosted 350 thousand visitors. made during 2017, in which some 1,650 employees of the Bank. Inter alia, During the academic year some visitors have participated (55 tours were made during 2016, in which some 1,400 economic tours for children and adults, workshops for middle and high school 85 tours on an average were visitors have participated). students on subjects of economics conducted in each quarter for The book regarding the collection was and civics, historical tours of the city of Tel Aviv, in-depth tours in the fields of school children of the seventh to twelfth grades published in 2017 by Mr. Yona Fischer, an Israel Art Prize Laureate and member Herzelilinblum preservation and architectural. of the advisory committee to the Bank. Banking and Tel Aviv Nostalgia Since its opening in May 2009 and Works by important women artists from The book is accompanied by a three year Private Museum until the end of 2017, the Museum Discount Bank’s collection form the research work regarding the collection. hosted 350 thousand visitors. core of the exhibition, complemented The Herzelilinblum Museum, by works by a large number of other The Bank donated 132 prints in 2017 founded in 2009 by the Bank, is In addition, the Museum hosts social women artists, including the group of to the Adopt a Combat Soldier located in Schiff House, one of the first organizations, associations and women leading the “Desert Embroidery” Association for soldiers clubs, for a houses in Ahuzat Bayit. The Museum business entities and enables them and Lakiya Weavers” a group of female victims of violence shelter in forms an integral part of the Bank's to hold conventions, seminars and craftswomen from the Bedouin Herzliyah, for the Bialik-Rogozin School social responsibility concept, and is lectures in conjunction with guided community, who have established a and for the Geha Hospital, and an art open to the general public free of tours. In 2017, some 152 events were factory that helps preserve the longspace has been set up at the Bialik charge. held for corporations, business forums standing legacy of embroidery and 172 > Discount for the community Discount for the community 173 weaving in the town of Lakiya in the Negev. Tel Aviv Municipality, Independence House, the Shalom Tower Library and the Hagana Museum. A basis was laid goals Mercantile Discount “A Journey Through Tel-Aviv’s Streets Story and More” Exhibition opened for a joint operation by the institutions located in the Rothschild Blvrd. Discount Bank Bank (MDB) involvement in June, 2017 and tells the story of Tel Aviv, in parallel with the story of Israel. Lillienblum Str. Herzl Str. Area. in and contribution to The exhibition tells the stories behind As a result, in 2017 the Museum was the community the street names in Tel Aviv. Cooperation with different entities open to the public for the first time also in the Israeli Independence Day, and special tours were conducted therein in 01 Increasing the contribution of the Bank to the community The work for the community of MDB is an The Herzelilinblum Museum is accordance with the historical-Zionist integral and significant part of its overall recognized by the museum department spirit of the Day (over 2000 visitors activity and organizational culture, and accordingly of the Ministry of Education and forms part of the study program in matters of economics, civics and the financial participated in this event). Within the framework of the productive 02 Increasing the rate of volunteering of employees, on a personal and collective does a lot from the social aspect in aid of the community within which it operates. The activities in the community are diverse and include financial education field, recently introduced cooperation, the Museum hosted a basis, by 20% sponsorships and participation in community into the educational layout. This, within group of volunteers from the information projects, as well as activities of employees in the the framework of the following unique centers of the Ministry of Tourism community, and includes inter alia: study programs: the stock exchange familiarizing them with the Museum an educated investment; monetary policy in Israel; meetings with the social-economic world in Israel: the and its various activities. In addition, the Museum hosted the periodic meeting of the board of directors of the Tourist 03 Creating a favorable and appreciative atmosphere regarding volunteering employees Sprint Mercantile project. For details, see above under Sprint Discount . and units, thus social-democratic approach as against World City , the cultural affairs arm of increasing awareness Computer for each child project. For the past the neo-liberal approach. the Tel Aviv Municipality. of the importance of the decade MDB has participated in this project volunteering value at the (sponsored by the State of Israel) involving Bank Students visit the Museum within the In 2017, the Museum conducted the contribution of computers, software and framework of tours and workshops additional cooperation with instruction for children of low means families. dealing with economic development in associations and organizations, such Over the years, the Association has distributed Israel, acquiring knowledge regarding the capital market, banking and business as well as in socioeconomic theories by which they examine present issues of as: Taasiyeda, which trains high school students for integration in industry. The joint project includes economic goals thousands of computers to children and in addition, software, instructions and study courses regarding the different software had been given. In the years in which MDB participates the Israeli reality. orientated tours of the Museum as well in the project, it donated approximately 1,250 as a new program of three meetings ICC computers. All these combined with innovative and dealing with the Israeli economy and interactive technological means, which encourage the students to take an active roll in decision making processes. industry and Nitzotzot Association which is engaged in promoting motivation and capabilities in various 01 Expanding the number of employees involved in social work initiatives at ICC, and Yad Eliezer project. MDB has joined the Yad Eliezer Association, engaged in providing assistance and support to thousands of families During the academic year, some 85 areas of knowledge among school increasing the total of in need (single parent in particular) in the ultratours quarter on an average are being children. voluntary work hours of orthodox sector. The Association provides conducted for school children of company employees by support in various fields including education, seventh to twelfth grade. In 2017, the Museum hosted 13 tours at least 5% and in this activity the bank participates. of the Association, which included Within the framework of the cooperation with A joint marketing campaign was held expansion of economic and banking the Association, the bank grants in each year in 2017 between the Museum and the knowledge of the students. some 160 scholarships to mentors of the ultra174 > Discount for the community Discount for the community 175 orthodox community, who in consideration for different organizations and associations, also economic background, mostly on matters of matters relating to the activity of the company, the scholarship assist in their studies school the allocation of human resources and financial education. At the conclusion of the including the spreading of repayment of debts to children of second to eight grades, who are accordingly, ICC strives towards activity that activity and towards the end of the academic the company, the granting of rebates, etc. In the orphans or belong to a single parent family. combines voluntary work by ICC employees. All year, the students are invited to the offices of course of 2017 ICC helped tens of customers this, while emphasizing the connection to the ICC for an enriching and experiential visit. applying for assistance through the friendship Cooperation with the A Different Lesson core business and the company's vision: line. Association. During 2017, employees of the bank realization of dreams, needs and wishes at any Synergy . Powerful leadership alongside conducted seven enrichment study courses at time and place. contribution to the community. ICC participates schools of the Arab and ultra-orthodox sectors, in the Synergy program, which integrates ICC is to wish and dream , the in which the pupils acquired basic practical In order to realize its goal, ICC did considerable senior managers of ICC in executive boards of flagship program of ICC, which concepts of banking subjects, with a focus on work in aid of the community, inter alia: social organizations on a purely voluntary basis. issues such as management of a responsible The connection between the parties takes into emphasizes the realization of budget and the importance of savings. ICC is to wish and dream . The flagship account the needs of the social organization and dreams and needs at any time and program of social endeavors, which aligns with the qualifications of the volunteering manager. Activity in aid of the community conducted by ICC's business vision, which emphasizes the The program is conducted jointly with the Israel place, has continued for the fifth employees of MDB. As stated above, MDB who realization of dreams and needs at any time and Joint. consecutive year. Dreams have operates through 77 branches countrywide, uses its wide disposition for varied activity in aid of the place, has continued, for the fifth consecutive year. Within the framework of the program, Round-Up . ICC participates in the activities been realized over the years for community. Employees of the bank participate company employees volunteered for work at of the Round-Up Association engaged in thousands of children and youth in voluntary work, including: the renovation and boarding houses of the Fair Chance for Children improving the Israeli society, and offering to from all over the country painting of buildings, institutions and homes Association, with the aim of realizing the ICC customers credit card holders the option serving the community, the collecting and dreams and needs of children living in boarding of rounding-up to the nearest shekel the packaging of foodstuff and the distribution thereof houses with no family support, and together amount of a credit card transaction, and to Supporting sport activities. ICC is active in via associations supporting disadvantaged form the dream which the children wish that ICC contribute the rounded-off amount to chosen the advancement of the sports culture in Israel people, maintenance of community gardens, employees would realize for them. Dreams have associations. generally, and in competitive sport in particular, different workshops, collection of clothing and been realized over the years for thousands of and supports Israeli sportsmen in the course donating them through the country wide activity children and youth from all over the country. Company employees initiate for the of their efforts to reach new records, playing of associations, study assistance and financial community. The company is open to any fairly and in a sportive spirit. The company guidance, participation in Holiday parties at ICC for a Fair Chance , the first of its kind employee wishing to offer ideas and leading accompanied the Judoist Ms. Yarden Gerby on welfare homes, old age homes and hospitals (as social enterprise with the participation of ICC social initiatives. The company assists such her way to the Olympic Games in Rio in 2016, and part of these activities, bank employees distribute credit card holders together with various trading ideas conceptually, financially and in following supported her from the training stage, through gift parcels purchased within the framework of houses and the Fair Chance for Children the actual work. Of the various activities led by winning the medal and until her retirement from social purchasing), the collection of medication Association. Within the framework of the employees may be mentioned the distribution the sport. in cooperation with the Friends for Health enterprise, a discount is granted to the credit of gift parcels during the Holidays to children Association, and more. card holder in respect of any transaction made in hospitals and boarding houses, participation through an ICC credit card at trading houses in Chanukah parties at senior citizens homes, participating in the program, and concurrently, and more. ICC involvement in a donation is made to the 'Fair Chance for Children' Association. The friendship line of Orly and Guy. A project and contribution to A different lesson . For the past nine years, operating within the framework of the TV morning program of Orly and Guy on Channel the community ICC participates in the project of the A different lesson Association active in promoting equality 10 TV (track 14) and provides response to persons entangled in bureaucratic red-tape or of opportunities in education. Employees and in economic distress. ICC provides assistance The work of ICC in the community includes, managers of the company are conducting on a current basis to customers referring to the alongside financial resources allocated to lessons for school children of low sociofriendship line with the request for assistance in 176 > Green Discount Green Discount > 177 12% 08 Policy  green discount 178 Energy consumption (GJ) 14% Electricity consumption (kW-h) 1.36% Fuel consumption Green credit  179 (diesel and gasoline) Promoting green building  180 24.3% Paper consumption (tons) Responsible consumption of resources  182 Goals  193 21.5% Paper waste (tons) 15% Carbon footprint (in carbon dioxide equivalent tons) Approx. nis 11 million investment in energetic efficiency projects nis 907 million credit exposure to projects involving solar energy All data relate to the rate of change compared to 2016 178 > Green Discount Green Discount > 179 Green Policy  he Bank integrates environmental T risk management within its business activity; aspects of their operation, and such risks may be included with other risks, such as: credit risk, market risk, operational risk, legal risk and liquidity discount Discount Bank attributes T  he Bank is committed to identifying risk. importance and relevance to the environmental impacts in the the subject of the environment, construction and properties field. The Bank's policy as regards from the social and economic The Bank's Management appointed environmental risks relating to credit aspects. The Bank endeavors to a senior officer, the manager of is focused on the identification of the The Bank endeavors to create create a positive impact through the construction and properties risks, evaluation thereof and reporting environmental risk management in wing, which report directly to the it to the decision makers, as well as a positive impact through its business activities and through Head of the Human Resources and conducting a continuous monitoring of environmental risk management in savings and efficiencies in its Properties Division; borrowers having a high environmental operational routine. The Bank adopted risk potential. its business activities and through a policy of maintaining the proper he Bank strives to involve its T savings and efficiencies in its balance between business activity employees and the community The aim of this policy is to identify and environmental protection and it in its activities on behalf of the borrowers having a high risk potential, operational routine is committed to present an ongoing environment. and making specific decisions with improvement in its environmental respect to cases where the risk is performances, without compromise viewed as material (having a high regarding the quality of services provided to its customers. Green Credit probability of materialization and when in potential materialization the credit loss may be material). As a corporation that provides Policy regarding Environmental financial services, the Bank’s direct Risks In this framework, the Bank has defined environmental effects result from In recent years, there has been a an evaluation process with respect its consumption of office materials, significant increase in the global to the level of environmental risk and Ultimate  he Bank is committed to T primarily electricity and paper. awareness of ecological and social of the quality of risk management Objectives the principle of sustainable Accordingly, the Bank focuses its damage caused as a bi-product of the regarding business customers upon development; efforts on managing, measuring and development of projects, mainly in the the granting of credit and upon monitoring and on making savings and industrial, real estate and infrastructure performing the periodic evaluation T  he Bank is committed to preventing efficiencies in these areas. sectors. As a result of this, widening of customer quality, with special environmental damage and ongoing legislation on the subject and claims by reference to customers having a high improvement in contribution to the Environmental activity those who had suffered damage which environmental risk potential. The environment; principles were admitted by courts around the monitoring of the credit risk exposed The Bank strives to comply with all world, a part of the companies engaged to significant environmental risks is  he Bank supports an T environmental laws, regulations in these areas began taking into performed on an ongoing basis during entrepreneurial and proactive and governance and received no account environmental criteria in the year. approach to reducing the harmful complaints in 2017 regarding its considering the feasibility of projects. effects on the environment in the environmental conduct; Legislation in this field has widened For further details regarding the risk area of assets; also in Israel, though it is not yet widemanagement at the Discount Group, The Bank allocates manpower and ranging compared to Europe and the see the 2017 Annual Report (pp. 56T  he Bank continuously examines financial resources to examine and U.S. 100) and in the document Disclosure energy-saving alternatives, in the mitigate as much as possible its according to the third pillar of Basel operation of electrical equipment direct and indirect environmental Banking corporations may be exposed and additional information regarding and air conditioning. impact; to environmental risks in the various risks for 2017. 180 > Green Discount Green Discount > 181 Granting green credit CSO (thermo solar) projects. planning of the Campus, and inter alia, As part of the overall process of environmental risk management, The Bank has a specific policy for the as part of the said preparations, the Bank engaged the services of an environment Granting of the Bank offers credit to green businesses, everything subject to granting of credit to the solar energy systems field, both to business and and green construction consulting office and the following actions are being green credit by adherence to the credit granting rules in effect at the Bank, including the private consumers. Among other matters the processes for granting performed: integration of green construction considerations in all stages of planning of the principal examination of the repayment ability of the borrower. credit, controls and specific collateral for this field are arranged within the the project, including by means of Integrated Development Planning (IDP) serving as a subsidiaries framework of the policy. basis for choosing planning alternatives Green credit credit granted for: for green construction on the basis of tests The principal subsidiaries are also engaged  Financing the operations of a The Bank's total credit exposure in for techno-economic feasibility; planning in promoting the grant of “green credit” and company producing green products respect of financing solar energy that qualifies the project in accordance the development of environmental products contributing to the protection of the projects amounted as of December 31, with green construction standards; promoting a cleaner environment. quality of the environment; 2017, to NIS 884 million, compared emphasizing a healthy work environment; Credit to a company that has a green with NIS 736 million as of December optimal utilization of natural lighting and Mercantile Discount Bank production process protecting the 31, 2016. natural ventilation, while maximizing the Mercantile Discount Bank provides from quality of the environment; thermal performance and convenience time to time, credit for the financing of solar Credit granted for the establishment conditions of the different users of the systems, mainly to corporations specializing in of a green operation, including the purchase of green equipment Promoting green Campus (work space, public areas, open areas and more); emphasizing the saving of joint ventures with Kibbutz settlements (where control is in the hands of the Kibbutz). The volume (machinery); Upgrading of production systems to building energy and preservation of resources, and more. In addition, the accessible location of credit to this type of activity amounted in 2017, to NIS 23 million, compared with NIS 22 million in those protecting the quality of the of the Campus would encourage the use of 2016, a relatively insignificant amount in relation environment. Establishment of the Discount different means of public transport. to the operations of the bank. Campus Financing in the solar energy field In 2016, the Discount Group, Study of environmental effects in ICC A relevant field of operation, which through Discount Leasing, began existing buildings ICC is setting up a collaboration with has become relatively significant in to promote the Discount Campus The Bank studies the environmental Enerpoint Ltd., one of the oldest and largest the Bank, is credit extended for the project in Rishon Le'Tzion, in the effects also as regards existing solar energy companies in Israel, for the financing installation of solar systems. framework of which, the Group acquired buildings, as a basis for taking decisions in of domestic solar energy systems. ICC and an area of 21 dunnums in that city. The the field of construction and properties: Enerpoint signed in May 2017, an agreement in The sub-sector of photovoltaic campus is intended to house in the principle for cooperation in providing loans for installations (PV) is a part of the future the Head Offices of Discount T  he process of choosing and planning the the installation of home solar energy systems, renewable energy field. This field is Bank, MDB and ICC, including computer head office and branch buildings integrates within the framework of this, ICC will provide based on regulations under power of installations. As such, this project green criteria, both in engineering and in the loans to private customers installing the Enerpoint the electricity market Act, designed constitutes the principal non-banking choice of materials; solar energy systems on their home rooftops. to regularize the establishment of investment of the Group for the coming electricity production installations years.  nvironmental control is conducted, which E using solar and wind energies. These includes the measurement and monitoring systems have many advantages when Within the framework of the of radiation in the Bank buildings; it comes to promoting environmental preparations for the construction quality and clean electricity generation of the project and the preliminary  he Bank, has a building which complies T through the use of renewable energy. planning, great emphasis has been with Standard 5281 of the Standards given to environmental effects and Institute for green construction, at 17, In addition, the Bank extends credit for commitment to the sustainable Yehuda Halevi Street in Tel Aviv. 182 > Green Discount Green Discount > 183 consumption, and hence also to saving street offices in south Tel Aviv to the facilities have been placed at one of Responsible electricity, the Bank issues a monthly electricity consumption report. This Discount Tower in the center of Tel Aviv and a transportation array from the Management buildings in order to encourage employees to use this consumption of report includes a comparative analysis and is distributed to all the branch Jerusalem to the Discount College in Rishon Le'Zion. In addition, the Bank means of transportation to arrive at work. resources and unit managers. With the aid of the report, electricity consumption has installed shower cabins in one of the buildings on Yehuda Halevi Street, The main data regarding Discount data is brought to the attention of the for the benefit of those employees Bank’s consumption of energy from Energetic efficiency managers, encouraging energy saving. who cycle to their office at the various sources in the years 2014As stated, Discount Bank’s direct In addition, a summary report is issued Discount Tower and bicycle parking 2017 are presented below: environmental effects are half-yearly and yearly to all the Bank’s extremely limited and result mainly unit managers. from office operations: the consumption of energy, water, paper, In 2017, additional measures etc. Due to the nature of its were taken to reduce electricity B reakdown of Discount Bank’s consumption of energy environmental effects, the Bank has consumption, including: from various sources set the reduction of energy consumption as a main environmental goal. eplacement of air conditioning R in GJ1, in the years 2014-2017 systems with advanced VRF systems In 2017, the Bank’s total energy at 13 locations of the Bank; 140,940 20,692 consumption21 amounted to 161,632 GJ, and the Bank managed to achieve  nergetic efficiency of lighting in 21 E 2017 161,632 a 12% saving in energetic consumption locations of the Bank through the compared to the previous year. installation of LED lamps; 163,625 20,137 Reducing electricity consumption A  llotment of approx. NIS 11 million 2016 183,762 in 2017, Discount Bank managed to for energetic efficiency measures reduce total electricity consumption at branches and head office 192,266 20,377 by approx. 14% compared to the premises. previous year. 2015 212,643 In 2017, Discount Bank’s fuel consumption rose slightly, at a rate of 203,506 20,276 In 2017, Discount Bank was approx. 1.36%. 2014 223,782 successful in reaching savings In order to reduce greenhouse gas of 12% in the consumption emissions resulting from employees’ 0 50,000 100,000 150,000 200,000 250,000 transportation and at the same time of energy compared to the make things easier for employees, previous year the Bank operates two transportation T  otal fuel onsumption (diesel and gasoline) T  otal energy consumption facilities at the disposal of employees. Note: During the day there is transportation 1 GJ Energy measurement unit (Gigajoules). Among the measures taken to raise service (at fixed hours) in the two main awareness regarding intelligent areas of activity, from the 160 Herzel 21 D  iscount Bank’s total energy consumption is the sum of its total electricity consumption added to the total of its fuel consumption. 184 > Green Discount Green Discount > 185 Discount Bank’s electricity consumption D ata regarding the estimated savings resulting from the in kW-h, in the years 2014-2017 provision of a shuttle service for employees Leaves from Destination Frequency Average Average Length of Estimated no. of no. of journey savings in 2017 39,150,000 Days per week Circuits passengers per circuit passengers per Month (in mins.) travel time (in hours) Central Jerusalem Discount College Rishon Lezion 4 2 6 192 60 192 Within Tel Aviv Discount Tower, 160 Herzel St. 5 9 10 1,800 20 600 2016 45,451,496 Total monthly savings 792 Total annual savings 29,504 2015 53,407,111 Savings in Discount Bank's array of shuttle services 2014 56,529,575 2,500 liters of fuel per months 30 tons of CO2 Note: For the purpose of the calculation, an estimate was made of the journey length, the fuel cost and the top-up coefficient taken 0 10,000,000 20,000,000 30,000,000 40,000,000 50,000,000 60,000,000 70,000,000 from the Central Bureau of Statistics data. D iscount Bank’s energetic D iscount Bank’s fuel customer’s digital file (this has been carried intensity total kW-h/sq.m consumption in liters for employee trips and generators Paperless Activity out for 100% of the branches). This has also enabled the freeing up of space, which is now used for work stations. Furthermore, One of the main goals of Discount a reduction has been made in the quantity 400 625,000 Bank in the environmental sphere of paper reports issued and a transition to 350 339 335 620,000 is to become a paperless bank. The producing digital reports has taken place. 6,000 7,400 Bank, together with its employees, has 300 288 615,000 4,000 mobilized in a major process with the Computerized forms system 265 350 objective of reducing paper Banking work uses a large number 250 610,000 consumption. This process is reflected of forms. Until now, the forms were 14,977 15,100 14,498 14,980 in several projects being integrated printed in advance, requiring extensive 200 605,000 simultaneously, and with their aid, the storage space, and the destruction of the 150 600,000 Bank managed to reduce its inventory of forms whenever they were consumption of paper by 24.3% in updated. The Bank switched to a 100 595,000 2017. computerized forms system, which 598,450 599,300 598,700 599,500 enables each employee to print the 50 590,000 Digitalization of the archives updated form when needed, while it 0 585,000 During 2017, the Bank continued to contains the particulars of the specific 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 convert and transform its branch customer, thereby avoiding recording G  asoline for D  iesel for D  iesel for transportation transportation generators documents into electronic source errors. This process also saves space for documents. In addition, the Bank took out storage of the blank forms, and enables Note: all the material from its central archives, customers to receive faster and more Fuel consumption in the first quarter of 2014 was assessed on the basis of average monthly consumption. scanned it and it is now presented in the efficient service. 186 > Green Discount Green Discount > 187 System for managing and retrieved during a period of seven consumed 3,725 refurbished ink The carbon footprint of Discount Bank distributing procedures and circulars years. Concurrently, the Bank has cartridges, that constituted 38% of the and its principal subsidiaries in Israel, The Bank has an internal conducted the mapping of prevalent total ink cartridges. whose data are presented below, communications network, the notices sent to customers, examining comprise three scopes: “intra-net”, which is used in distributing their regulatory requirement, and circulars and procedures to the employees, thereby enabling the reduced the number and frequency of such notices. Emission of Scope 1 Total direct emissions, originating in the consumption of fuel Bank’s procedures to be readily accessed and retained for long Envelope savings greenhouse gas and refrigerant gases; periods, while making savings in the Replacement of inter-office Scope 2 Total indirect emissions cost of printing and distributing envelopes with multi-use On its own initiative, the Bank has deriving from electricity consumption; circulars to employees. envelopes. In addition, documents sent committed to a reduced for scanning are delivered in expendable greenhouse gas emissions target and is Scope 3 Total indirect emissions nylon envelops as an alternative to working accordingly to gradually reduce affected by the operations, but not paper envelops. its carbon footprint, through energetic resulting therefrom. Business flights, D iscount Bank’s paper efficiencies at its branches and head paper consumption and water consumption Use of the Fax to Mail software office. In each year, the Human consumption are included in this scope. in Tons Cancellation of the need to print Resources and Properties Division 565 fax notices, and keeping monitors the progress in this area by In 2017, Discount Bank and its principal 600 539 documents sent to the Bank as collecting performance data in the subsidiaries in Israel managed to computer files. various areas and formation of a report achieve a reduction of 15% in their 500 reflecting such data. In addition, in each carbon footprint, compared to 2016. 408 400 381 year the Bank voluntarily reports The reduction results mainly from a 14% 300 Recycling and emissions created by it to the reporting and recording center of the Israel decrease in electricity consumption, which brought about a 19% reduction in 200 use of recycled Ministry of Environmental Protection. indirect emissions (scope 2). 100 materials 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 The Bank promotes the recycling of materials by its employees. In 2017, some 720.5 tons of paper were Discount mail service in the sent for recycling, which constitutes Internet 100% of the Bank’s paper waste. In The Bank contacts its customers addition to paper, the Bank sends used and enables them to receive lightbulbs, bottles, batteries and updates about their account activity by electronic waste for recycling. In 2017, means of a secured mailbox on the some 7,200 lightbulbs, 63,000 drink Bank's website. This process makes it bottles, 9,800 batteries and 92 tons of possible to reduce the distribution of notices and letters to the customer's electronic waste were sent for recycling. 7,200 lightbulbs 9,800 batteries home by mail. Furthermore, the service allows the safekeeping of mail messages and management of a Some of the usage of ink (toner) cartridges is based on refurbished ink 63,000 drink 92 tons electronic personal archive, where mail may be cartridges. In 2017, Discount Bank bottles waste 188 > Green Discount Green Discount > 189 D iscount Bank’s carbon footprint the use of paper is superfluous are being identified according to scopes in carbon dioxide equivalent tons Emission of Responsible consumption within the framework of the project, and following the mapping and examination of such processes, a digital 60,000 additional of resources at the process is introduced and/or printing is obviated, to the extent possible within the framework of the 50,000 279 materials principal subsidiaries in regulatory requirements and procedures. 40,000 195 Discount Bank makes use of Israel Following are a number of examples of paper reducing: reducing the number of notices sent to customers 556 refrigerant gases for the air via ordinary mail, adding them to the green mail ; conditioning of its branch and head Mercantile Discount Bank encouraging customers to transact business online, 30,000 38,880 37,160 652 office buildings. In 2017, the Bank Similarly to Discount Bank, MDB has also e.g. using applications; installation of two monitors consumed approx. 1.05 tons of R-22 adopted many and varied energetic efficiency in each work position enabling the parallel use of two 20,000 27,392 type refrigerant gas and approx. 0.31 measures, inter alia: systems, thus obviating monitor printings (installation 22,267 tons of R-410 type refrigerant gas. The at all work stations of the bank has not yet been 10,000 17,767 Bank is acting for the replacement of a Cutting down fuel consumption Motor vehicles completed); use of software for managing internal major part of its old air conditioning were put at the disposal of employees for joint travel tasks in the organization (AB), thus obviating internal 8,619 3,709 4,028 0 systems with the more economical for work purposes. Preference was given to vehicles printed forms (e.g. real time credits and transfers, 2014 2015 2016 2017 VRF systems. on lease having a low pollution level. Also the bank joining business+ , etc.); Scope 1 S  cope 2 S  cope 3 started to hold meetings by way of video conferences; Notes:  Presentation of proper disclosure in information 1. The computation of the greenhouse gases emission in scope 1 and 2 are based on coefficients published by the Israel Ministry of Environmental Protection for the years 2014, 2015, 2016 and Increasing the Paperless project A designated project for the savings in paper was introduced since the beginning desks MDB is committed to publishing proper disclosure every day at each of its branches. As an 2017. The computation of emission in scope 3 is based on the emission coefficients of DEFRA and GHG Protocol. 2. As from the year 2016, the calculation of Scope 3 includes also awareness of of 2017, inter alia, with the aim of turning MDB into an environment friendly green bank. Processes using alternative to a physical noticeboard, screens have been developed in the information desks that are water consumption and paper consumption by the Bank. employees large quantities of paper and processes in which intended for proper disclosure. T he intensity of DISCOUNT The Bank uses the Intranet MDB’s consumption of energy from various sources GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS system for operating an in GJ, in the years 2014-2017 Tons equivalent to carbon dioxide/sq. M organizational environmental portal, 0.40 where all information and activity in 33,340 10,205 0.35 0.34 this respect is being published. The 2017 43,545 site serves also as an address for 37,292 11,353 0.29 employee questions and approaches 0.30 in the matter. 2016 48,645 0.25 39,510 12,809 0.20 Additionally, in the offices and 0.20 0.18 conference rooms, stickers are affixed 2015 52,319 to the switches, reminding to shut off 45,451 14,124 0.15 the lights at the end of the work day 0.10 and, all of the cafeterias have hung 2014 59,576 banners calling for saving resources 0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000 60,000 70,000 0.05 and encouraging employees to make use of the recycling bins placed in Total electricity consumption T  otal fuel consumption (diesel and gasoline) 0.00 2014 2015 2016 2017 them. Notes:  Continue on next page 1. G  J Energy measurement unit (Gigajoules). 190 > Green Discount Green Discount > 191 Continued from previous page MDB’s paper consumption of customers joining this service has grown in Tons, in the years 2014-2017 considerably, and the matter is under an MDB’s consumption of electricity organizational focus. As of the end of 2017, in kW-h, in the years 2014-2017 240 37% of company customers have joined the service and are receiving their statements by 230 228 CALMAIL instead of by regular mail. 2017 9,261,162 220 219 The validity of a part of credit cards has been extended for five years. 2016 10,358,950 210 This move shall contribute to the reduction in 201 the company's consumption of plastics in the 200 196 long-run. 2015 10,975,114 190 The company's vehicle fleet, which numbers approx. 230 motor vehicles, has been replaced 2014 12,625,374 180 during the recent years and includes at 0 2,000,000 4,000,000 6,000,000 8,000,000 10,000,000 12,000,000 14,000,000 present vehicles having smaller motors, which 170 2014 2015 2016 2017 consume less petrol and emit lesser pollution. Replacement of the company's vehicle fleet Notes:  1. T  he electricity consumption at the rental properties of MDB is assessed on the basis of the average kw/h price. led to a 5% saving in the company's fuel consumption. Furthermore, the company operates a transportation layout for employees living in Ashdod and Rehovot, with a view MDB’s energetic intensity MDB’s fuel consumption ICC of reducing the use of private vehicles by total kW-h/sq.m in liters, for employee trips and generators ICC is also promoting the responsible employees. Besides the transportation layout, consumption of resources and the the company operates a nightly taxi cab service, reduction in its carbon footprint. For this numbering on an average approx. four taxi 350 500,000 purpose, the roofs of buildings owned by it are cabs per night, for transportation of authorized 450,000 coated once a year with a white insulation personnel. 300 284 3,392 material that contributes to the reduction in the 268 400,000 3,321 warming up of buildings in the summer months, Environmental control ICC conducts 250 243 226 350,000 2,772 thus saving energy consumption required for environmental control activity, which includes 300,000 air-conditioning. Furthermore, to the extent measurement and monitoring of radiation in 200 possible, ICC utilizes sunlight for the lighting of company premises. Current monitoring of 250,000 its offices, and in planning new premises and the work environment is conducted, including 150 427,670 200,000 387,644 operational locations, use is made of materials attendance and radiation surveys, performed 343,691 that are not harmful to the environment, while by outside independent companies. 100 150,000 307,856 adhering, to the extent possible, to green 100,000 Continue on next page 50 building principles. 50,000 0 0 CALMAIL In 2015, ICC began a move for 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 the reduction in the consumption of paper in its operations, proposing to its customers to Gasoline for transport Diesel for transport receive their monthly statement of transactions Notes:  by electronic mail instead of by regular mail. 1. M  DB does not consume diesel oil for generators. In this framework, since 2015, the number 192 > Green Discount Green Discount > 193 Continued from previous page ICC’s energetic intensity ICC’s consumption of energy from various sources in GJ, in the years 2015-2017 total kW-h/sq.m. 500 467 goals 450 438 21,722 17,510 391 400 2017 39,232 01 350 24,064 18,386 300 2016 42,450 250 Energy reducing electricity 200 consumption 4% annually; 23,983 19,699 150 2015 43,682 100 0 5,000 10,000 Total electricity consumption 15,000 20,000 25,000 Total gasoline consumption 30,000 35,000 40,000 45,000 50,000 50 0 2015 2016 2017 02 Reducing gasoline Notes:  consumption 1% annually; 1. G  J Energy measurement unit (Gigajoules). ICC’s fuel consumption ICC’s consumption of electricity kW-h, in the years 2015-2017 in liters, for employee trips and generators 03 Reducing the carbon 700,000 footprint in Scope 1 and 601,803 600,000 Scope 2 by 1% per year; 561,561 528,235 2017 6,034,000 500,000 04 400,000 2016 6,684,440 300,000 It is the intention of the 200,000 Bank to examine different means for exposure of 2015 6,662,000 100,000 employees and increasing their awareness to 0 environmental issues 2015 2016 2017 relevant to the Bank's 0 1,000,000 2,000,000 3,000,000 4,000,000 5,000,000 6,000,000 7,000,000 8,000,000 operations. Notes:  1. U  se of emergency power generators by ICC is negligible (a few tens of liters per year). 194 > Corporate Governance Corporate Governance > 195 09 Corporate Governance The General Meeting of Shareholders  196 The Board of Directors  197 The Bank's Management 212 Remuneration of senior officers  212 Principal control functions  214 Corporate Governance Code for the Discount Group 217 Goals 226 196 > Corporate Governance Corporate Governance > 197 Corporate The General Meeting of Discount Bank's Organizational Structure Chart Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS Shareholders The Agenda for the general Within the corporate governance code it meeting of shareholders is PRESIDENT & CEO determined by the Board of has been determined, that the Board of Directors, however, according to the Directors is responsible for prescribing Companies Act, a shareholder who Internal Auditor Corporate Secretary holds at least one percent of the high standards of conduct, designed to voting rights in a general meeting of enhance professional conductand integrity shareholders, may request the Board of Directors to include an item on the and to integrate them throughout the Agenda of a general meeting to be organization. The Bank acts and will act in convened in the future, on condition that this item merits a discussion at the accordance with an ethical code intended general meeting of shareholders. Subsidaries Banking Corporate Financial Legal Advisory Accounting Risk Technologies Planning, Human to protect the values of the Bank and to Division Division Division Markets Division & Regulation Division Division Management & Operations Division Division Strategy & Finance Resources & Properties In accordance with the provisions Division Division determine proper standards of behavior and of the Law, the Bank has to publish a fair and transparent conduct with respect a notice at least twenty-one days prior to the notice convening a to the customers general meeting of shareholders, acts as director of a banking to the extent that a proposal for the appointment of Directors or the The Board of corporation. According to the Banking Ordinance the Supervisor of Banks has termination of their office appears on the Agenda of the meeting.The Directors to be informed in advance of the intention to appoint a director, and the preliminary notice includes details Supervisor has the authority to oppose of the subjects on the Agenda of Procedure of appointment of such an appointment. the coming general meeting. In the Directors notice convening a general meeting The appointment of members of The Bank is a banking corporation of shareholders, the Bank provides the Bank’s Board of Directors is without a core controlling interest, details of the Agenda of the meeting made by the general meeting of subject to special instructions being convened, the proposed shareholders, and everything according regarding the appointment of directors, resolutions and the majority required to the provisions of the law applying to their tenure and termination of office. for the different resolutions. the Bank as a public company and as a In accordance with these instructions, banking corporation having no core voting on the appointment of directors The above stated, excluding the controlling interest and in accordance shall take place only at the annual determination of the Agenda by the with the Bank`s articles. These meeting of shareholders or in a Board of Directors, does not apply to provisions determine special qualifying meeting convened under Section 35A MDB and to ICC, both being private conditions regarding the qualifications of the Banking Act (Licensing), 1981 companies. and experience required from whoever (hereinafter: the banking Act ); the 198 > Corporate Governance Corporate Governance > 199 period of office of a director who is not the general meeting of shareholders Composition of the Board1 an external director is limited to three candidates for election as directors. years, and nine years on a cumulative The Corporation Discount Mercantile ICC IDB Procedure of appointment Bank Discount Bank Bank basis, of the period of office of such a director; the number of directors who of Directors at the principal Number of Directors 12 12 9 10 are to be replaced in each year shall not subsidiaries Directors qualified as external Directors 12 5 3 6 exceed one half of the number of the MDB and ICC are private Of which: acting directors. For additional details companies. The appointment of External Directors2 4 -5 -5 6 see the 2017 Annual Report (p. 318). directors at MDB and at ICC is made in External Directors in terms of Directive 3013 4 5 3 6 accordance with their qualifications Within the context of amendment to and in accordance with Proper Conduct Directors with professional qualifications4 12 10 7 7 Proper Conduct of Banking Business of Banking Business Directive No. 301. Directors with accounting and financial expertise 11 6 7 7 Directive No. 301, the maximum Appointment of members of the Board Women 3 1 2 3 number of directors in a banking of Directors in ICC is made in Men 9 11 7 7 corporation shall reduced from 15 accordance with the ratio of holdings Age: to 10 as of July 1, 2020. For further between Discount Bank and FIBI and in details, see the 2017 Annual Report accordance with guidelines set in the up to 49 1 2 2 2 (p. 385). Following this, the number of shareholders agreement and the 50-60 2 4 3 Directors at the Bank was reduced to 12 company's articles. The Bank's Board 61-70 10 7 3 3 Directors following the Annual General of Directors approves the decision Over 70 1 1 2 Meeting of Shareholders held in 2017. regarding the appointment of directors The Supervisor of Banks has directed of MDB and of ICC. Notes: that the number of Directors of the 1 The data is updated as of date of publication of the 2017 Annual Report. 2 In terms of the Companies Law, 1999. Bank shall be reduced to 10 following The appointment of a director of a 3 E  xternal directors in terms of Directive No. 301 of Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directives, and as such also qualify as the Bank's Annual General Meeting of banking corporation and of a credit external directors in terms of the Companies Act. 4 W  ithin the meaning of the term in the Companies Regulations (Conditions and tests for directors having accounting and financial Shareholders for the year 2019. card company requires the approval of expertise and a director having professional qualifications), 2005. 5 T  he duty of appointment of external directors in accordance with the Companies Act does not apply to MDB and to ICC, both the Bank of Israel, following a full fit being private companies. According to the Banking Act a and proper (F&P) process, applying 6 T  he provisions of the Companies Act and of Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directive No. 301 do not apply to IDB Bank. Notwithstanding this, IDB Bank’s Corporate Governance Guidelines require that a minimum of one-third of the directors be statutory committee was established also to external directors according to independent and defines the criteria for that independence. for the appointment of directors in a Directive No. 301 the appointment and 7 T  he provisions of the Companies Act and of Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directive No. 301 do not apply to IDB Bank. Notwithstanding this, the 3 Bank Audit Committee members all have general financial literacy, as required by the Audit banking corporation not having a core approval is renewed every three years. Committee Charter. Two of them have banking or related financial management expertise. All directors, pursuant to IDB Bank’s controlling interest, the duty of which Corporate Governance Guidelines, must have experience or expertise in one or more of the following fields: banking, finance, economics or business, law, management or accounting. is to propose the general meeting of Composition of the Board shareholders candidates for office The Chairman of the Board, in 2017 as directors, in a number equal to the Dr. Yossi Bachar, does not hold any For additional details regarding the of the Board of Directors of Israel Credit number of open positions on the board other office at the Bank in addition to his Bank's Board members, see the 2017 Cards, see the 2017 annual report of of directors plus one more candidate of office as Chairman. In 2017 the Chairman Annual Report (p. 306) and the periodic this company (pp. 193-201). each class. of the Board of Directors of MDB was Mr. report for 2017 (Regulation 26A)22. For Yair Avidan, Senior Executive Vice additional details regarding members Activity of the Board of Directors Concurrently with the committee, in the President in Discount Bank, who does of the Board of Directors of Mercantile In accordance with the Companies case of a banking corporation having no not hold any other office at MDB. The Discount Bank, see the 2017 annual Act, the Board of Directors shall core controlling interest, a shareholder Chairman of the Board of Directors of report of this bank (pp. 273-284). For outline the policy of the corporation and/or a group of shareholders that ICC in 2017 was Mr. Yuval Gavish, a additional details regarding members and supervise the activities and duties hold over two and one half percent of Senior Executive Vice-President of Israel a certain class of means of control in Discount Bank, who does not hold any 22 The data regarding Directors appearing in the 2017 annual report is up-to-date as of a date proximate to the date of the corporation, are entitled to propose other office at ICC. publication of the report. 200 > Corporate Governance Corporate Governance > 201 of the CEO. According to the Act, the & CEO and approves the appointment of and issues and transactions that committees. As a general rule, all Board may not delegate its authority to the members of the Management by the require their approval. The Board of committees are permanent a committee of the Board with respect President & CEO. In addition, the Board of Directors updates the procedure from committees, certain of which are as to a number of issues, including the Directors appoints directors at the Bank's time to time, as required. required by legislation. Ad-hoc formation of a general policy. principal subsidiaries. committees are formed from time to Assessment of the effectiveness of time to deal with certain matters. The The Proper Conduct of Banking Business It should be noted that the corporate the work of the Board of Directors. In composition of the Board of Directors Directives prescribe that the Board of governance code of the Discount accordance with Proper Conduct of and its committees and their duties are Directors bears responsibility for the Group, determined, among other things, Banking Business Directive No. 301, determined in accordance with the business of the banking corporation principles regarding the responsibilities the Board of Directors performs once relevant legislation and the Proper and for its financial strength. Within this of the Board of Directors, independence every two years, for internal purposes, Conduct of Banking Business framework, the Directives provide, inter and qualification of the Board, the a process of self assessment. This is Directives. The duties of the Board of alia, that: conduct of the Board and its meetings, intended to test the efficiency of the Directors and of its committees are committees of the Board, separation Board of Directors' work, to identify also defined in internal procedures, and (a) The Board of Directors will outline the of authority between the Board and weaknesses in its work and make the the work procedures of the Board of strategy of the banking corporation, Management, duties of the Board, of the necessary changes where required. Directives and of its committees. including the risk strategy and risk President & CEO and Management. Following are the main duties of the appetite, and will approve the banking The self assessment process is sub-committees: corporation’s policy that will guide the Determination of the Agenda of the conducted by means of questionnaires banking corporation in its ongoing Board of Directors. The Agenda for relating to aspects in the work of the activities; the meetings of the Bank's Board of Board of Directors and its committees, Directors is determined by the Chairman including: the commitment and (b) The Board of Directors will supervise of the Board, taking into consideration independence of the Board of Directors, the activities of the Management and the different regulatory requirements, outlining the strategy of the Bank Strategy Committee their consistency with the policy of including the Companies Regulations and of the Group and monitoring its The duty of the Committee is to assist the Board of Directors; and Proper Conduct of Banking Business implementation, the activities of the the Board of Directors in forming the Directives, etc. subcommittees and the coordination strategy of the Bank and of the Group, (c)  The Board of Directors will ensure among them, supervision and control as well as direct the Management in the establishment of clearly defined Issues concerning risk management, over the performance of the Bank and forming the work plans of the Bank and spheres of responsibility and corporate governance and social the Management, and so forth. The of the Group.The Committee monitors accountability within the banking responsibility are being discussed by process in Discount Bank is conducted the implementation of the strategic corporation; the Board where required and/or in with the assistance of an external factor, plan of the Bank and of its principal accordance with regulatory duties and which, among other things, assists in the subsidiaries. The Committee verifies (d) The Board of Directors will outline the the Bank's policy. formation of the questionnaire and in the performance of analysis of trends organizational culture of the banking assembly and analysis of the findings and major changes in the local and corporation, which requires the Work procedure of the Board of stemming there from. international competitive environment, implementation of high standards of Directors and its committees. The and in accordance therewith professional conduct and honestly; Board of Directors and its committees The process was last performed in recommends the Board of Directors operate in accordance with a procedure November 2016 (in MDB November changes/revisions of the strategic (e)  The Board of Directors will ensure determined by them for their work. 2017; in ICC December 2015 January plan. that the banking corporation operates Among other things, in this procedure 2016 and in April 2018). in compliance with the law and are stated the duties and authority The Committee is authorized to regulations. of the Board itself and of the various Committees of the Board of make decisions regarding the asset Board committees, their manner of Directors management policy, branch layout In accordance with the Directives, the operation, the reports that have to be The Bank’s Board of Directors policy and transition to online Board of Directors appoints the President submitted to them and their frequency, acts, inter alia, through subbanking. 202 > Corporate Governance Corporate Governance > 203 and multi-annual work plans of the of the Internal Auditor and the and the relevant officer only. internal audit, recommends this plan promotion thereof. In addition, the Credit Committee for approval of the Board and monitors Committee recommends the Board The Committee discusses transactions The Committee is authorized to deal with the implementation of the work plan. of Directors the charter of the internal with “related persons”, as required under various matters concerning the credit auditor/internal audit, and approves the Directive no. 312 of Proper Conduct operations of the Bank and the Group. The Committee discusses the findings plan verifying the quality of the internal of Banking Business Directives, and Inter alia, the duty of the Committee is to included in audit reports of the audit function. as regards actions and transactions support the Board of Directors in outlining internal audit department, and in this as required by the provisions of the the credit management strategy, as well framework discusses material audit The Committee receives on an ongoing Companies Act. as discuss and recommend the Board reports presented to it in full and in basis reports regarding disciplinary of Directors in matters relating to the the response of the audited organs. events and the manner in which The Audit Committee is responsible Bank's credit policy document. The Committee discusses also the Management has dealt with such for supervising the work of the Bank's quarterly and semi-annual reports cases. external auditors, including recommend The Committee discusses, inter alia, submitted by the internal Auditor, the Board of Directors regarding the the following matters: the Bank's which, inter alia, include a summary The Committee examines deficiencies remuneration of the external auditors, credit policy; the Group's and the Bank of the audit reports prepared by the in the business management of the as well as examining the scope of standalone credit risks document; Internal Auditors. It also discusses the Bank and proposes ways of rectifying their work and their remuneration and compliance with credit policy document; annual report regarding the operations them. present its recommendations to the effectiveness of the credit policy; of the internal audit department. The Board of Directors. In the case that approval of exceptional credit facilities semi-annual and the annual reports The Committee approves the yearly the Agenda of the General Meeting of to governments and banks; periodic include, inter alia, details regarding work plan of the Compliance Officer and Shareholders includes the termination reports regarding changes in the risk issues contained in audit reports and maintains a semi-annual monitoring of office of the external auditor or profile of the credit portfolio of the Bank audit letters of the Bank of Israel, of its performance. The Committee the non-renewal of his office, the and of the Group, which include a review as well as issues mentioned in the discusses the annual work plan of Committee has to present its position of material credit exposure and risk supplementary report of the external the money laundering prohibition to the Meeting. centers in the portfolio, the monitoring auditors, the treatment of which had director and maintains a semi-annual of compliance with limitations set by the not yet been completed. The committee monitoring of its performance , and In accordance with Proper Conduct policy, etc. The Committee discusses also discusses quarterly reports, semidiscusses the annual assessment of Banking Business Directives, once the yearly and multiyear credit control annual report as well as an annual report of the prohibition of many every three years the Audit Committee work plan and the annual report of the report regarding the activities of the laundering director. holds a discussion regarding the credit controller. The Committee also internal audit in companies in Israel possibility of replacing the existing holds a personal discussion with the and abroad that are controlled by the The Committee approves the policy external auditors of the Bank. credit controller. Bank. document regarding the handling of complaints of the public and the service The Committee may request the The Committee is authorized to discuss The Committee discusses the audit charter and the periodic report of the external auditors to conduct an and approve credit applications that reports by the Supervisor of Banks the Public Complaints Commissioner. examination/audit that is in addition to deviate from the credit policy, as well as audit reports of authorities and of the applications under conditions and amounts Bank’s independent auditors and the The Committee discusses the exceeding the minimum determined by the proposed response of Management to independent review made by the Board of Directors from time to time. the issues raised in such reports. internal audit in the matter of ICAAP (a document summarizing the internal The Committee recommends the capital adequacy assessment process). Board the appointment of an internal auditor or his removal from office and The Committee holds discussions with Audit Committee also recommends the Remuneration audit and control functions alone, in the The Committee discusses the annual Committee the salary and remuneration presence of the Committee members 204 > Corporate Governance Corporate Governance > 205 those included in the external auditors’ recommends the Board the amount of the Committee discusses the issue control field (e.g. the Credit Controller, the audit and/or review plan, and to bring the credit loss expense to be created in of negligible relations regarding a Enforcement Officer). their recommendations before the their respect. director/candidate for office of director Committee. of the Bank, in accordance with the The President & CEO or VP Human Prior to the issue of a Prospectus, provisions of the Banking Ordinance Resources report annually to the The Committee discusses the the Committee discusses the draft and the Companies Act. Committee as well as submit current Bank’s draft of the annual report and Prospectus before submission for updates (where required) regarding the the quarterly reports to the public approval of the Board and makes The Audit Committee has to approve treatment of material matters relating (hereunder: financial statements ) recommendations to the Board as to whether and to the extent that to the level of treatment of the social and submits recommendations to the regarding the draft. a candidate, who complies with the commitment of the Bank (including Board in their respect. As part of the qualification terms of an external issues of human rights and work discussions, the Committee receives In addition, the Committee recommends director, complies also with the environment, involvement with the reports by the chief accountant with the Board in all matters relating to qualification terms of an independent community and environmental issues). respect to matters relating to the internal control over financial reporting, director under the Companies Act. In addition, the Committee discusses financial statements or matters which in everything relating to the supervision the Bank's code of ethics. affect the financial statements, such as over the current management of new regulatory directives or such which financial reporting risks, in accordance are expected to become effective. with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act. The Committee approves the The Committee discusses upon financial reporting risk management Corporate Governance Committee Remuneration Committee disclosures regarding the accounting policy (SOX risks internal control over The Committee is authorized to This Committee has been given the policy in critical issues and as regards financial reporting). In addition, the discuss everything pertaining to the duties and powers required pursuant to critical accounting assessments. Committee approves the annual work field of the Bank’s and the Group’s Amendment No. 20 of the Companies Moreover, the Committee discusses plan for the financial reporting risk corporate governance, including: Act and under Proper Conduct of Banking and recommends the Board of management (SOX 404) and monitors procedures designed to reflect the Business Directives of the Supervisor of Directors matters regarding the formal the progress of its implementation. corporate governance principles and Banks. Within this policy, the Committee disclosure policy of the Bank. the framework for the implementation discusses and recommends the Board The Committee receives an annual of the corporate governance principles of Directors matters on remuneration Within the framework of the discussion review of the external auditors regarding within subsidiaries. policy of employees and senior officers of the financial statements, the the audit of the financial statements of the Bank. Committee discusses the issue and regarding new developments in of customers, the allowances standards and regulation in Israel and Where required, and prior to approval by recommended to be created in respect the world over, as well as a quarterly the Board of Directors and the General of whom for that quarter is above the review (communication of the external Meeting of Shareholders, the Committee amount determined by the Board, and auditors with the functions responsible Manpower Committee approves the terms of engagement of for overall control). The Committee discusses matters the Bank with senior officers as regards relating to human resources, labor their remuneration. The Committee also discusses the relations and labor agreements and is corporate governance questionnaire authorized to discuss and recommend The Committee decides whether to prior to its discussion in the plenum. the Board of Directors the appointment approve transactions regarding the terms of senior officers at grades of executive of office and employment of officers, The Committee discusses and vice president and higher. requiring approval by the Committee. recommends the Board of Directors in matters regarding the existence The Committee makes recommendations The Committee discusses the of permanent conflict of interests of to the Board of Directors regarding the evaluation of effectiveness of the a Director of the Bank. Furthermore, appointment of officers in the audit and remuneration policy and mechanisms. 206 > Corporate Governance Corporate Governance > 207 The Committee approves the annual The Committee discussed the work documents and basic documents award to officers. plan for the development of the cyber regarding risk management, in protection layout and maintains the accordance with the frequency monitoring of its implementation. Risk Management Committee determined therein, and The Committee is authorized to discuss recommending their approval to the The Committee discusses and and to make recommendations to the Board of Directors. The Committee receives reports on current matters Board of Directors in any matter relating is, inter alia, authorized to discuss regarding the field of operation of to the overall risk strategy, including the the credit risk appetite of the IT Committee the Division, including the following risk management and risk exposure Discount Group; The Committee is authorized to discuss matters: changes in the risk profile in policy, in the Bank and in the Group. and approve and/or recommend the the computer field of the Bank and in Within this framework, the Committee D  iscussions of the monthly update Board of Directors on the following the status of plans for the reduction discusses matters of risk tolerance/ of the Head of the Risk Management matters: information technology, of material risks; material deviations risk appetite, present and future; scope Division and the monthly report operations, data protection and cyber from the limitations prescribed in of exposure to the various risks and regarding legal and regulatory protection and information technology the tolerance declaration regarding limitations on exposure; organizational instruction relevant to banks in related risks. In this framework, information technology risks; material preparations and corporate governance Israel; the Committee discusses and failure events, including in the field of for the implementation of the risk recommends the Board of Directors data protection and cyber defense strategy for exposure management Quarterly discussions of the risk  to approve the strategy/strategic and rectification of deficiencies; and control; updating of the Board document, including the monitoring focuses and the work plan of the material findings raised in internal of Directors’ procedures in the risk of the Group's exposure to risk, Technologies and Operations Division, audit reports; safety surveys and management field. including reports on changes in the including the budget required for their controlled penetration attempts, risk profile of investee companies implementation. the drawing of conclusions and a The Committee is authorized to discuss and on material events that affect deficiency rectification plan; changes and recommend the Board of Directors their risk profile; The Committee monitors and controls in regulation having a material effect in matters of insurance of the Bank and the implementation of the annual work upon matters under the authority the Group, including the renewal of the Q  uarterly discussions of the legal plan on the matters of computing and of the Committee; changes in the banking insurance policy (BBB) and the and regulatory risk document, operations, including annual budgets organizational structure of the insurance of officers (D&O), business including reference to material compliance and progress made in Division and the appointment of key continuity, management of online legal actions lodged against and by projects under focus. personnel. banking risks as well as regarding the Bank and investee companies, new products and activities, unless it material updates of relevant legal and The Committee discusses and The Committee discusses is recommended that new products regulatory instructions, and material recommends the Board of Directors Management's recommendations for and activities would be discussed by a approaches having legal aspects of to approve the following policy the introduction of a new product and/ different Committee. the supervisory authorities in Israel documents: information technology or new operation and/or outsourcing and abroad, relating to matters of the management policy, information operation in the field of computing. In addition, the Committee holds a Bank and of its investee companies; technology risk management policy, semi-annual discussion, sitting as a data protection and cyber protection The Committee approves projects sub-Committee for the management of Quarterly  discussions of the policy, the group cyber protection and procurement agreements in the operating risks in the United States. report of the Head of the Financial strategy and the use of cloud computer field, the total amount of Markets Division, including the computing technology policy. the investment therein exceeds NIS 35 The Committee holds discussions general overview by the Bank's Chief million. regarding periodic reporting in matters Economist; The Committee discussed arrangement of risk management at the Bank and at for backup and recovery of the The Committee monitors meeting the Group, as detailed below: Quarterly discussions of the activity computer systems at the Bank and at usability goals of the integrated in derivatives by the Bank and by the the Group. projects under focus.  Discussions of Group policy Bank Group; 208 > Corporate Governance Corporate Governance > 209 he quarterly monitoring of the T risk relating to household customer additional matters for discussion by implementation of the internal enforcement plan as well as of the operations, material operational risks, and changes in the model the Committee (the above stated is also applicable in relation to MDB and Committees of the cross-border risk subject. catalogues; ICC). Board of Directors Annual discussion of the capital adequacy assessment report (ICAAP)  Annual discussions of investment strategies and the financing strategy at the principal and of the independent review by the internal audit; of the Group; subsidiaries Discussion of the operational  Coordination Committee nnual discussions of matters A risks survey, including fraud and The Committee is authorized to Mercantil Discount Bank relating to the risk appetite embezzlement survey, of the discuss changes and adjustments Operating at MDB are the following declaration, in line with the strategy, compliance infrastructure survey to the duties and powers of the subcommittees of the Board of Directors: Audit, the uniform stress test of the and the Group enforcement committees of the Board of Directors, Risk Management, Remuneration and Bank of Israel and the results of survey and the financial plans for including the contents of their Administration, Credit. The Remuneration and the holistic stress tests and their strengthening the capital adequacy; discussions. Administration Committee deals, among other impact on the equity, within the things, also with the following matters: manpower, framework of the ICAAP, as well as Annual discussion with the chief risk The Committee is also authorized to computer system, branches, organizational discussion of the SREP letter and officer, in the presence of Committee discuss the findings that arose within structure and efficiency. The Remuneration and the preparations made by the Group members and the chief risk officer the framework of the “Assessment Administration Committee receives a report from for its implementation; only; of the Effectiveness of the Board of the President & CEO or from the VP Human Directors’ Work” process. Resources and Administration or from other factors A nnual discussion of the annual R  eceiving reports regarding in accordance with the subject matter. The work plan of the Risk Management deviations from limits set by the The members that serve on this Committee also receives reports regarding activity Division and of the related Board of Directors and regarding Committee are the members of the in aid of the community, and the Committee was performance report; material failure events, as near as Board of Directors who serve as the also presented with the new Code of Ethics, and it possible to the date of discovery chairmen of the sub-committees of follows-up the plan for implementation measures An annual presentation and review thereof, and receiving reports and the Board of Directors. for absorbing the Code. of the operations of the principal current updates from control and subsidiaries (MDB, ICC, Bancorp/ compliance factors (chief risk ICC IDB Bank and Discount Capital), officer , chief legal adviser, head Operating at ICC are the following under the leading of the Subsidiary of the financial markets division committees of the Board of Directors: Companies Division and with an and the chief compliance officer) Strategy and Business Committee, Remuneration emphasis on business activity and regarding material matters relating Committee, Computer System Committee, Risk risk management aspects, as well to risk management. Management Committee and the Audit Committee. as an annual review of the aspects The Remuneration Committee discusses also of risk management relating to In addition, the CRO submits issues of manpower. The Code of Ethics of ICC subsidiaries not considered as immediate reports to the committee, was approved in July 2014 by the Board of material subsidiaries, and of other and if required also to the Board of Directors of the company. Reports regarding the investee companies; Directors, on any matter, finding or social responsibility areas are submitted on a deficiency found in the area within the current basis to the Board of Directors of ICC. Annual reviews regarding matters  duty and authority of the Committee, of stress tests of market risk and which might have a material effect The duties of the said committees and their the central assumptions used in the on the risk management at the Bank authority, in ICC and MDB, are similar to those management of exposure to interest and/or on its business. The CRO is of the parallel committees of Discount Bank, as risk, fraud and embezzlement, credit entitled at his own initiative, to bring described above. 210 > Corporate Governance Corporate Governance > 211 Mechanisms for the prevention which a director is bound to declare the Bank. Officers of the Bank. In accordance of conflict of interests among any personal interest that he has in an with this Directive, the Audit Committee Directors existing or proposed transaction, to It has also been determined that is required to confirm that the terms of In accordance with Proper the extent required, for the purpose of the Board will determine rules for these transactions do not deviate from Conduct of Banking Business determining a process of approval of dealing with transactions in which market terms of similar transactions Directive No. 301, it is not permitted to a transaction, as stated, by the various a controlling shareholder and/or an that the Bank enters into with other appoint a Director whose current organs (audit committee and/or the officer is involved, or in which they parties. business interests create a permanent board of directors and/or the general have a personal interest, subject to conflict of interest between himself meeting of shareholders), as the case the provisions of the law applying to Accordingly, the Board of Directors and the banking corporation or where may be. the Bank. Such rules shall apply also approved the procedure for approval of fear of such conflict exists. According to a transaction between a controlling transactions with related persons and to legislation, a director has a fiduciary Inter alia, it was prescribed that a director shareholder and/or an officer of the transactions, which an officer of the commitment towards the corporation who had declared that he has such a Bank as the parent company and Bank has a personal interest therein, in which he serves, including a personal interest regarding a specific subsidiaries of the Bank. the aim of which is to describe the commitment to avoid any conflicting matter, will not receive information manner of treatment required in case of activity between his duties as director from the banking Corporation with Accordingly, the Bank's Board of transactions with an interested person and any other office he may hold or regard to that matter, not be present at Directors has determined a procedure and transactions, which an officer of between his personal interests and/or a discussion pertaining to the matter for the approval of transactions with the Bank has a personal interest therein of any action constituting competition in which he has a personal interest, interested parties in the Bank, which (whether transactions of the Bank with with the business of the company and and will not vote on such matter. is intended to regulate the process of the officer himself or transactions of avoiding the utilization of any business The Directives also prescribe that a identification approval and reporting the Bank with others), in accordance opportunity of the company with a view director who has a connection with of transactions between the Bank with the Companies Act. of obtaining benefits for himself or for a corporation in a secondary sector and subsidiaries under its control, another person. The Bank's Board of (a holding of at least 5% in one or and interested parties in the Bank, It is noted that in term of Proper Directors has approved guidelines and more of the means of control over the which require approvals and special Conduct of Banking Business Directive quantitative criteria, for the prevention corporation in the secondary sector, or reporting. For this purpose, the Audit No. 301, Directors of the Bank are on a permanent basis of conflict of serving as an officer of the corporation Committee of the Board of Directors forbidden to serve also as directors of interest, based on the scope of the in the secondary sector), will not be has established yardsticks concerning corporations controlled by the Bank, business relations of the director, which present at discussions of the Board transactions between the Bank and as well as directors of a financial body, raise suspicion of conflict of interest of Directors or of its committees that interested parties in the Bank, according the volume of its assets exceeds NIS 2 and the materiality of the business relate to a customer of the banking to which decision would be made as billion. relations with the Bank. The Bank's corporation, which is also a corporation to what transactions shall be brought Board of Directors also approved in the same secondary sector, and will for approval of the Audit Committee, The above stated applies also to the guidelines for cases where a Director not receive information and reports which duty is to decide whether it is board of directors of ICC. In addition has personal conflict of interests. with regard to that customer from the an irregular transaction that requires it should be noted, that due to the banking corporation. special approvals. membership mix of the board of directors In addition, within the frameworks of of ICC, which, inter alia, is composed also the Companies Act and Proper Conduct The corporate governance code of the In addition, the Bank acts according of directors who act as officers of the of Banking Business Directives Discount Group, determines, among to the provisions of Proper Conduct of owner banks of ICC, discussions by the procedures and mechanisms were other things, that the Board of Directors Banking Business Directive No. 312, in board which might expose commercial specified, for dealing with cases shall determine a policy and principles the matter of related persons, which and business secrets, as well as a where a conflict of interest exists, or for dealing with conflicts of interest sets requirements regarding obtaining potential for the violation of the Antitrust may exist, between the corporation intended to protect the Bank from approval of the Audit Committee for Laws, are not held in the presence of and an interested party therein. In this improper or illegal actions or from the transactions between the Bank and the directors who act also as officers framework, the Act determined the influence of those who do not act in persons related to the Bank, including of the owner banks and even, based on duties of disclosures, according to accordance with the best interests of transactions between the Bank and the complexity of the subject, these are 212 > Corporate Governance Corporate Governance > 213 brought before ad-hoc committees, For additional details regarding the Directors' remuneration, excluding the 35 to the financial statements as of composed of external Directors and an Bank's members of Management, see chairman of the board, is determined December 31, 2017 (pp. 289-293). independent Director, for an in-depth the 2017 Annual Report (p. 307)23 and in accordance with the Companies review of the matter. the Bank's periodic report for 2017 Regulations (Rules applying to Remuneration plan for officers (Regulation 26A). For additional details remuneration and reimbursement Remuneration policy for officers of the regarding members of Management of of expenses of external directors), Bank (2017-2019). The Annual Meeting The Bank's Mercantile Discount Bank, see the 2017 annual report of this bank (pp. 2852000 (hereinafter in this section: the Regulations ). of Shareholders held on November 8, 2016, decided to approve the Management 287). For additional details regarding members of Management of Israel The amounts of the remuneration remuneration policy for officers of the Bank, in accordance with Section 267A Credit Cards, see the 2017 annual report are in accordance with the maximum of the Companies Act which replaces the The President & CEO of this company (pp. 201-202). amount determined in the regulations previous remuneration policy ( the new The Bank's Board of Directors has for an external director who is not an remuneration policy ). the authority to appoint the expert external director, though most President & CEO, and is responsible for supervising and evaluating the Remuneration of of the Board members have been defined as having accounting and The formation of a new remuneration policy is intended to modify the performance of the President & CEO. senior officers financial expertise. The remuneration is composed of a fixed annual amount remuneration policy at the Bank to the changes made in the Directive of the Members of Management with the addition of remuneration for Supervisor and to the provisions of the Appointment of members of Remuneration of Directors (excluding participation in each meeting of the Board Remuneration Act. Management is made by the the Chairman of the Board) or of one of the committees of the Board. President & CEO, subject to approval of In accordance with Proper Conduct The remuneration does not include any It is noted, that the Companies Act the Board of Directors. of Banking Business Directive No. component relating to the performance of (Section 267A) states, among other 301A (hereinafter: Directive 301A ), the the Bank. things, that the majority of voting in remuneration for all Directors of the Bank, a general meeting of shareholders, excluding the Chairman of the Board, is to Directors' remuneration at MDB is which has to approve the remuneration Details regarding members of be determined in an identical manner and determined in accordance with the policy for senior officers, shall include management1 in accordance with the manner of Regulations, based on the capital grading the majority of votes of shareholders determining the remuneration of an relevant to MDB. The annual remuneration participating in the meeting, who are The Discount MDB ICC IDB Bank Corporation Bank external Director, in accordance with the of directors, who serve as officers of not the controlling shareholders in Number of 11 10 10 13 Regulations. In addition, the Amendment to Discount Bank, is paid to Discount Bank. the company or who do not have a members of Directive No. 301A, dated August 2015, personal interest in the approval of the Management states that the remuneration of all members Directors' remuneration at ICC is remuneration policy. Women 4 2 4 4 of a board of directors, including the determined in accordance with the Men 7 8 6 9 chairman, will be a fixed amount only. The Regulations and is payable to directors For further details regarding the provisions of the Amendment apply to new who do not serve as officers of the owner remuneration plan for officers of the Bank, Age: remuneration agreements, including the banks. The remuneration is based on the see Note 23 to the financial statements up to 50 4 4 7 7 extension or change of an existing capital grading relevant to ICC. as of December 31, 2017 (pp. 191-195). 51-60 6 5 3 1 remuneration agreement beginning with the date of publication of the Directive, as The terms of office and A mechanism for the reimbursement 61 and up 1 1 5 well as to existing remuneration employment of the Chairman of the of variable remuneration. The agreements no later than December 31, Board and the President & CEO Amendment to Directive No. 301A Note: 1 T  he data is updated as of date of publication of the 2017 Annual Report. 2017. For details regarding the terms of states that a variable remuneration office and employment of the awarded to a key employee, shall 23 The data regarding members of the Bank's Management appearing in the 2017 annual report, is up-to-date as of a Chairman of the Board of Directors and of be subject to the obligation of date proximate to the date of publication of the report. the President & CEO of the Bank, see Note reimbursement in exceptional 214 > Corporate Governance Corporate Governance > 215 circumstances where the employee of Basel and additional information The Internal audit is a function having of all risks at the Bank and the Group, within was involved in activity causing regarding risks , available for review on Group responsibility and therefore the framework of the second defense line. exceptional damage to the corporation, the Internet. emphasis is put upon the existence of including: unlawful activity, violation of fiduciary duty, deliberate violation or For details regarding remuneration interfaces in the fields of methodology, approval of work plans, etc., with the Risk management has been defined by gross negligible disregard of the policy of employees at MDB, see Additional subsidiary companies that have their the Bank as a function having Group of the banking corporation, its rules disclosure according to the third Pillar own internal audit units. responsibility. Accordingly, emphasis is and procedures, fraud or deliberate of Basel as of December 31, 2017 inappropriate conduct, which caused (pp. 102-110 of the Hebrew version). The internal audit is carried out being put on tightening the interfaces the restatement of data in the financial The said report is available on the according to the provisions of the with the subsidiaries in Israel and abroad statements. website of MDB. For details regarding Internal Audit Law, 1992, and of the the remuneration plan for the General Proper Conduct of Banking Business and on the guidance provided to them A banking corporation has to Manager of ICC, its managers and Directive No. 307 in the matter of regarding the adoption of processes determine criteria for the operation of the remuneration reimbursement employees, see the annual report of the company for 2017 (pp. 151-154) Internal audit function . and tools according to methodologies mechanism and take all reasonable and Additional disclosure according For further details regarding the internal determined by the parent company, with measures, including legal measures, to the third Pillar of Basel 2017 audit at the Discount Group, see the the required adjustments. for the reimbursement of the variable annual report (pp. 50-56 of the Hebrew 2017 Annual Report (pp. 308-310). remuneration, where all criteria for version). The said reports are available such reimbursement exist. on the website of the company. The Internal Auditor of MDB is Ms. Risk management has been defined by Tsiona Cohen, who acts in this role the Bank as a function having Group The period for reimbursement is five since August 1, 2012. For details responsibility. Accordingly, emphasis is years from the date of the award of the variable remuneration ( the Principal control regarding the Internal Audit at MDB, see the 2017 annual report of this bank being put on tightening the interfaces with the subsidiaries in Israel and abroad reimbursement period ), which may be extended for two additional years functions (pp. 287-290). and on the guidance provided to them regarding the adoption of processes in the case of an officer, where during The Internal Auditor of ICC is Mr. Nir and tools according to methodologies the reimbursement period an internal The Internal Audit Abel, who acts in this role since May 18, determined by the parent company, with or external investigation has been The Bank's Internal Auditor is Mr. 2011. For details regarding the Internal the required adjustments. initiated, which might activate the Nir Abel, CPA (Isr.), who assumed Audit at ICC, see the 2017 annual report reimbursement mechanism. office on May 18, 2011. The Chairman of ICC (pp. 204-206). Among the main tasks of the Division: of the Board of Directors is the R ecommendations regarding the risk The provisions of the Amendment organizational entity in charge of the Risk Management Division appetite and risk management policy, on the matter of the reimbursement Internal Auditor. The Chief Risk Officer is Mr. Avi Levi identification and correct evaluation of variable remuneration shall apply who took office on July 21, 2016 and of the risks and exposures; to new remuneration agreements, The internal audit operates according heads the Risk Management Division. The including the extension or change of an to an annual and multi-annual work Chief Risk Officer is a member of the M onitoring and current reporting existing remuneration agreement, with plan, focused on risks, which was Management who reports to the President to Management and the Board effect from the date of the publication designed on the basis of an overall risk & CEO independently from the business of Directors, as a risk based of the Directive, as well as to existing survey, conducted according to new lines that create the risk. The Chief Risk management and control tool; remuneration agreements no later than and accepted methodologies, and was Officer assists the Board of Directors in December 31, 2017. influenced by local and international fulfilling its duties regarding risk V erification of capital adequacy, guidelines (including Basel, SOX, management, and he has full access to the ensuring the long-term stability of the For further disclosure in the matter COSO and Proper Conduct of Banking Board of Directors and to the Board's Risk Group; of remuneration , see the document Business Directive No. 307 regarding Management Committee. The Chief Risk Disclosure according to the third pillar the internal audit function). Officer is responsible for the management Involvement in material processes, 216 > Corporate Governance Corporate Governance > 217 such as: supporting the strategic risks, market risks, liquidity and on the MAYA website of the Tel Aviv This document is designed to present planning and accompanying strategic investment in securities, operational risk, Stock Exchange Ltd. and on the Bank's the corporate governance rules that and business processes, integration including business continuity risks and website. guide the activity of the Discount Group. of new work procedures derived from fraud and embezzlement risks, IT risks These rules are intended to regularize the regulation; and cyber risks, as well as compliance The Chief Risk Officer of IDB Bank is Mr. conduct of the Discount Group, inter alia, risks, prohibition of money laundering Paul Caulfield, who acts in this role since with the aim of ensuring that the Group and finance of terror risks and crossJuly 2017. The Chief Risk Officer of MDB will manage its risks in a proper and Risk Management Division is border risks. is Mr. Gilad Alyagon, who acts in this role useful manner, will increase its earnings involved in material processes, since May 1, 2012. For details regarding in favor of its shareholders and will act to such as: supporting the strategic The managers of the risk management units operate as the second line risk management at MDB, see the 2017 annual report of this bank (pp. 50-107) maintain the interests of its customers. The corporate governance rules detailed planning and accompanying of defense and conduct a variety as well as the document regarding in the document reflect the perception of strategic and business processes of processes for the identification, Disclosure according to the third pillar the Discount Group regarding everything measurement, evaluation as well as of Basel and additional information relating to the values of the Group, to control and risk mitigation. In addition, regarding risks of this bank (in Hebrew). the decision making processes, risk L  eading the credit policy and the the Chief Risk Officer is responsible management and proper and adequate integration of risk based pricing, for control functions, including the The Chief Risk Officer of ICC is Mr. control and supervision procedures. providing a second opinion on credit credit controller, second opinion unit Alex Beltush, who acts in this role applications and on investments that regarding credit applications, as well since July 2013. For details regarding Within the framework of the involve a material credit exposure and as supervision and evaluation function, risk management at ICC, see the 2017 implementation of the corporate approval of ratings, classifications and which performs comprehensive annual report of ICC (pp. 47-73) as well governance program, the Board of allowances, challenging of the capital assessment processes of the risk profile as the document regarding Disclosure Directors approved a work procedure planning, strengthening of risk based of the Bank and of the Group, including according to the third pillar of Basel and vis-à-vis the subsidiary companies. In remuneration aspects, improving management of the annual process additional information regarding risks of addition, the Bank's Board of Directors tools, models and systems supporting for the Internal Capital Adequacy ICC (In Hebrew). approved a procedure for the approval of risk management, identification of Assessment Process (ICAAP), as well transactions with interested parties in the developing risks, etc. This, with the as performs supervision and control Bank. aim of verifying the integration of risk management aspects as an integral processes over the subsidiaries in Israel and abroad from risk management Corporate The corporate governance code, part of the business processes and testing their anticipated impact on the aspects and IT unit, providing support for the promotion and management of Governance Code for reflects the implementation of risk profile; risk management systems, including the work desk system for the Chief Risk the Discount Group a best practice policy in the A  ctive involvement in management Officer. corporate governance field of process regarding prohibition The corporate governance code, of money laundering and the The above stated applies in essence also approved by the Bank's Board of financing of terror at the Bank, as in relation to IDB Bank, MDB and ICC. Directors in October 2009, reflects the IDB Bank’s Board of Directors reviews well as management of the risk and implementation of a best practice policy and approves the Corporate Governance conducting current controls regarding For further details regarding the risk in the corporate governance field. The Guidelines from time to time, but at compliance matters, administrative management at the Discount Group, see code is based on the provisions of the law least annually. The Guidelines were first enforcement and cross-border risks. 2017 Annual Report (pp. 56-100) and in and various regulations applying to the approved in 2008 and most recently in the document Disclosure according to Bank in the corporate governance field. In 2018. The Guidelines are available to all The Risk Management Division combines the third pillar of Basel and additional December 2017, the Board of Directors employees on the Bank’s intranet. under it the independent functions information regarding risks , which is approved updates to the document. The supporting the risk management, available for perusal on the MAGNA updated document is available for review The corporate governance code of MDB comprising the units managing credit website of the Israeli Securities Authority, on the Bank's website. was approved by the Board of Directors 218 > Corporate Governance Corporate Governance > 219 of MDB in January 2013, and was revised follows: The Board of Directors is Group. In addition, each manager of a Internal Audit as the third line of in June 2015. MDB plans to conduct an responsible for setting high standards of risk center has the duty of updating the defense, examines the risk surveys additional update of the Code in the conduct, designed to promote risk map on an ongoing basis, where and the manner of challenging them, course of 2018. professional conduct and honesty, and material changes and changes in work as well as examines the effectiveness for the integration thereof throughout the processes or systems occur. of controls. Clear procedures and The corporate governance code of ICC organization . guidelines have been established as was approved by the Board of Directors An independent control function regards the manner of reporting of of ICC in November 2014. The code is Fraud and Embezzlement Risks operates at each division, which serves events suspected of embezzlement. available on the company's website. ICC As a financial corporation, the as a first line of defense and partly In this respect, among others, a hot validates the code once every two years Bank holds funds and financial activates control systems for the line to the Internal Audit is being (last validated in March 2018). assets of its customers. In operations spotting of suspected activity. used by which Bank employees may of this nature, the most basic condition report suspected/irregular events. As Corporate governance for conducting business is the trust Second line of defense Risk part of this process, the Internal Audit questionnaire which customers feel towards the Management Division. The Risk performs an extensive examination, On September 12, 2012, the Israeli Bank. Hence the importance of Management Division in its role which includes the issue of an audit Securities Authority published a management of fraud and as the second line of defense, report, and where required submitting disclosure guideline regarding the embezzlement risks. determines the operating risk the case to the disciplinary committee. application of a corporate governance management policy, which includes questionnaire. The Securities Authority The management of fraud and a designated chapter regarding the published on January 14, 2016, an updated embezzlement risks is conducted by the management of embezzlement and version of the questionnaire. The Discount Group as part of the operating fraud risks. The policy defines the As part of the combat against accompanying circular noted that the staff risk management. Management of the manner of management, monitoring, bribery, fraud and embezzlement, of the Securities Authority works for the establishment of the matter in a binding risk is achieved by three lines of defense: mitigating and reporting of such risks. Furthermore, the Risk Management the Bank has integrated and permanent manner in Regulations, and First line of defense business units. Division challenges the evaluation different procedures, including that it encourages its implementation even The Bank and the Group prepare of the risk in accordance with the procedures prohibiting situations now. In 2017 the Bank decided to submit a operating risk surveys on a current determined methodology, where each corporate governance questionnaire for and dynamic basis and maintain, as a risk is awarded a rating according of conflict of interests applying 2017 voluntarily in the updated format. routine matter, the operating risk maps to parameters evaluated by the to employees in general, and by means of a designated operating risk center manager. The operating The Bank's corporate governance risk management system. Each risk risk management department has acceptance of gifts from parties questionnaire for 2017 is available for center manager is responsible for the established a designated unit: with whom they maintain review on the MAGNA website of the Israel Securities Authority and on the evaluation of the risks inherent in the operations of his unit. The risk maps the embezzlement and fraud risk management unit, among the duties relations in the course of their MAYA website of the Tel Aviv Stock contain, among other things, also of which are: increasing awareness work, in particular Exchange together with the Bank's 2017 embezzlement and fraud risks. of this issue, current monitoring Annual Report. of irregular transactions, reporting The risk survey made at the Bank and them, where required, to the internal The Internal Audit takes explanatory at companies in the Group, within the audit, etc. The project concerning an procedures and an extensive drawing of Prevention of framework of which are examined, inter alia, fraud and embezzlement advanced system for the monitoring of embezzlements by employees was conclusions in lectures in the field units, executive conferences and various corruption risks, covers repeatedly a period of three years. A new survey began in concluded in 2017, and procedures for the integration of the system are forums, and distributes several times a year learning pages of extraordinary 2017, to be performed over three conducted in 2018. events to all Bank employees. The The corporate governance code of years. The survey applies to all of the Internal Audit at MDB applies similar the Discount Group states as units, in the Bank and in the Discount Third line of defense Internal Audit. procedures. 220 > Corporate Governance Corporate Governance > 221 It is noted, that in addition to the either a reprimand in writing or by an objects and as to whether it has all received through the hot-line is examinations made following reports oral reprimand, transfer from the unit, the required approvals. For additional submitted to the Audit Committee of being received, the second and third impaired selective advancement and details, see below in Compliance the Board of Directors. lines of defense carry out initiated such like. with the provisions of the law and examinations in order to monitor regulations . The Discount hot-line serves also ICC. irregular transactions. The Internal Cases examined in the years 2016The approach mechanism by means of Audit examines on an ongoing basis 2017 included two cases of theft of Mechanism for exposing corruption the hot-line has been communicated the accounts of employees within the money. The remaining cases referred Whistle blower . A hot-line was to employees, including by means of a framework of audit work performed to conflict of interests, personal installed at the Internal Audit Division link on the employee portal for reporting during the year or of specific audits. privacy, transactions in accounts of for use of anonymous approaches, and on the hot-line of the Internal Audit. Some 150 such accounts are related persons, prohibition on money a circular was issued in this respect to MDB also operates a hot-line , which examined yearly. In addition, specific laundering, investment consulting, all employees. The circular stated that operates in a similar fashion. examinations of employee accounts accepting loans from customers etc. the Internal Audit would ensure that the are being performed as a result of identity of the complainant would not Prohibition on political activity approaches made by customers, The Internal Audit at the Bank, at ICC be exposed without his permission, The Bank supports a social and employees, public approaches or and at MDB, performs audits of the unless it is required by the Court. environmental agenda in Israel, the intensification of current audit manner in which embezzlement and The circular also clarified that the though it strictly does not act politically. following audit findings. fraud events are being treated, and Bank's Management shall not permit The Bank does not support political of the drawing of conclusions and its employment of any measures against bodies and does not make any In cases where irregular activities integration. employees whose complaint had been contributions to political bodies, are found or suspicion of actions submitted bona fide. political parties or politicians. contrary to employee work procedures, Additional means for the treatment of the case is conducted by prevention of bribery, fraud and The hot-line is intended for approaches The rules of the Bank prohibit the the Disciplinary Committee, which may embezzlement regarding the following matters: use by employees of the premises of decide on termination of employment, As part of the combat against suspicion of fraud and embezzlement; Bank or of its resources for political reprimand, removal from office, transfer bribery, fraud and embezzlement, concern regarding improper accounting purposes. Whenever general elections from the unit, etc. the Bank has integrated different operations; suspicion of violation are declared in Israel, the said rules are procedures, including procedures of the law; material deviation from being refreshed by the Bank. The special examinations and the prohibiting situations of conflict of Bank procedures. The manner of resulting findings are reported to interests applying to employees in reporting and treatment of complaints the Audit Committee, within the general, and acceptance of gifts from concerning financial irregularities has framework of current reporting and in parties with whom they maintain been established in the internal audit the framework of the periodic reporting relations in the course of their work, in procedures. (quarterly and annual) with respect particular. In accordance with the said to the activity of the Internal Audit procedures, the receipt or payment of In the aforementioned information Division. facilitation payments , inter alia, are sheets that it distributes several times prohibited. a year, the Internal Audit function Some 45 special examinations were notes the existence of the hot-line made in 2017. No exceptional activity The payment procedures at the and its number. In addition, as part of was identified in 19 cases. Work at the Bank involve strict approval and FaceBank , the central tool for intraBank of 5 employees was terminated. control procedures. Donations are organizational communication, details Some 54 special examinations were approved by an internal committee are provided regarding the hot-line made in 2016. No exceptional activity (donation committee), and in respect and its aims, within the framework of was identified in 20 cases. Work at the of each donation, an examination is approach and reporting centers . Bank of 8 employees was terminated. performed regarding the substance All other cases were concluded by of the receiving association, its A report concerning complaints 222 > Corporate Governance Corporate Governance > 223 Conduct which all employees are required to sign the Bank has established a process Prevention of and abide by, which includes the Bank’s rules regarding compliance with internal controls, Compliance with by which procedures and systems are being updated from time to time, in corruption at the conflicts of interest and receipt of gifts. IDB Bank also manages risk through a similar approach regulation accordance with requirements resulting from such changes. In addition, the Bank's principal using three lines of defense: the Business unit, Risk Management & Compliance, and Internal Discount Bank strictly manages Bank conducts processes regarding the drawing of conclusions from failure subsidiaries Audit. its business in a legal and proper manner, diligently complying with the events, customer complaints and control and audit reports. At the same provisions of the law and regulation in time, and where required, the Bank Mercantile Discount Bank In the course of 2016-2017 several special Additional means its activities. updates forms, control processes, systems, procedures, etc. that support reviews were performed regarding the bank accounts of employees, where in a number of for the prevention Within the corporate governance code it has been determined, that the relevant products and services. Furthermore, employee training cases irregular activity has been revealed. The employment of 44 employees was terminated as of bribery, fraud Board of Directors is responsible for prescribing high standards of conduct, and absorption activities are being conducted. The ethical code adopted a result. As regards additional employees, measures were taken such as reprimand, either and embezzlement at designed to enhance professional conduct and integrity and to integrate by the Bank includes a declaration regarding the commitment to comply in writing or verbally, transfer from the unit, hampering advancement and awards. Of the the Bank's principal them throughout the organization. The Bank acts and will act in accordance in letter and spirit of the provisions of any law, regulatory guidelines and instances examined only one case of money pilfering had been found. The other cases mainly subsidiaries with an ethical code intended to protect the values of the Bank and to determine procedures of the Bank. involved transgression of procedures and proper standards of behavior and a fair In accordance with Proper Conduct transactions in accounts of related persons. IDB Bank and transparent conduct with respect of Banking Business Directive No. It is the policy of IDB Bank to observe high to the customers. 308 in the matter of compliance ICC ethical standards in all of its activities. In and the compliance function in a Seven irregular events were treated by the matters of accounting and internal financial The duty of the Board of Directors banking corporation , compliance company in 2017, including irregular controls, IDB Bank seeks to ensure that all and Management was established to risk management is performed in an operations by employees, improper activity by transactions and corporate assets are properly protect employees who report illegal overall manner covering all compliance trading houses and failure in the mailing of letters accounted for and that all audits are thorough actions, unethical actions or such instructions applying to the Bank, which to customers. In all cases relating to irregular and complete. IDB Bank is committed to that might impair integrity, against are relevant to its operations and which operations by employees, the company has complying with all applicable laws and regulations, disciplinary actions or other negative impose on it operative compliance terminated their employment. Bank policies, accounting standards, accounting implications towards them. duties, and not only instructions having controls and audit practices. In order to help bank-customer relations aspects. In respect of all the events summary reports and accomplish these objectives, IDB Bank has The Bank has stated in its policy drawing of conclusion were prepared by the security established a procedure for the reporting and documents and procedures the extent In accordance with instructions of director, the risk management wing and the director delivery of complaints and concerns about of tolerance in respect of deviation the Supervisor of Banks, the Bank has of prevention of employee embezzlement, as the accounting, auditing, financial and other matters from compliance instructions and risk appointed a Chief Compliance Officer, case may be, and in some of which audit reports related to the conduct of business, such as endurance therefore. The Bank has who assists senior Management and were issued. business relationships with vendors and established detailed processes and the Board of Directors in the effective costumers (collectively business complaints ). procedures for the implementation management of Provisions of the law IDB Bank IDB Bank's Whistleblower Policy set forth the of requirements of regulatory and regulation applying to the Bank, IDB Bank adheres to all federal, state, and procedures relating to the reporting of business instructions applying to the Bank and including with respect to anti-money local laws, including but not limited to the complaints. IDB Bank's Whistleblower Policy, in the enforcement thereof. In view of the laundering and terror financing, and federal Bank Bribery Act, and the Foreign Corrupt its entirety. Is available by logging into the fact that the provisions of the law and beginning with the year 2016, also Practices federal Act. IDB Bank has a Code of employee portal. regulation are being changed frequently, with respect to internal enforcement 224 > Corporate Governance Corporate Governance > 225 fields in the securities laws, and law and regulations applying to the to all the Bank’s employees regarding to different compliance issues and the regulations of supervision over Bank. exceptional events. In addition, staff of challenges which they face in their financial services (pension consulting), the Internal Audit give lectures at the daily operation. and cross-border risks. This, at the It is noted, that in order to increase various units of the Bank regarding, Bank and at the relevant subsidiaries effectiveness of compliance at the inter alia, exceptional events and Prohibition of money laundering in the Discount Group. Among his other Bank's branches and different units, material deficiencies revealed in the and the finance of terror duties, the Chief Compliance Officer employees of the first line of defense compliance field. The Bank acts towards complying examines and verifies the Bank's have been appointed as compliance with whatever is required under readiness for any new operation, in officers/trustees. Moreover, employees Integration and training the Prevention of Money Laundering order to verify the compliance and serving as compliance risk managers As part of the training program for Act and the Fight Against Terror Act, implementation of the provisions of the have been appointed as a second line the familiarization with the Bank, and the Regulations enacted under law and regulation within the area of his of defense at the different divisions. each new employee undergoes training these Acts. The Bank further acts responsibility. Furthermore, the Chief These employees assist in verifying the in matters of ethics, which, among towards the absorption of the directives Compliance Officer conducts through implementation of the provisions of other things deals with various aspects relating to prohibition of money the compliance functions, a followthe law and regulation in the different of normative-ethical conduct. laundering and the finance of terror by up of the rectification of deficiencies matters of compliance and prohibition Bank employees. For this purpose, the concerning compliance, in order to of money laundering, which are under As a structured part of the Bank invests resources for the updating avoid their repetition in the future, their responsibility, as determined in compliance culture at the Bank, all and development of systems monitors audit reports and customer the Bank's procedures. Such employees bank employees, whether in senior or supporting the fulfillment of the complaints brought to his attention, serve as information centers and assist junior positions, undergo training in provisions of the law. and initiates action for the detection of in the training and implementation various matters of compliance, while cross-organizational failures. of compliance, fairness and dicency designated employee populations Within the framework of integration values among Bank employees. undergo in addition training with of the regulation guidelines and respect to specific compliance international standards in the field As part of the training program Moreover, use is made of the hot-line matters. In this framework, also in of prohibition of money laundering, for the familiarization with operated by the Internal Audit (see 2017, the Bank held a group meeting the Bank had formed a Group policy, above) also for the purpose of reporting in the matter of compliance, in approved by the Board of Directors the Bank, each new employee compliance issues. which different contents relevant to at the beginning of 2018, for the undergoes training in matters of the operations of the Bank and the management of the risk, which included ethics, which, among other things In addition, the Bank's Internal Audit Division performs audits at the Bank's Group were discussed, with special reference to urgent matters presently also reference to the prevention of using accounts held with the Bank for deals with various aspects of units and across the board audits, on the agenda, and to expected offences of bribery and corruption. normative-ethical conduct within the framework of which, among other things, integrity, compliance trends and processes both in Israel and globally. Among the actions The subject of Prohibition of money with the law and compliance with taken for the implementation of laundering and the finance of terror The Legal Advisory Division at the various regulatory instructions and the compliance culture at the Bank, have turned in recent years into one of Bank assists in the implementation with procedures determined by the significant use has been made of the most significant enforcement and of the duties applying to the Bank, by Bank, are examined. In addition, the auxiliary training and learning tools prevention subjects in international and interpretation of the law and by legal Internal Audit Division also examines in order to reach even the last of domestic legislation and regulation in counseling in the course of the current the performance of the factors at the employees. In executing these duties, the matter is changing and developing, business activity. The provisions of Bank entrusted with the supervision the Chief Compliance Officer and intensifying the requirements for the law and procedures are also being over compliance with the law. A similar compliance function employees monitoring, supervision and follow up. enforced on an ongoing basis by activity is being conducted also at ICC. visited also in 2017 many of the Work procedures are being updated the various control and supervisory Bank's branches holding discussions on a regular basis. Concurrently, systems, which are intended to ensure Several times a year, the Internal with branch management teams within the framework of integrating compliance with the provisions of the Audit distributes information sheets and other employees with respect this subject into the compliance 226 > Corporate Governance Corporate Governance > 227 No fines in material amounts to updated information via the Bank's 4.Compliance with Laws and Regulations The and no non-monetary Intra-net site. Compliance with bank actively promotes and requires compliance with the laws, rules and regulations that govern the sanctions were imposed on the Bank, during 2017 with respect In addition, the Bank effective control and supervisory tools for the monitoring regulation at the bank's business. Obeying both the letter and the spirit of the law is one of the foundations of the to non-compliance with laws of irregular transactions and for the fulfillment of the duties imposed upon Banks' principal Bank's ethical standards. and regulations on any of the corporations being the subject the Bank according to the law. subsidiaries This Code, which is distributed to and acknowledged by all employees, consultants, agents and temporary The above stated applies also with workers annually through the bank's online training of this report respect to MDB and to ICC. IDB Bank system is very detailed and clearly lays out the The bank's Code of Conduct (“The Code”) bank’s expectations from all those involved. culture of the Bank, the Bank holds Fines guides everyone at IDB Bank employees, training and learning sessions for No fines in material amounts and officers, and directors in meeting their In addition, the bank ensures that everyone at the bank employees by means of frontal studies, no non-monetary sanctions were responsibilities to the Bank and its customers, and receives the UDAAP training course annually, which computerized courseware made imposed on the Bank, during 2017 with in making ethical business decisions and is teaches and reinforces what type of acts or practices available to the branches and Head respect to non-compliance with laws and intended to provide everyone at IDB Bank with by the bank may be considered unfair, deceptive, and/ Office units, knowledge tests and case regulations on any of the corporations guiding principles on how to apply its own common or abusive. There are also other fair lending training studies. Employees are also exposed being the subject of this report. sense, good judgment and conscience and to assist courses given to both employees and the Board of them in their work for the bank. Directors which touches on treating customers fairly from various regulatory perspectives. The Code is intended to prevent violations of law and the bank's policy, and rests on four primary principles: 1.Fairness and Candor in Conduct Banking is a Prohibition of money business based on mutual trust, and the Bank laundering and the goals demands absolute Fairness in all of its affairs. The Bank's success in the marketplace depends finance of terror at 01 Training for different employee populations, including day seminars and courses for control 04 Guidance regarding the new system that was installed to a large extent on the confidence and trust of its customers. Every employee, officer and director must conduct business in a way that the Bank's principal and risk management functions fully justifies the continued goodwill of the bank and trust of its customers. subsidiaries 2.Integrity in the bank's Work with Customers, IDB Bank 02 In-depth examination conducted by the Risk Management Division at sensitive units that 05 Acquisition and assimilation of a system that complements the employee embezzlement Each Other and the Public the bank strives to exemplify the highest standards of personal and professional ethics in all aspects of its business. IDB Bank complies with federal, state and the relevant laws of other countries that prohibit money laundering and seek to prevent the financing constitute the Bank’s monitoring system a of terrorist activity, such as the USA PATRIOT Act of risk foci system that displays a managerial dashboard 3.The Avoidance of Conflicts of Interest or Even 2001, Bank Secrecy Act and other laws. and enhances the the Appearance of a Conflict. Each employee, 03 Scenario assimilation level of the system’s officer and director must avoid engaging in any IDB Bank has a Financial Crimes Program and in the employee effectiveness outside business or other activity that might Code of Conduct which all employees are required embezzlement create a conflict of interest, create a perception to sign and abide by. These documents include the monitoring system – in accordance with the of impropriety, or jeopardize the bank's integrity Bank’s framework for combating terrorist financing, work plan or reputation. money laundering and other financial crimes. 228 > Index Index > 229 10 epilouge Thank you's! and Responses to the Report  229 Thank you's! And before Discount Bank's Seventh CSR Report gets going… the pleasure of thank you's! Thank you to the dozens of Discount Bank's employees and employees of the subsidiaries MDB, ICC and IDB Bank who worked so hard gathering and processing the material, who provided responses, ideas, comment, clarifications, proofreading, initiative and encouragement. A special thanks to The Storyteller Studio for upgrading the design of the report. GRI index  230 Thanks to Liad Ortar and the Corporate Social Responsibility Institute for control of the report. Thanks to Nofar Wallach-Lazaresko and Itamar Schwartz from the Corporate Principles of the Global Compact initiative  237 Responsibility Group at BDO Consulting for their devoted work in escorting the preparation of the report and for their support in upgrading its contents. And last but not least a huge thank you to all the Discount Bank's employees and Appendices  238 employees of the subsidiaries MDB, ICC and IDB Bank who convert the corporate commitment, a daily activity, from a vision to a reality. List of tables and charts in the report  246 Responses to the Report The Bank's customers, its employees, shareholders from the public, other stakeholders or remaining readers of the Report all are invited to respond and comment on the Report and its contents: send ideas, comments or illuminations, or just talk about the Report and the social activism of Discount Bank. Responses may be sent: By telephone By mail to: The Bank's employees Israel Discount Bank Ltd. Human are also invited to 03-5146793 Resources and Assets Division, 41, Yehuda react through the Halevi Street, Tel Aviv, c/o Ms. Anat Sigman, intranet website. in charge of social responsibility By email By fax anat.sigman@discountbank.co.il 03-5146764 230 > Index Index > 231 Page in the report GRI Content index combined with UNGC Discount IDB UNGC-cop Standard Disclosure MDB ICC Bank Bank Consulting stakeholders on economic, 102-21 environmental, and social topics 27, 205 209 209 Page in the report Composition of the highest governance Standard Disclosure Discount IDB UNGC-cop 102-22 body and its committees 199 199 199 199 MDB ICC Bank Bank 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 198 198 198 GRI 101: Foundation 2016 Nominating and selecting the highest ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-24 governance body 198 198 198 102-1 Name of the organization 24 30 33 37 102-25 Conflicts of interest 210 210 210 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 24, 72 30 33 37 Role of highest governance body in 102-26 setting purpose, values, and strategy 46 N/R N/R N/R 102-3 Location of headquarters 24 30 33 37 Collective knowledge of highest 102-4 Location of operations 24-26 30 33 37 102-27 governance body 205 209 209 102-5 Ownership and legal form 24 30 33 37 Evaluating the highest governance body’s No specific 102-28 performance 201 201 201 102-6 Markets served 24 30 33 37 requirement GRI 102: by the COP Identifying and managing economic, General 102-7 Scale of the organization 42 42 42 42 102-29 environmental, and social impacts 199, 215 215 215 GRI 102: No specific disclosure Information on employees and other General 2016 102-8 workers 238-239 238-239 238-239 238-239 Effectiveness of risk management requirement disclosure 102-30 processes 207 207 207 by the COP 2016 102-9 Supply chain 150-153 154 154-155 155 Review of economic, environmental, and Significant changes to the organization 102-31 social topics 205 209 209 102-10 and its supply chain 28-29 31-32 34-36 37 Highest governance body’s role in 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 179 179 179 179 7 102-32 sustainability reporting 12 N/R N/R N/R 102-12 External initiatives 38 38 38 38 1-10 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 205 209 209 102-13 Membership of associations 38 38 38 38 1-10 Nature and total number of critical 102-34 concerns 205-209 209 209 STRATEGY 102-35 Remuneration policies 212 212 212 GRI 102: 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 8 8 8 8 No specific 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 212 212 212 General requirement disclosure Stakeholders’ involvement in by the COP 102-37 remuneration 212 212 212 2016 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 8, 28 8, 31 8, 34 8, 37 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 143 143 143 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Percentage increase in annual total Values, principles, standards, and norms 102-39 compensation ratio 143 143 143 GRI 102: 102-16 of behavior 46 49 49 49 1-10 General STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT disclosure No specific Mechanisms for advice and concerns No specific 2016 102-17 about ethics 50 51 51 51 requirement by the COP 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 13 13 13 13 requirement by the COP GRI 102: General 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 107 109 109 1,2,6 GOVERNANCE disclosure 2016 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 13 13 13 13 102-18 Governance structure 201 209 209 No specific GRI 102: 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 13 13 13 13 requirement 102-19 Delegating authority 199 N/R N/R N/R No specific by the COP General 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 13 13 13 13 requirement disclosure Executive-level responsibility for by the COP 2016 102-20 economic, environmental, and social 12 12 12 12 topics 232 > Index Index > 233 Page in the report Page in the report Standard Disclosure Discount IDB UNGC-cop Standard Disclosure Discount IDB UNGC-cop MDB ICC MDB ICC Bank Bank Bank Bank REPORTING PRACTICE Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 Boundary 150 150 150 150 GRI 103: Entities included in the consolidated 102-45 financial statements 10 10 10 10 Management The management approach and its Approach 103-2 components 150 150 150 150 Defining report content and topic 2016 No specific 102-46 Boundaries 13 13 13 13 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 150 150 150 150 requirement by the COP 102-47 List of material topics 15 15 15 15 GRI 204: Procurement 102-48 Restatements of information 11 11 11 11 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 150-153 154 154 155 Practices 102-49 Changes in reporting 11 11 11 11 2016 GRI 102: 102-50 Reporting period 8 8 8 8 No specific Explanation of the material topic and its General requirement 103-1 Boundary 218 218 218 218 10 disclosure GRI 103: 102-51 Date of most recent report 10 10 10 10 by the COP Management 2016 The management approach and its 102-52 Reporting cycle 10 10 10 10 Approach 103-2 components 218 218 218 218 2016 Contact point for questions regarding the 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 218 218 218 218 102-53 report 229 N/R N/R N/R Operations assessed for risks related to Claims of reporting in accordance with 205-1 corruption 218-221 222 222 222 102-54 the GRI Standards 10 10 10 10 GRI 205: AntiCommunication and training about anti102-55 GRI content index 230-236 230-236 230-236 230-236 corruption 205-2 corruption policies and procedures 218-221 222 222 222 2016 102-56 External assurance 19-21 19-21 19-21 19-21 Confirmed incidents of corruption and 205-3 actions taken 220 222 222 222 MATERIAL TOPICS Explanation of the material topic and its No specific GRI 103: 103-1 Boundary 178 178 178 178 7,8,9 Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 Boundary 41 41 41 41 requirement Management GRI 103: The management approach and its by the COP Approach 103-2 178 178 178 178 Management components Approach The management approach and its 2016 2016 103-2 components 41 41 41 41 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 178 178 178 178 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 41 41 41 41 Energy consumption within the 302-1 organization 183 189 192 No specific Direct economic value generated and Energy consumption outside of the 201-1 distributed 42 42 42 42 requirement 302-2 by the COP GRI 302: organization Energy GRI 201: Financial implications and other risks and 302-3 Energy intensity 184 190 193 201-2 179 179 179 179 7 2016 Economic opportunities due to climate change Performance 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 183 189 192 2016 Defined benefit plan obligations and other Reductions in energy requirements of 201-3 retirement plans 138 146 146 No specific 302-5 181 181 181 requirement products and services Financial assistance received from by the COP Explanation of the material topic and its 201-4 government 42-43 42-43 42-43 103-1 178 178 178 178 7,8 GRI 103: Boundary Explanation of the material topic and its Management 103-1 43 43 43 43 The management approach and its Boundary Approach 103-2 components 178 178 178 178 7,8 GRI 103: 2016 Management The management approach and its 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 178 178 178 178 7,8 103-2 components 43 43 43 43 Approach 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 245 245 245 7,8 No specific 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 43 43 43 43 requirement 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 245 245 245 7,8 by the COP 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 188 7,8 GRI 203: Infrastructure investments and services 76, 80, 80, 203-1 42 305-4 188 7,8 Indirect supported 158-172 173-174 174-175 GRI 305: GHG emissions intensity Economic Emissions Impacts 2016 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 188 7,8,9 2016 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 42 42 42 42 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 305-6 (ODS) 188 7,8 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), 305-7 and other significant air emissions 7,8 234 > Index Index > 235 Page in the report Page in the report Standard Disclosure Discount IDB UNGC-cop Standard Disclosure Discount IDB UNGC-cop MDB ICC MDB ICC Bank Bank Bank Bank Explanation of the material topic and its Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 102 102 102 102 1,2,6 103-1 Boundary 112 112 112 112 6 GRI 103: Boundary GRI 103: Management Management The management approach and its The management approach and its Approach 103-2 102 102 102 102 Approach 103-2 components 112 112 112 112 components 2016 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 102 102 102 102 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 112 112 112 112 New employee hires and employee GRI 405: Diversity of governance bodies and 401-1 240-242 240-242 240-242 6 Diversity 405-1 employees 244 244 244 turnover GRI 401: and Equal Benefits provided to full-time employees No specific Opportunity Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of Employment 401-2 that are not provided to temporary or part140 140 140 140 requirement 405-2 women to men 108 111 111 2016 2016 time employees by the COP Explanation of the material topic and its 401-3 Parental leave 242 242 1,2,6 103-1 Boundary 106 106 106 106 1,2,6 GRI 103: Explanation of the material topic and its Management The management approach and its 103-1 Boundary 102, 106 102, 106 102, 106 102, 106 Approach 103-2 106 106 106 106 GRI 103: components 2016 Management The management approach and its 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 106 106 106 106 Approach 103-2 components 102, 106 102, 106 102, 106 102, 106 2016 No specific GRI 406: Non103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 102, 106 102, 106 102, 106 102, 106 requirement Incidents of discrimination and corrective Discrimination 406-1 actions taken 115 115 118 by the COP 2016 GRI 402: Labor/ Management Minimum notice periods regarding Explanation of the material topic and its 402-1 operational changes 107 109 110 103-1 158 158 158 158 Relations GRI 103: Boundary 2016 Management The management approach and its Explanation of the material topic and its Approach 103-2 components 158 158 158 158 103-1 Boundary 102 102 102 102 2016 GRI 103: Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 158 158 158 158 The management approach and its Approach 103-2 components 102 102 102 102 Operations with local community 2016 413-1 engagement, impact assessments, and 158-172 173-174 174-175 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 102 102 102 102 No specific development programs requirement Workers representation in formal joint Operations with significant actual and by the COP 403-1 management-worker health and safety 134 135-136 135-136 136 No specific GRI 413: Local 413-2 potential negative impacts on local 180 181 181 committees Communities communities requirement GRI 403: Types of injury and rates of injury, by the COP 2016 Access points in low – populated or 56, 56, FS13 89 89 Occupational 403-2 occupational diseases, lost days, and 243 243 243 economically disadvantaged areas by type 81-87 87-89 Health and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 74, Safety Initiatives to improve access financial 80, FS14 76-79, 80, 89 89 2016 Workers with high incidence or high risk services for disadvantaged people 87-89 403-3 134 136 81-87 of diseases related to their occupation Explanation of the material topic and its Health and safety topics covered in formal 103-1 Boundary 90 90 90 90 403-4 134 135 135 GRI 103: agreements with trade unions Management The management approach and its Explanation of the material topic and its Approach 103-2 components 90 90 90 90 103-1 Boundary 102 102 102 102 6 2016 GRI 103: Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 90 90 90 90 The management approach and its No specific Approach 103-2 components 102 102 102 102 Requirements for product and service requirement 2016 417-1 information and labeling 90-93 93 93 93 by the COP 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 102 102 102 102 GRI 417: Incidents of non-compliance concerning Average hours of training per year per Marketing and 404-1 243 122 124 417-2 product and service information and 92 92 93 employee Labeling labeling 2016 GRI 404: No specific Incidents of non-compliance concerning Programs for upgrading employee skills 417-3 92 92 92 Training and 404-2 and transition assistance programs 118-121 122 123-124 requirement marketing communications Education by the COP 2016 Percentage of employees receiving 404-3 regular performance and career 244 244 244 6 development reviews 236 > Index Index > 237 Page in the report Standard 103-1 Disclosure Explanation of the material topic and its Discount Bank 94 MDB 94 ICC 94 IDB Bank 94 UNGC-cop 1 Principles of the Global Compact initiative GRI 103: Boundary Management The management approach and its Approach 103-2 components 94 94 94 94 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 94 94 94 94 GRI 418: Discount Bank expresses support of the ten principles of the Global Compact24 Substantiated complaints concerning Customer 418-1 breaches of customer privacy and losses 94 94 94 94 initiative of the United Nations, and acts for the advancement of these principles. Privacy of customer data 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its Following is a list of the principles of the initiative: 103-1 Boundary 223 223 223 223 GRI 103: Management The management approach and its Approach 103-2 components 223 223 223 223 Businesses should support and respect the protection 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 223 223 223 223 No specific requirement 01 of internationally proclaimed human rights; by the COP Human GRI 419: Socio Non-compliance with laws and Rights Businesses should make sure that they are not Economic Compliance 419-1 regulations in the social and economic 226 226 226 226 02 complicit in human rights abuses; area 2016 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and 03 the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; The elimination of all forms of forced and 04 compulsory labor; Standards of Employment 05 The effective abolition of child labor; The elimination of discrimination in respect of 06 employment and occupation; Businesses should support a precautionary approach 07 to environmental challenges; The Undertake initiatives to promote greater Environment 08 environmental responsibility; Encourage the development and diffusion of 09 environmentally friendly technologies; AntiBusinesses should work against corruption in Corruption 10 all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 24 http://www.unglobalcompact.org 238 > Index Index > 239 Appendices Employees Breakdown of employees by type of engagement Tenured employees, under personal 2017 3,853 2016 3,917 2015 4,149 contracts and members of Management Manpower status Discount Temporary employees 1,285 1,304 1,386 Employees of Discount Bank and its principal subsidiaries Bank Manpower company employees Software house 364 308 314 2017 2016 2015 Total 5,502 5,529 5,849 Discount Bank 5,502 5,529 5,849 Tenured employees, under personal 1,232 1,225 1,248 MDB 1,431 1,431 1,490 contracts and members of Management Temporary employees 165 167 211 ICC1 1,481 1,427 1,440 MDB Manpower company employees 75 93 73 IDB Bank 483 478 464 Software house 27 32 39 Note: Total 1,499 1,517 1,571 1 The data do not include contract workers Tenured employees, under personal 979 947 954 contracts and members of Management Breakdown of employees by gender ICC Temporary employees 505 508 479 2017 2016 2015 Outsourcing 177 135 98 Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Total 1,661 1,590 1,531 Discount Bank 2,219 3,283 5,502 2,258 3,271 5,529 3,455 2,349 5,849 Note: The data do not include employees on unpaid leave and maternity leave MDB 631 800 1,431 639 792 1,431 657 833 1,490 Breakdown of employees by age ICC 418 1,063 1 1,481 407 1,020 1,427 443 997 1,440 IDB Bank 259 224 483 256 222 478 243 221 464 2017 2016 2015 Notes: Up to 30 657 689 578 1 The data do not include contract workers. 2 It is noted that Discount Bank's data in this item include tenured employees, under personal employment agreement, members Discount 31-50 2,827 2,795 2,615 of Management and temporary employees and do not include employees of outsourcing status and employees on leave. Bank Over 50 2,018 2,045 2,343 3 In 2017, an update of the employee calculation methodology was performed, which the Bank updated retroactively also for the year 2016. Total 5,502 5,529 5,536 Up to 30 118 121 157 Breakdown of employees by geographic distribution 31-50 929 987 962 MDB Over 50 384 323 371 2017 Rate Total 1,431 1,431 1,490 Jerusalem and the South Region 472 8.5% Up to 30 490 431 517 Central Region 480 8.7% 31-50 815 827 786 ICC Discount Over 50 162 169 137 Bank lowlands Region 471 8.5% Total 1,467 1,427 1,440 Northern Region 453 8.2% Headquarters (Tel-Aviv) 3,626 65.9% Notes: 1 The data for Discount Bank and MDB include tenured employees and temporary employees. 2 The data for ICC include permanent employees and non-permanent employees. 3 In 2017, an update of the employee calculation methodology was performed, which the Bank updated retroactively also for the year 2016. 240 > Index Index > 241 Breakdown of leaving employees by gender Average age and seniority 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 Men 250 345 287 Average Average Average Average Average Average Discount Women 467 641 416 age seniority age seniority age seniority Bank Total 717 986 703 Discount Bank 45.1 16.5 44.8 16.4 45.1 17.1 Men 24 27 32 MDB 43.90 16.5 43.3 16.1 42.9 16.6 MDB Women 30 60 31 ICC 36 9 36.2 8.5 35.5 7.9 Total 54 87 63 Note: In 2017, an update of the employee calculation methodology was performed, which the Bank updated retroactively also for the year 2016. Men 79 109 92 ICC Women 230 241 243 Employee turnover Total 309 350 335 Breakdown of new employees by gender Notes: 1 The data for leaving employees include temporary employees and tenured employees. 2017 2016 2015 2 The data for Discount Bank do not include employees leaving from maternity leave / unpaid leave. 3 Due to the improvement in data, Discount's data were updated in 2015. Men 174 206 239 Discount Bank Women 448 456 429 Total 622 662 668 Breakdown of leaving employees by age Men 15 7 24 2017 2016 2015 MDB Women 38 17 11 Total 53 24 35 Up to 30 363 260 356 Men 86 73 40 Discount 31-50 229 407 232 ICC Women 256 253 134 Bank Over 50 125 319 115 Total 342 326 174 Total 717 986 703 Notes: Up to 30 8 16 9 1 The data for joining employees include temporary employees and tenured employees. 31-50 25 29 30 2 Due to the improvement in data, Discount's data were updated in 2015. MDB Over 50 21 42 24 Breakdown of new employees by age Total 54 87 63 2017 2016 2015 Up to 30 230 215 201 Up to 30 403 433 444 31-50 75 128 120 ICC 31-50 203 219 208 Over 50 4 7 7 Discount Bank Over 50 16 10 16 Total 309 350 328 Total 622 662 668 Up to 30 35 12 21 31-50 18 11 12 Mobility of employees MDB Over 50 1 2 2017 2016 2015 Total 53 24 35 Discount Bank 665 709 1,133 Up to 30 273 245 273 31-50 65 80 65 MDB 104 160 126 ICC Over 50 65 1 4 ICC 137 135 126 Total 342 326 342 Note: The data for joining employees include temporary employees and tenured employees. 242 > Index Index > 243 Breakdown of employees by reasons of leaving Employees absence 2017 2016 2015 Temp. Tenured Total Temp Tenured Total Temp Tenured Total 2017 2016 2015 Encouraged retirement 15 15 312 312 28 28 Men Women Men Women Men Women Natural retirement and leaving 8 92 100 34 82 116 89 56 145 Absence in respect of paid sick days 25,371 51,314 25,939 55,298 53,667 26,051 Of which: termination of contract 7 7 34 1 35 37 4 41 Discount Absence rate 5.99% 6.24% 5.78% Discount Resignation 444 24 468 400 34 434 363 25 388 Bank Bank Accidents 38 79 37 105 18 10 Dismissal (imposed by the Bank) 119 3 4 123 110 3 3 113 120 2 122 Absence in respect of paid sick days 5,083 8,528 10,476 4,840 10,271 4,580 Other 4 8 1 12 6 4 10 2 1 3 Total retirement 575 143 718 550 435 985 574 112 686 MDB Absence rate 4% 4.10% 3.56% Encouraged retirement 10 10 32 32 13 13 Accidents 8 12 8 12 18 10 Natural retirement and leaving 12 12 10 10 10 10 Absence in respect of paid sick days 3,949 17,357 3,902 14,304 3,738 14,043 Resignation 13 10 23 16 9 25 34 34 ICC Absence rate 5.09% 5.12% MDB Dismissal (imposed by the Bank) 4 4 8 17 2 19 5 5 Accidents 17 57 8 18 11 22 Other 1 1 1 1 1 1 Notes: Total retirement 17 37 54 33 54 87 63 63 1 Paid sick days are counted according to the number of actual days. Natural retirement and leaving 3 2 5 2 The counting of days is of workdays missed by the employee and it refers to the total number of possible workdays in the year and not to the total number of days in the calendar year. Resignation 199 230 205 3 The absence rate is calculated as the total actual number of absence days divided by the total number of possible workdays of ICC Dismissal (imposed by the Bank) 107 108 124 the employee population at the end of the reporting year. It should be noted that the total number of absence days includes all Other 0 10 1 employees who in respect of which an event of “illness” was recorded, while the denominator comprises the employee population at the end of the year. As a result of this calculation format the absence rate has an upward bias. Total retirement 309 350 335 4 Data on reported accidents are data reported to the National Insurance Institute, and include accidents on the way to and from the workplace. Therefore, these data do not constitute an indication of the number of safety at work events. Notes: 1 Of which, nine who had passed away. 2 MDB, ICC not including employees retiring from unpaid leave / maternity leave or employees under trial period. 3 The dismissals are of employees under trial period or for serious disciplinary reasons. Events involving customers and employees, who resulted in the activation of insurance policy Maternity leave 2017 2016 2017 2016 2015 Customers (third party) 24 12 Discount Men Women Men Women Men Women Employees (employers' liability) 8 4 Bank Eligible for maternity leave 140 282 160 302 178 300 Total 32 16 Went on maternity leave 4 248 6 261 1 315 Customers (third party) 4 12 Discount Bank Returned from leave 4 219 6 237 1 292 MDB Employees (employers' liability) 4 Employees who were still employed Total 4 16 12 months after returning to work 4 205 5 204 1 233 Customers (third party) 2 2 Eligible for maternity leave 44 66 52 65 45 62 Went on maternity leave ICC Employees (employers' liability) 19 3 66 65 2 62 MDB Returned from leave 53 38 2 62 Total 21 5 Employees who were still employed 12 months after returning to work 66 65 2 62 Notes: Employee training 1 Eligible for maternity leave Anyone who had a child born to him / her between the dates of January 1, to December 31, of that year, who did not necessarily exercise his entitlement at the Bank. Average training hours per employee 2 For Discount Bank: a.Data for 2017 Number of male/female employees who returned to work after a maternity leave and stayed to work as of April 17, 2017. b.Data for 2016 Number of male/female employees who returned to work after a maternity leave and stayed to work as of June 28, 2017. 2017 2016 2015 c.Data for 2015 Number of male/female employees who returned to work after a maternity leave and stayed to work as of October 31, 2015. 3 For MDB: Discount Bank 39 34 34 a.Data for 2016 Number of male/female employees who returned and stayed to work as of December 31, 2016. b.Data for 2015 Number of male/female employees who returned and stayed to work as of December 31, 2015. MDB 45 40 46 244 > Index Index > 245 Details of employee training data at Discount Bank Total training days at the Bank Of which: frontal instruction 2017 66,552 29,536 2016 66,249 26,335 2015 63,330 26,130 Appendices Green Of which: Computer-Mediated Learning 37,016 39,914 37,200 Emissions Average training hours per employee 39 34 34 Greenhouse gas emissions in 2017 Average days per employee 12.95 12.68 11.44 Cost of training 9.9 million 7 million 7 million Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total emissions Discount Bank 4,028 22,267 652 26,947 MDB 987 5,267 Not measured 6,254 Feedback interviews of employees ICC 1,666 3,432 Not measured 5,098 Percentage of employees who received feedback 2017 2016 2015 Details regarding the investment of Discount Bank in the process1 of reducing Discount Bank 99% 98% 99% greenhouse gas emissions in 2017, and the annual savings deriving from them: MDB 98% 96% 96% ICC 99% 100% 100% Annual energy Annual GHG Expected Type of activity Description Investment in savings emissions annual financial NIS thousands (in kwh) reduction savings2 (CO2e tons) (estimate in NIS) Diversity among employees Energy efficiencies Energy efficiencies 10,300 3,078,725 1,855 1,636,600 in buildings in A/C systems Women in the different grades Energy efficiencies Upgrading the 500 769,681 464 384,100 in buildings lighting systems 2017 2016 2015 Rate of Rate of Rate of Buildings – Women Women Women 2,450,945 1,477 1,223,300 women women women reduction of space Board of Directors 3 25% 4 29% 3 23% Total 10,800 6,299,351 3,796 3,244,000 Discount Managers 535 49% 533 48% 565 47% Notes: Bank Of which: Branch managers and above 63 39% 57 37% 41 31% 1 Savings in the consumption of electricity in relation to 2016. Estimated as a percentage of total savings in consumption. 2 In accordance with actual savings data, estimated as a percentage of the total financial savings. Clerks 2,748 62% 2,738 62% 2,765 64% Board of Directors 1 8% 2 17% 2 15% MDB Managers 162 36% 160 35% 152 34% Clerks 638 65% 632 65% 681 65% Board of Directors 2 22% 2 22% 1 11% Members of Management 4 33% 4 20% 2 22% ICC Managers 148 56% 135 54% 130 52% Clerks 911 71% 881 69% 865 71% Notes: 1 Data of branch managers and above at Discount Bank do not include the members of Management. 2 In 2017, an update of the employee calculation methodology was performed, which the Bank updated retroactively also for the year 2016. 246 > Index Index > 247 List of tables and charts in the report Name of the table/ chart page Discount Bank’s paper consumption 186 Name of the table/ chart page Recycling and use of recycled materials 187 The material topics matrix 14 Discount Bank’s carbon footprint according to scopes 188 Material Topics Reporting Boundaries 15 The intensity of Discount Greenhouse gas emissions 188 Discount Group Structure 25 MDB’s consumption of energy from various sources 189 The economic value created by the Discount Group 42 MDB’s consumption of electricity 190 Reporting and consultation channels 50 MDB’s energetic intensity 190 Current and designated surveys 58 MDB’s fuel consumption 190 2017 service quality index data 60 MDB’s paper consumption 191 Rate of justified complaints at Discount Bank 66 ICC’s consumption of energy from various sources 192 Complaints and enquiries data at Discount Bank 66 ICC’s consumption of electricity 192 Distribution of the subjects of main complaints at Discount Bank 67 ICC’s energetic intensity 193 Rate of justified complaints at MDB 68 ICC’s fuel consumption 193 Distribution of main complaints at ICC 69 Discount Bank's Organizational Structure Chart 197 Lectures and Workshops 78 Composition of the Board 199 Student loans in the years 2014-2017 86 Details regarding members of Management 212 Breakdown of Discount Bank’s employees by gender 104 Responses to the Report 229 Breakdown of Discount Bank’s employees by employment categories 104 GRI Content index combined with UNGC 230 Employees of the Bank and the principal subsidiaries in Israel 105 Manpower status 238 Academic education 105 Breakdown of employees by gender 238 Average age and average seniority of the employees 105 Breakdown of employees by geographic distribution 238 Employment of underrepresented populations Discount Bank 115 Breakdown of employees by type of engagement 239 Employment of underrepresented populations – MDB 116 Breakdown of employees by age 239 Employment of underrepresented populations – ICC 117 Average age and seniority 240 Investing in employees 119 Breakdown of new employees by gender 240 Training days at Discount Bank 121 Breakdown of new employees by age 240 Training days at MDB 123 Breakdown of leaving employees by gender 241 Data regarding employee and manager training inputs at ICC 124 Breakdown of leaving employees by age 241 Data regarding employees retirement 139 Mobility of employees 241 Officers and members of the Management group 143 Breakdown of employees by reasons of leaving 242 Discount Sprint for the Future General data 158 Maternity leave 242 Employee volunteering data 165 Employees absence 243 Volume of Discount's Group investment in the community 165 Events involving customers and employees, who resulted in the activation of insurance policy 243 Total investment in the community of Discount Group 166 Average training hours per employee 243 Breakdown of consumption of energy from various sources 183 Details of employee training data at Discount Bank 244 Discount Bank’s electricity consumption 184 Percentage of employees who received feedback 244 Discount Bank’s energetic intensity 184 Women in the different grades 244 Discount Bank’s fuel consumption 184 Greenhouse gas emissions in 2017 245 Data regarding the estimated savings resulting from the provision of a shuttle service for employees 185 Details regarding the investment of Discount Bank in the process of reducing greenhouse 245 Savings in Discount Bank's array of shuttle services 185 gas emissions in 2017, and the annual savings deriving from them ‫מתאימים לך יותר‬
