UN Global Compact, October 2019 Communication on Progress WE SUPPORT Table of Contents This report details WindowMaster International’s At the vanguard of green technology 4–5 performance on social, ethical, and environmental WindowMaster 2019 snapshot (YTD) 5 issues in 2019. It clarifies how we have worked with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in our daily The buildings of the future will breathe 6–7 business and what measurements we have taken to tackle global challenges as pointed out by the UN Global Human and labour rights 8 Compact. A helping hand to the future workforce 9 The first part of the report presents our work and policies Employee training and development 9 related to labour and human rights. The second part Sustainable development starts in school 9 describes what we do to protect our planet and the environment. Terres des Hommes 10 A sustainable workplace culture 11 Environmental report 12 Driving client sustainability 13 – 15 Change in product design 16 – 19 Getting rid of plastic 20 – 21 Bringing down GHG emissions from 22 transportation Food waste 23 Promoting sustainable building practices 23 in the European Union Looking back 24 – 25 Aspirations for the future 26 – 27 2 3 At the vanguard of green WindowMaster 2019 snapshot (YTD) technology area will presumably be added to for both the indoor and outdoor goal create positive knock-on effects 125 employees the global building stock. To put environment. on other goals. This way, our 72% men and 28% women things into perspective, this is the activities have the greatest possible equivalent of building a new Paris In 2019 we have delivered a impact on the environment and every week for the next 40 years. broad range of window automation society. Adding to this, a whopping 40% of products and services that directly lower building energy consumption Together, the Global Compact and 12,308 of green tech global greenhouse gas emissions and create healthy and safe indoor SDGs help WindowMaster to solutions and products are linked to buildings and spaces. We have invested in the approach sustainability in a holistic delivered construction processes. And with development of green technologies way, and the benefits reaped from the Paris agreement commitment and no less than four new products this approach are directly passed on to limit the temperature rise by 1.5 have reached the market in 2019. to customers and partners. Looking degree Celsius, the transition to ahead, 2020 is rapidly approaching, 179,927 DKK invested net-zero buildings is both urgent In this report, we will zoom in on and I am excited to say that we will in education and training of and imperative. To accomplish this how we address global ambitions continue the good work in the new employees transition, the world needs a change with local solutions. With every year as a UN Global Compact in attitude, and above all, it needs project WindowMaster delivers in member. every individual, corporation, NGO, local communities, we minimize the 2019 has been an encouraging year and government to start putting carbon footprint of a building. This is Erik Boyter for WindowMaster International A/S. action behind their words. something we pride ourselves with, CEO, WindowMaster International A/S 100% wind energy Year to date, we have delivered but also something we see as an positive results and accelerated However, it’s not all gloomy news. obligation. The report also covers at headquarters1 both our project pipeline and topWe are better equipped than activities taken inhouse to reduce line growth. Taken together with ever before to reduce buildings’ waste and energy consumption in the progress outlined in this report, carbon footprint using intelligent relation to product manufacture and I believe this is testament to the technologies. Therefore, I strongly how we work with human wellbeing; 100% renewable energy symbiotic relationship between believe that together, we can both internal in WindowMaster and for electricity at production site1 success and sustainability. However, transform the built environment in developing countries. we are not blind to the acute from being a major contributor of challenges posed by society and will greenhouse gas emissions to a In 2019, we have aspired to make a continue to act on these. central part of the solution to the meaningful, long-lasting contribution WE SUPPORT climate change. If the new building to the UN Global Compact’s Ten The world is currently subject to stock is designed to meet zero-netPrinciples. Taking a principles1.638 tons reduction the largest wave of urban growth in carbon standards, and renovations based approach to the Sustainable of food waste human history. According to World are based on energy efficient Development Goals helps us to see Energy Statistics and Balances, technologies, then we have laid a the full range of our impact both more than half of the global solid foundation for restoring our positive and negative. Through population is now concentrated climate. our work with the SDGs we can 3.314 hours spent in urban areas. By 2060 this therefore reduce risk and nurture on development of green will increase to two thirds of the At WindowMaster, we have already innovation. expected population of 10 billion begun the work to realize this technologies people. potential. We strive to stay in the By using the Ten Principles as a vanguard of green technology systematic framework for our CSR To accommodate this growth, an and offer the building industry strategy, we are also able to ensure extra 230 billion m2 of new floor sustainable solutions that are good that the actions we take to reach one 1: CO2 compensated 4 5 Environment: We Labour: We strive to be place environmental a preferred employer responsibility at the core Our strong commitment to uphold of our business labour standards is an integral part At WindowMaster, we believe that of our relationship both with internal energy consumption can be minimized while workforce and external suppliers. Standards improving the indoor climate through access include workers’ councils, freedom of association, to fresh and clean air with green ventilation elimination of forced, compulsory and child labour, technologies. This is at the heart of our and elimination of discrimination. environmental strategy which comprises several key areas: Non-discrimination and equal opportunities are ▪ Make a global difference on product quality and rudiments of promoting diversity both in terms of The buildings of innovation in the building industry gender, nationality, and cultural background. ▪ Inspire the building industry worldwide to explore sustainable alternatives to energy inefficient the future will ventilation systems ▪ Running efficient operations Anti-corruption: ▪ Enabling client sustainability Transparent governance ▪ Sharing insights to advance sustainability is key to our business breathe Human rights: We believe in equality and At WindowMaster we have both preventive and reactive measures in place to inhibit corruption. We adhere to international and regional legal frameworks concerned with anti-corruption and have a zero-tolerance policy for corruption, dignity bribery, and extortion. WindowMaster is committed to protect human rights, both for our Our Business Ethics policy shows our consistent own employees and for our suppliers. We respect and uncompromising adherence to strong moral the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and and ethical principles and values in our pursuit WindowMaster was founded in 1990. Its founding vision Natural ventilation from WindowMaster technology environmental protection. Accordingly, our Code of to deliver competitive results. All employees is to create better, sustainable buildings with healthy can contribute to: Conduct is shared with all employees and external and business partners who act on behalf of and safe indoor climates. WindowMaster employs highly ▪ Reducing the building energy consumption business partners. WindowMaster are subject to the policy. experienced cleantech specialists in Denmark, Norway, ▪ Good thermal comfort all year round Germany, United Kingdom, Ireland, Switzerland, and the ▪ Free, energy-neutral cooling via night purge ventilation With components sourced from developing We have a whistleblower program in place United States of America. In addition, we work with a vast ▪ Reducing the amount of material used compared to countries, we acknowledge that a thorough and follow-up mechanisms for reporting fraud, network of certified partners worldwide. mechanical ventilation assessment must be carried out to identify potential corruption or other corporate wrongdoing. ▪ Reducing the capital cost compared to mechanical and actual adverse human rights impacts that our Internationally, we have maintained a solid check We supply sustainable indoor climate solutions for all ventilation collaboration can potentially cause, contribute to, and balance system over transactions. Records types of buildings. Our solutions are based on natural or be directly linked to. Ongoing auditing will be a and transactions are checked and controlled by forces – i.e. airflow. We believe that fresh air in buildings www.windowmaster.com → top priority in 2020, where new processes will be finance and administration. allows them to ‘breathe’, which, not unlike for us, is established. paramount to staying healthy. We maintain a zero-abuse level and ask employees In addition, we have many years of experience in as well as supply chain partners to support and join providing smoke ventilation solutions that comply with the UN Global Compact. European EN standards and local regulatory standards. 6 7 A helping hand to the future workforce departments, which includes HR, Finance, IT, Business Human and labour rights SDGs 4.4, 4.7, 7.a, 8.3, 8.5, 8.6, 8.b, 13.3 Development, Product Management, R&D, and Supply & logistic). Sustainable development starts in school At WindowMaster, we promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive SDGs 4.7, 17.16 employment, and decent work for all. We further work to reduce the proportion of youth not in employment, education or training. Therefore, in 2019 we have committed to hire trainees and pay for their education. At WindowMaster, we strive to increase the time and This year, we have employed three trainees. resources spent in school on learning about sustainable building technologies. It is essential to generate awareness about the issues and possibilities related Employee training and development to both building CO2 emission and healthy indoor environments early on to promote greater environmental SDGs 4.7, 8.3 responsibility and encourage the development and diffusion of green technologies. To act on this, we signed an agreement in 2018 with WindowMaster is committed to helping our employees the Technical University of Denmark stating that develop the necessary skills and capabilities to advance WindowMaster will provide thesis statements about in their careers and deliver high quality work to our clients. energy-efficient indoor climate control. The statements We therefore have development-oriented policies in place can be used by students for writing their Master’s thesis. that support and encourage creativity and innovation. In 2019, yet another student has chosen a WindowMaster statement as the framework for his thesis. As per August 2019, we have invested 179,927 DKK in employee training across all our different markets WindowMaster further commits to provide guidance, and functions. When zooming in on the numbers, we supply components when necessary, and to make have increased investments in most areas compared our expertise within the field of clean tech available to to 2018 (UK and Ireland, Switzerland, USA and support students working with us. Market / function 2017 2018 2019 (per 01.09) Grand Total Nordic Market 111.794 81.507 34.440 227.741 DE & AT Market 8.160 411 – 8.571 UK & IE Market 2.816 1.431 6.557 10.804 CH Market 17.422 13.549 14.302 45.273 US Market 45.026 1.485 8.563 55.074 Support Departments 295.495 83.745 116.065 495.305 Production 6.389 15.112 – 21.501 Grand Total 487.101 197.240 179.927 864.268 8 9 The Q4-2018 report from TDH A sustainable workplace culture Denmark is exciting. 76 trainees are enrolled in all three courses offered Humans are a paramount resource for WindowMaster. That’s why we at the computer center. 49 students encourage employees to partake in activities that strengthens physical are female and 27 are male. In and mental health. addition to the 76 trainees, 116 students graduated from the center: Throughout the year we facilitate participatory activities that bring 93 students from the digital literacy employees together. course and 23 students completed 6 months of basic IT training. For example, in the summer of 2019, staff at WindowMaster headquarters in Denmark participated in the annual DHL relay race with two teams. This Upon completing courses and allowed employees to be active outdoors, get some fresh air, and enjoy training, the students receive each other’s company with a social dinner to end the event. certificates. The certificates are government-approved and The annual summer party invites employees to participate in social are a requirement in many job activities followed by a relaxed dinner. Likewise, a December Christmas applications. lunch and holiday bingo at the Headquarters contribute to a cozy and welcoming atmosphere. About the 2 scholarship recipients: Sarah and Anna Fieldtrips are planned to the projects that WindowMaster is currently Sarah is in her 3rd year of Computer working on or have worked on in the past. These trips give employees a Engineering studies. Sarah is an taste of what their work contributes to in the community. orphan who lives with her aunt. While she is supported by her Events like these are planned throughout all our offices across Europe family, there are no funds for and USA. her educational expenses. The scholarship helps her continue her degree and her social worker reports that she is bright and doing well. Terre des Hommes Anna is also in her 3rd year of SDGs 1.1, 1.2, 1.4, 4.1, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.b, 4.c, 8.6, Engineering. Despite many 9.c, 17.6, 17.17 obstacles and lack of support in her home and community, she continues to pursue a degree in Telecommunications. She has made friends at the school who she studies “ As part of our commitment to the UN’s SDGs, The Government approved with. WindowMaster sponsors an IT education program through Terre des Hommes (TDH) Denmark’s Khetwadi IT qualification course is a Anna lost her mother at a young School project in Mumbai, India. Beginning in 2016, our requirement for consideration in age and her case worker remarks sponsorship continues today. many jobs. Due to the support that she stays very focused on of WindowMaster, these CASP her studies despite the lack of DHL relay race, 2019 The sponsorship provides funding in a number of areas. encouragement available in her students now have the chance Firstly, it funds the computer training center on the everyday life. The scholarship she outskirts of Delhi as well as equipment for the center. to pursue many of the same receives allows her to continue her Along with the facilities, the funding employs two full-time opportunities as children from studies. teachers. In addition to the center’s resources, the funds privileged backgrounds. We are include 2 scholarships for students who are pursuing very grateful” Read more about Terre des higher studies. Hommes and our commitment Manju Upadhyay, Project Manager, CASP Delhi Unit to the program → 10 11 Environmental report Driving client sustainability SDGs 7.1, 7.2, 7.3, 7.a, 7.b, 8.2, 8.4, 9.4, 9.5, 11.6, 12.2, 12.6, 12.8 Helping clients to become more sustainable is what our In 2019 we have helped the building industry reduce its business is all about. We empower clients to reduce CO2 carbon footprint with 12,308 (YTD) green tech products emissions by offering energy-efficient technologies to and projects delivered to markets across the world. On control the indoor climate in their buildings. As such, our the following pages are three examples of how we have work to foster a greener environment transcends beyond enabled clients to build energy efficient buildings. the limits of the actions taken internally to optimize our own buildings and behavior. Engaging visitors in sustainability Photo: Lund Hagrem Arkitekter AS Klimahuset, Oslo – new building goes back to the roots Klimahuset is a new exhibition center and is part of the Natural ventilation is achieved through window actuators Museum of Natural History in the Botanical garden of on the façade, which control the windows according to Oslo, Norway. temperature, CO2 levels and weather data. This ensures the best possible indoor climate at the lowest possible The 650 sqm large building will be inaugurated at the energy consumption. end of 2019/beginning of 2020. The goal of Klimahuset is to convey information about the climate and to engage For this project, the new, intelligent indoor climate visitors and the community in sustainability. Moreover, control solution developed by WindowMaster, the building works as a guidepost for sustainable building NV Embedded® →, is used. through innovative and locally sourced materials, interaction between lowand high-tech solutions, and the Read more about the WindowMaster use of wood. contribution to Klimahuset → A primary means to building Klimahuset sustainably was the installation of automated natural and hybrid ventilation supplied by WindowMaster. 12 13 UCL Student Center, London – with the needs of students at its heart Opened in February 2019, the Student Centre is a branddesigned and provided by WindowMaster. The ventilation new facility, designed from the ground up with the needs solution has already been fully tested throughout the of students at its heart. The 5,764 sqm building provides London heatwave of 2019 with excellent results. practical support through a new Student Enquiries Centre, and with 1,000 new study spaces and new routes across Fresh air is provided via floor level vents and is drawn up campus, it radically improves the way you move and learn through the atrium at high level where heat is extracted at University College London (UCL). to help reduce energy consumption during the cooler seasons. Windows automatically open to naturally The building represents a flagship for sustainability. In ventilate the building in the spring and autumn, eliminating 2019 it was awarded the highest BREEAM (Building the need for mechanical ventilation. Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method) rating, recognizing its sustainable design and For this project, WindowMaster controls window actuators construction. Only 320 buildings globally have achieved in 34 ventilation zones with the system NV Advance® →. 30% energy this to date. Read more about the WindowMaster contribution reduction One factor which helped the Student Centre achieve to the UCL Student Campus → Photo: Hazel Nicholson an ‘Outstanding’ rating is the natural ventilation solution One Angel Square, Northampton – award winning redesign The 22,000 sqm One Angel Square in the UK was open. In that case the CO2 levels will decrease, and the developed as a key element in Northampton’s County mechanical fresh air supply will automatically ramp back. Highest Council’s drive to improve its operational efficiency. Its rationale was that a new city center office would allow CFD modelling proved the operational energy benefits of BREEAM 2,000 council workers to be relocated from 12 offices using the mixed mode ventilation approach. A modellingrating in 2019 scattered around the town, improving operational efficiencies and generating savings on rent and and sensitivity analysis has estimated a fan energy saving of 30% by using the WindowMaster mixed-mode solution, maintenance. Moving the workforce back into the town where mechanical cooling takes over once temperature center would also help to reinvigorate a historically rises above 21°C. important quarter of the town. The building was completed in 2017 and in 2019 the One Angel Square demonstrates success through project won the CIBSE Building Performance Award understatement and simplicity. It adopts best practice “Project of the Year – Commercial/Industrial”. passive design strategies including mixed-mode ventilation and combines them through an approach to Award description: “Recognizing and celebrating the deliver a highly efficient, highly sustainable, and highly new build or refurbishment of a commercial or industrial comfortable building. building that most effectively demonstrates high levels of user satisfaction and comfort while delivering outstanding The building façades have louvred panels, which conceal measured building performance, energy efficiency and automated fresh air ventilators. The façade ventilators reduced carbon emissions”. open automatically under control of the building management system. This solution takes the ventilation The WindowMaster NV Advance® → system is used to element away from the window, so you don’t end up with control 61 zones containing approximately 250 actuators, window blinds obstructing an open vent. fitted to open bottom hung 2m tall unglazed vents. When natural ventilation is not possible, high-efficiency Read more about the WindowMaster Photo: Nicholas Hare Architects © Alan Williams Photography air handling units provide mechanical ventilation. CO2 contribution to One Angel Square → sensors around the floor plates monitor if windows are 14 15 Change in product design SDGs 8.4, 9.4, 12.2, 12.4, 12.5, 17.16 Being in the construction industry, it’s important for for manufacturing, transport, construction and end-of-life According to a study carried out by the Department Manufacture of products and materials accounts for WindowMaster to acknowledge that sustainability not only disposal. Accordingly, it is important to focus on buildings’ for Business Innovation and Skills2 , in-use building the largest amount of emissions within the process of concerns the operation and maintenance of a building. entire lifespan. Only then can we significantly reduce the emissions accounts for the largest proportion, over 80%, construction that can be influenced. Constructing buildings requires a substantial amount of carbon footprint of our built environment. of total CO2 emissions that our industry can influence. materials, which have an associated embodied energy CO2 emissions will occur early CO2 emitted as materials The CO2 emissions from the process of design e.g. and people are resulting from the behavior energy and transport use by transported to and from that takes place in buildings architects / planners / site (freight and business (heating, cooling, lighting, engineers. travel). ventilation, etc.). Product Assembly Refurb / Design Distribution In use manufacture on site Demolish CO2 emissions associated with Includes direct and indirect the production of construction Covers direct and indirect CO2 emissions from products / materials as well as CO2 emissions (i.e. demolition and waste emissions embodied in imported combustion and energy use) removal, as well as the products / materials. from on-site operations. process of refurbishment. 2: Source: Estimating the amount of CO2 emissions that the construction industry can influence → 16 17 Refurb / Demolish Design 1.3 MtCO2 1.3 MtCO2 0.4% af total 0.4% af total Product manufacture Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 45.2 MtCO2 15.1% af total Distribution 2.8 MtCO2 0.9% af total Assembly on site Non surface treated Cable length reduction No paint on inner 2.6 MtCO2 aluminum motor cover to 1,400mm motor cover 0.9% af total Previously the outer motor cover Previously a 5,000mm cable was Historically, powder coating was underwent an anodizing process. attached to all VELUX Modular applied to the aluminum parts However, the motor cover is made of Skylight open system actuators. of the inner motor cover to all In total aluminum, which has without special surface treatment sufficient corrosion A thorough assessment showed customers. However, the motor cover is not visible for the end-user 299,6 MtCO2 resistance for that application. And that with their products being tailor and by skipping the powder coating with the motor being built into the made for their product application, process presents no negative impact frame and thus invisible to users, the the length of the cable was in fact regarding quality or product lifetime. process was deemed expendable. exaggerated. Reducing the cable By eliminating this process, we have Skipping this process has minimized to the actual required length of successfully been able to; the environmental footprint of the 1,400 mm has reduced the resource product in several ways; consumption significantly. ▪ Eliminate the consumption of 360 kg of powder coating material. In use ▪ There is now zero raw material For the annual production volume ▪ Bring energy consumption for pre246.4 MtCO2 82% af total consumption for the sulfuric acid the resource saving amounts to 270 treatment, drying processes, curing bath in which the anodizing process kg of copper and 510 kg of plastic. after powder application, running Pie chart: Adapted amount of CO2 emissions which the is performed. the line, and support processes construction industry has the ability to influence ▪ We have eliminated water from 43,000 kWh to zero. consumption and wastewater treatment for the sulfuric acid bath. ▪ The energy consumption is WindowMaster products have a direct impact on the reduced by 760 kWh per year, by “in-use” of buildings. By using natural forces, window skipping the anodizing process for actuators used for natural and mixed mode ventilation the annual production volume. significantly reduce the energy consumption when buildings are cooled. Accordingly, we act upon what we perceive to be an obligation to bring down CO2 emissions in buildings when in use. In 2019 we have analyzed our potential to further reduce the environmental impact of buildings during Changing product design their life span. The second most influenceable area in which the construction industry has great capacity to minimize carbon emissions is in product manufacture. Window actuators/motors are the direct product of our manufacture process. Cu Based on research and testing, WindowMaster has in 43,000 kWh energy 360 kg. less raw No anodizing process 270 kg less 510 kg less cooperation with a global window manufacture in 2019, for production saves copper used plastic used reduction from skipping material used for implemented the following three steps to address energy 760 kWh per year powder coating powder coating usage and resource consumption during the manufacture of our products shipped to key accounts, with step 3 being applied to products shipped to all customers. 18 19 Getting rid of plastic SDGs 8.4, 12.2, 12.4, 12.5 In recent years, businesses and whole industries have in our company’s plastic use. We also found that simple been challenged on the use of plastic in their products changes could help us reduce this considerably. and packaging. And rightly so, the construction industry has been no stranger to this debate, receiving its wellWindowMaster products very rarely are found sitting deserved share of criticism related to its impact on the outside at a construction site. Because of the electrical environment. components and size, they are often stored inside, unlike other, larger building materials. So, as these large building This increased focus makes it clear that the time for materials may need to stand outside for extended periods innovative and sustainable solutions is now, especially in of time, plastic wrapping is deemed necessary to protect terms of materials, workflows, them. WindowMaster and attitudes towards waste products, which are within the industry. usually stored inside, “ We certainly do not want do not need this level It was these rigorous criticisms of plastic wrapping. to be part of the unsettling on the lack of sustainability in our industry that led us to statistics, which is why we After reviewing position our products and have launched a number of the process and technology within the initiatives that can reduce our protocol around sustainable building revolution. environmental footprint. Our the use of plastic in However, it was impossible our packaging, we to overlook our own product’s success in reducing plastic decided to set a goal contribution to the painful consumption has proven to for 2018 to reduce our plastic consumption statistics. us that there are many ways annual consumption In Europe alone, packaging to improve if we simply invest of plastic by 30% is responsible for 30% of from our packaging. Consumption of plastic packaging at WindowMaster annual plastic production the time and effort into new By the end of 2018, →. It became both obvious initiatives” we succeeded in and difficult for us to brand reducing our plastic Consumption (kg) Average consumption our products as a sustainable Erik Boyter, CEO of consumption by building technology without WindowMaster International A/S 69%. The work 120 also reviewing the waste in our has continued into 110 packaging. 2019, where a slight 100 increase is the 90 80 In 2016, we launched an internal review of plastic result of larger order intake. Therefore, we have been Kilogram 70 consumption within our supply chain. To little surprise, able to stay on the right track towards reducing plastic 60 we found that our product packaging was the key culprit consumption. 50 40 30 20 10 0 Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug 2016 2017 2018 2019 Average 63,33 kg Average 72,92 kg Average 28,75 kg Average 38,46 kg 20 21 Food waste SDGs 12.3, 12.5 Bringing down GHG emissions from transportation SDGs 8.4, 12.2, 12.4, 12.5 We receive lunch at our headquarters every day from an external supplier. In order to reduce or eliminate food waste, we implemented a lunch sign-up procedure. Each week, employees must indicate which days they will eat The transportation sector is lunch in the following week. This ensures that we do not one of the largest contributors over-order food. to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in our key markets On a normal day, 25-30 people enjoy lunch in the (Europe and USA). It canteen. By introducing the sign-up process, we have represents about a quarter of been able to bring down food waste during the past year, GHG emissions and has not saving approximately 1,638 tons of food and 125,000 seen the same gradual decline DKK. in emissions as other sectors. GHG emissions by source within transportation shows that road transport accounts for the largest footprint both in Europe and the Promoting sustainable building practices USA; key markets for WindowMarster. in the European Union WindowMaster strives to keep emissions from SDGs 12.7, 17.4 our vehicles and other means of transportation to an absolute minimum. To do this, we implemented Skype for Business early on in our operational infrastructure and aim to use this technology whenever possible. This Since 2017, WindowMaster has had an active voice in the Four work items have been approved, with the following has resulted in fewer flights between climate debate on an EU level. Our current involvement titles and technical committees: markets and different offices. includes standardization of descriptive documents relevant to the design process of natural ventilation. In ▪ Ventilative cooling systems (CEN/TC 156) However, we acknowledge that not all 2019, our work with streamlining processes for designing ▪ Natural and Hybrid ventilation systems in non-residential meetings and visits can be carried out with Skype. buildings with natural ventilation has continued. buildings (CEN/TC 156) Physical presence is sometimes necessary, ▪ Design process of natural ventilation for reducing cooling especially when it comes to inspection or service of ▪ We have started to bulk shipments to a large key The goal with this initiative is to make it easier for demand in energy-efficient non-residential buildings buildings and products. Similarly, product deliveries customer. This means, that we no longer ship Building Owners, Contractors, Architects, Engineers, (ISO/TC 205) also require physical transportation. Accordingly, we individual boxes, but can reduce the carbon footprint and other stakeholders within the construction industry ▪ Expansion of Natural and Hybrid ventilation for will not be able to bring our miles on the road to zero. through improved logistics, container utilization, and to understand and choose natural ventilation as a green residential buildings in upcoming revision of EN warehouse optimization. alternative to other energy inefficient ventilation solutions. 15665:2009 and CEN/TR 14788:2006 (CEN/TC 156 To counteract or bring down our transportation GHG Our involvement in standards at an international level emission, we have in 2019 instituted new abatement We are currently investigating other measures that also helps us improve the quality of natural ventilation The approved documents under CEN/TC 156 (Ventilation levers that will allow us to shift to low-emission will potentially minimize GHG emission from transport solutions at the industry level, ensuring that they for buildings) are planned as Technical Specifications, mobility: operations. These include shifting to lower carbon meet minimum standards for building performance whereas under ISO/TC 205 (Building environment design) modalities (e.g. changing air to sea freight) and local enhancement, lower energy consumption, and foster they are planned as an ISO Standard. ▪ By 2025, our entire vehicle fleet will be non-fossil sourcing in production. healthy indoor environments. fuel powered. 22 23 Looking back When WindowMaster joined the UN Global compact, ▪ Reduce fossil fuel consumption to a maximum of 25% successfully reached several targets set out four years We will continue to view the SDGs through the lens of the Ten Principles and 17 SDGs became an integral in 2018 ago, including reducing our total energy consumption on the Ten Principles and aim to bring a principles-based part of our business strategy, day-to-day operations, ▪ Reduce CO2 emissions from vehicles by 20% in 2018 several parameters. approach to life. We will align our CSR program with and organizational culture. We conducted a holistic goals that reflect our business strategy and our ability to assessment of the current positive and negative impact With 2015 being the baseline year, we have successfully It is now time to look forward and set new, even more significantly impact our surroundings both now and in the that our operations and value chain had on the SDGs and managed to reach all targets (cf. COP report 2018). Our ambitious goals for the future. To do this, we have built a future. communities where we are present. As a result, we were aim to further reduce our premises’ energy consumption, working group. The task of the group is to reify our CSR able to set specific, measurable, and time-bound targets fossil fuel consumption, and vehicle emissions has strategy and structure our sustainability efforts in order to To achieve this, we will bring in an external expert to incentivize and motivate performance across the continued throughout 2019. create a tangible corporate social responsibility program. who can add value to the internal working group. The company and to achieve organizational commitment. This program will outline a set of focused, measurable strategy and underlying targets will be presented in our But with 2020 being only a few months away, it is time targets, all aligned with one overall strategy. Communication on Progress report in 2020. Key targets were based on a clear set of SDG priorities to identify new business models, strategies, products where we could maximize our impact. Primary targets and activities necessary to achieve the scale and The purpose of the new overall strategy is to use the entailed; transformation needed to create a better world in allocated resources more efficiently, to strengthen and accordance with the UN Global Compact Principles. make our CSR vision more focused and easier to grasp, ▪ Bringing down plastic consumption by 30% in 2018 and to re-engage employees and our supply chain. ▪ Reducing energy consumption at our premises by 20% 2020 will be a turning point for WindowMaster in terms in 2018 of our CSR strategy. In 2019, we can say that we have 24 25 Aspirations for the future 2020 will be a turning point for WindowMaster in terms strategy and structure our sustainability efforts in order to We will continue to view the SDGs through the lens of of our CSR strategy. In 2019, we can say that we have create a tangible corporate social responsibility program. the Ten Principles and aim to bring a principles-based successfully reached several targets set out four years This program will outline a set of focused, measurable approach to life. We will align our CSR program with ago, including reducing our total energy consumption on targets, all aligned with one overall strategy. goals that reflect our business strategy and our ability to several parameters. significantly impact our surroundings both now and in the The purpose of the new overall strategy is to use the future. It is now time to look forward and set new, even more allocated resources more efficiently, to strengthen and ambitious goals for the future. To do this, we have built a make our CSR vision more focused and easier to grasp, The strategy and underlying targets will be presented in working group. The task of the group is to reify our CSR and to re-engage employees and our supply chain. our Communication on Progress report in 2020. 26 27 WindowMaster aspires to protect people and the environment by creating a healthy and safe indoor climate, automatically ventilating spaces with fresh air through facade and roof windows in buildings. We offer the construction industry foresighted, flexible and intelligent window actuators and control systems for natural ventilation, mixed-mode ventilation, and smoke ventilation – of the highest quality. WindowMaster employs highly experienced cleantech specialists in Denmark, Norway, Germany, United Kingdom, Ireland, Switzerland, and the United States of America. In addition, we work with a vast network of certified partners. With our extensive expertise built up since 1990, WindowMaster is ready to help the construction industry meet its green obligations and achieve their architectural and technical ambitions. ©WindowMaster 2019 ®WindowMaster is a registered trademark used under license by WindowMaster International windowmaster.com
