Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19 Statutory Report cf. Danish Financial Statements Act sections 99 (a) and (b) Company registration (CVR) No. 69 74 99 17 Table of Contents Company profile 2 CEO statement 3 Approach to corporate responsibility 4 Empowering people 5 Product development, safety and quality 6 Supporting beyond expectations 7 Fighting for better care 8 Community engagement 9 Acting respectfully 10 Code of Conduct and compliance 11 People development and diversity 12 Health and safety 14 Supply chain responsibility 15 Minimising our footprint 16 Sustainable material consumption 17 Energy use and climate impacts 18 Stakeholder engagement and materiality 19 Scope of reporting and data collection 20 Independent practitioner’s limited assurance report on selected environmental, social and governance 22 data for 2018/19 Environment, social and governance (ESG) data 23 About this report This report presents Coloplast’s management of key social and environmental responsibilities, and it contains management’s review of this work as well as full data disclosures. Topics covered are based on Coloplast’s assessment of risks to society and the most recent materiality assessment. For more about materiality and scope of reporting, please see page 19 and 20. Together with Coloplast’s own ambitions, targets and challenges, this report includes general trends in the healthcare industry, changes in key demographic groups worldwide and more. These trends are based on Coloplast’s own assessments of external events and the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Additionally, this report constitutes the statutory report cf. Danish Financial Statements Act, section 99a and 99b. The report is published annually together with the Coloplast Annual Report, and covers the financial year 2018/19, from 1 October 2018 to 30 September 2019. This report also functions as the Communication On Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact. 1 Company profile Coloplast develops and markets products and services that make life easier for people with very private and personal medical conditions within Ostomy Care, Continence Care, Wound & Skin Care and Interventional Urology. Business model Coloplast produces, markets and sells products and services globally, and in most markets, the products are eligible for reimbursement from local healthcare authorities. Coloplast supplies products to hospitals and institutions, as well as wholesalers and pharmacies. In select markets, Coloplast is also a direct supplier to users. Coloplast employs around 12,000 people and operates globally with sales subsidiaries in more than 40 countries. There are production sites in Denmark, Hungary, the United States, China, Costa Rica and France. Risks to society Coloplast is mindful of the risks posed towards society such as, but not limited to, labour and human rights in our direct operations and in our supply chain, fraud among distributors and environmental strains from our production. Coloplast has policies in place for relevant risks on these four topics, which are addressed throughout this report. The policies are published along with this report on Coloplast.com. For more on risk, please see page 20. Our four business areas Ostomy Care products are for people whose bowel has been rerouted through the abdominal wall. Examples of conditions, which could require this procedure include colorectal cancer, bladder cancer and inflammatory bowel disease. Continence Care is about helping people to manage their bladder and bowel conditions. Examples of conditions, which affect continence include spinal cord injuries, Spina Bifida and Multiple Sclerosis. Wound & Skin Care is the treatment of wounds that are difficult to heal, while skin care products are used for the prevention and treatment of damaged or at-risk skin. Examples of conditions with wounds which are difficult to heal include leg ulcers, diabetic foot ulcers and pressure ulcers. Interventional Urology is the treatment of medical issues related to the urinary system, the male reproductive system and female pelvic health. Examples of these conditions include urinary incontinence, erectile dysfunction, enlarged prostate and pelvic organ prolapse. Sales performance by business area Sales performance by region DKK million DKK million 2018/19 2017/18 2018/19 2017/18 12 mths 12 mths 12 mths 12 mths Ostomy Care 7,166 6,643 European markets 10,573 9,941 Continence Care 6,459 5,926 Other developed markets 4,380 3,791 Interventional Urology 1,970 1,740 Emerging markets 2,986 2,717 Wound & Skin Care 2,344 2,140 Net revenue 17,939 16,449 Net revenue 17,939 16,449 2 CEO Statement Coloplast is a purpose driven company. We work to with several challenges on a daily basis. These make life easier for people with intimate healthcare conditions not only affect the patient itself, but also needs. We already help millions – and we aspire to their families and the society. We partner with local help even more in the years to come. clinicians to change this by delivering education, consumer awareness, and access to good products. Just as we want our products and services to make a positive difference in people’s lives, we’re Minimising our footprint committed to making a positive impact on society Helping more people with intimate health care as well. That’s what corporate responsibility is all needs presents a dilemma: helping more people about. means making more products and therefore I am proud of the progress over the past 12 months, potentially increasing the impact on the but we can still do better. We have an internal environment. saying: we have more work to do. We embrace that challenge and have made real Delivering on our values progress when it comes to sustainable production. Respect and responsibility are written into our We will continue to balance growth with dedicated values, and I’m proud to see how we continue to efforts to reduce our environmental footprint. translate these values into action. A few highlights: This year, we reached our goal of using 100 per Within health and safety, we’ve managed to reduce cent renewable electricity at all our production sites, occupational injuries by 30 per cent – in this year and we managed to bring down greenhouse gas alone. Within business ethics, we’ve strengthened emissions by 17 per cent. Guided by life cycle our culture of integrity– by making it even easier to assessments, we will continue to reduce energy raise concerns. consumption and improve the recycling of production waste. We believe diversity creates a higher degree of innovation as well as better decisions and business We use almost 40.000 tonnes of raw materials a results. So, to promote diversity in our teams, we year, and about 70 per cent are plastics. There are will be tracking and monitoring team composition in very limited alternatives to using plastics in medical terms of gender, generation, nationality and more. consumables due to product performance as well Our ambition is to significantly increase the share of as hygiene and quality standards. But we believe we diverse teams globally every year in the coming can improve our raw material use by testing new strategy period. sustainable materials and product technologies. To deliver on this ambition, sustainability has been Delivering value to society singled out as a distinct focus area in our new Health care is changing. Around the world, health strategy. care systems are under pressure. Consequently, it will increasingly be expected that health care Continued commitment companies assume a greater responsibility for the This report is a progress review of our work, and we products they produce, how clinicians get trained, would welcome input and suggestions for and how consumers use the products in their daily improvement. lives. Coloplast has endorsed the UN Global Compact We are responding to this challenge by building since 2002. We are also committed to contributing what we call the consumer health care company of to the success of the Sustainable Development the future. We want to document the benefit of our Goals (SDGs) through collaboration with partners products’ and services’ to our users and society. and governments. And we want to bring better outcomes to even With this report, we reconfirm our commitment to more people. the UN Global Compact principles and to moving forward to reach the SDGs, together. Together with the Chinese government and a local non-profit, we have committed ourselves to a 3year plan to raise the standard of care for spinal Kristian Villumsen, cord injured patients. Today, around two million Chinese citizens, who are spinal cord injured, deal President and CEO 3 Approach to corporate responsibility Our values in action Governance of corporate responsibility Respect and responsibility is a guiding principle at Coloplast’s corporate responsibility is anchored Coloplast and at the heart of the Coloplast culture. within the Executive Management and Board of Coloplast welcomes the broader responsibility that Directors. The Board of Directors approves the comes with being a market leader. Responsibility to content of the Corporate Responsibility Report, and our users, to clinicians, to our employees, to Executive Management makes most policy business partners, to society and to our decisions within the field, typically after consultation shareholders. with senior management of key line and staff functions. The Audit Committee is responsible for Since 2002, Coloplast has been committed to the overseeing compliance with our Code of Conduct. ten principles of the UN Global Compact on human rights, labour rights, environment and antiColoplast prefers that corporate responsibility corruption. Coloplast works systematically to activities are embedded within and executed by the integrate the ten principles throughout its relevant line organisation. The business units with operations. In addition, Coloplast works to formal responsibility for the content in this report contribute to relevant UN Sustainable Development are Corporate Compliance, Global Operations, Goals (SDGs) where possible. Global Quality, Corporate Procurement, Corporate HR, Corporate Communications, Medical Affairs and Coloplast manages its corporate responsibility Government Affairs, as well as the leadership of all efforts through three aspirations described in more sales regions. details throughout this report: 1. Empowering people A Corporate Responsibility Manager within the 2. Acting respectfully Corporate Communications department is 3. Minimising our footprint responsible for coordinating this work and for communicating with stakeholders. Coloplast UN Global SDGs Key targets Status aspiration Compact impacted Empowering Reduce phthalate use by 44% by 2020 Achieved Human rights people, Approve new Access to Healthcare projects On track p. 5-9 Acting Train all white-collar employees in Code of On track Human and respectfully, Conduct Labour p. 10-16 Rights, Reduce injuries by 33% by 2020 compared to On track Anti2016/17-level corruption Increase share of women in top management On track year over year Increase share of diverse teams New All raw material suppliers screened for human Achieved – and labour rights ongoing process Minimising Increase recycling rate of production waste to Not on track Environment footprint, 35% by 2020 p. 17-19 Continuously reduce waste use per product On track Continuously reduce energy use per product Not on track All electricity use from renewable sources Achieved Reduce goods transported by air to 3% On track 4 Empowering people We see four distinct trends affecting health care systems around the world. We are witnessing a demographic development that sees the world’s elderly population grow. The UN expects that the global population aged 60 and above will double by 2050, when it is projected to reach nearly 2.1 billion. Health care budgets are under pressure, and we see cost pressure and demand for value from payers. In addition, channels across regions are increasingly consolidating. Finally, consumers are getting more involved in their choice of both products and services driven by the rise of mobile technology. This puts more pressure on health care systems and could limit access to innovative treatment. Coloplast is committed to help addressing the structural changes faced by healthcare systems and society, and to fulfil our part of the objective shared with clinicians and users to achieve better health outcomes. Coloplast contributes to better health outcomes and the fundamental right to health by innovating safe products, supporting beyond expectations, fighting for better care and community engagement. These contributions are driven by Coloplast’s mission and growth strategy LEAD20 with its focus on challenging the industry through a user-focused market approach as well as delivering superior products and innovation. Through Coloplast’s contributions, we strive to empower people to live the life they want. Management approach Topic Our responsibility  Initiatives Product development and safety, Translating user insights, technical breakthroughs  Raising the bar through clinically superior p. 6 and design thinking into products that redefine care innovation and set new standards for safe product composition.  Removing substances of concern  Reducing phthalates  Animal testing Supporting beyond expectations, Anticipating needs and taking actions that exceed  Coloplast Care p. 7 the expectations of users and healthcare providers,  Education and training for clinicians both in person and on the phone, creating a  Ethical marketing practices community of support.  Data privacy  Fighting for better care, Building sustainable partnerships that improve  Building health alliances p. 8 framework conditions and raise standards of care for Access to Healthcare people with intimate healthcare needs.  Responsible advocacy Community engagement, Being an active member of the local communities  Donations p. 9 Coloplast operates in through activities that  Responsible tax management empower people and motivate employees.  5 Empowering people Product development, safety and quality pay. The aim is to raise the standard of care and to Coloplast is committed to investing in innovation accommodate markets with lower reimbursement. because innovative products benefit users and healthcare systems alike. At the same time, the Removing substances of concern safety and quality of our products is crucial to All Coloplast products are safe for intended use and Coloplast’s mission. Coloplast adopts a proactive approach in scouting for alternative substances. Coloplast is mindful of Raising the bar through clinically superior the materials and substances used in products and innovation complies with international and local regulations Coloplast’s mission is to make life easier for people and standards, including EU’s chemicals legislation with intimate healthcare needs. This mission “Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of translates into focused value propositions across Chemicals”, also known as REACH. According to Coloplast’s four business areas, which guide our REACH, Coloplast informs users directly about the innovation agenda: products containing substances listed on the Candidate list of Substances of Very High Concern  Ostomy Care: reduce the burden of leakage as well as on Coloplast.com. In addition, Coloplast has completed REACH registration for substances  Continence Care: reduce the burden of used or imported above one tonnes a year. bladder management Coloplast prefers to proactively remove substances of concern. Through a structured monitoring  Wound & Skin Care: fewer days with wounds process of changes in science and technology, Coloplast is able to identify opportunities and risks  Interventional Urology: empower surgeons to early on and proactively substitute relevant do more substances. The results are reported quarterly to management. The cornerstone of Coloplast’s value propositions is to deliver superior products that make a real Reducing Phthalates difference for our users. Coloplast is committed to Progress 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 Target raising the standard of care through clinically superior products and innovation. Therefore, Reduction in total 51% 50% 46% 20% 44% Coloplast is investing to strengthen R&D capabilities consumption of by phthalates since 2020 within digital healthcare, device technologies, 2014 clinical trials, value documentation and market access. Phthalates are commonly used to make PVC Stronger clinical performance enables Coloplast to plastics more flexible and durable. In the medical document the evidence of the products’ overall device industry, phthalates are used to soften clinical outcome and value of the treatments to the products like catheters and urine bags. Although benefit of our users and society. Coloplast products are safe to use, Coloplast recognises that there are concerns about the use of This year, Coloplast launched SenSura® Mio Baby & phthalates. Coloplast has therefore adopted a Kids, designed specifically for premature babies and precautionary approach and limits the use of children up to 4 years. Through the SenSura Mio phthalates in products. This is an area where Baby & Kids portfolios, Coloplast sets a new Coloplast leads by example and offers phthalatestandard for paediatric ostomy care products. free alternatives to 97% of our product range Up until today, the ostomy products available for containing classified phthalates. Coloplast has also children did not meet the same standards as adult worked to reduce the use of phthalates in the products do. In fact, it is often the case that adult existing portfolio, and has reduced the absolute use products are used for babies and kids. The SenSura of phthalates by 51% since 2015. For more Mio Baby & Kids products enable children to play information, please see our official phthalates policy and be active, as they are meant to. on Coloplast.com. In addition, Coloplast is expanding the SpeediCath® Animal testing portfolio with the launch of SpeediCath Navi, which Animal testing is a standard method for will be launched throughout 2019 and 2020. documenting the safety of medical devices. By SpeediCath Navi is a hydrophilic catheter designed having a precise account of the composition of specifically for catheter users in Emerging Markets Coloplast products, animal testing can be avoided. as well as other markets with reduced capacity to However, in some cases animal testing is necessary due to legal requirements and safety assessments. 6 Empowering people All animal testing used by Coloplast are performed sometimes complex healthcare and reimbursement by contract laboratories, which Coloplast audits for system in terms of gaining access to needed compliance with our Animal Testing Policy. products. Coloplast has previously audited our main animal test suppliers and found no non-compliances. This The Coloplast Care programme has been coyear, Coloplast used 1,978 animals for testing in developed with our international nurse advisory relation to pre-clinical safety documentation, which boards and the programme’s content and call is more than usual. The increased use of animal protocols have been clinically validated. Among testing can be attributed to compliance with the users, the programme has been received positively Medical Device Regulative. Coloplast does not use where 83%c) expressed feeling an improved quality transgenic animals in testing. For more information of life through their participation. on Coloplast’s approach to animal testing, please read our Animal Testing Policy available on Through the Coloplast Care programme and directColoplast.com to-consumer initiatives, Coloplast has more than 1.5 million users in our database across more than 30 Quality standards countries. It is essential to Coloplast’s mission to deliver safe and reliable products. That is why Coloplast sets Education and training for clinicians global standards for quality and has established Through the educational programme, Coloplast® operational objectives that are reviewed by relevant Professional, Coloplast works to support the management. Among others, this work includes healthcare community through knowledge sharing post-markets surveillance and supplier quality and education. Coloplast Professional provides management. 18 Coloplast production, distribution nurses and clinical specialists with development centres as well as HQ are certified according to ISO opportunities, such as training, networking events 9001 and ISO 13485 for their quality management and advisory boards. systems. This year, Coloplast had a total of 97 site visit days by external regulators for compliance on This year, Coloplast organised the educational quality. event, Continence Days, with close to 800 participants from all over the world. Continence Supporting beyond expectations Days was centred around a professional Today, more and more people want a say in their programme where key opinion leaders and care. They are searching for answers to make healthcare professionals came together to share informed choices and take control of their recovery. knowledge and insights to move care forward. In This transformation from passive patient to active addition, it creates opportunities for clinicians to consumer is redefining healthcare. broaden their expertise and connect with peers. Through courses and face-events, the close Coloplast works to share knowledge and develop cooperation with clinicians shapes the products, tools and services that contribute to better health services and education that Coloplast develops. By outcomes. For example, the Coloplast® Care sharing their insights with our scientists, engineers, programme has been proven to reduce 30-day designers and other experts, they ensure priorities ostomy re-admissions by 30% and emergency are aligned. Today, more than 850 ostomy and rooms visits by 45% in the United Statesb) continence care nurses from more than 20 contributing not only to better health outcomes, but countries are involved in our international advisory also potential savings for the United States boards. healthcare system. Coloplast® HEAL is a global medical educational Coloplast Care programme for healthcare professionals working With the patient support programme, Coloplast with wounds. The programme aims to increase the Care, Coloplast actively seeks to increase retention knowledge of modern wound healing principles and among users and to improve both products and improve the standard of care for wound patients education for users and clinicians. around the world. It is part of Coloplast’s ongoing dedication to support healthcare professionals with The Coloplast Care programme is global and is deeper knowledge and guidance. The educational available for users regardless if they use Coloplast courses have been developed in partnership with products. Through straight-forward advice and international wound care experts, and the content is support, the programme guides people to an easier peer-reviewed and endorsed by the European life by providing tips on how to take control of Wound Management Association. So far, Coloplast bladder or ostomy-related issues. The programme HEAL has trained close to 40,000 clinicians in 15 also offers people support in navigating the countries. b) Rojanasarot, S., The Impact of a Readily Available, Post-Discharge Support Program for Ostomy Surgery Patients on Preventable Health Care Utilization, published in Jan/Feb 2018 JWOCN. 7 c) Coloplast Market Study 2013. Data on file. Empowering people Ethical marketing practices Fighting for better care Coloplast respects the boundary between the Globally, societies are facing the significant clinical expertise of clinicians and our own product healthcare challenge of an increased prevalence of expertise. Our dialogue with users is focused on people living with a chronic disease and an ageing product and lifestyle issues, and not on medical population. support. This is Coloplast’s promise to clinicians. To ensure that this boundary is respected, our staff Diseases are often in “competition” for public and are trained by clinicians, and our specialists who political awareness as well as for prioritisation of the speak on the phone use assessment tools healthcare resources. All parties in the healthcare developed by our medical marketing team that sector have a shared interest in improving the have been endorsed by global and national advisory outcome of health interventions – but with different healthcare boards. needs and roles. Coloplast will recommend solutions within our own As a market leader, it is Coloplast’s responsibility to portfolio and clearly advise patients to contact their work for better framework conditions for people clinician if they wish to undertake a major appliance living with chronic intimate healthcare needs. change. Coloplast therefore always recommends Coloplast works to build stronger health alliances listening to the advice of the healthcare with patient organisations, and raise the standards professionals. within intimate healthcare. Data privacy Building health alliances By pursuing online activities targeted at users, People with intimate healthcare needs require Coloplast is collecting and handling more personal personalised solutions. For example, people with an data. Users trust Coloplast with information about ostomy can have different body shapes, which their personal life, and it is a priority for Coloplast to influence the care they need and products they use. treat this data with the utmost respect and confidentiality. Additionally, many users confront significant taboos associated with their chronic conditions. Many daily Many countries have legislation in place obligating challenges are difficult to discuss, even with friends companies to handle personal data securely. and family – bathroom routines, leakage issues, Coloplast handles and protects the data in odorous wounds that will not heal, or their accordance with national law – and with the same difficulties associated with going out in public. approach across our company. Internal audits and third-party audits are used to ensure secure and Consequently, patient organisations for people with reliable data handling. intimate healthcare needs are often very focused on raising awareness of the challenges associated In May 2018, the new EU Regulation on Protection with chronic conditions. However, patient of Personal Data (GDPR) came into effect. To organisations do not necessarily have the right ensure compliance with GDPR, Coloplast has capabilities and competencies to raise their voice established and updated policies and procedures and create awareness around their life conditions or and created a data privacy governance structure. demand patient access. Coloplast is certified according to ISO 27001 on information security and further facilitates By engaging with patient organisations in health awareness and training about data privacy via alliances, Coloplast creates awareness and secures internal announcements, e-learning and dedicated patient access to more personalised health intranet sites, as well as training sessions, for innovation and help the transition from patient to relevant employees. person. It is all about giving them the chance to live the life they want and manage their condition. A Data Protection Officer within Coloplast is fully dedicated to focus on data privacy and is supported Access to healthcare by local privacy representatives from our Access to Healthcare, Coloplast’s corporate subsidiaries. The Data Protection Officer reports to partnership programme, is committed to improving Coloplast management on a regular basis and is conditions for people who need care in the areas of engaging with representatives of important group ostomy, continence and wound care. Established in functions in a Data Privacy Board. In addition, the 2007, the programme has so far supported 62 efforts and status on data privacy is reported projects in more than 10 countries. The programme annually to the Audit Committee. is part of Coloplast’s continued efforts to raise the standard of care with a yearly spend of up to DKK 5 million. 8 Empowering people Sustained and sustainable dialogue with our external partners, including national and regional partners is pivotal to the success of Access to industry associations. Our work is guided by the Healthcare projects, and all projects are created in principles outlined in our Code of Conduct, Coloplast collaboration with local stakeholders. BEST, which emphasises respect for transparency Access to Healthcare projects bring together and integrity in our stakeholder relations. To read practitioners, users, NGOs and other public and Coloplast BEST, please visit Coloplast.com. private partners to empower users, train practitioners and advocate for better care. Access Community engagement to Healthcare projects also support the long-term Respecting local cultures, regulations and customs ambitions of Coloplast by bringing us closer to users is important to Coloplast. Coloplast wants to and helping us to gain new or deeper insights into contribute to the local communities in which the the needs of other stakeholders, including company operates. Either through donations or healthcare practitioners, civil society and policy involving local NGOs. In light of this, Coloplast also makers. considers tax management to be an important part of community engagement as taxes contribute to In recent years, raising awareness on intermittent value generation. catheterisation (IC) has been a theme across the Access to Healthcare portfolio. While IC is defined as Donations the ‘gold standard’ for bladder emptying in the To ensure that our donations are meaningful and European Association of Urology's guidelines on benefit both the local community and Coloplast as neurogenic bladder management, it is not much as possible, Coloplast has a policy on necessarily accessible to users. In Russia, for donations, which leverages cash and product example, the number of spinal cord injured patients donations. Coloplast wants to focus donations on leaving the hospital or rehab on IC is very low due activities that either seek to empower our users, to lack of knowledge as well as missing support the local community or engage our reimbursement for urodynamic examinations. employees. For example, Coloplast has this year Coloplast estimates that only 13% of the roughly supported employees’ participation in Team 9,000 new patients discharged from hospitals per Rynkeby, a charity cycling event that raises funds year are on IC. In addition to Russia, Coloplast has for children with cancer. The policy on donations is worked on IC related projects in Australia, Brazil, based on Eucomed Guidelines for grants and WHO’s Canada and Japan. guidelines for donating medical equipment. Read the policy in full on Coloplast.com. Over its twelve year history, the Access to Healthcare programme has had multiple projects in Responsible tax management China. Previous projects include creating wound Coloplast sees taxes as an important part of our care centres of excellence and training of business. Respecting local tax laws and regulations healthcare professionals. Together with the China are important to Coloplast's reputation and brand. Foundation for Disabled Persons and the China ln addition, taxes contribute to the economic value Association of People with Physical Disability, generation in the countries where Coloplast Coloplast has this year entered a strategic operates. The Coloplast tax contributions include framework agreement to raise the standard of care corporate income tax, employee taxes, indirect for spinal cord injured patients. Today, around two taxes, property taxes, custom duties, excise duties million Chinese citizens, who are spinal cord injured, and other indirect taxes deal with several challenges on a daily basis. These conditions not only affect the patient itself, but also ln Coloplast, taxes are paid where business activities their families and the society in general. generate value in accordance with internationally accepted standards. Coloplast does not allow Other examples of recent projects include raising commercial needs to override compliance with awareness about the effects of living with bowel applicable laws, nor base commercial activities on dysfunction in Japan, and educational training for tax avoidance schemes. To ensure this, Coloplast children with spina bifida in Poland. maintains an open dialogue with local tax authorities and bases tax decisions on our Responsible advocacy commercial strategy. Within these principles, Coloplast also works in partnership with many Coloplast will pursue a competitive effective tax rate different external stakeholders to share our views and avoid double taxation. With increased focus on on the issues that affect our industry, clinicians and tax management, Coloplast has made its tax policy the rights of users. Coloplast conducts advocacy publicly available on Coloplast.com. both directly as a company and in coordination with 9 Acting respectfully Coloplast employs around 12,000 people, operates in more than 40 countries and has distributors, dealers and suppliers on a global scale. Acting respectfully towards people and local customs is fundamental to Coloplast. In line with our values, Coloplast supports Human and Labour Rights and works against corruption in all its forms. Coloplast engages in ongoing dialogue with employees and proactively informs employees of their rights of freedom of association at all production sites. In addition, Coloplast has established works councils with employee representatives at all production sites. Relevant human rights issues in our direct operations include non-discrimination, health and safety. Forced labour and child labour are not considered material topics within Coloplast’s direct operations. To ensure Coloplast acts respectfully, Coloplast works to ensure compliance with our Code of Conduct, reduce occupational injuries as well as create an inclusive leadership culture. However, Coloplast is aware that this may be different when it comes to suppliers. That is why Coloplast works systematically to only approve suppliers in compliance with our Code of Conduct. In cases of non-compliance, Coloplast seeks to improve conditions through dialogue. Management approach Topic Our responsibility  Initiatives Code of Conduct and compliance, Ensuring that all our employees and business  Coloplast BEST – our Code of Conduct p. 11 partners are aware of our business ethical  Continuous training efforts standards and collaborating to continuously  Distributor handling maintain and develop good compliance practices.  Bribery risk assessment  Ethics hotline People development and diversity, Offering all employees equal opportunities for  Leadership development p. 12 development as well as a working environment that  On-boarding for success is engaging and motivating.  Removing barriers for personal development  Inclusion and diversity  Gender representation in management  Gender pay gap  Gender representation in Board of Directors  Health and safety, p. 14 Offering healthy and safe working conditions.  Reducing occupational injury  Reducing repetitive work Offering healthy choices  OHSAS 18001  Supply chain responsibly, p. 15 Improving standards with our suppliers or finding  Screening potential suppliers alternative suppliers. Monitoring existing suppliers Improving local conditions 10 Acting respectfully Code of Conduct and compliance followed up by a test and certification. In addition to Coloplast sells products in more than 140 countries, training all white-collar employees in the updated and business cultures vary around the world. In Coloplast BEST, Coloplast will continue its training navigating such different business cultures, activities as part of on-boarding new employees as Coloplast abides by national and international laws well as develop new formats targeting employees in as well as specific requirements for our industry high-risk parts of the organisation to support our through our well-established Code of Conduct and culture of integrity. compliance setup. Distributor handling Coloplast BEST – our Code of Conduct Coloplast has dedicated resources to conduct risk The Coloplast Business Ethical Standards (Coloplast assessments and due diligence and to formulate BEST) is our Code of Conduct and our guide leading action plans for compliance improvements where the way to global excellence when it comes to needed. Coloplast has implemented a system with operating an ethical company. an external partner to manage our integrity and compliance risks related to our close distributors. Coloplast emphasises employees’ ability to use good Through this process, Coloplast engages in dialogue judgment and common sense at all times, rather with distributors about the compliance situation in than learning a set of rules by heart. That is why their market and the expectations set forth in our Coloplast BEST is value-based rather than ruleColoplast’s Global Distributor Code of Conduct. based and has the ambition of installing a compliance mind-set throughout the organisation. Bribery risk assessment All Coloplast employees (including board members, Coloplast’s Group Business Ethics and Compliance executives, officers, directors and managers) are unit performs bribery risk assessment on an onrequired to follow Coloplast BEST. going basis to continuously create a better understanding of where specific attention is needed. During this financial year, Coloplast has rolled out The risk assessments are performed internally an updated version of Coloplast BEST. Coloplast together with the relevant business units to ensure BEST has undergone a review to ensure complete overview of the business and its risks. compliance to updated regulation and industry codes. As a company that is increasing direct-toBased on the risk assessments, Coloplast has consumer activities, Coloplast is committed to initiated implementation of local compliance having high standards for working with users and programmes. Coloplast will monitor and review organisations both in terms of respecting the process and controls on an on-going basis. boundary between clinical expertise and our own product knowledge and when it means handling Ethics hotline data privacy. Progress 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 Cases submitted to the 48 18 11 9 With the purpose of strengthening our culture of ethics hotline integrity and raising awareness, the roll-out of the updated Coloplast BEST has been supported by ...of which within scope 46 13 8 8 quarterly campaigns. Each campaign has featured a compliance theme along with a series of related Coloplast has a global and independent Ethics activities for all white-collar employees. For Hotline, which enables employees and others to example, the employees received training in raising report breaches of our Code of Conduct. All cases concerns and handling data privacy. reported are followed up internally by a committee of senior management. The outcome is reported to To read Coloplast BEST, please visit Coloplast.com. the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. Continuous training efforts Coloplast encourages an open and honest culture, where employees are free to raise questions and Progress 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 Target concerns. In 2018/19, Coloplast has received a total White-collar 99% 99% 95% 96% 100% of 48 cases, 46 of which have been within the scope employees of the hotline, i.e. relating to the topics and subjects trained in in Code that may be reported via the hotline. Coloplast of Conduct views the increase in cases submitted as a positive outcome of making it easier to submit cases via Training in Coloplast BEST is mandatory for all mobile devices as well as internal communication white-collar employees. All current employees have activities aimed at employees to raise awareness. received the opportunity for face-to-face training These efforts support our culture of integrity. 11 Acting respectfully In addition, all cases submitted to direct with different leadership programmes at different management or local or regional compliance levels of the organisation. officers have been included in the Hotline procedure. Most cases reported have been related To help instil more rigour in the work on talent to conflicts of interest or fraud against Coloplast. All management and succession planning at Group relevant cases have been investigated and followed level, Coloplast has this year updated and up with appropriate remediation and sanctions up strengthened its talent governance. The work is to termination of contract. anchored in the newly established Nomination and Remuneration Committee chaired by the Chairman of the Board. People development and diversity On-boarding for success Striving to be the best medical device company in Coloplast focuses on onboarding successfully to the world requires that our leaders and people reduce time to performance. To support this, constantly grow and develop their skills and Coloplast has launched Coloplast Originals, a global competencies. onboarding programme targeted white collar employees. The programme includes a preColoplast believes that personal development boarding option which new employees can access should be respectful to individual motivational as soon as they receive their contract. This way new drivers and without the hindrance of culturally employees can start learning about Coloplast related barriers. before their first working day. When employees start their job, they are automatically assigned the Employee engagement mandatory onboarding. Coloplast Originals is a selfColoplast measures employee engagement guided and blended-learning programme designed biannually through a global survey among all to give new employees a good start employees. The latest engagement survey is from 2018. For a third consecutive time, the most recent Removing barriers for personal development employee engagement survey showed an Coloplast emphasises fairness and transparency engagement level of 74 with a response rate at when reviewing employees’ performance and 93%. This is in the top quartile when benchmarked potential. To ensure this, Coloplast conducts an to other companies, and it indicates a high level of annual People Review. engagement. As Coloplast is a growing company, this is considered an achievement based on the The purpose of the People Review is to discuss the number of new employees who have joined employee’s performance, potential and Coloplast in recent years. development. During the People Review, managers are required to collect insights on employee Leadership and talent development performance from other colleagues and peers. In To support the LEAD20 growth ambition, Coloplast addition, the employee performance is calibrated has the target to hire 2 out of 3 managers from with functional managers. These steps effectively within. The preference for existing employees will work to remove potential biases when reviewing ensure a continuous development of the great employee performance. leadership talent already among us. This year, 63% of leadership positions were filled by internal Inclusion and diversity candidates. It is part of Coloplast’s DNA to respect and empower the individual to secure equal Coloplast uses a global approach to assess and opportunities for all. develop leadership potential. To ensure leaders have the right capabilities, all internally promoted Coloplast is committed to developing an inclusive first-time leaders attend the mandatory ‘New organisation, where people bring their differences to Manager’-programme. For senior leaders, Coloplast work each day, fulfil their potential and have a also provides a leadership programme for all strong sense of belonging because of – and not in Directors that gives a broader business spite of – their differences. understanding. Coloplast works to integrate inclusion and diversity As a growing company, Coloplast needs to ensure into existing processes. This year, top managers are that the internal pipeline of talents does not asked to integrate inclusion and diversity in their diminish. Coloplast works proactively to identify KPI’s and annual business plans. Coloplast has also internal successors and develop their talent to make reviewed recruitment and promotion processes and them ready to transition. To feed the best will develop adjusted processes to mitigate biases in leadership talent into the pipeline, Coloplast works 12 Acting respectfully all recruitments globally and throughout Across management-levels in Coloplast, there is performance review processes and promotions. equal remuneration between female and male leaders. Based on a weighted average median To ensure progress, Coloplast has set commitments salary between individual management levels, the to increase the diversity at team level as well as gender pay gap is less than 2% in favour of male increasing the share of female leaders in top leaders. When taking other factors into management. Progress must happen through consideration such as age, educational background, natural turn-over while always hiring the person professional tenure, which also influence with the best qualifications and competencies. remuneration level, Coloplast considers this gap to be within acceptable limits. Coloplast believes diversity creates a higher degree of innovation as well as better decisions. The Gender representation among Board of Directors position on inclusion and diversity has been Coloplast aims for its Board of Directors to consist formulated in a new policy and published on of the best qualified individuals. With 2 out of 6 Coloplast.com. shareholder-elected board members being women at the end of the financial year, Coloplast maintain Diverse Teams an equal gender representation among Board of Coloplast recognises that all diversity factors are Directors in compliance with the Danish Financial important. To increase diversity, Coloplast will track Statements Act, section 99b. and monitor the mix of diversity in all teams on director level and above. Diversity is broader than Employing people with disability gender and also includes generation and nationality. Coloplast works to employ people with disability The ambition is to raise the level of diverse teams globally. This includes ensuring reasonable year-on-year through natural turnover. accommodations at sites as well as proactively hiring people with disability. For example, Coloplast Gender representation in management has worked with a local NGO to employ people with hearing impairment at the Tatabanya site. Other Progress 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 Target sites include China, Denmark, France and Germany. Total share of 42% 41% 42% 41% Above female 40% managers Health and safety Share of 21% 20% 14% 15% Year-onProviding a safe and healthy work environment for female top year employees is a core value for Coloplast. Safety is managers increase everybody’s responsibility in Coloplast, both managers and employees. In general, operations According to the Danish Financial Statements Act, work in Coloplast is relatively low-risk compared to section 99b, Coloplast defines other management other industries, and Coloplast has never had a fatal levels as all positions at or above manager level. workplace injury. With 41% female managers at this level, Coloplast maintains an equal distribution between men and Reducing occupational injury women in management. Progress 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 Target However, when looking at top management alone LTI 3.0 4.3 4.5 4.1 3.0 by there is an under-representation of female frequency1) 2020 managers. Therefore, Coloplast works with a quantitative goal of having a year-on-year increase 1. Number of injuries resulting in absence from work of more than eight hours per one million working hours of female leaders in top management until a balanced representation is reached. Top management is defined as Vice President and It is Coloplast’s target to reduce the lost-time injury above. rate to 3.0 by 2020. This corresponds to a 33% reduction compared to 2016/17 level. This year, Gender pay gap Coloplast has reached this target ahead of time and Coloplast is committed to fair and equal treatment considers that a strong achievement. Coloplast will of all employees. This implies equal remuneration continue to work with safety behaviours and for equal work. Therefore, Coloplast lets skills, believes that there is room for even further experience and personal talent determine matters improvement. related to compensation. The most common injuries for both whiteand bluecollar employees are behaviour-based, for instance stumbling and falling. Targeting such behaviour13 Acting respectfully based injuries, Coloplast has campaigned across all OHSAS 18001 production sites, larger distribution sites, Coloplast’s health and safety management system headquarters as well as selected sales subsidiaries is certified according to Occupational Health and to strengthen the safety culture in Coloplast. Safety management standard, OHSAS 18001. This is a tool used to ensure that sites adhere to the The campaign seeks to enforce three safety same rules globally and continuously improve their behaviours across all sites and management layers: performance. Today, 11 out of 18 Coloplast sites are OHSAS-certified which means a coverage of  You see it, you own it 96% of Coloplast employees in production,  Think twice distribution centres and Coloplast headquarters in  Dare to care Denmark. This year, Coloplast has increased coverage by certifying the recently established Campaign elements include communication Postponement & Distribution Centre in Hungary as materials, leadership tools as well as a Global Safety well as the production site in France. In the coming Week. In addition to reducing injuries, the campaign financial year, the new standard ISO 45001 will has contributed to more than a doubling of the replace OHSAS 18001 across all production sites. reported near-miss accidents and safety Among other things, the new standard has an observations. Coloplast considers this as a positive increased focus on occupational health. development and a sign of a strengthened safety culture. Supply chain responsibility Through standardised auditing in the approval Other initiatives to reduce occupational injuries process for new raw material suppliers, Coloplast include sharing best practices between sites and ensures that the ten principles of the United Nations increasing focus on safety specifications for new Global Compact are integrated into procurement machines when ordered. decisions. The purpose is to reduce risks of complicity as well as improve local conditions with Reducing repetitive work suppliers through dialogue. Coloplast emphasises an ergonomically correct workplace layout whenever manual labour is The programme is anchored within Corporate required in production. Therefore, Coloplast Procurement and is overseen by a Decision Board systematically works to reduce repetitive work and made up of senior representatives from Global reduce the strain from unavoidable repetitive Operations, Corporate Procurement, Global Quality workplaces by rotating workstations. Coloplast has & Regulatory Affairs, Global Environment, Health & developed a system for measuring this type of work, Safety and Corporate Responsibility. which enables improvements and accurate tracking of progress. Since 2008, Coloplast has more than Screening potential suppliers halved the amount of stations considered to require For all new raw material suppliers, Coloplast ‘high’ and ‘very high’ repetitive work. explains our standards on human rights, labour rights, environmental impact as well as corruption. Offering healthy choices This information is also included in the final contract Coloplast performs workplace assessment globally, with the supplier. In high-risk countries, all potential and through the Coloplast Life programme, raw material suppliers are audited by an external Coloplast provides different options to make healthy partner according to local regulations, Coloplast’s choices as easy as possible for employees. This Code of Conduct and the United Nations Global could be local activities such as “Bike to Work” and Compact Principles. running clubs after work. If an issue is identified, Coloplast and the supplier Other initiatives include free medical screenings and then agree on any necessary improvements, which health checks at Coloplast’s Nyírbátor site in form the basis for an action plan and provides the Hungary. In addition, Coloplast UK initiated a means for dialogue. Depending on the level of any campaign to promote healthy eating and to non-compliance found, the Decision Board encourage hydration among more than 500 considers whether to go ahead and do business employees across the UK sites. with the supplier and help to improve the supplier’s standards. Coloplast Life also focuses on mental health on a local basis. For example, Coloplast has a stress The Decision Board reviews the audit report policy including professional stress-counselling in according to local regulations, Coloplast’s Code of Denmark. Conduct, the United Nations Global Compact Principles, and it considers factors such as the 14 Acting respectfully nature of the relationship with the supplier and severity of initial findings, the supplier’s response to history of cooperation. their corrective-action plan as well as how long ago their initial assessment was performed. Based on Through this approval process, Coloplast maps the evaluation, Coloplast will select suppliers to be relevant risks and ensures on-boarding of suppliers re-approved according to Coloplast standards. that are willing to improve local conditions together if necessary. Coloplast has audited 100% of Improving local conditions suppliers within scope of the programme. In cases where suppliers may be unsure of how to implement improvements, local Coloplast teams Monitoring existing suppliers provide advice regarding cost-efficient best Coloplast monitors existing suppliers for compliance practices that comply with local regulations. through adverse feedback (i.e. change in ownership Suppliers usually respond positively and implement or expansion of site) and site visits. recommendations. However, when necessary, Coloplast has terminated cooperation. Coloplast This process usually takes place with the Coloplast does not provide financial support to help suppliers procurement team in the markets where the implement changes. supplier operates. If the Coloplast procurement teams identify a supplier that is in non-compliance From the start of the programme until the end of with Coloplast’s Code of Conduct, the Decision the 2018/19 financial year, Coloplast has improved Board is contacted to review whether or not to standards together with more than 30 suppliers. continue doing business with the supplier and help to improve the supplier’s standards. For indirect service suppliers, Coloplast has implemented a human rights and compliance due This year, Coloplast has strengthened the diligence process for both selected existing and new monitoring process by implementing an annual supplier in some countries and is now working to evaluation of all suppliers with a social and extend the process to the rest of the organisation. environmental risk. The evaluation is based on the 15 Minimising our footprint Minimising our footprint Over the coming years, Coloplast expects to grow 7-9% annually. This means that Coloplast will be helping more people with intimate healthcare needs. It also means increased production output and, consequently, increased impact on the environment. However, Coloplast remains committed to minimising our environmental footprint while growing. The largest impacts of Coloplast’s environmental footprint consists of raw materials, energy, business travels and transportation of goods. Coloplast uses very limited amounts of water for production, whereas the use of raw materials constitutes Coloplast’s single largest environmental impact. Approximately 60% of Coloplast’s total greenhouse gas emissions stem from raw materials. To minimise the environmental footprint, Coloplast works towards a more sustainable material consumption as well as reducing energy use and climate impacts. Over the last years, Coloplast has significantly lowered greenhouse gas emissions from energy use by introducing the use of renewables. Going forward, the challenge for Coloplast is within sustainable material consumption. Currently, Coloplast uses almost 40.000 tonnes of raw materials a year, and about 70 per cent are plastics. There are very limited alternatives to using plastics in medical consumables, due to product performance, hygiene and quality standards. However, Coloplast want to improve our raw material use by testing new sustainable materials and product technologies. To deliver on this ambition, sustainability has been singled out as a distinct focus area in our new corporate strategy communicated during the next financial year. Management approach Topic Our responsibility  Initiatives Sustainable material Avoiding harmful materials and utilising raw materials with Life-cycle assessments consumption, p. 17 lower environmental impact and improving waste Raw material use and waste management systems and recycling Disposal Water management ISO14001 Energy use and climate Minimising the impact from energy consumption and go Improving energy efficiency impacts, p. 18 further with less Using energy from renewable sources Transportation of goods Expanding production 16 Minimising our footprint Sustainable material consumption Progress 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 Target Production waste per unit produced 12.2 12.5 13.0 12.3 Continuous reduction (grams per unit) …Change compared with previous year -2.4% -3.8% 5.7% 4.2% Continuous reduction Recycling rate of production waste 32% 33% 31% 31% 35% by 2020 Life-cycle assessments together with waste handling companies to identify The primary method used by Coloplast to address the optimal way of recycling waste, however, there environmental challenges is the incorporation of are still limits to the recycling technology of mixed eco-design principles when developing products and polymers. processes. This means: Disposal  Utilising raw materials with lower environmental Because most of Coloplast’s products are impact contaminated after use, they must be disposed of properly due to risk of infection. This means that  Improving waste management systems and Coloplast’s products are incinerated or sent to a recycling landfill after disposal. However, Coloplast designs product packaging to be recyclable when possible.  Minimising the use of energy required in production When chlorinated plastic materials, e.g. PVC and PVdC, are incinerated their emissions are harmful to Life cycle assessments therefore guide Coloplast’s the environment. These plastic materials are environmental efforts, covering everything from raw commonly used in medical devices due to their materials to waste management, energy unique technical properties. Coloplast recognises consumption, disposal and transportation of goods. this environmental concern and only uses PVC or PVdC in new products when their technical This year, Coloplast has launched an updated properties are strictly necessary for product version of SpeediCath® Flex with new packaging performance. For more information, please see our that contains no aluminium. This reduces the official PVC/PVdC policy on Coloplast.com. product’s carbon footprint up to 16%. Water management Raw material use and waste Coloplast uses very limited amounts of water for Raw material use accounts for almost 60% of production. Water is primarily used for sanitation Coloplast’s greenhouse gas emissions. Coloplast has purposes and gardening. Whenever water is used, the ambition to continuously reduce the amount of our focus is to reduce. production waste generated per produced unit. The improved performance this year can be explained ISO14001 by implementing new production technologies Our environmental management system is certified within Ostomy Care. on the internationally acknowledged ISO14001 environmental certification scheme. Today, nine out In addition to optimising the use of raw material, of ten production sites, including our corporate Coloplast has set a target to increase the recycling headquarters, are certified according to the ISO rate of production waste to 35% by the end of 14001 standard. The newly established site in Costa 2020. The performance on this target is challenged Rica is not certified yet. by the high degree of mixed polymers among the waste produced. Coloplast continuously works 17 Minimising our footprint Energy use and climate impacts Progress 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 Target Energy use per unit produced (kWh per 0.14 0.14 0.15 0.14 Continuous reduction unit) …Change compared with previous year 0% -6.7% 7.1% 0% Continuous reduction Renewable electricity consumption at all 100% 50% 0% 0% 100% by 2019 sites Goods transported by air 5.1% 10.7% 5.4% 3.9% 3% Improving energy efficiency Coloplast has an ambition to continuously reduce for transportation will increase going forward and, energy used per product produced. In combination consequently, the total greenhouse gas emission with using energy from renewable sources, this is from transportation of goods will also increase. the most efficient way Coloplast can reduce climate Coloplast works to mitigate emissions from related impacts from production. transportation of goods by substituting air with sea and ground transportation whenever possible. To encourage more environmentally responsible Shipping goods via air transportation emits up to production, Coloplast allows investments that result 200 times more greenhouse gases on a given in a significant environmental improvement, to have distance compared to shipping goods by sea. a return on investment of up to five years – twice as long as regular investments. Coloplast users are often very dependent on receiving a stable and adequate supply of products. As a growing company, Coloplast is expanding In case of any extraordinary events in the supply production. This year, the potential energy chain, Coloplast will prioritise users’ needs for efficiency gains from increased activity at newer products and, if needed, ship products by air to and more efficient production facilities is levelled out ensure that products reach users in time. by the outfacing of old production facilities as well as additional ramp-up activities. Considering the To facilitate this substitution, Coloplast works with a trend over the last four years, the performance has long-term goal for how products are transported to not been in line with the ambition. Coloplast is a maximum of 3.0% air transportation. The therefore reviewing how to best reduce energy use improved performance this year can be attributed per unit produced going forward. increased internal focus and strengthened governance on using air transportation. Using energy from renewable sources To support SDG 13 of taking urgent action to Expanding production combat climate change, Coloplast is purchasing Whenever building new factories, Coloplast adheres renewable energy certificates for electricity to the LEED silver standard for environmental consumption at all production sites. performance. However, Coloplast does not seek certification according to LEED standards due to Electricity accounts for more than 60% of total the costs associated. energy consumption in production. With the conclusion of this financial year, Coloplast has Coloplast is establishing a new production facility in achieved a 100% coverage of renewable energy for Costa Rica, which will be finalised by the end of electricity use, effectively reducing greenhouse gas 2020. The new facility will be designed to fulfil the emissions with more than 30,000 tonnes. LEED silver standards and will be using energy efficient technology. Transportation of goods Transportation of goods accounts for approximately 9% of Coloplast’s greenhouse gas emissions. With Coloplast’s growth rates, the need 18 Stakeholder engagement and materiality Stakeholder engagement Coloplast’s main stakeholders include shareholders, users, clinicians, employees, business partners and society in general. Coloplast has ongoing dialogue with its stakeholders through different channels and used these for the purpose of the materiality assessment:  Shareholders. An Investor Relations department facilitates dialogue with shareholders on a regular basis. For more information, please visit coloplast.com/investor_relations.  Users. Coloplast conducts annual satisfaction surveys, which target users in over ten countries. Furthermore, Coloplast engages with users through our dialogue programme, Coloplast® Care, which aims to help users by providing needed guidance and support.  Clinicians. Coloplast works with clinicians on advisory boards by engaging in semi-annual focus group meetings. This year, Coloplast held more than 20 meetings involving around 850 clinicians.  Society. Coloplast has incorporated the UN Sustainable Development Goals into the materiality assessment to reflect the world community’s priorities. Additionally, Coloplast works with relevant societal organisations through the Access to Healthcare partnership programme and maintains a sustained dialogue through regular updates on healthcare progress and challenges in local communities. Coloplast also engages external stakeholders through our public affairs work, where Coloplast seeks to maintain high standards of professionalism and transparency.  Employees. Coloplast communicates to employees on a daily basis through the Coloplast intranet “Connect” and holds information meetings 4 to 6 times a year that are broadcasted to globally reaching more 1,500 employees. In addition, Coloplast conducts global engagement surveys bi-annually. Materiality Coloplast conducts materiality assessments bi-annually. The most recent materiality assessment is from 2017 and is based on Coloplast’s own assessments of topics as well external input. For example, more than 1,400 users were surveyed. Coloplast is currently reviewing the relevance and use of the materiality assessment and has there not updated the assessment this year. The material issues represented address the areas where Coloplast pose a potential risk or positive impact towards stakeholders. The materiality assessment was performed by Coloplast and the material topics were originally selected based on input from employees working with corporate responsibility issues from Coloplast as well as external benchmarks and international initiatives such as the UN Global Compact, The Carbon Disclosure Programme and more. When revisiting the topics during the latest materiality assessment, Coloplast included the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). By incorporating the SDGs into our materiality assessment, Coloplast is committing to take these into account when prioritising activities and communication with our stakeholder groups. Coloplast works to incorporate the findings of the materiality assessment into our decision process when prioritising activities and use them to guide our communication with our stakeholder groups. The decision to purchase renewable energy certificates is one example hereof (see page 19 for more). Improving access to Responsible Sustainable high quality healthcare Removing sourcing of material Importance to stakeholders hazardous chemicals High products consumption Achieving gender Ethical marketing Renewable energy & equality practices energy efficiency Ethical pre-and Having a safe and clinical trials healthy work place for Medium Protecting employees Water Human Rights management Transparent tax management Sponsoring Low community charities Low Medium High Importance to Coloplast 19 Scope of reporting and data collection Scope of reporting This report constitutes the statutory report cf. Danish Financial Statements Act, section 99a and 99b regarding social responsibility and the underrepresented gender. The report is published annually together with the Coloplast Annual Report and covers the financial year 2018/19, from 1 October 2018 to 30 September 2019. In addition, this report also functions as the Communication On Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact. The aim of the report is to present complex issues in simple language, while including the data needed for specialist use. Coloplast follows Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 to determine content and quality in terms of materiality but does not apply specific GRI-disclosures. This report is intended for shareholders and analysts. It is a presentation of Coloplast activities in the field of corporate responsibility as well as the challenges Coloplast faces. Unless otherwise noted, the data and reporting include the entire Coloplast organisation, i.e. production sites, distribution centres, administration, sales and representative offices. Coloplast currently has nine production sites including the corporate headquarters (Mørdrup, Humlebæk, Tatabanya 1 and 2, Nyírbátor, Zhuhai, Mankato, West River Road/Minneapolis, Sarlat and Costa Rica) and 12 distribution sites (Hamburg, Atlanta, California, Champlan, Kungsbacka, Bologna, Madrid, Lognes, Peterborough, Tatabanya, Vaughan, Tokyo). Third parties, such as distributors, are not included in the reporting, except for the Code of Conduct and Compliance chapter where Coloplast has expanded the programme to distribution channels as well. Suppliers are only included in the specific reporting on our supply chain responsibility programme. Reporting references to §99a Topic Risk Policy Due Dilligence KPIs Employment conditions Page 10, 13-15 Page 13-15 Page 11-14 Page 11-14 Human rights Page 10 & 16 Page 10 Page 13 Page 13 Anti-corruption Page 10 & 11 Page 11 Page 11 Page 11 Environment and climate Page 15 Page 15 Page 16-17 Page 16-17 Data collection Data is generated by respective business owners and consolidated and controlled by the Corporate Responsibility function for this report. In some cases, data from earlier financial years has been corrected, which can result in updates to figures in previous years’ reports. In case of material changes to previous figures, a note to that effect is provided in the text or in the accounting policy. For this report, a materiality level at 5% or above is applied for changes in previous figures. To continue improving our reporting, there may be times when data has been restructured for a more precise representation. Whenever data presented includes estimations, Coloplast applies rounding up/down to improve readability. Coloplast is working together with PricewaterhouseCoopers on assurance of selected data. The selection of data is based on Coloplast’s materiality assessment. Changes in accounting practices As part of the annual reporting cycle, Coloplast evaluates reported non-financial disclosures according to best practice, investor queries as well as reporting frameworks such as the Global Reporting Initiative. This year, Coloplast has made the following material changes in accounting practices:  Environmental KPIs on waste, energy and greenhouse gases are no longer indexed, but they are reported in actual values, i.e. grams waste per unit produced.  HFC gases have been removed from scope 3 reporting due no emission of this kind.  Coloplast no longer applies radiative forcing index to reported use of air transportation. This results in a restatement of previously reported values. 20 Independent Limited Assurance Report on selected environmental and social data for 2018/19 To the Stakeholders of Coloplast A/S, We have been engaged by Coloplast A/S (‘Coloplast’) to provide limited assurance on the Selected Information described below and set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19 of Coloplast for the financial year ended 30 September 2019. Our conclusion Based on the procedures we performed and the evidence we obtained nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the selected Environmental and social data on pages 23 to 27 in the Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19 of Coloplast for the financial year ended 30 September 2019 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Accounting policies stated on pages 23 to 27 in the Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19. This conclusion is to be read in the context of what we state in the remainder of our report. What we are assuring The scope of our work was limited to assurance over the selected Environmental and social data on pages 23 to 27 in the Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19 of Coloplast (the “Selected Information”), which includes:  Waste  Water  Energy  GHG emissions  Anti-corruption  Product safety  Employees (Occupational injuries and accidents) Professional standards applied and level of assurance We performed a limited assurance engagement in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ and, in respect of the greenhouse gas emissions stated on pages 24 to 25, in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410 ‘Assurance engagements on greenhouse gas statements’, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in response to the assessed risks; consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. Our independence and quality control We have complied with the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which includes independence and other ethical requirements founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. The firm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Our work was carried out by an independent multidisciplinary team with experience in sustainability reporting and assurance. Understanding reporting and measurement methodologies The Selected Information needs to be read and understood together with the Reporting Criteria on page 23 to 27, which the management of Coloplast is solely responsible for selecting and applying. The absence of a significant body of established practice on which to draw to evaluate and measure non-financial information allows for different, but acceptable, measurement techniques and can affect comparability between entities and over time. 21 Work performed We are required to plan and perform our work in order to consider the risk of material misstatement of the Selected Information. In doing so, we:  conducted interviews with data owners to understand the key processes and controls for measuring, recording and reporting the Selected Information.  performed limited substantive testing on a selective basis of the Selected Information at corporate head office and in relation to Coloplast’s production sites to check that data has been appropriately measured, recorded and reported.  performed analysis of data from reporting sites, selected on the basis of risk and materiality, to the group.  made inquiries to significant development in reported data.  considered the disclosure and presentation of the Selected Information; and  assessed whether Coloplast in relation to the reported greenhouse gas emissions data has complied with the principles of relevance, completeness, consistency, transparency and accuracy outlined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (2004). Coloplast’s responsibilities Management is responsible for:  designing, implementing and maintaining internal control over information relevant to the preparation of the Selected Information that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error;  establishing objective Reporting Criteria for preparing the Selected Information;  preparation of the GHG statement in accordance with defined Reporting Criteria. GHG quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty because of incomplete scientific knowledge used to determine emissions factors and the values needed to combine emissions of different gases.  measuring and reporting the Selected Information based on the Reporting Criteria; and  the content of the Selected Information. Our responsibility We are responsible for:  planning and performing the engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the Selected Information is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error;  forming an independent conclusion, based on the procedures we performed and the evidence we obtained; and  reporting our conclusion to the Stakeholders of Coloplast. Hellerup, 5 November 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab (CVR no. 3377 1231) Mogens Nørgaard Mogensen Kim Tromholt State-authorized public accountant State-authorized public accountant 22 Environmental, social and governance (ESG) data Environmental performance data Waste (Part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2018/19) Accounting policy Waste is based on weighted amounts from the production sites, distribution centres and corporate headquarters, and it is based on consumption registered in Coloplast’s records. Waste splits pertaining to disposal methods are based on supplier data. Waste per unit produced is based on waste recorded and units produced by Coloplast. Unit 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 Waste Tonnes 14,206 13,770 13,015 11,803 ...of which goes to hazardous waste handling Tonnes 632 601 496 533 ...of which goes to landfills Tonnes 1,089 1,042 934 816 ...of which goes to incineration Tonnes 7,943 7,629 7,488 6,749 ...of which is recycled Tonnes 4,543 4,498 4,098 3,706 Waste per unit produced Grams 12.2 12.5 13.0 12.3 Water (Part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2018/19) Accounting policy Total water use includes production sites, global distribution centres and corporate headquarters and is based on consumption registered in Coloplast’s records. Unit 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 Water use m3 234,299 258,171 292,235 298,130 23 Energy (Part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2018/19) Accounting policy Data on energy consumption is obtained from invoiced data from our utility providers and/or from readings of meters at production sites, global distribution centres and corporate headquarters, and it is based on consumption registered in Coloplast’s EHS site in SharePoint. Energy per unit produced is measured as total energy consumption in kWh per number of unit produced by Coloplast. Electricity from renewable sources are related Coloplast’s purchased electricity certificates and is disclosed as a percentage of total electricity and total energy. Unit 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 Direct energy MWh 53,543 51,806 52,058 46,237 ...of which natural gas MWh 53,535 51,791 52,032 46,219 ...of which coal or fuel distilled from crude oil MWh 7 15 25 18 Indirect energy MWh 109,824 106,193 96,814 91,211 ...of which electricity MWh 109,036 105,198 96,105 90,273 ...of which is from renewable sources % 100 50 ...of which district heating and cooling MWh 788 944 710 938 Total energy use, direct and indirect MWh 163,367 157,999 148,872 137,448 …of which renewable energy % 67 33 …per unit produced kWh/unit 0.14 0.14 0.15 0.14 GHG emissions (Part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2018/19) Accounting policy Coloplast has adopted the Greenhouse Gas Protocol as the basis for our greenhouse gas (GHG) accounting principles. All emissions stemming from minimum 80% of the economic spend within a single reporting category are accounted for. GHG quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty because of incomplete scientific knowledge used to determine emissions factors and the values needed to combine emissions of different gases. For this reason and for increased readability we round scope 3 emissions data up/down to nearest 100. Scope 1 and 2: Direct emissions, direct and indirect energy consumption Data for Scope 1 and 2 emissions covers all Coloplast production facilities (Denmark, Hungary, France, US, China and Costa Rica), selected offices (Denmark and US) and global distribution centres (Germany, Hungary and US). New sites are included in the reporting on the date of takeover from the developer (owned sites) or by the first day of occupancy (leased/rented sites). GHG emissions from leased and rented sales offices and small local warehouses (reported as Scope 3 emissions). Data on Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) is measured consumption handled in air cleaning systems. Consumption of Hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) gasses is obtained from invoices. Emissions from power consumption are based on International Energy Agency country specific GHG emission factors, not including production and transmission losses. Emission per unit produced is measured as total emissions (scope 1 + 2) in tonnes CO2e divided by the number of units produced by Coloplast. Emission per revenue is measured as total emissions (scope 1 + 2) in tonnes CO2e divided by revenue in million DKK. Scope 3: Other indirect GHG emissions Coloplast has limited Scope 3 reporting to include seven categories relevant to our operations: Transportation of goods: Covers all distribution internally in Coloplast as well as distribution of finished goods from warehouses to customers in Emerging Markets. Only suppliers with a spend above 2% of total distribution costs are included. In 2018/19, emissions from transportation of goods accounts for 98% of spends. 24 GHG emissions, continued (Part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2018/19) Business travels: Based on yearly GHG emission reporting from Coloplast's global travel agent for business air travel, which this year accounts for 57% of total business air travel costs. As of 2015/16, the remaining has been extrapolated to ensure completeness of data. In addition, emission reporting from our main car rental supplier has been included from this year and onwards. Leased company cars: Covers all leased company cars in Coloplast and is based on information from based on information from leasing providers and internal information on average consumption data from local fleets. Raw materials: Covers all ingoing raw materials registered in Coloplast’s production data management system. Does not include OEM/contract manufactured goods, production equipment and other capital goods, processing aids and other supporting materials. Energy consumption in sales offices, subsidiaries and local/regional warehouses: Covers all sales offices, subsidiaries and regional warehouses, which primarily are leased. Emissions from sales offices, subsidiaries and warehouses are based on the number of FTE's working here and calculated using an estimated m2 per FTE and CO2 per m2 conversion from the Danish Energy Agency. Original Equipment Manufacturing (OEM): Covers GHG emissions from outsourced production, e.g. finished goods produced by external suppliers under the Coloplast brand. Emissions from outsourced production is calculated using Coloplast' average CO2 emission per produced finished good timed with the amount of finished goods produced by external supplier. For complete definition of the six categories and what is left out of scope 3, please see the GHG accounting principles in full on Coloplast.com. Unit 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 Scope 1 / direct energy Tonnes CO2e 11,300 10,700 11,500 9,500 ...of which natural gas Tonnes CO2e 11,000 10,400 10,400 9,200 ...of which coal or fuel distilled from crude oil Tonnes CO2e 2 4 7 5 ...of which VOCs and HFC gasses Tonnes CO2e 270 270 1,100 210 1) Scope 2 / indirect energy Tonnes CO2e 7 16,600 30,800 29,800 ...of which electricity: Including renewable energy certificates Tonnes CO2e 0 16,600 30,800 29,800 Excluding renewable energy certificates Tonnes CO2e 33,800 33,100 30,800 29,800 ...of which district heating and cooling Tonnes CO2e 7 9 6 8 Scope 1 + 2 / total emissions, direct and indirect Tonnes CO2e 1) 11,300 27,300 42,300 39,300 ...per unit produced Grams CO2e/unit 9.7 24.1 42.2 40.9 …per revenue Tonnes CO2e/DKKm 0.6 1.8 2.9 2.8 Scope 3 / other relevant indirect emissions Tonnes CO2e 155,800 160,900 142,000 133,300 …of which transportation of goods 2) Tonnes CO2e 21,400 28,100 19,600 17,400 …of which business travels 2) Tonnes CO2e 18,800 16,400 12,400 8,900 ...of which leased company cars Tonnes CO2e 10,700 10,400 10,200 10,100 ...of which OEM Manufacturing Tonnes CO2e 6,700 7,400 9,100 9,100 …of which sales offices and subsidiaries Tonnes CO2e 4,400 4,100 3,800 3,700 …of which raw materials in products 3) Tonnes CO2e 93,800 88,500 81,000 74,500 1) The decrease is due to the use of renewable electricity, please see page 18 for more. 2) Due to updated accounting practice removing the radiative forcing index, historic emissions data have been restated resulting in lower emissions compared to previously reported. 3) Due to a revision of the carbon calculation method for raw materials, historic data have been restated resulting in lower emissions compared to previously reported. 25 Social performance data Anti-corruption (Part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2018/19) Accounting policy White-collar employees trained in Code of Conduct accounts for the percentage of active white-collar employees at the end of the accounting year, who have either completed an e-learning module or received face-to-face training and completed a test in our Code of Conduct. Only employees that have been with Coloplast for more than 45 days is in scope for reporting Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour covers legal actions concluded under national or international laws designed primarily for the purpose of regulating anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, or monopoly practices completed during the reporting period. Cases submitted accounts for cases that have been submitted to the ethics hotline and evaluated if within scope. The scope of relevant cases for the ethics hotline includes violations of all topics covered by our Code of Conduct, Coloplast BEST. Only cases within scope of topics and subjects reported via the hotline are followed through. This does not mean that the cases are necessarily substantiated. Unit 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 White-collar employees trained in Code of Conduct % 99 99 95 96 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour Number 0 0 0 0 Cases submitted to the ethics hotline Number 48 18 11 9 ...of which within scope Number 46 13 8 8 Product safety (Part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2018/19) Accounting policy Coloplast monitors phthalate consumption based on the estimated average phthalate concentration per produced item times the quantity of sold items relative to 2013/14. Product samples are not included. Number of animals used for testing accounts for all animals used for testing as part of tests performed by contract laboratories on behalf of Coloplast. Coloplast conducts no animal tests internally. ‘Rodents’ are mice, rats and guinea pigs. ‘Other’ animals are rabbits, pigs and dogs. Unit 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 Reduction in phthalate consumption % 51 50 46 20 Animal testing Number 1,978 1,541 1,576 1,490 … of which rodents Number 1,678 1,364 1,380 1,332 … of which other animals Number 300 177 196 158 26 Employees (Part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2018/19) Accounting policy Occupational injuries are measured as the number of injuries resulting in absence from work of more than one day per one million working hours. Reporting scope includes Coloplast employees, including temporary workers. Unit 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 Occupational injuries and accidents Injuries and accidents, all employees LTI freq. 3.0 4.3 4.5 4.1 27 Employees, continued (Not part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2018/19) Accounting policy Employee headcount includes all active full-time and part-time contracts. European markets include: UK, Germany, France, the Nordics, Benelux, Austria, Switzerland, Italy, Spain plus production in Denmark and Hungary. Other developed markets include: USA, Canada, Japan and Australia plus production in USA. Emerging markets include countries not listed in the other categories for all remaining markets in Americas, Asia, Africa, Europe and Oceania plus production in China. Managers include all positions at or above Manager level. Top management includes Executive Management, Senior Vice Presidents and Vice President positions. Repetitive work is measured as the percentage of workplaces in Coloplast production in Denmark, Hungary, US and China according to the degree of repetitive work. All figures are annual averages based on quarterly figures. “No/low” indicates no or low degree of repetitive work. “Medium” indicates repetitive work with 0-2 aggregating factors. “High” indicates repetitive work with 3-4 aggregating factors. “Very high” indicates repetitive work with 5 or more aggregating factors. Coloplast conducts the employee engagement survey biannually. Unit 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 Employee headcount Number 12,234 11,738 10,905 10,275 Blue-collar Number 5,452 5,316 5,061 4,725 White-collar Number 6,782 6,422 5,844 5,550 Regions European markets Number 7,784 7,622 7,256 6,687 Other developed markets Number 1,294 1,157 987 920 Emerging markets Number 3,043 2,927 2,662 2,668 Gender diversity Female employees total % 62 63 63 63 Female managers % 42 41 42 41 Female top managers % 21 20 14 15 Attraction, recruitment and retention Manager positions filled by internal candidates % 63 66 57 64 Age distribution total Employees aged < 30 % 19 20 21 26 Employees aged 30-50 % 60 62 62 58 Employees aged > 50 % 21 18 17 16 Repetitive work No/low % 50.2 50.9 48.1 48.1 Medium % 37.5 35.9 33.7 33.1 High % 10.7 11.6 16.3 16.9 Very high % 1.6 1.6 1.9 1.9 Employee engagement Response rate % 93 93 Avg. total engagement Index 74 74 28 Governance performance data Governance (Not part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2018/19) The attendance rate is measured as number of meetings attended per member divided by total number of meetings times number of members. Board members consists of shareholder-elected board members. Employee representatives are not included. Board independence is based on independence criteria listed as part of the Danish recommendation on good corporate governance. Overboarded members accounts for board members with more than five mandates at listed companies according to ISS Proxy Voting Guidelines. For more on individual board members, please see Coloplast.com. Unit 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 Attendance Rates …at Board Meetings % 96 95 98 93 …at Audit Committee Meetings % 100 100 100 100 …at Remuneration and Nomination Committee Meetings % 100 Board composition Board members total Number 6 6 7 8 Independent board members Number 4 4 5 6 Overboarded members Number 0 Female board members Number 2 2 2 2 29 The Coloplast story begins back in 1954. Elise Sørensen is a nurse. Her sister Thora has just had an ostomy operation and is afraid to go out in public, fearing that her stoma might leak. Listening to her sister’s problems, Elise conceives the idea of the world’s first adhesive ostomy bag. Based on Elise’s idea, Aage Louis-Hansen, a civil engineer and plastics manufacturer, and his wife Johanne Louis-Hansen, a trained nurse, created the ostomy bag. A bag that does not leak, giving Thora – and thousands of people like her – the chance to live the life they want. A simple solution that makes a difference. Today, our business includes Ostomy Care, Continence Care, Wound & Skin Care and Interventional Urology. We operate globally and employ about 12,000 employees. Our mission Making life easier for people with intimate healthcare needs Our values Closeness... to better understand Passion... to make a difference Respect and responsibility... to guide us Our vision Setting the global standard for listening and responding Coloplast develops products and services that make life easier for people with very personal and private medical conditions. Working closely with the people Coloplast A/S who use our products, we create solutions that are sensitive to their special needs. We call this intimate healthcare. Our business includes ostomy care, Holtedam 1 continence care, wound and skin care and interventional urology. We operate globally and employ about 12,000 employees. 3050 Humlebaek The Coloplast logo is a registered trademark of Coloplast A/S. © 2019-11. Denmark All rights reserved Coloplast A/S, 3050 Humlebaek, Denmark. Company registration (CVR) No. 69 74 99 17
