UN Global Compact Annual Report and Plan for Primeast Ltd August 2019 Statement of intent I am pleased to confirm that Primeast Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We have chosen to do this with headings that correspond to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) which we found to be an inspiring way to engage our workforce. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincere / Russell Evans Managing Director Background about Primeast At Primeast we believe that performance matters and people count. We specialise in Leadership Development & Organisational Consulting. Primeast partners with organisations to transform their capability and meet the challenges of an unpredictable world. We work with your leaders, organisations and teams to create outstanding places to work which balance the delivery of results with the creation of personal success. Our client portfolio includes some of the world's most notable organisations who have trusted us to work with them over many years. Primeast has been a member of the UN Global Compact since 2016. As a signatory, Primeast signs up to principles of Human Rights and takes progressive action in support of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. This document details the actions that are being taken and some of those planned for the future (in italics). SDG1: PovertyandSDG2: Hunger We provide support to Harrogate Homeless Collections, particularly with the supply of food and household goods through our team activities. We fund a staff member to undertake volunteering work in Nepal and raise funds to support school activities there. SDG3: Health We have partnered with Head Torch to raise awareness of mental health issues in our workplace and those of our clients. We have regular workplace events/activities eg stress awareness day, crunch and learn including a local company. We also offer practical support to Horticap, a local charity that provides horticultural work for local people with special needs. We provide good, healthy working conditions and encourage healthy habits such as cycling and walking to work (we provide shower facilities); walking meetings; and a healthy snack counter in our kitchen. We offer occasional meditation sessions before work and are planning the introduction of yoga classes. SDG4: Education Our core business is the provision of quality adult learning and development. We actively support schools in Kenya and Nepal and learning opportunities for adults with special needs at Horticap in Harrogate. In 2018 we ran a workshop to introduce our staff to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Their thinking helped to drive many of the actions listed in this document. SDG5: Gender equality We have a partnership with EW Group to promote diversity and inclusion in the workplace. We do not differentiate on grounds of gender in our own employment practices and support various initiatives for gender equality, such as Women in Nuclear. At the time of this report eighteen of our core team of twenty-eight employees are women as are two members of the Primeast Board of seven people. SDG6: Water We provide water coolers for staff and visitors and through this contract we support Water Aid. SDG7: Energy In 2019 we installed solar PV at our UK headquarters in Harrogate and made provision for future electric vehicle charging points on the system. Within two years we will be undertaking a lighting efficiency survey and intend to switch 90% of our lighting to LEDs. We will review the performance of our energy systems to determine the extent to which they mitigate climate change and offset the carbon-loading of other activities (especially travel). SDG8: Employment rights We seek to offer good employment to our staff and associates as detailed in our staff handbook. We seek regular feedback on the cultural implications of what we do. Our most recent cultural survey was in 2017 and a further survey is planned for 2020. In 20'l9 we appointed a member of staff to our board in a non-director position to contribute to good governance and providing a staff perspective . We take care not to discriminate on any grounds in the employment of our staff and the engagement of suppliers (principally our associates). We pay a living wage and also seek to keep the gap between our lowest and highest paid staff (wage ratio) within a 10.'1 ratio. Our core business in leadership and consulting is aimed at supporting clients with sustainable improvement to business efficiency and effectiveness. We continue to ensure that all our temporary workers and/or apprentices are properly rewarded and not seen as cheap alternative labour . SDG9: Industry, innovation and infrastructure The core of our work is to support sustainable growth in industry through leadership development and consultancy services. SDGIO: Reduced inequalities (within and between nations) Our support to various charities and NGO as part of our core business and our volunteering initiatives (in Gambia, Kenya, Malawi, Nepal and Horticap) is consciously aimed at reducing inequalities. Over the years we have worked with various UN agencies and others (such as the British Council). SDG 11: Sustainable cities and communities We encourage and strive to adopt actions to progress sustainable cities and communities. Many of these are listed under SDGs 7 and 13 (energy and climate). SDG12: Responsible consumption We have systems in place (and encourage their use) for the recycling of paper, cardboard, plastics, glass, printer toner and cartridges, coffee pods and food waste (compost). We strive to use sustainable materials on our premises, such as PEFC certified timber for decking and recycled paper where appropriate We are conscious promoters of digital learning resources to steadily reduce corporate dependency on paper. We plan to further review our recyding and materials use in 2020. SDG13: Climate change As well as our activities to adopt clean energy solutions (see above), we encourage carsharing and cycling to work to reduce C02 emissions. We also encourage our employed trainers and associates to use public transport rather than private cars and taxis, where this does not cause health and safety risk or onerous logistics. With a view to supporting reforestation, we encourage our staff to use the Ecosia search m; which donates 80% or more of its surplus income to non-profit organizations that focus on reforestation and conservationism. SDG14: Life below water We are very conscious of the impact of single-use plastic and waste plastic generally on our seas and oceans. We strive to minimise our impact through our recycling policies and by provision of water-coolers and re-usable water bottles for staff. SDG15: Life on land Some of the items listed under SDG12 above also help to prevent unnecessary deforestation SDG16: peace and justice including modern slavery We take care in our direct operations and in the choice of suppliers to make sure we are not involved in any activities which exploit slavery of any kind. SDG17: Partnershipforthegoals As well as being involved with the Global Compact, we actively support our local branch of UNA. The branch has been holding its meetings at our Harrogate office since 20 l5 and is currently chaired by one of our senior consultants who is also a member of Zero Carbon Harrogate. For more information about our work in support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption: Please contact Russell Evans: russell.evans(Qprimeast.com Clive Wilson: clive.wilson@primeast.com
