Patients at Our Center Pfizer 2018 Annual Review From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Contents From Leadership Partnering in Innovation 3 A Letter from Our Executive Chairman and CEO 31 Pfizer Tackles Antimicrobial Resistance 31 Improving Global Outcomes in Metastatic Breast Cancer Our Business 32 Advancing Sickle Cell Disease Awareness, Understanding & Diagnosis Understanding the External Environment 32 Partnering in Hemophilia 6 Providing Access to Patent Information to Improve Global Health Outcomes 33 Sparking Innovative Ideas to Deliver Vaccines to the Hardest-To-Reach Last Mile 6 Resilience Matters 33 Prioritizing Preventive Care and CDC-Recommended Immunizations With Baby 7 Understanding the External Environment Checkups Count 9 Making Our Medicines Accessible to the Patients Who Need Them 34 Driving Increased Colorectal Cancer Screening: Addressing a Substantial Unmet Need 9 Pfizer Launches New Framework to Enable Quicker, More Effective Response to Major 34 Partnering to Help Protect Babies in the U.S. Societal Issues 34 Eliquis® Continues to Differentiate in NVAF 10 Three Virtues Initiative Strives to Transform African-American Health and Wellness 35 BMS-Pfizer Alliance Working to Understand Gaps in Atrial Fibrillation (AFib) Detection and Diagnosis Manufacturing & Supply Chain Excellence 35 Innovation in Chronic Pain Management 11 Pfizer Sites Provide an Inclusive and Inspiring Work Environment 11 Students and Faculty Visit a Pfizer Site to Learn About Modern Manufacturing Advancing Global Milestones 12 Pfizer Global Supply (PGS) Inaugurates New Manufacturing Technology in Germany 36 Overcoming Bumps in the Road – Literally and Figuratively 12 Increased Investment in U.S. Manufacturing Will Help Deliver Essential Therapies and 36 Increasing Vaccine Reach in China Create Jobs 36 Bringing Xeljanz® to More Patients Worldwide 37 Advancing Care Worldwide for People Living With Eczema Our Sustainable Policies & Practices 37 Innovating to Advance Global Health Access 13 We Are Putting the Science of Engaging Stakeholders to Work Every Day to Benefit 37 Emerging Markets Patients and the Global Health Community 37 Ibrance® Receives Approval in China 13 Governance & Ethics 38 Combating the Tobacco Epidemic at a Global Level 14 Pfizer Supports Human Rights for People Around the World Through Access to 38 Pfizer's Transformative Science and Cutting-Edge Technology Are Protecting People of Medicines and Strengthening of Health Care Systems All Ages From Life-Threatening Infections and Cancer 14 Beyond Colleague Health and Safety 39 A Landmark Year in Pfizer's Quest to Change the Trajectory of Cancer 15 Meeting Our Commitments as a Responsible Manufacturer of Antibiotics 39 Pfizer Deepens Scientific Knowledge to Create More Options for Autoimmune Patients 16 Meeting our Environmental Sustainability Goals Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Innovation Our Culture Progressing Our Science 40 Culture Matters 17 Biosimilars vs. Generics: What's the Difference? 40 What Culture Means at Pfizer 17 Building Upon a Heritage of Innovation in Biosimilars 41 OWNIT! Day 2018: Own Your Energy 18 Furthering Pfizer's Global Anti-Infectives Leadership 42 Pfizer: As Diverse as the Patients and Communities We Serve 18 Novel Anti-Infective Therapies Help Address Greatest Patient Medical Needs 43 Building Pfizer's Legacy of Volunteering Around the World 19 Using Breakthrough Science to Transform the Treatment of Cancer 19 Leading the Way With Gene Therapy in Rare Disease Our Purpose 20 Progressing the Science in Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy 44 How Pfizer Supports Good Health and Well-Being 20 Choosing the Path to a Healthier Economy: Exploring the Economic Impact of 45 A Life Changing Volunteer Experience to Help Reduce Preventable Deaths of Vaccine Investment Children Under 5 20 Combating Meningococcal Disease in Vulnerable Populations 45 Promoting Health in Underserved Communities 21 Progressing Our Pipeline 46 Healthy Families, Healthy Futures: Improving Access to Immunization and Family 22 Increasing Diversity in Clinical Trials Planning for Women and Children in Africa 22 Acting (Bio)Ethically 46 PATH's Partnership With the Pfizer Foundation, the Peruvian Government and Local 23 Transforming Development to Deliver 21st Century Clinical Trials Cancer Organizations Bring Early Breast Cancer Detection Services to Women 23 Responsible Data Stewardship Advances Scientific Progress 47 The Pfizer Foundation Improving Access to Cancer Care in Rwanda and Kenya 23 Pursuing Breakthroughs in the Treatment of NASH 47 Pfizer Partners With Gavi to Supply Our Vaccine to 50 Countries 24 The Pfizer Sterile Injectable Business is Positioned for Future Growth 48 Helping Communities in a Time of Need 48 Celebrating 20 Years of Commitment to Helping Eliminate Blinding Trachoma Focusing on Patients 49 Helping Patients Find a Path to Assistance 24 Leading a Call-to-Action in Advanced Metastatic Breast Cancer 49 Pfizer Foundation Catalyzes Innovative, High Impact Health Care Programs in Low25 Supporting the Needs of Cancer Patients in the Community and Middle-Income Countries 25 Bringing Hope to Patients With a Rare Form of Heart Disease 26 Encouraging Older Adults to Keep Booming by Helping to Protect Against Our Performance Pneumococcal Pneumonia 50 Key Performance Indicators 26 Prioritizing Teen Health on World Meningitis Day 52 Financial Performance 26 “Ticks Are Everywhere 53 Financial Guidance 26 Delivering Transformative Treatments With and for Patients 27 Consumer Healthcare Focuses on Delighting Consumers Additional Information 27 Consumer Healthcare Brings Our Products to Those in Need Globally 55 About This Review 28 Consumer Healthcare Empowers People Around the World to Take Health and Wellness 58 GRI Reference Table Into Their Own Hands 28 Pfizer Consumer Healthcare Launches the World's First Non-Prescription Brand for Erectile Dysfunction 29 Partnering With Patients to Create a Dedicated Source of Information for the Ulcerative Colitis Community 29 Engaging Patients Who Are Active on Social Media to Help Empower Patient Communities 30 Changing the Narrative for Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA), Psoriatic Arthritis (PsA) and Ulcerative Colitis (UC) Patients 30 With One Infusion, a Path Toward Transforming Patient Lives With Gene Therapy Begins Pfizer 2018 Annual Review From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance From Leadership A Letter from Our Executive Chairman and CEO To Our Shareholders: Patient Impact We are pleased to report that 2018 was another strong year for Pfizer. At Pfizer, we take great pride in our financial performance because we We significantly advanced our pipeline, delivered solid financial results, know what is behind the numbers: our ability to have a demonstrable enhanced shareholder value, and took important steps to position positive impact on patients. In 2018, we estimate that more than the company for what we expect to be an era of sustained topand 784 million people around the world used our medicines and vaccines bottom-line growth beginning in 2021 following the impact of Lyrica’s to improve their health, making us one of the most significant upcoming patent expiration in the U.S. contributors Our PatientofImpact good to humanity. Our Global Footprint (as of December 31, 2018) Our Global Footprint Our Patient Impact >92,400 >125 58 >65m >48m Employees Countries where Pfizer Manufacturing sites Babies and elderly patients Cardiovascular patients sells products were protected from took our medicines to help disease by our vaccines reduce their risk of heart attack or stroke (as of December 31, 2018) In 2018, revenues increased 2 percent as several of our biggest-selling medicines and vaccines continued to grow, including Ibrance, Eliquis, Xeljanz, and Prevnar 13. We also generated growth in emerging markets and in biosimilars. The growth that we achieved in these areas helped to absorb $1.7 billion in lost revenue because of products that recently >3m >1.2m People used our smoking People were treated with lost marketing exclusivity (LOE). We achieved these results while cessation treatments our cancer therapies simultaneously investing $8 billion in research and development (R&D) and returning $20.2 billion directly to shareholders through We’re not stopping there. To reach even more patients, we need to a combination of dividends and share repurchases in 2018. continue to deliver breakthrough medicines, and in 2018 we made significant progress toward doing just that. Our R&D pipeline, which is now stronger than it has ever been, began yielding important new products, including four targeted cancer agents approved in the last four months of the year. Overall, we received seven key approvals during the year, spanning both brand new molecular entities and new indications, allowing us to serve a broader patient population. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review A Letter from Our Executive Chairman and CEO 3 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance I an Read: Tremendous Contributions to Improving  lbert Bourla: Breakthroughs that Change A Human Health Patients‘ Lives Advancing Our Pipeline In July, we announced that we were reorganizing the company Advancing Our Pipeline into three businesses to better capitalize on the evolving and unique dynamics of their individual markets. The three businesses, which became effective at the beginning of the company’s 2019 fiscal year, are Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group, a science-based innovative medicines business that now includes biosimilars and a new Hospital business unit for anti-infectives and sterile injectables; Upjohn, an 7 9 42 off-patent branded and generic medicines business based in China Key product approvals Regulatory submissions Pipeline assets advanced that is bringing 20 of our most iconic brands to more than 100 markets around the world; and a Consumer Healthcare business aligned with the growing trend of consumers taking their health into their own hands. Preparing for Sustained Growth To further unlock value for our shareholders, and to allow Pfizer to After prolonged periods of revenue decline due to significant LOE sharpen its focus on its pharmaceuticals business, we signed an impacts – and then stability as we began to launch new products – agreement with GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) to form a Consumer Healthcare we believe three intersecting factors will create significant opportunities joint venture. We expect the transaction to close in the second half for Pfizer to grow in the years ahead. of 2019, subject to customary closing conditions, including GSK shareholder approval, and required regulatory approvals. –– Macro trends such as an aging population and a rising middle class in emerging markets will result in an increased number of people Creating Shareholder Value seeking access to both innovative and established medicines Creating Shareholder Value –– We see the potential to launch up to 3-5 new products or product line extensions per year over the next five years $53.6bn In revenue –– We expect to enjoy the benefits of a dramatic abatement in LOEs until the second half of the next decade, after Lyrica loses its marketing exclusivity $20.2bn Returned to shareholders through In 2018, we took several actions to prepare Pfizer to capitalize on dividends and share repurchases these opportunities. $8.0bn Invested in R&D Pfizer 2018 Annual Review A Letter from Our Executive Chairman and CEO 4 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance As we reorganized our businesses, we also simplified our structure and Purpose-Driven Growth processes, including initiating a major digital effort to automate and We firmly believe that the biopharmaceutical companies that create improve operational effectiveness. These efforts also are freeing up meaningful value for patients over the next decade are the ones that will capital that can be reinvested – primarily in scientific and commercial thrive. That’s why we are putting a renewed emphasis on Pfizer’s purpose: innovation but also in other key growth drivers, including business Breakthroughs that change patients’ lives. Our purpose defines who we development and manufacturing. are as a company and serves as a focal point of our culture, driving Our focus for business development initiatives continues to be smaller everything we do and energizing our more than 90,000 colleagues. acquisition and licensing opportunities for mid-stage compounds. When we talk about breakthroughs, we are not talking about just big Pfizer has the financial flexibility to pursue these initiatives as we scientific breakthroughs, but also breakthroughs in the way we work, the simultaneously deploy capital in other areas, including shareholderway we interact with payers and policymakers, and the way we provide friendly capital allocation initiatives such as share repurchases. access to patients. Taken together, we believe these breakthroughs will A growing dividend also remains an important part of our create value for patients, colleagues and shareholders. investment thesis. Thank you for your continued support of the work we do every day. Of course, our business isn’t without its challenges. Most significantly, we need to ensure that our innovation and risk-taking are rewarded in the marketplace, while doing all we can to ensure affordable access for patients. We continue to work with governments, policymakers, payers and other players in the healthcare ecosystem to advocate for Ian C. Read Dr. Albert Boula pro-innovation policies that benefit patients, our company and our Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer industry as a whole. Being a Responsible Corporate Citizen We encourage you to read our 2018 Financial Report, which includes our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2018. Please also refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for Being a Responsible Corporate Citizen the year ended December 31, 2018, including the sections captioned “Risk Factors” and “Forward Looking Information and Factors that May Affect Future Results,” for a description of the substantial 110m risks and uncertainties related to the forward looking statements included herein. Announced new commitment to Trachoma elimination, including the donation of more than 110 million doses of Zithromax in 10 countries; bringing our cumulative donation to more than 809 million doses since 1999. $5m Distibuted $5 million in grants to 10 states in the U.S. most impacted by the opioid crisis. 1.5m Helped more than 250,000 U.S. patients receive more than 1.5 million Pfizer prescriptions for free. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review A Letter from Our Executive Chairman and CEO 5 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Our Business Understanding the External Environment Providing Access to Patent Information to Improve Resilience Matters Global Health Outcomes Business Resilience at Pfizer includes the following components, which are implemented globally: Fire Life Safety/Loss Prevention, Emergency In an effort to make it easier for global drug procurement agencies Response, Crisis Management, Business Continuity Management and to access a basic body of patent information and make life-saving Disaster/Business Interruption Recovery. The program builds resilience treatments available to patients in even less time, Pfizer joined 20 of along three pillars a) physical and operational risk identification and the world’s leading biopharmaceutical companies to develop the Patent management; b) preparedness and recovery capabilities; and Information Initiative for Medicines (Pat-INFORMED), a public-private c) mitigation measures for business and supply interruption. partnership between the World Intellectual Property Organization Some accomplishments for 2018 included: (WIPO), the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Associations (IFPMA) and research-based companies. –– Developing a natural event risk methodology. The methodology is designed to analyze and rank the most significant natural events and As of today, information on more than 18,000 patents has been catastrophic perils (including effects of climate change) against each uploaded to the database for the therapeutic areas currently in of Pfizer’s global locations for both internal and external supply. This scope–with Pfizer contributing information on approximately business risk methodology is an important component of our 2,500 patents for 31 products. climate-related physical risk evaluation. In 2019, we will begin to incorporate the Task Force for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework into our business risk methodology –– Following Hurricane Maria in 2017, we identified lessons learned for site and above-site supply operations, including enhancing voice and data communications systems to best support site operations following local power outages, ensuring robust power backup systems capable of operating for sustained periods and developing ready-toimplement recovery strategies. Lessons have been shared across the company and incorporated into ongoing business continuity planning exercises and training –– In addition to various cybersecurity defenses, we implemented measures to enhance Pfizer’s ability for rapid recovery after a cyber-attack –– We continued to develop our site and above-site risk assessments to identify potential business continuity risks related to Pfizer assets and critical products and implemented various proactive risk mitigation measures to reduce risk Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Understanding the External Environment 6 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance 2018 was also a year of significant natural events that threatened the safety and well-being of our colleagues, as well as business interruption and the supply of important medicines. Our Business Resilience model and the many hundreds of colleagues involved ensured we undertook effective early preparedness actions and responses to these natural threats. Understanding the External Environment Changing Patient Demographics Non-communicable diseases (NCDs) like cancer, cardiovascular disease and diabetes are difficult-to-treat conditions that are often associated with lifestyle factors like diet and exercise. They are also linked to urbanization and rates of life expectancy around the world. We recognize the link between human health and these changing demographics. As the world’s middle class grows at an unprecedented rate, new consumption translates to a larger carbon footprint. At Pfizer, we have publicly recognized the impact of climate change on human health and have made commitments to mitigate our impact through the reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Pfizer looks to incorporate the Task Force for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework in 2019. Environment (PiE) Program. In 2018, our PiE program continued to focus on wastewaters from antibiotic manufacturing operations through the completion of environmental risk assessments (ERAs). ERAs have been completed for all internal antibiotic manufacturing sites and all external suppliers in India and China; assessments are underway for all other antibiotic suppliers globally. As a result, Pfizer has enhanced, and continues to enhance, operational practices at both our own and supplier facilities. At some locations, further assessment, including sampling, is underway. In 2018, we also partnered with technical consultants to explore additional antibiotic wastewater treatment options. This year, Pfizer also continued our leading role as part of the Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) Industry Alliance manufacturing group (the Alliance Manufacturing Group). Refer to the infographic below for progress made in 2018 with respect to AMR Industry Alliance commitments. To learn more about Pfizer’s policy position on AMR, including antibiotic manufacturing, refer to here, and to learn more about the AMR Industry Alliance related to manufacturing and the environment Click here to learn more about meeting our environmental sustainability goals. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Understanding the External Environment 7 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Pricing Trust and Expectations Health care systems and budgets are continually adapting to address new In 2018 the pharmaceutical industry continued its efforts to rebuild and pressures and strains, such as aging patient populations with increased advance public trust, addressing reputational challenges around safety health care needs or breakthrough therapies with high upfront costs. and pricing while restoring credibility in the eyes of key stakeholders. In emerging markets, where the middle class increasingly expects the At Pfizer, earning and maintaining patient trust has always been a government to provide quality health care, the focus on access to critical part of our mission to bring life-changing therapies to transform innovative treatments has led to greater discussion around affordability. millions of lives. We’re working hard to live up to the trust that patients As a result, many governments, payers, insurers, patient groups and put in our products and services, and more than ever, we’re working to other stakeholders are looking for ways to reduce the costs of health increase transparency around the strong ethical values that guide our care through regulation and other means. innovation, development, promotion and distribution. At Pfizer, we know that investing in medicine delivers critical value to From the way we conduct our business to the way we interact with the communities around the world – increasing workplace productivity, health care community around the world, Pfizer is committed to the avoiding more costly health care interventions, and most importantly, highest levels of quality, compliance and integrity. improving a patient’s overall quality of life. The following commitments guide our approach to pricing our How we embody these commitments each day: medicines at launch and beyond: –– In 2018, we continued our Access Accelerated partnership to –– Access: Ensuring patients have access to the medicines they need address the growing burden of non-communicable diseases in –– Innovation: Providing incentives for continued investment in the lowand lower-middle-income countries. We worked as part of a multi-stakeholder group to draft a Cancer Law in Paraguay development of new medicines, vaccines and delivery systems to that would create a national cancer control program. While serve unmet health needs additional steps are still needed, President Abdo Benítez has –– Impact: Making medicines available to meet the world’s most committed a $50 million budget for 2019 to implement the pressing health problems law, with an expectation of increase in subsequent years –– As a member of the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Making Our Medicines Accessible to the Patients Who Need Them Manufacturers and Associations (IFPMA), we adopted a new Pfizer is addressing access issues on multiple fronts, leveraging our industry Code of Practice that became effective beginning people, resources and creative commercial strategies to develop 2019. The Code bans gifts and promotional aids for prescription medicines, wherever IFPMA member companies operate, and sustainable, responsible solutions. calls for strong ethical values to build a culture of trust Innovating to Advance Global Health Access –– We continue working across the health care industry to find PATH’s Partnership with the Pfizer Foundation, the Peruvian new approaches to encourage the use of preventive therapies Government and Local Cancer Organizations Bring Early Breast that could help reduce overall health care spending Cancer Detection Services to Women Healthy Families, Healthy Futures: Improving Access to Immunization and Family Planning for Women and Children in Africa Antimicrobial Resistance  eeting Our Commitments as a Responsible Manufacturer M of Antibiotics Spotlight on Biosimilars Pfizer Tackles Antimicrobial Resistance Biosimilars have the potential to increase patient access to therapeutically valuable treatments. –– Biosimilars provide more treatment options for health care providers and health care systems –– Broader patient access to these important therapies may help create long-term cost savings and efficiencies for health systems, freeing up resources for other important aspects of care –– Pfizer continues to build upon its heritage of innovation in biosimilars to create an environment in which physicians have more treatment options and patients have improved access to medicines Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Understanding the External Environment 8 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Making Our Medicines Accessible to the Patients Pfizer Launches New Framework to Enable Quicker, Who Need Them More Effective Response to Major Societal Issues The cost of health care, including prescription drug prices, was a topic of We live in challenging, often contentious times, with political, cultural public debate throughout 2018. As health systems evolve, patients are and environmental issues constantly brewing. being asked to take on higher out-of-pocket costs which heighten “Businesses need to be equipped to respond faster than ever before and concerns about affordability. have the right spirit, skill and will to engage,” says Sally Susman, Pfizer’s approach to medicine pricing is informed by two core principles: that Executive Vice President, Chief Corporate Affairs Officer. medicines help people live longer, healthier, more productive lives; and that In response, we created Pfizer’s Social Framework, a way to determine if, patients should have affordable access to the medicines they need. when, how and why we will address a societal issue. We define the value of our therapies by the benefits they offer patients One recent example of the framework in action is our response to and society. Our innovative medicines treat complex conditions such as concerns about polarized views on the importance of immigrants to the cancer and rare diseases, among others, providing immense health U.S. workforce. We launched a diversity advertisement to send a clear benefits for hard-to-treat diseases, and are often safer and more message that we want the brightest, boldest thinkers to search for effective than other treatment options. life-saving cures regardless of where they come from; talent and We price our medicines by thoughtfully balancing considerations such innovation know no borders. The ad received over 1 million views and as access, affordability and the ability to invest in future cures. We over 500 job seekers have visited Pfizer.com/careers in search of advocate with payers for access to our medicines at costs that patients opportunities as a result. can afford, offer discounts, and when there are access or affordability “The Social Framework allows Pfizer leaders to use a consistent lens to issues, provide patient assistance programs. view issues in an ever-changing landscape, and where appropriate, Our highest priority is making our medicines accessible to patients who provide creative responses to our stakeholders,” says Susman. need them. Only then can the impact of our science and innovation bring value to their lives and to those that care for them. The 4 Social Framework questions we ask ourselves: –– Does the issue advance or challenge our purpose to Why do drug prices sometimes change? bring innovative therapies to patients that significantly There are a number of reasons why medicine prices may change improve lives? over time. These may include, among others: –– Does it directly impact our business? What are the implications –– Discovery of new uses and new patient populations through for patients, regulators, shareholders or colleagues? both trial data and real-world evidence –– What are our options for responding? What do we need to –– Changes in local laws and mandates communicate? What actions do we need to take? –– New or expiring patents –– What are the implications for responding versus not –– New formulations responding? How can we manage any risks that may arise? –– Improvements in the manufacturing and supply chain –– Market-based factors Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Understanding the External Environment 9 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Three Virtues Initiative Strives to Transform AfricanAmerican Health and Wellness African-Americans are disproportionately affected by many diseases and Pfizer is committed to improving health among this segment of the population. Three Virtues is our integrated, enterprise-wide initiative aiming to: 1 Achieve a measurable reduction in health disparities, increase clinical trial participation and improve health outcomes for African-Americans 2 Establish a robust pipeline of African-American talent and leverage the insights of African-American colleagues to more effectively engage the African-American community 3 Build a strong reputation in the African-American community based on consistent efforts to address health and wellness needs Three Virtues achieved several important milestones in 2018, including co-publishing the African-American Engagement Study with the National Medical Association and National Black Nurses Association. We are leveraging our medicines to close diagnosis and treatment gaps for African-Americans in diabetic peripheral neuropathy, smoking cessation and atopic dermatitis. We are applying African-American patient perspectives in the clinical development of a product for sickle cell disease. And to increase African-American participation in clinical trials, both as patients and investigators, we are evaluating if collaboration between academia, an urban-based hospital and industry can generate compelling results. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Understanding the External Environment 10 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Our Business Manufacturing & Supply Chain Excellence Pfizer Sites Provide an Inclusive and Inspiring Students and Faculty Visit a Pfizer Site to Learn Work Environment About Modern Manufacturing Cody Smith has worked at the Sanford site since May 2017 as a The Andover, Massachusetts site welcomed 75 students and Distribution Clerk on the warehouse team. faculty from area high schools and universities to celebrate the National Association of Manufacturers’ (NAM) annual “Cody is very special to everyone here,” said Kathleen Winston, Manager, Manufacturing Day. Continuous Improvement, who helped create the partnership with Lee County Industries, a local nonprofit. “Every day is a new adventure on This industry-wide event provides manufacturers the opportunity to my job, there are always new people to meet and new things to do,” open their doors to the public and engage in a conversation about what Smith said. manufacturing is (and isn’t), and why future generations should consider pursuing a career in the field. For more than 20 years, the McPherson site has employed colleagues with intellectual/developmental disabilities through a partnership with A Pfizer site hosts the event each year, and this was Andover’s third year a local agency – Multi-Community Diversified Services. The site employs celebrating Manufacturing Day. This year, Site Leader Jon Tucker shared 10 colleagues and a job coach who supports them. opening comments, followed by a tour of the facility by the students and their teachers. “I really like working at Pfizer,” said colleague Jeanette Hollingshead. “I like helping people and I know that I am helping people who are sick.” Students learned about opportunities in biopharmaceutical manufacturing – today and looking ahead to the future. Colleagues shared the evolution of their own careers and discussed how they came to work at Pfizer Andover, helping to inspire the next generation of modern manufacturing. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Manufacturing & Supply Chain Excellence 11 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Pfizer Global Supply (PGS) Inaugurates New Increased Investment in U.S. Manufacturing Will Manufacturing Technology in Germany Help Deliver Essential Therapies and Create Jobs Local leaders, Pfizer colleagues and guests inaugurated the new We are experiencing an exciting new era in drug discovery and Portable, Continuous, Miniature and Modular (PCMM) technology in development with scientific advances that could result in future Freiburg, Germany. breakthroughs. To make this promise a reality, our manufacturing capabilities must keep pace with science today, and plan for what’s “This milestone – almost 20 years in the making – represents a true coming next. paradigm shift in pharmaceutical manufacturing,” said Kevin Nepveux, who leads Launch Excellence for PGS. In 2018, we took an important step forward with the announcement of a $465 million investment to build a cutting-edge sterile injectable Compared to batch manufacturing, PCMM allows continuous facility in Kalamazoo, Michigan. The 400,000-square-foot multistory manufacturing – moving from powder to tablets in minutes, eliminating building, known as Modular Aseptic Processing (MAP), will increase our variation and bringing new products to market more quickly, while ability to produce and supply important injectable medicines for supporting Pfizer’s commitment to sustainability. patients in the U.S. and abroad. Since construction began in April 2017, the team has rapidly ramped up “Our MAP investment helps ensure we continue to meet the evolving the PCMM line in Freiburg for commercial manufacturing of a medicine. regulatory demands of every country where we do business,” said Pharmaceutical Sciences and PGS are committed to PCMM as the Kalamazoo Site Leader Ron Perry. “Patients trust us to deliver the highest primary platform for solid oral dose products moving forward. quality medicine in every dose.” The facility will incorporate technically advanced aseptic manufacturing equipment, systems and design, including multiple, self-contained modular manufacturing lines, and will create an estimated 450 highly skilled new jobs. Groundbreaking is planned for spring 2019. Construction is expected to be completed in 2021, and production is expected to begin in 2024. “This investment will strengthen Pfizer’s leadership in sterile manufacturing technology and help meet growing patient demand. It also will create hundreds of highly skilled jobs, fortifying Michigan’s high-tech manufacturing environment.” Mike McDermott Vice President, Pfizer Global Supply Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Manufacturing & Supply Chain Excellence 12 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Our Business Our Sustainable Policies & Practices We Are Putting the Science of Engaging Governance & Ethics Stakeholders to Work Every Day to Benefit Patients At Pfizer, we are committed to exercising strong corporate governance and the Global Health Community practices. We believe that good corporate governance promotes the long-term interests of our shareholders, strengthens Board and Our engagement with stakeholders impacts the way we do business management accountability and improves our standing as a trusted globally. These stakeholders help inform and validate our decisionmember of society. We maintain and enhance our long record of making processes and provide us with guidance and insights that can excellence in corporate governance by regularly refining our policies help us move our business forward responsibly. and procedures to reflect evolving practices and issues raised by our Our key stakeholders include, but are not limited to: shareholders and other stakeholders. Our governance structure and processes are guided by our Corporate Governance Principles and –– Patients, caregivers and healthy individuals Board Committee Charters, which govern the operation of the Board –– Physicians and allied health professionals of Directors and its Committees in the execution of their fiduciary responsibilities. While the governance practices and structures of an –– Governments, policymakers and regulatory authorities organization are very important, we believe the key to an effective –– Public health organizations governance structure is having a Board of Directors that is committed to protecting and enhancing shareholder value. We are fortunate to –– Professional medical organizations have a Board that is diverse, active, independent-minded and collegial, –– Patient advocacy groups and provides valuable insights with respect to oversight of management, risk and our overall strategic direction. –– Colleagues Read more about our Board of Directors –– Academic institutions Read more about our Corporate Governance –– Industry partners –– Hospitals and pharmacies –– Customers –– Media –– Shareholders and analysts –– Suppliers Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Our Sustainable Policies & Practices 13 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Pfizer Supports Human Rights for People Around Beyond Colleague Health and Safety the World Through Access to Medicines and Our research and development (R&D) site in La Jolla, California is a Strengthening of Health Care Systems great example of how strong health and safety performance supports colleague engagement and research productivity. The health and We are working on new solutions with our civil society partners. We are safety program at La Jolla is well established, built on risk assessment investing in effective and sustainable health care delivery resources, and and control, and driven by leaders. As oncology and vaccine research working with national governments, international agencies, nonadvances at Pfizer La Jolla, colleague health and safety is routinely governmental organizations, multilateral organizations, academic under review to ensure all hazards, including new ones, are well institutions and others to help people get the medicines and services characterized and understood. The Environment, Health and Safety they need. To learn more about our programs that improve global (EHS) team at La Jolla enthusiastically applies its contemporary health, please see www.pfizerglobalhealth.com. laboratory safety knowledge and experience to support the research teams. Equally important are the research colleagues themselves, as they take ownership of their health and safety, care for each other, and collectively strive for a workplace free of injury and illness. The results speak for themselves. In 2018, La Jolla had very low injury and illness rates, an excellent record of EHS compliance to regulatory and Pfizer Standards, and also achieved important advancements in oncology and vaccine research. “‘The safety of colleagues and their families is as important as drug discovery productivity at Pfizer’ was a rallying call by Rod MacKenzie (now Pfizer Executive Vice President, Chief Development Officer) at the Sandwich site in the late nineties, intended to drive our EHS performance at Pfizer to continuously higher levels. I have never forgotten that principle, and it is as relevant today as it was back then in reminding us of the responsibility that leaders and all colleagues at Pfizer have in ensuring each other’s continued safety at work and at home.” Martin Edwards, VP Oncology Medicinal Chemistry Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Our Sustainable Policies & Practices 14 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance In 2018, we made the following progress against the AMR Roadmap In 2018, we made the following progress against the commitments: AMR Roadmap commitments: Commitment Review our manufacturing and supply chains to assess good practices in managing the release of antibiotic discharge into the environment. Update We completed environmental risk assessment of antibiotic discharges at our Pfizer-owned and -operated manufacturing sites, and at our antibiotic suppliers in India and China, and commenced assessments at our antibiotic suppliers in the rest of the world. The assessments conducted to date indicate good practices are being followed at many sites. In some cases, action plans have been developed to improve discharge controls; at other locations, further assessment, including sampling, is underway. Commitment Establish a common framework for managing antibiotic discharge, building on existing work such as the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Meeting Our Commitments as a Responsible Initiative (PSCI), and apply these principles across our own internal manufacturing and external supply chain by 2018. Manufacturer of Antibiotics Update Pfizer evaluated our environmental programs that apply to sites and to suppliers against the AMR Industry Alliance’s “ Common Responsible antibiotic manufacturing practices are part of Pfizer’s Antibiotic Manufacturing framework.” Existing Pfizer policies and Pharmaceuticals in the Environment (PiE) Program (learn more here). procedures largely met the expectations within the framework, and areas not fully aligned were modified. Additionally, audit In 2018, our PiE program continued to focus on wastewaters from protocols for evaluating performance against the common framework for internal and external sites were developed building antibiotic manufacturing operations through the completion of on PSCI assessment criteria. environmental risk assessments (ERAs). ERAs have been completed for all internal antibiotic manufacturing sites and all external suppliers in Commitment Work with stakeholders to develop a practical mechanism to transparently demonstrate that our supply chains meet the India and China; assessments are underway for all other antibiotic standards in the framework. suppliers globally. As a result, Pfizer has enhanced, and continues to Update In 2018, Pfizer worked with the Alliance Manufacturing group to enhance, operational practices at both our own and supplier facilities. agree on metrics and key performance indicators (KPIs) to demonstrate performance against the standards within the At some locations, further assessment, including sampling, is underway. common framework. In 2019, Pfizer will publish further In 2018, we also partnered with technical consultants to explore performance information on www.pfizer.com. additional antibiotic wastewater treatment options. This year, Pfizer also Commitment Work with independent technical experts to establish continued our leading role as part of the Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) science-driven, risk-based targets for discharge concentrations for Industry Alliance manufacturing group (the Alliance Manufacturing antibiotics and good practice methods to reduce environmental impact of manufacturing discharges by 2020. Group). Refer to the infographic below for progress made in 2018 with respect to AMR Industry Alliance commitments. To learn more about Update The Alliance Manufacturing Group, with support from Pfizer, published a list of antibiotic discharge targets for a range of Pfizer’s policy position on AMR, including antibiotic manufacturing, refer antibiotic compounds. to here, and to learn more about the AMR Industry Alliance related to manufacturing and the environment please click here. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Our Sustainable Policies & Practices 15 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Meeting Our Environmental Sustainability Goals Our focus and passion for environmental sustainability means that, for the second year running, we have met our intended 2020 goals for GHG emissions, waste reductions and water conservation. Since these goals were set in 2012, we have continued on our Green Journey and globally implemented over 900 sustainability projects, more than 100 of which were completed in 2018, delivering more than $5 million in savings annually. During this time, we have heightened the attention and awareness of Pfizer colleagues and partner organizations (e.g. our suppliers) to the difference each can make, working individually and collectively. In working to meet our goals we have also reduced costs and engaged colleagues on our Green Journey, which will not slow down. We are proud that since 2000, we have achieved an overall 60 percent reduction in GHG emissions. We’ll continue implementing emission and resource reduction projects, while also expecting fluctuations in our environmental sustainability performance due to business changes in 2019 and 2020. To align with the strategic objectives of our three new business units in 2019, Pfizer is committed to developing new goals based on the latest science. We also recognize that stakeholders and investors have certain expectations for existing programs and our ability to manage business risks associated with a changing climate. In 2019, we will begin incorporating the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework into our business risk methodology, to build on work that’s already started and evaluate physical and transitional risks associated with climate change. We are making deliberate and steady progress in achieving our 2020 Supply Chain Environmental Sustainability Goals. In 2019, we will look for more opportunities to accelerate progress, while working with the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) to collectively drive more sustainability improvements. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Our Sustainable Policies & Practices 16 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Our Innovation Progressing Our Science Biosimilars vs. Generics: What’s the Difference? Building Upon a Heritage of Innovation in Biosimilars A biologic medicine is derived from living organisms and is Building on our strengths in developing biologics, Pfizer has a healthy manufactured through highly involved and stringently controlled portfolio of potential biosimilar candidates in midto late-stage biotechnology processes. As biologic medicines, biosimilars are development and we are confident about our ability to bring these inherently different from generics due to their molecular size and important medicines to the patients who need them. Our development structure, and the complexity and cost of their development. Biosimilars portfolio includes proposed biosimilars to: adalimumab (Humira®), also have significantly higher research and development costs and risks bevacizumab (Avastin®), rituximab (Rituxan®/MabThera®), trastuzumab and are more complex to manufacture than small-molecule generics. (Herceptin®) and pegfilgrastim (Neulasta®). Biosimilars have the potential to provide additional treatment options at Recent milestones include Biologics License Application (BLA) approvals lower cost, but development requires significant investment. Biosimilar for Nivestym™ (filgrastim) and Retacrit™ (epoetin alfa-epbx), as well as development may take five to nine years and cost more than $100 Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) approval for Trazimera™ million, not including regulatory fees. A generic, however, costs $1-2 (trastuzumab). In addition, BLAs for Trazimera, Zirabev™ (bevacizumab), million and takes approximately two years to develop. and rituximab, and MAAs for adalimumab, Zirabev (bevacizumab), and rituximab have been accepted for review. Ushering in a New Era of Pfizer R&D Productivity Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Progressing Our Science 17 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Furthering Pfizer’s Global Anti-Infectives Leadership Novel Anti-Infective Therapies Help Address Since our work with penicillin in the 1940s, Pfizer has actively developed Greatest Patient Medical Needs innovative medicines and vaccines, and created tools, policies and Gram-negative bacteria can be difficult to treat due to their ability programs to address the evolving needs of patients and physicians in to develop resistance to commonly used antibiotics. Zavicefta® infectious diseases. (ceftazidime-avibactam) was developed for patients with certain Today, Pfizer is a leading global provider of anti-infective medicines, Gram-negative bacterial infections requiring hospitalization and is offering patients access to a diverse portfolio of more than 80 products now available in more than 35 countries. across the globe. Pfizer also continues to provide access to Cresemba® (isavuconazole), Our portfolio includes anti-infective medicines that help address a novel anti-fungal treatment for adults with diagnosed invasive critical antimicrobial resistance (AMR) needs in difficult-to-treat aspergillosis and mucormycosis, two serious infections caused infections, such as treatment of Gram-negative bacterial infections by mold. Cresemba is now available in 11 European markets. and invasive fungal infections. Our agreement with Basilea Pharmaceutica Ltd. provides exclusive commercialization rights in Europe (excluding the Nordics), and We are also committed to the research and development of exclusive development/commercialization rights in China and medicines and vaccines to treat and help prevent infections caused several other countries in Asia Pacific. by resistant pathogens. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Progressing Our Science 18 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Using Breakthrough Science to Transform the Leading the Way With Gene Therapy in Rare Disease Treatment of Cancer We are at the cutting edge of the science that has the potential to treat the more than 80 percent of rare diseases that have a known At Pfizer Oncology, we believe the key to unlocking IO’s full potential is by genetic component. Through collaborations, partnerships and combining immunotherapies with targeted medicines based on unique acquisitions, we have investigational gene therapy treatments in various tumor characteristics. In October 2018, Pfizer and Merck KGaA presented stages of development for hemophilia A, hemophilia B, amyotrophic positive results from the Phase 3 JAVELIN Renal 101 clinical trial, among lateral sclerosis (ALS) and Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). the first Phase 3 studies combining an immune checkpoint blocker with a tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) in any tumor type. Results from the trial Additionally, we continue to engage the community on gene therapy, showed Bavencio® (avelumab) in combination with Inlyta® (axitinib) sponsoring sessions at key patient, policy, medical and health care demonstrated significant improvements in progression free survival and congresses. We also hosted a multi-stakeholder summit on the value objective response rates as compared with SUTENT® (sunitinib) in of rare disease treatments and have engaged key opinion leaders on previously untreated patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC). reimbursement and access. These improvements were seen across a broad patient population with advanced RCC, including patients with favorable, intermediate or poor prognostic risk groups, and regardless of tumor PD-L1 expression. JAVELIN Renal 101 is continuing as planned to the final analysis for the other primary endpoint of overall survival (OS). No new safety signals were observed, and adverse events for Bavencio, Inlyta and Sutent in this trial were consistent with the known safety profiles for all three medicines. Overcoming Therapy-Resistant Disease Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Progressing Our Science 19 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Progressing the Science in Duchenne Choosing the Path to a Healthier Economy: Exploring Muscular Dystrophy the Economic Impact of Vaccine Investment Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a rare, serious, A study by Pfizer’s Patient & Health Impact team assessed how changes debilitating childhood genetic disease characterized by in childhood vaccine investment impact a country’s gross domestic progressive muscle degeneration that leads to injury and product (GDP). Improved childhood vaccination rates were found to weakness, and a significantly shortened life expectancy. be associated with significant, long-term increases in GDP growth rate. DMD is the most common form of muscular dystrophy For example, if a typical low income country was to invest just $20 in worldwide and primarily affects boys. vaccination per child, the estimated economic gains would translate into an additional $2.3 billion to that country’s GDP over the next 15 years. There is an urgent need to advance DMD research because there Conversely, a country that does not prioritize investing in vaccines could are limited treatment options available. As a result, DMD is a focus lose hundreds of thousands of dollars in unrealized economic value per area of clinical research for Pfizer Rare Disease. The first patients in our unvaccinated baby. The findings provide an economic rationale to Phase 1b clinical trial for our mini-dystrophin gene therapy candidate, complement scientific and moral arguments for prioritizing and PF-06939926, have received an infusion of the mini-dystrophin gene, maintaining vaccination programs. and enrollment as well as dosing continues. In addition, Pfizer has entered into aresearch collaboration with the biotechnology company CYTOO to modify their existing MyoScreen™ platform to enable its potential use as a DMD target discovery platform. We have also joined forces with the charity Duchenne U.K. to pioneer a novel approach to Health Technology Assessment. Combating Meningococcal Disease in Vulnerable Populations Pfizer’s vaccines, Nimenrix® (meningococcal polysaccharide groups A, C, W-135 and Y conjugate vaccine) and Trumenba® (Meningococcal Group B Vaccine), help provide countries and health care providers with the ability to broadly protect against this uncommon disease that is unpredictable and potentially deadly. We continue to build Nimenrix manufacturing capabilities with investment in our manufacturing sites. In many parts of the world, Nimenrix is indicated from two months of age. We also made significant progress in expanding the reach of Trumenba, with launches across the globe. This broader availability reinforces Pfizer’s dedication to advancing important vaccines that can help protect adolescents and adults. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Progressing Our Science 20 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance We have established leading kinase capabilities with multiple kinase inhibitor therapies in development. As a pioneer in Janus kinase (JAK) science, we’re advancing several investigational programs with novel selectivity profiles, which, if successful, could potentially deliver transformative therapies for patients with rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, ulcerative colitis and alopecia areata. Spotlight on Rare Disease Pipeline The science that powers Pfizer’s work in rare disease combines a deep understanding of disease biology, pioneering clinical research and ongoing dialogue with patients, who are steadfast partners in our work to translate science into medicine. Our goal is to develop effective therapies for rare diseases where there is the greatest treatment need and where we have unique, differentiated capabilities to bring Progressing Our Pipeline potentially transformative options to patients. This includes the areas As our understanding of the science and nature of disease evolves, of hemophilia, sickle cell disease, amyloidosis, neuromuscular and Pfizer strives to address the needs of patients through our extensive inherited metabolic disorders. portfolio of medicines and vaccines with a keen eye toward the future. We currently have more than 20 compounds in various stages of Powered by innovative discovery research and development, our development in our rare disease pipeline (spanning 12 potential scientists take pride in inventing molecules that have the potential to indications), and most have received Orphan Drug designation in the meet patient needs and taking them through rigorous testing and, U.S. and EU. We have late-stage pipeline opportunities in transthyretin hopefully, registration and regulatory approval. We have built a broad amyloidosis and sickle cell disease, and we are investigating highly pipeline of compounds that we believe hold the potential to deliver specialized, potential one-time gene therapy treatments for diseases new, life-changing therapies for a wide range of debilitating and that have single gene defects, such as certain neuromuscular and chronic diseases. hematologic diseases. Additionally, our research and development teams dedicate their Spotlight on Vaccines Pipeline efforts to developing complex sterile injectables, new drug delivery Progressing Our Pipeline to Take on the Global Public Health Burden systems, new formulations of existing therapies and expansion into of Infections new markets. Our global research pipeline – focused on areas where we believe we can make a significant contribution to patients – has Clostridium difficile. Clostridium difficile (C. difficile), is the most 100 compounds in various stages of development. 37 percent of the common cause of antibiotic-associated diarrhea in the health care Discovery 100 compounds projects are in Phase 3 trials or registration. setting and an increasing concern worldwide. The bacteria are present in the environment and can colonize the human intestine. When Discovery projects conditions are right, such as when patients have taken antibiotics, they can multiply and express toxins that lead to diarrhea, and in some cases, severe colon inflammation, tears in the gastrointestinal 35 28 26 11 100 tract and death. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC) classified Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Registration Total C. difficile as an urgent public health threat in 2013, for its association with antibiotic use and resistance. Pfizer Pipeline as of January 2019 Group B Streptococcus. Pfizer’s Phase 1/2 trial of PF-06760805, our conjugate vaccine candidate to help protect against Group B Streptococcus (GBS) infection, which can manifest as a serious neonatal Spotlight on Immunology & Inflammation (I&I) Pipeline blood infection (sepsis), pneumonia and meningitis in newborns, with Pfizer infuses the power of scientific innovation into our Inflammation potentially fatal outcomes or long-lasting neurological damage in those & Immunology research and development efforts. We are working to infected, is ongoing. Women who are colonized with the GBS bacteria transform the evolving treatment paradigm in inflammation beyond may pass it on to their newborns during labor and birth. This is the first broad immunosuppression. In the clinic, we are targeting more selective clinical step in our efforts to explore the potential of immunizing women inhibition of pro-inflammatory pathways to deliver potentially during pregnancy, a process known as maternal immunization, transformational outcomes for patients. to protect their new babies from devastating infections. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Progressing Our Science 21 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) Vaccine. In May 2018, Pfizer announced the start of a Phase 1/2 trial of our RSV vaccine candidate in healthy adult volunteers. RSV is a common respiratory virus that affects the lungs and airways, with significant impact on young children and older adults. The highest risk of severe outcome from RSV occurs in the first months of life. RSV affects 33 million children globally and leads to approximately 120,000 childhood deaths every year. In the U.S., approximately 177,000 older adults are hospitalized annually because of RSV. Our clinical program aims to develop a vaccine for populations at highest risk of infection: infants through maternal immunization, and older adults through direct vaccination. Increasing Diversity in Clinical Trials Environment, race, ethnicity, culture, age and gender are all factors that may impact patient outcomes but, historically, have not been fully accounted for in clinical trials. For several years Pfizer has been actively working to address this issue by requiring our development programs to recruit participants who are more representative of the patient populations living with the conditions under study. Among our innovative approaches are a real-time dashboard for tracking diversity of participants on an anonymized basis, education regarding the importance of diversity in our investigator training programs, new partnerships focused on recruiting diverse study participants, and expanding where our research Advancing Our Leading JAK Science is done to include more underserved areas. T  ackling Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) Through Acting (Bio)Ethically Breakthrough Science and Technology Pfizer’s Bioethics Advisory Panel is an advisory group of outside ethicists, clinical researchers and academics who provide us with expert perspectives on complex global issues at the intersections of science, medicine and ethics. The panel’s guidance on emerging issues and trends helps inform Pfizer’s R&D planning and policies, ensuring that patient and public interest is considered and represented. The panel addresses a range of topics, including conducting clinical research in vulnerable patient populations; the use, reuse and ownership of data and biosamples; and our relationships with academic, research and patient communities. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Progressing Our Science 22 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Transforming Development to Deliver 21st Century Pursuing Breakthroughs in the Treatment of NASH Clinical Trials Pfizer is building a drug research and development program that addresses complications such as the buildup of fat, Pfizer is working to seamlessly integrate clinical trials into the lives of inflammation, fibrosis and metabolic dysfunction that can patients through the use of mobile and digital technologies, from lead to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). electronic consent forms to wearables that enable remote collection of clinical data, as well as collaborations with large health systems. We NASH is a progressive liver disease that affects an estimated 3 to 5 participate and lead in collaborations such as TransCelerate, the Clinical percent of the global adult population. There are no approved medicines Trials Transformation Initiative, and the Innovative Medicines Initiative and it is expected to be the leading cause of liver transplants within the to share best practices and develop shared solutions. We are also next decade. Pfizer is building a robust drug research and development engaged in multiple innovative partnerships that apply digital and program that targets NASH through multiple, diverse pathways of the artificial intelligence (AI) tools to reduce trial time, design more efficient disease. Our approach is comprehensive – to address complications that studies, and drive greater access to clinical trials for diverse populations. lead to NASH, like the buildup of liver fat and metabolic dysfunction – with the goal of improving liver inflammation and fibrosis. Pfizer entered into a non-exclusive clinical development agreement with Novartis to investigate one or more combinations of our three clinical assets in development for the treatment of NASH with Novartis’s tropifex. Responsible Data Stewardship Advances Scientific Progress Pfizer is committed to responsible stewardship in the sharing and return of data to support the advancement of science and individual patient health care journeys. For several years, we’ve participated in data sharing collaborations including Project Data Sphere, and in 2018, we participated in the founding and launch of Vivli, a novel data-sharing and analytics platform developed by the Multi-Regional Clinical Trials Center at Harvard University. Vivli offers access to data from thousands of studies across 100 countries in many disease areas. Pfizer shares study results with participants at the completion of a clinical trial in a plain language summary format, and we have also pioneered the return of individual participants’ clinical data to them for their medical records. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Progressing Our Science 23 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Our Innovation Focusing on Patients The Pfizer Sterile Injectable Business is Positioned for Leading a Call-to-Action in Advanced Metastatic Future Growth Breast Cancer The Pfizer Sterile Injectable business is positioned for future growth Tarah Harvey, a mother, wife, daughter and business professional, as evidenced by our $800 million investment in 2018, and a planned joined the Story Half Told initiative in October 2018. Through the additional investment of up to $1.4 billion in manufacturing capabilities program, Tarah is sharing her experience living with a hereditary form over the next several years. Our first priority is always to provide patients of metastatic breast cancer and reiterating the importance of genetic with a consistent and reliable supply of high quality medicines. These testing, which can help inform treatment decisions. Launched in 2014, investments will help increase our output and mitigate future supply issues. Story Half Told aims to elevate public understanding of metastatic breast cancer, dispel misperceptions and combat stigma. We are leveraging our extensive Pfizer manufacturing network to increase capacity, often manufacturing products in multiple locations to meet market demand, which has enabled recovery of select molecules this year. We believe we have the capabilities, expertise, resources and talent required to be successful in this marketplace, which is why we’re taking an active role in driving sustainability across the injectables market for the long term. By the end of 2019, we anticipate our supply issues will be significantly improved and on track to become a growth contributor in the future. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Focusing on Patients 24 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance This Is Living With Cancer™ Continuing Pfizer’s efforts to put patients first by supporting those living with cancer and their caregivers, This Is Living With Cancer™ is a program that shares inspiring stories and provides resources and tools like LivingWith™, a free app to help manage life with cancer. The app is designed to help anyone in the U.S. living with cancer connect with loved ones, ask for support, remember important information from doctors’ visits and stay organized, all in one place. LivingWith is available in app stores in English and Spanish. Patients and caregivers can also sign up for a personalized, pan-tumor digital support experience to gain access to evidenceSupporting the Needs of Cancer Patients in based tools with the goal of helping to build skills around coping, the Community communication, stress management and more. Visit ThisIsLivingWithCancer.com to learn more. Today, more than 15 million people in the U.S. are living with cancer, and that number is expected to grow as additional therapies allow more patients to live with the disease. Building on our legacy of meaningful cancer support, Pfizer works closely with patient advocates, professional organizations and policymakers to better understand and meet the needs of these patients, their families and caregivers and others impacted by cancer. We take a scientific approach to providing the educational, emotional and psychosocial resources that can help make a real difference in outcomes for cancer patients by leveraging insights and data to inform our content. We also provide millions of dollars in grants each year to fund organizations that provide essential programs and services to patients coping with a wide range of cancers. Bringing Hope to Patients With a Rare Form of Pfizer Oncology Together™ Heart Disease Patients in the U.S. now have access to Pfizer Oncology Together, The road to diagnosis can be a long and challenging a personalized patient support program that offers resources for one for patients with a rare disease, as is the case with patients prescribed Pfizer Oncology medicines. As part of the transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy (ATTR-CM), a rare, program, patients will have access to a team of representatives fatal and underdiagnosed condition associated with with social work experience (“Care Champions”) who offer progressive heart failure. one-on-one support resources meant to help patients with some of their day-to-day challenges. Care Champions can connect patients Pfizer has conducted the only Phase 3 study (ATTR-ACT) in ATTR-CM with to emotional support resources, educational information on topics our investigational treatment, tafamidis – a therapy which is also already such as nutrition, guidance on leaving or returning to work, and an approved under the name Vyndaqel™ in 40 countries and commercialized independent organization that helps eligible patients find rides and in 29 countries for the treatment of ATTR polyneuropathy. In 2018, we lodging for their treatment-related appointments.* completed regulatory submissions to health authorities in Japan and the * Some services are provided through third-party organizations that operate independently and are not controlled by Pfizer. Availability of services and eligibility requirements are US for the use of tafamidis as a treatment option for patients with determined solely by these organizations. ATTR-CM, and additional submissions will continue to occur around the world in 2019. We support the Transthyretin Amyloidosis Outcomes Survey (THAOS) ( www.thaos.net), the largest real-world international database for transthyretin amyloidosis, which collects data from people diagnosed with ATTR and carriers of ATTR mutation(s) in order to improve disease knowledge, understanding and management. We also work to further cardiologists’ understanding of ATTR-CM and increase their knowledge of available diagnostics, including the development of a health care professional website in the U.S.: https://www.suspectanddetect.com/. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Focusing on Patients 25 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Encouraging Older Adults to Keep Booming by “Ticks Are Everywhere” Helping to Protect Against Pneumococcal Pneumonia A campaign in our International Developed Markets to help raise awareness of tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) followed a Football legend Terry Bradshaw teamed up with Pfizer in year two of the person dressed as a giant tick appearing in situations causing All About Your Boom™ public health campaign to educate Baby havoc for unsuspecting individuals, including a family picnic. Boomers about pneumococcal pneumonia, a potentially serious bacterial lung infection that, in severe cases, can be life-threatening. Tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) is a tick-borne disease, which is fairly There are more than 47.8 million adults 65 years or older in the U.S. who prevalent in Europe and other parts of the world. The virus is passed on may not be aware that, even if they are healthy, they are at an increased by ticks when they feed. There are no current cures for TBE, but steps risk for pneumococcal pneumonia because the immune system naturally can be taken to reduce the risk. The premise of Ticks are Everywhere is weakens with age. All About Your Boom and Bradshaw tell adults 65 and that while real ticks are not this big or this harmless, they can carry TBE older not to let pneumococcal pneumonia sideline them from doing the and appear in the places you would least expect them. The campaign things they love and encourage Boomers to speak with their health care introduces vaccination as one preventative option for consumers in providers about their personal risk, and if vaccination is right for them. relevant international markets to help protect themselves against contracting this disease. Prioritizing Teen Health on World Meningitis Day Delivering Transformative Treatments With and On World Meningitis Day (April 24), Dr. Freda Lewis-Hall, Pfizer’s Chief Patient Officer and Executive Vice President, and Mary Dell Harrington, for Patients co-founder of Grown & Flown, the largest U.S.-based online community The lives of patients and health care professionals are complicated for parents of children who are high school and college age, hosted a enough, which is why Pfizer uses every tool we can to make participation Facebook Live event to raise awareness of the importance of talking in clinical trials as easy as possible. We are designing our trials around with teens about health care. Nearly 300,000 people viewed the the needs and desires of patients, engaging with them before, discussion, which highlighted how parents can create a “Health Check during and after a clinical trial. From drug discovery throughout List” with their teenagers. Topics discussed included: how parents can the development process, we ensure that we are measuring what is help teens keep their health on track, the importance of ensuring teens meaningful to patients by using patient-centered outcomes assessment are up-to-date on vaccines recommended by the Centers for Disease tools, and obtaining direct input from patients on protocol design to Control and Prevention (CDC), and information about meningococcal ensure participation is feasible and not burdensome. In addition, disease, including Group B disease, and linking to the educational site Pfizer makes a point of thanking participants for their contributions, MeetMeningitis.com. and returning data to them, in accordance with the study protocol and applicable local requirements. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Focusing on Patients 26 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Consumer Healthcare Focuses on Consumer Healthcare Brings Our Products to Those Delighting Consumers in Need Globally Inspired by consumer insights, Pfizer continually enhances our products Pfizer is proud to provide our over-the-counter (OTC) products to meet changing consumer needs and preferences. For example, in to people around the world, through donations to those 2018, we launched ThermaCare® Ultra, the first and only pain-relieving affected by natural disasters and our military. cream with four powerful pain-fighting ingredients. We also expanded Pfizer is proud to support those in need through donations of our Consumer our Emergen-C® family of products to include Probiotics+ drink mixes Healthcare products. In 2018, we donated more than $700,000 of product and an Energy+ gummy. The ChapStick® brand expanded its skincare for including ChapStick®, Advil® and Robitussin® to organizations such as lips platform by introducing vitamin-enriched tinted lip oils and a night Americares, Heart to Heart and Direct Relief International to support serum, further driving our personal care offerings into the beauty disaster relief efforts and other causes. In addition, we support U.S. troops category. In addition, we launched Advil® Multi-Symptom Cold and Flu at home and abroad, including donating products to Stockings for Soldiers, – the only OTC cold and flu medicine available with ibuprofen – and which supports U.S. troops deployed overseas during the holiday season. Robitussin® Honey – the only OTC cough/cold medicine combined with 19 percent real, true-source certified honey. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Focusing on Patients 27 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Consumer Healthcare Empowers People Around Pfizer Consumer Healthcare Launches the World’s the World to Take Health and Wellness Into Their First Non-Prescription Brand for Erectile Dysfunction Own Hands It is estimated that erectile problems affect up to 21 percent of men in Two of our iconic brands achieved the U.K. – equivalent to 4.3 million individuals. With Viagra Connect® major milestones in 2018, as Centrum® now available as a non-prescription medication, millions of men in the marked its 40th year as the world’s country can more actively manage an aspect of their health that can #1 multivitamin and Advil® Liqui-Gels® have a significant impact on their relationships. delivered fast, powerful pain relief for its 20th year. We also introduced our brands in new places, launching Emergen-C® on Alibaba’s Tmall International in China and offering Alacer™, a probiotic supplement, exclusively through online retailers enabling consumers to take control of their digestive and immune health with a solution delivered right to their front door. In addition, to enable low income families to use our brands, we continue to offer more products in small count sizes at affordable price points in Latin American and Asian “mom and pop” shops and in U.S. dollar stores. This first-of-its-kind launch included an extensive training program for pharmacists to help them assess and recommend treatment. In addition, because ED is often caused by underlying cardiovascular disease, the screening assessment plays a critical role in engaging men with health care providers. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Focusing on Patients 28 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Partnering With Patients to Create a Dedicated Source Engaging Patients Who Are Active on Social Media of Information for the Ulcerative Colitis Community to Help Empower Patient Communities The physical symptoms, emotional well-being and societal taboos As Pfizer strives to identify and address the unmet needs of people living surrounding UC often leave patients feeling isolated and misunderstood. with chronic inflammatory conditions, social media can be a great That’s why Pfizer developed TalkingUC.com, which provides a resource to enhance our understanding. The candid conversations we destination to help educate and inspire people living with UC, and host as part of our Real Talk Summits provide us with invaluable insights ultimately empower them to better manage the challenges of living with from patients who actively share information about their condition on their disease. The site is developed for patients, by patients. We partnered social media. with patients to gain their input on the website during numerous advisory In 2016 and 2017, Pfizer brought together rheumatoid arthritis patients boards, and incorporated insights gleaned from the UC Narrative survey. who are active on social media for the first of our Real Talk Summits. The UC Narrative is a global initiative created by Pfizer to engage the In 2018, we decided to bring the dialogue to a broader community, UC community to help identify how people living with UC are impacted by expanding the Summits to include the psoriatic arthritis and ulcerative the disease. We also collaborated with an editorial board of patients and colitis communities as well. health care providers (HCPs), including a gastroenterologist and an advanced practicing nurse, to ensure that content reflects the UC The topics discussed at the Summits included emotional well-being, community’s voice and meets their needs. patient empowerment and other issues that are often overlooked when talking about these conditions. Pfizer co-created content to help capture the attendees’ personal insights and share across their social media platforms. The Real Talk events allow us to deliver on our commitment to bring the patient perspective to the forefront of all that we do. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Focusing on Patients 29 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Changing the Narrative for Rheumatoid Arthritis With One Infusion, a Path Toward Transforming (RA), Psoriatic Arthritis (PsA) and Ulcerative Colitis Patient Lives With Gene Therapy Begins (UC) Patients Gene therapy offers the prospect of using one-time treatments to The RA, PsA, and UC Narrative initiatives were created address an array of devastating diseases caused by genetic mutations. to help patients living with these conditions, and the In July 2018, we initiated a late-stage clinical trial to help determine physicians who treat them, develop resources to break if one infusion of an investigational gene therapy will free hemophilia B down communication barriers and change expectations patients from the regular injections they currently need to prevent to improve disease management. spontaneous bleeding. And in March 2018, the first patient was dosed in a Phase 1b clinical trial for Pfizer’s mini-dystrophin gene therapy By working with advocacy partners, health care providers and patients in candidate for Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). 22 countries around the world, Pfizer created the Narrative initiatives to elevate the voices of patients and further understand how they are Although gene therapy holds tremendous promise, the science behind impacted by their disease. Through primary research, the initiatives it is extraordinarily complex and presents many challenges. For example, uncovered insights to help identify real-world needs and concerns using engineered viral vectors to introduce corrected copies of missing about patient care. or defective genes into a patient’s body requires expertise in translating the biology of a disease into meaningful therapeutic targets, expertise During 2018, each Narrative reached major milestones by leveraging in engineering the vectors for the therapeutic genes, and expertise in research outputs to engage global and local stakeholders in new manufacturing. We are addressing those challenges by advancing in-house conversations about improving patient care – becoming a tangible resources and expertise, creating end-to-end capabilities from research and realization of our Patients First commitment. development to manufacturing and commercialization, and collaborating with leading biotech companies in the field. While the science is undoubtedly high-tech, the most powerful testimony to its potential may one day come from a 10-year old boy who can play a Little League season without once thinking about or being sidelined by his hemophilia. “Pfizer is a leader in providing unprecedented and potentially transformational treatment for diseases that have been beyond the reach of medical intervention, and gene therapy is a prime example of that. We have advanced our in-house resources and expertise to explore the next generation of potential treatment options and the future of how we combat rare diseases.” Mikael Dolsten, MD, PhD President, Worldwide Research and Development Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Focusing on Patients 30 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Our Innovation Partnering in Innovation Pfizer Tackles Antimicrobial Resistance Improving Global Outcomes in Metastatic Modern medicine depends on antibiotics to help prevent and treat Breast Cancer infections. Alarmingly, many are losing their effectiveness due to Globally, more than 2 million new cases of breast cancer are diagnosed antimicrobial resistance (AMR). each year.1 In developed countries like the U.S., about 10-15 percent of If antibiotics become ineffective, common infections could result in all breast cancer cases are diagnosed at an advanced stage.2 But in hospitalization or death. Life-saving interventions and routine lower-to-middle income countries, that number rises steeply to 50-80 procedures would become more difficult or impossible. percent of breast cancer cases.2 Pfizer Oncology, in partnership with Susan G. Komen® and the Global Advanced Breast Cancer Alliance, AMR can affect anyone. It causes 700,000 deaths annually worldwide, a conducted a global analysis of National Cancer Control Plans (NCCPs), number projected to skyrocket to 10 million by 2050 without intervention. policies and programs – identifying gaps in care and opportunities for Pfizer is proud to partner with the infectious disease community and collaborative, cross-sector policy development that will support the play a leading role in the fight against AMR through: needs of metastatic breast cancer patients. The review, which included 16 countries, showed: –– Active stewardship 1 There is still a need for improved awareness and education –– Innovative surveillance tools, like ATLAS (Antimicrobial Testing Leadership and Surveillance) 2 None of the NCCPs reflected a need to collect stage of diagnosis or recurrence –– Global policy leadership 3 None of the countries with an NCCP actually recommended specific –– A diverse portfolio of anti-infective medicines and vaccines coordinated care actions for advanced breast cancer –– Responsible manufacturing practices 4 Success depends on collaboration between all stakeholders Results were published in The Breast Journal and presented in a number of international forums in 2018, including the World Cancer Congress in Malaysia. 1 Bray F, Ferlay J, Soerjomataram I, Siegel RL, Torre LA, Jemal A. Global cancer statistics 2018: GLOBOCAN estimates of incidence and mortality worldwide for 36 cancers in 185 countries. Ca Cancer J Clin. 2018;68(6):394-424. 2 Unger-Saldaña K. Challenges to the early diagnosed and treatment of breast cancer in developing countries. World J Clin Oncol. 2014;5(3):465-77. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Partnering in Innovation 31 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Advancing Sickle Cell Disease Awareness, Partnering in Hemophilia Understanding & Diagnosis Pfizer partners with the World Federation of Hemophilia to support a program to help address hemophilia patients’ Our Rivipansel (GMI-1070) Evaluating Safety, Efficacy and Time to health care needs globally; this year was the first to also Discharge (RESET) Phase 3 trial is evaluating an investigational drug include youth representatives. (rivipansel) to determine whether it has the potential to reduce time in the hospital and the amount of opioid pain relievers needed for severe Recognizing that hemophilia care spans beyond a hematologist and sickle cell pain episodes, also known as vaso-occlusive crises. Pfizer is also factor replacement, Pfizer has partnered with the World Federation committed to raising awareness and understanding of SCD, so that of Hemophilia (WFH) to support a culturally relevant, sustainable and people living with the disease will know they are not alone. This includes well-rounded program that helps address aspects of a hemophilia our continued collaboration with the National Newspaper Publishers patient’s health care needs. Since 2001, we’ve supported the Twinning Association (NNPA), the development of the Council for Change and Program with the WFH, demonstrating an ongoing commitment to supporting the Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto, Canada, and the improving the lives of those living with bleeding disorders. In 2018, Korle Bu Teaching Hospital in Ghana, in screening more than 4,500 we supported the launch of the Youth Twinning program, which pairs babies for SCD. As we collaborate to build a model ecosystem of care, emerging and established youth groups to share knowledge in areas Pfizer is also engaging key members of the community in a shared such as youth leadership, good governance activities, effective vision: seeing the screening program at Korle Bu serve as a model for communication and public speaking, to help foster the next generation other hospitals across Ghana, and in other areas of sub-Saharan Africa. of leaders in the bleeding disorders community. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Partnering in Innovation 32 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Sparking Innovative Ideas to Deliver Vaccines to the Prioritizing Preventive Care and CDC-Recommended Hardest-To-Reach “Last Mile” Immunizations With Baby Checkups Count In remote locations on Earth, which are sometimes referred to as Baby Checkups Count™ is a new public health campaign that “the last mile,” we have been brainstorming innovative ways to safely encourages parents to take their baby to every American transport vaccines. For example, Pfizer Vaccines has provided support Academy of Pediatrics (AAP)-recommended checkup and to Not Impossible Labs to develop and pilot creative solutions to issues keep their baby up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended related to “last mile” logistics, and aid in delivering vaccines to millions by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) of people who are left isolated by conventional efforts. With support between birth and age two. from Pfizer, Not Impossible Labs convened a student engineering Research shows that parents prioritize taking their baby to a doctor hackathon and sponsored two engineering teams at Georgia Tech when they’re sick, but may miss a regular checkup, not realizing how University to design potential solutions, such as solar-powered drone essential it is for their baby’s overall health. Missing scheduled baby boats that utilize water currents to save money and energy when checkups is the number one reason for missing important CDCtransporting vaccines, while using river water to help keep vaccines at recommended pediatric vaccinations that can help protect babies the required cool temperature during transport. against potentially life-threatening diseases. That’s why Pfizer launched Baby Checkups Count™, a public health awareness campaign to emphasize the importance of preventive care, encouraging new parents to ensure their baby attends every AAP-recommended checkup and stays up-to-date on all CDC-recommended vaccinations between birth and age two. The digital and social media campaign offers resources and tools for new parents on the many benefits of regular baby checkups. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Partnering in Innovation 33 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Driving Increased Colorectal Cancer Screening: Partnering to Help Protect Babies in the U.S. Addressing a Substantial Unmet Need Approximately 30 percent of Hispanic and 35 percent of AfricanAmerican children aged 19-35 months in the U.S. were not vaccinated Pfizer established an agreement with Exact Sciences Corporation, with all immunizations recommended by the Centers for Disease Control a molecular diagnostics company focused on the early detection and and Prevention (CDC) as of 2017. To address health disparities in prevention of the deadliest forms of cancer, to co-promote Cologuard®, pediatric vaccinations, Pfizer launched Partnering to Help Protect™, the first and only noninvasive stool DNA screening test for colorectal a collaboration between U.S. Pfizer Vaccines, nonprofit organizations cancer approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). and influential local voices to improve vaccine education, awareness and Pfizer has combined its first-rate sales, marketing, media, account access in underserved communities. Through a diverse mix of activities management and medical teams with Exact Sciences’ sales, medical – health events, public service announcements and social media and industry-leading diagnostic capabilities to battle this serious public initiatives – pilot programs in Detroit, Houston, Memphis, Philadelphia health issue. Colorectal cancer, regarded as the most preventable yet and Pittsburgh have reached over 12.6 million people with resources to least prevented form of cancer, causes 50,000 deaths each year in the help protect more babies from vaccine-preventable diseases. U.S. alone, underscoring the significant unmet patient need to increase screenings. Nine out of 10 people survive more than five years when colorectal cancer is diagnosed at an early stage, yet less than two-thirds of people are up-to-date with recommended screenings. Eliquis® (apixaban) Continues to Differentiate in NVAF Pfizer, with BMS, continues to generate robust evidence on how Eliquis (apixaban) performs in real-world settings through ACROPOLIS™, which now includes more than 1 million lives analyzed in 11 countries. In 2018, analyses from ARISTOPHANES, the largest known real-world study of oral anticoagulant use in nonvalvular atrial fibrillation (NVAF) patients, were presented at three prominent medical congresses and published in the medical journal, Stroke. Results from ARISTOPHANES complement clinical trial data by providing effectiveness and safety outcomes associated with real-world use of oral anticoagulants in large numbers of NVAF patients who may not have been previously represented in clinical trials. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Advancing Global Milestones 34 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Innovation in Chronic Pain Management BMS-Pfizer Alliance Working to Understand Gaps in Chronic pain has a significant impact on patients, health care systems Atrial Fibrillation (AFib) Detection and Diagnosis and economies around the world, and Pfizer is working to address the Atrial fibrillation (AFib) is a known risk factor for stroke, however, unmet medical needs in chronic pain management. With Eli Lilly we are approximately 1 of 3 patients remain undiagnosed. Pfizer and BMS progressing tanezumab, an investigational treatment for osteoarthritis believe that raising public awareness of AFib and its link to stroke and pain, chronic low back pain and cancer pain. Tanezumab acts in a convening the advocacy community are critical for tackling this health different manner than opioids and other analgesics and in studies to issue. Together with leading experts in the community, Pfizer and BMS date, has not shown risk of abuse, addiction or dependence. In the first are working to help identify gaps in detection and diagnosis of AFib in Phase 3 study from our ongoing program, tanezumab demonstrated appropriate high risk patients through multi-stakeholder programs, such significant improvements in osteoarthritis pain and physical function as the “Matter of Moments” thought leadership initiative in the U.S. and compared to placebo. Additional results in osteoarthritis pain and the 2018 European Summit on Inequalities in AF Care. chronic low back pain are anticipated in 2019. If approved, tanezumab would be a first-in-class treatment. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Advancing Global Milestones 35 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Our Innovation Advancing Global Milestones Overcoming Bumps in the Road – Increasing Vaccine Reach in China Literally and Figuratively In China, we are partnering with a leading global financial leader, Ant Financial, to explore innovative solutions that can improve disease Susan Silbermann, Global President, Vaccines, spoke at the 2018 awareness and access to vaccines. We’re using the Alipay platform, Atlantic Festival about how Pfizer is working with global partners to which has over 700 million active users in China, to provide much accelerate access to vaccines – especially during the critical “last mile” needed education about disease and vaccinations. Additionally, delivery – to help protect those who need them the most. to help China reach its ambitious 2030 goals to reduce infant mortality, “Vaccines are powerful. They can help save lives, eliminate and even we are exploring the use of the platform for mobile payments to eradicate disease, and protect future generations,” said Silbermann. improve convenience in Chinese Point of Vaccination centers, as well “We know there will be flat tires along the way, but we are committed as options for installment payments that may reduce the financial to overcoming bumps in the road – literally and figuratively – to deliver burden for low income families. life-saving vaccines to people who need them most.” The Atlantic Festival, held in Washington D.C., brings together the nation’s biggest thinkers and leaders in politics, business, health, science, technology, arts, culture, and journalism to tackle the most significant issues facing our time. Bringing Xeljanz® to More Patients Worldwide While significant advances have been made in the treatment of chronic inflammatory conditions, new treatments and mechanisms of action are needed for these diseases, which can be debilitating, distressing and difficult to manage. In 2018, Xeljanz® (tofacitinib) was approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for the treatment of active psoriatic arthritis (PsA) and moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis (UC), an important step forward for patients in need of new treatment options. Today, Xeljanz is approved in more than 80 countries for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), over 40 countries for the treatment of PsA and in more than 70 countries for the treatment of UC. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Advancing Global Milestones 36 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Advancing Care Worldwide for People Living Emerging Markets With Eczema PIH Emerging Markets focuses on the specialized needs of the emerging world, bringing Pfizer’s portfolio of innovative medicines and vaccines to 2018 marked the first global approval of Eucrisa (crisaborole) ® patients and people in more than 100 markets across Latin America, ointment, 2 percent, the only 100 percent steroid-free topical Africa, Middle East and Asia. phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE4) inhibitor that works above and below the skin’s surface to treat eczema (a chronic and burdensome Through unique commercial models and innovative partnerships, inflammatory disease). Eucrisa is now available for mild-to-moderate our goal is to accelerate access to the Pfizer portfolio and make a atopic dermatitis in patients 2 years of age and older in Canada, as meaningful difference in the health and well-being of the more than well as in the U.S. Eucrisa offers patients a steroid-free prescription 5 billion people living in these regions. treatment option that can be used nearly anywhere on the body, as In 2018, the PIH Emerging Markets team obtained approval and launched part of a long-term treatment plan. Additional regulatory submissions almost 70 innovative medicines and vaccines across our markets. and approvals worldwide are anticipated in 2019 and beyond. Ibrance® Receives Approval in China Innovating to Advance Global Health Access Pfizer is providing new hope and new treatment options for advanced There are more than 7 billion people in the world today, and over breast cancer patients in China with the approval and launch of 70 percent of them live in emerging markets, where access to quality Ibrance® (palbociclib) for the treatment of hormone receptor-positive, health care can be limited. human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative (HR+/HER2-) locally Addressing the crowd at the 2018 Social Good Summit, Nanette Cocero, advanced or metastatic breast cancer in combination with an President of Emerging Markets for Pfizer Innovative Health, spoke about aromatase inhibitor as initial endocrine-based therapy in postthe challenges to health access in these areas and the opportunities for menopausal women. innovators, entrepreneurs and corporations to make a difference. The launch marks the first innovative breakthrough innovative therapy “The imbalance of health care around the world is astounding. The available for advanced breast cancer patients in the last decade. continent of Africa bears almost 25 percent of the global burden of disease yet has access to only 3 percent of its health workers and only 1 percent of its financial resources,” she explained. “We need more people, with and without medical skills, who are willing to commit their creative minds to address patients’ needs.” Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Advancing Global Milestones 37 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Combating the Tobacco Epidemic at a Global Level Pfizer’s Transformative Science and Cutting-Edge Tobacco use is the leading cause of preventable death worldwide. With Technology Are Protecting People of All Ages From more than 1 billion smokers in the world, tobacco kills an estimated 6 Life-Threatening Infections and Cancer million people every year. By 2030, the annual death toll from tobacco is At Pfizer, we discover and develop novel vaccines that help protect estimated to rise beyond 8 million. Earlier this year, we were proud to people around the world from deadly viruses, bacteria or cancer. In 2018, sponsor the 17th World Conference on Tobacco or Health, which we focused on rational vaccine design – understanding the structure of gathered 2,000 delegates representing 125 countries to discuss the proteins enabled by high-tech tools like cryo-electron microscopy as a need for increased tobacco control across all geographic borders. Over basis to design and produce those proteins for use in vaccines. the course of three days, we were able to gather expert perspectives, share ideas about the evolving tobacco control landscape, and support A reflection of the importance of our work is the fact that two of our a symposium focused on strategies and tools to embed smoking vaccines were awarded Breakthrough Therapy designations by the U.S. cessation into health systems. Food and Drug Administration (FDA): our 20vPnC vaccine candidate which entered Phase 3 development in December 2018 to help prevent Read more about Combating the Tabacco epidemic invasive pneumococcal disease and pneumonia caused by 20 Streptoccocus pneumoniae serotypes in adults aged 18 years and older, and our Meningococcal Group B Vaccine which received licensure in 2014 to help protect against the potential life-altering consequences of invasive disease caused by Neisseria meningitidis serogroup B in adolescents and young adults, and is now being evaluated in children 1-9 years of age. We are also advancing a late stage vaccine candidate that targets disease-causing toxins produced by Clostridium difficile, which has been recognized by the World Health Organization (WHO) as a significant medical problem and was designated as a priority pathogen by the US. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). C. difficile is becoming a growing concern worldwide as cases have been increasingly reported beyond hospitals doors in the general community. C. difficile continues to be the most common cause of antibiotic-associated diarrhea in the health care setting, making it an important focus for prevention. Our vaccine candidate may help prevent disease in older adults who are at higher risk of infection, and if successful, could further address urgent antimicrobial resistance threats worldwide. We also began the clinical trial to investigate an experimental vaccine to protect against respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), a virus that kills approximately 120,000 infants a year and is responsible for a substantial disease burden in adults. Our first cancer vaccine candidate continues to progress as well – we currently have a vaccine-based immunotherapy regimen (VBIR) in phase 1 that is being investigated in prostate cancer. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Advancing Global Milestones 38 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Vaccine R&D can be challenging. In 2018 we discontinued enrollment due to lack of efficacy in our Phase 2b trial, STRIVE (STaphylococcus aureus SuRgical Inpatient Vaccine Efficacy), which was evaluating the company’s investigational Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) multi-antigen vaccine. Pfizer is evaluating next steps for the potential development of a S. aureus vaccine. While this development was disappointing, we believe that learnings may be derived from STRIVE that could help us to understand the reasons for the failure and inform the development of future vaccines. We are optimistic that the scientific progress we have achieved in our vaccines pipeline in 2018 will lead to licensed vaccines and have a vital and global impact in protecting people from the suffering and fatalities caused by vaccine preventable infectious diseases. A Landmark Year in Pfizer’s Quest to Change the Trajectory of Cancer With numerous approvals in 2018, we went from having 10 cancer medicines with 18 indications to 18 medicines in more than 20 indications as of January 2019. This progress includes the expansion of the Xtandi® ( enzalutamide) label to the treatment of non-metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer and approvals of Talzenna® ( talazoparib), a precision medicine for a specific type of advanced hereditary breast cancer; Daurismo™ ( glasdegib), a therapy for certain patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia; and Vizimpro® ( dacomitinib) for the first-line treatment of patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (mNSCLC) characterized by epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations. Pfizer Deepens Scientific Knowledge to Create More The 2018 approval of Lorbrena® ( lorlatinib), another non-small cell Options for Autoimmune Patients lung cancer precision medicine, demonstrates our achievements in this hard-to-treat cancer. In 2011, we introduced Xalkori® (crizotinib) for the Autoimmune diseases like rheumatoid arthritis (RA), psoriatic arthritis treatment of ALK-positive mNSCLC. While a tremendous advance, we (PsA) and ulcerative colitis (UC) cause physical and emotional hardship knew we needed to do more to address the issue of resistance to for millions of people. Pfizer has led the way in understanding how therapy. Building upon our extensive understanding of tumor complexity proteins called janus kinases (JAKs) contribute to these diseases and and treatment resistance, Pfizer scientists discovered and developed pioneered the study of JAK inhibitors (JAKI), drugs that block the activity Lorbrena specifically to inhibit tumor mutations that may drive of those proteins. In 2012, we introduced tofacitinib, a JAKI that is resistance to other ALK inhibitors. The Lorbrena approval is an approved in the US and the EU for RA, PsA and UC. important milestone that provides hope and a new option to ALKOur JAK leadership doesn’t end there. We are tailoring the design and positive mNSCLC patients who have progressed on prior ALK therapies. selectivity of our JAKIs to hopefully create disease-targeted, effective and We continue to be relentless as we deepen our understanding of cancer, safer drugs for a growing range of autoimmune conditions. In 2018, the the most complex disease known to humanity, and drive our science U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) awarded Breakthrough Therapy forward to improve the lives of cancer patients around the world. designations to two of our novel JAKIs – one for alopecia areata, a disease that has no approved treatment and causes hair loss, often with psychological effects, and another for moderate to severe eczema (aka atopic dermatitis), a chronic and potentially disabling skin condition. “Even with the significant improvements observed across As we look to 2019 and beyond, we will continue to drive JAK science biomarker-driven non-small cell lung cancer, we are reminded forward to positively impact the lives of more people struggling with every day of the great need for new treatment options distressing and burdensome autoimmune conditions. that may benefit patients with these types of lung cancers. These two approvals for Lorbrena and Vizimpro are exciting for patients with ALK-positive or EGFR-mutated metastatic non-small cell lung cancer, who now have more options in their fight against the disease.” Andrea Ferris President and CEO of LUNGevity Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Advancing Global Milestones 39 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Culture Culture Matters What Culture Means at Pfizer In every industry and every profession, there is one single construct with the power to unite teams, create identity and supercharge growth. Culture. “To be successful, the first thing a business must get right is its culture. Colleagues must have a deep connection to what they By bringing together the beliefs, values and ideas that define an organization, a strong workplace culture creates a framework that do, they must share a common set of values about how they do attracts and retains the right kind of talent. that work, and they must be empowered. Our colleagues are passionate about their ability to impact the lives of patients. It promotes the image of who your company is and how you experience the world around you. But more importantly, it’s the common thread It’s this passion, underpinned by our OWNIT! culture, that that brings people together for a shared purpose. An absolute must brings us together and will drive our success in the year ahead.” for a company like ours. Albert Bourla Chief Executive Officer Read article on Linkedin “I believe in the power of Pfizer people, and in the strength of our OWNIT! Culture. Our colleagues’ compassion and dedication to patients and our Purpose was evident in all they accomplished this year, and our culture inspires their vision and nurtured their talent. It’s what guides all of us and enables our people to do their very best work, every day.” Dawn Rogers Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Our Culture 40 Colleague engagement remained strong across Pfizer this year, as measured by our engagement index which tracks colleagues' sense A Culture of Colleague Engagement From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance of personal accomplishment and satisfaction, as well as their Colleague commitment engagement and willingnessremained strong across to recommend Pfizer Pfizer as an year, as thisemployer. A CulturebyofourColleague measured engagement Engagement index which tracks colleagues' sense of personal accomplishment and satisfaction, as well as their Colleague engagement remained strong across Pfizer this year, as A Culture of commitment andColleague willingnessEngagement to recommend Pfizer as an employer. measured by our engagement index which tracks colleagues' sense ofColleague personal accomplishment measured by our 75% engagement remained engagement strong across and satisfaction, index which tracks Pfizer as well asthis year, as their colleagues’ sense commitment and willingness to recommend Pfizer as an employer. Pfizer exceeds the 75th percentile of external of personal accomplishment andonsatisfaction, benchmarks all engagement index as wellquestions as their 75% commitment and willingness to recommend Pfizer as an employer. “I would recommend Pfizer as Pfizer exceeds the 75th percentile of external a great place to work” benchmarks on all engagement index questions 75% Was our most improved survey question this year Pfizer exceeds the 75th percentile of external “I wouldonrecommend benchmarks all engagement index Pfizer questionsas a great place to work” Was our most improved survey question this year Colleagues report that teams “I would acrossrecommend the enterprisePfizer are embodying as an ownership culture. Pfizer'sahighest scoring great place to work” survey items relate to OWNIT! Day 2018: Own Your Energy teams prioritizing: Was our most improved survey question this year Colleagues report that teams across the enterprise are embodying an Helping people live longer, healthier, happier lives is just ownership Colleagues culture. reportPfizer's highest that teams scoring across the survey enterpriseitems arerelate to embodying as important for our colleagues as for the people who use teams prioritizing: an ownership culture. Pfizer’s highest scoring survey items relate to our medicines. Colleagues report that teams across the enterprise are embodying an teams prioritizing: With this in mind, Pfizer dedicated our global OWNIT! Day to exploring ownership culture. Pfizer's highest scoring survey items relate to teams prioritizing: personal energy management and its impact on our careers and ability Ethics and integrity Staying the course in the Making it easy for others to to serve patients. face of obstacles feel like they belong Colleagues were given practical tips to help build, expand and renew energy levels to accomplish more, in less time, at a higher level of quality, Ethics and integrity Staying the course in the Making it easy for others to in a more sustainable way. In addition, they learned about and built on face of obstacles feel like they belong In 2018: their own energy capacity, helping to foster opportunities for personal growth and fulfillment. In 2018:Ethics and integrity Staying the course in the Making it easy for others to face of obstacles feel like they belong In 2018: $34m 12,000 Colleagues gave $34m Organizations reached through Matching Gifts, In 2018: Annual Giving and $34m volunteer grants 12,000 Colleagues gave $34m Organizations reached through Matching Gifts, $34m Annual Giving and volunteer grants 12,000 Colleagues gave $34m Organizations reached through Matching Gifts, Annual Giving and volunteer grants –– Africa-Middle East/Lebanon: An energy management workshop brought colleagues together for a learning experience on OWNIT! Day –– North America/New York HQ: Gift boxes were packaged by colleagues and Executive Leadership Team members before they reached the hands of hospitalized children in the metropolitan New York area –– Europe/Pfizer Sweden challenged Pfizer Netherlands to a friendly jump rope competition to raise money for charity. The Netherlands topped Sweden with 15,216 jumps. Three thousand euros were donated to KIKA, a Dutch organization that is dedicated to improving the treatment and care of children with cancer –– North America/Rocky Mount, North Carolina: In need of confidence, inspiration or hope? The “Take What You Need” display in Rocky Mount offered reassurance to colleagues with depleted emotional energy Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Our Culture 41 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance –– Africa-Middle East/Cameroon: Starting out OWNIT! Day with some physical, spiritual and emotional focus, colleagues join a session of stretching and physical activity –– Asia Pacific/Beijing, China: In a “Wake Up Your Energy” session, colleagues gathered for a 20-second dance-off featuring a variety of music that encouraged self-expression in their dance style. Zhao Yi, Assistant to the Greater China Finance Vice President, dances to her own beat before selecting another colleague to dance to the next music clip Pfizer: As Diverse as the Patients and Communities We Serve At Pfizer, our colleagues’ diverse backgrounds, values and perspectives contribute to every aspect of our business. As an organization, we have shifted over time from prioritizing diversity alone to focusing on both diversity and inclusion. Diversity brings new ideas and perspectives into our workplace. Inclusion means being open to those new ideas – even if they are different from what has come before – and encouraging everyone to contribute concepts and solutions. We Are One Albert Bourla: Diversity & Inclusion Our new global D&I strategy, launched on October 3, 2018, shows that we are all accountable to make Diversity & Inclusion a part of our DNA and unlock its power to serve patients. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Our Culture 42 with certified Small Business Enterprises (SBE) suppliers and over From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance $2.8bn with certified Minority Women Business Enterprises (MWBE) suppliers D&I by the Numbers D&I by the Numbers During the same time period, we have partnered with over: 32% 2,000 SBE suppliers Representation of women at the Vice President (VP) and above level is currently 32% globally 18% 800 MWBE suppliers Representation of minorities in the U.S. at the Vice President (VP) and above level is 18% 21,000+ Mentorship program In 2018, we launched our first mentorship program 20%+ of our workforce, 21,000+ colleagues, with diverse suppliers and are currently mentoring are actively engaged in D&I efforts 105 5 suppliers across various categories, including Human Through a global network of over 105 Resources, Business Technology and Marketing Colleague Resource Groups (CRGs) 150+ Best of the Best Award We have received the Best of the Best Award, 150+ of our top business leaders have participated in a national award for the past two consecutive years Inclusion Commitment Sessions to promote inclusive environments and foster ongoing dialogue Top Corporation Award Gender Parity Collaborative We have also received the Top Corporation Award Founding member of Healthcare Businesswomen’s for 10+ consecutive years Association (HBA) Gender Parity Collaborative to advance initiatives fostering measureable gender parity progress in the industry 100% Pfizer received a perfect score of 100% on the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) 2018 Corporate Equality Index (CEI) and the designation as a Best Place to Work for LGBTQ Equality Clinical Trial Diversity Clinical Trial Diversity 24 Clinical studies committed to tracking diversity 3 Investigator training sessions completed, with diversity as a standalone module Building Pfizer’s Legacy of Volunteering Around the World Supplier Supplier Diversity Diversity For 15 years, skills-based volunteering has been a core pillar of Over the past four years, Pfizer spent: Over the past four years, Pfizer spent: Pfizer’s commitment to addressing pressing health needs and building health care capacity in underserved communities around the world. $3.4bn with certified Small Business Enterprises (SBE) In 2018, 52 Pfizer colleagues served in Global Health Fellow and Team suppliers and over assignments, deploying to seven lowand middle-income countries $2.8bn across Africa and Asia. By combining Pfizer talent with the expertise of with certified Minority Women Business local nonprofit partner organizations, we helped address pressing global Enterprises (MWBE) suppliers health challenges and support progress toward the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Learn more about our colleagues’ experiences During the same time period, we have partnered with over: volunteering in Tanzania here. 2,000 SBE suppliers Pfizer 2018 Annual Review 800 Our Culture 43 MWBE suppliers From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Purpose We support good health every day through the discovery and development of innovative medicines and vaccines, as well as through innovative global health programs and partnerships designed to ensure that underserved individuals around the world are better able to access quality, affordable health care. Our Pfizer Global Health Committee aligns our company-wide resource commitments and focus areas within global public health. Having Having established established Goal Goal 3 as3 as a critical a critical guide guide forforourour company company nownow and How How PfizerPfizer Supports Supports Good Good Health Health and and and into the future, we have taken the next step by incorporating into the future, we have taken the next step by incorporating specific SDG Well-Being Well-Being specific targets Sustainable into our business strategy andGoal Development designing targets into (SDG) programs that ourseek to business strategy, designing support progress toward them. programs that seek to support progress Pfizer isis proud Pfizer to support the to support the United United Nations Nations Sustainable Howproud Development Pfizer Supports Good Health Sustainable and Well-Being toward them. Development Goals, and specifically Goal 3: Goals, and specifically Goal 3: Good Good Health Health and and Well-Being Pfizer is proud to support the United Nations Sustainable Well-Being Development Goals, specifically Goal 3: Good Health and Well-Being. 3. Good Health and Well-Being Target 3.2 By 2030, end preventable deaths of newborns and children under 5 years of age, with all countries aiming to reduce neonatal mortality to at least as low as 12 per 1,000 live birth’s and under-5 mortality to at least as low as 25 per 1,000 live births. Progress Tackling Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) Through Breakthrough Science and Technology Target 3.7 Ensure universal access to sexual and reproductive healthcare services, including for family planning, information and education. The achievement of Goal 3 is critical to both our business and societal mission, and we use the health targets to guide the creation, Progress Healthy Families, Healthy Futures: Improving Access to The Theachievement achievementof Goal 33 isiscritical ofGoal criticaltotoboth ourbusiness bothour businessand andsocietal societalmission, mission,and andwewe Immunization and Family Planning for Women and Children useimplementation use the healthtargets thehealth targetsto andthe toguide guide measurement the creation, creation,implementation of our implementation andmany and partnerships measurement measurement ofour of our and in Africa many many partnerships partnerships and initiatives to improve global public health. initiatives toand initiativesglobal improve to improve global public public health. health. Target 3.8 Achieve universal health coverage, including financial risk 300m 16 protection, access to quality essential health-care services and access to safe, effective, quality and affordable essential medicines Patients Patientsreached reached Number Numberof ofWHO’s WHO’stop top21 21 and vaccines for all. annually annuallyvia viaourourEssential Essential globalburdens global burdensof ofdisease disease Health Products Health Products addressed by our products addressed by our products and andpipeline pipeline Progress Pfizer Partners With Gavi to Supply Our Vaccine to 50 Countries Target 3.A Strengthen the implementation of the World Health We have more than a decade of experience supporting the Organization Framework Convention on Tabacco Control in all countries, as appropriate. We UN have more than Agenda, a decade specifically with experience ofrespect supporting to health, the sustainability, UN and Sustainable development. Agenda Progress Combating the Tobacco Epidemic at a Global Level We are also committed to combining our resources with the expertise of our partners to directly support progress of SDGs 5 6 9 11 12 and 17 . First pharmaceutical Founding partner Supported Rallied excitement company to join of IMPACT 2030 Accelerate2030, a for SDGs via You can also download our GRI Reference Table for an expanded UN Global Compact program for social window display in 2020 ventures that help at New York HQ view of how Pfizer aligns with the SDGs. address the SDGs Pfizer GRI Reference Table We support good health every day through the discovery and development of innovative medicines and vaccines, as well as through innovative global health programs and partnerships designed to ensure that underserved individuals around the world are better able to access quality, affordable healthcare. Our Pfizer Global Pfizer 2018 Health Committee Annual Review aligns onOur Purposeresource committments and focus areas within company-wide 44 global public health. From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Catalyzing Innovations in Global Health Promoting Health in Underserved Communities Pfizer has teamed up with the National Urban League (NUL) to promote health literacy and wellness within African-American communities. Through this partnership in 2018, we distributed wellness kits at the Essence Festival in New Orleans, reaching more than 500,000 attendees. We also partnered with the Chicago NUL chapter on a health literacy seminar and information session at their Back to School Fest. We plan to expand our work with the NUL to other cities in the future. Also in 2018, Pfizer announced a partnership with the National Medical Association and the National Black Nurses Association on an action plan to improve health equity for African-Americans, with a specific focus on clinical trial awareness and participation. A Life Changing Volunteer Experience to Help Reduce Preventable Deaths of Children Under 5 As part of a Pfizer Vaccines Global Health Team program, 11 colleagues embarked on a two-week, skills-based volunteer project with Save the Children (SC) in India, an established and well-regarded non-governmental organization (NGO). Colleagues volunteered their professional and technical expertise to assist SC India in conducting a landscape assessment of the top challenges and opportunities involved in reducing preventable deaths of children under 5 years of age. After several days in the field and working side-by-side with SC India officials, the team collaborated to develop a set of prioritized recommendations,  ontributing to the UN Sustainable C which were presented to the SC India leadership team. Development Goals Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Our Purpose 45 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Healthy Families, Healthy Futures: Improving Access PATH’s Partnership With the Pfizer Foundation, to Immunization and Family Planning for Women the Peruvian Government and Local Cancer and Children in Africa Organizations Bring Early Breast Cancer Detection The Pfizer Foundation Healthy Families, Healthy Futures program Services to Women integrates the delivery of family planning and routine immunizations The global health organization PATH has pioneered a with the goal of improving access and quality for both services and community-based model of care for breast cancer detection creating opportunities for care in communities where these services that builds on local resources and is appropriate to settings might be limited and where women have little time to spend on health where mammography is not feasible. care. We are currently supporting four leading non-governmental organizations – CARE in Benin, the International Rescue Committee in In wealthy countries, breast cancer deaths have declined since Ethiopia and Uganda, Save the Children in Malawi and World Vision in 2000. But in lowand middle-income countries, the incidence of breast Kenya – to implement this innovative, integrated health delivery model. cancer is rising and standard detection tools like mammography are mostly unavailable. The Pfizer Foundation is a charitable organization established by Pfizer Inc. It is a separate legal entity from Pfizer Inc. with distinct legal restrictions. Peru has nearly 4,000 cases of and more than 1,200 deaths from breast cancer annually. More than 75 percent of women with breast cancer are diagnosed in late stages, when treatment is more expensive and less effective. For many women in Peru, a breast cancer diagnosis is seen as a death sentence. With support from the Pfizer Foundation, PATH developed a community-based model to train volunteers and providers how to detect, diagnose and treat breast cancer early. As the model takes hold in Peru, PATH is hoping to adapt it for different cultural settings, starting with Uganda. The Pfizer Foundation is a charitable organization established by Pfizer Inc. It is a separate legal entity from Pfizer Inc. with distinct legal restrictions. Supporting Digital Health Start-Ups Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Our Purpose 46 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance The Pfizer Foundation Improving Access to Cancer Pfizer Partners With Gavi to Supply Our Vaccine to Care in Rwanda and Kenya 50 Countries The Pfizer Foundation is supporting organizations that seek Annually, pneumococcal disease kills about 1 million children worldwide. to address the increasing global burden of non-communicable Children younger than 5 years old in low income countries are 89 times diseases (NCDs) by improving access to equitable more likely to die from the disease than children in high income oncology care. countries.1 Pfizer is partnering with Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, to supply our vaccine to 50 countries across Africa, Asia, Latin America, the Middle Estimates project that as many as 1 million people in African could die East and parts of Europe. That means, on average, we have introduced from cancer by 2030, while 70 percent of all current cancer deaths occur the vaccine into five new country National Immunization Programs per in lowand middle-income countries. In Africa, The Pfizer Foundation is year for the last 10 years. Pfizer believes that to tackle the challenge of supporting initiatives by AMPATH (Academic Model Providing Access to pneumonia, our work doesn’t end with supplying our vaccine. We also Healthcare) in Kenya, and Partners in Health in Rwanda to improve the ensure the vaccine can reach those who need it the most by helping to treatment and prevention of breast cancer, which is among the leading train nearly 40,000 health care workers across Asia and Africa, who are cancers for women in sub-Saharan Africa. These two projects work to at the forefront of immunizing babies. build capacity and strengthen infrastructure through health care worker 1 https://www.thelancet.com/journals/laninf/article/PIIS1473-3099(11)70010-X/fulltext. training and technical assistance, and improve access to information, diagnostics and care through community outreach and mobilization. The Pfizer Foundation is a charitable organization established by Pfizer Inc. It is a separate legal entity from Pfizer Inc. with distinct legal restrictions. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Our Purpose 47 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Helping Communities in a Time of Need Celebrating 20 Years of Commitment to Helping In 2018, Pfizer provided support for communities affected by Hurricanes Eliminate Blinding Trachoma Florence and Michael, the California wildfires, and the earthquake and In 2018, Pfizer celebrated 20 years of commitment to eliminating blinding tsunami in Indonesia. Through the Pfizer Foundation, cash grants were trachoma, along with another exciting milestone – more than 800 million provided to key organizations leading relief efforts on the ground, and donated doses of Zithromax shipped to 40 countries since the program a one-to-one match was extended for monetary donations made by began. As a result of a coordinated program scale-up with our partners, global Pfizer colleagues to support these organizations. We also just over 100 million of those doses were shipped in 2018 alone. implemented disaster relief protocols for our patient assistance programs, allowing existing patients who get their medicines through Through experience we’ve learned that collaboration is essential to a Pfizer patient assistance program to request early refills or new solving complex global public health challenges. An example of this shipping addresses, and temporarily waiving financial documentation approach is our work with the International Trachoma Initiative (ITI), requirements for eligible new patients who may have lost their an organization that provides support to national ministries of health paperwork in these crises or their aftermath. and governmental and non-governmental organizations to implement a comprehensive approach to fight trachoma. Pfizer and ITI are part of a The Pfizer Foundation is a charitable organization established by Pfizer Inc. global network of more than 100 diverse partners working together to It is a separate legal entity from Pfizer Inc. with distinct legal restrictions. eliminate trachoma, the world’s leading infectious cause of blindness. Trachoma primarily affects remote communities with severely limited access to health care, clean water or sanitation. Nearly 157.7 million people are living in trachoma-endemic areas in 43 countries. In 2018, the World Health Organization (WHO) validated that Ghana and Nepal had reached trachoma elimination, making them the first countries in sub-Saharan Africa and Asia to achieve this target. Both received Pfizer’s Zithromax donation and are proof that the comprehensive global trachoma elimination strategy is working. As we announced in June, Pfizer recommitted to donating Zithromax through 2025 to help provide endemic countries with more time to achieve the same validation of disease elimination. These accomplishments have a huge impact on millions of patients. We’re proud to continue supporting the global partnership in an effort to eliminate this debilitating disease. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Our Purpose 48 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our Culture, Our Purpose Our Performance Helping Patients Find a Path to Assistance Pfizer Foundation Catalyzes Innovative, For more than 30 years, Pfizer has been helping patients High Impact Health Care Programs in get access to the medicines they need. In the U.S., Lowand Middle-Income Countries Pfizer RxPathways® connects eligible patients to Pfizer Foundation Global Health Innovation Grants (GHIG) is unique assistance programs that provide insurance support, because we work directly with social entrepreneurs to improve access to co-pay assistance,1 and medicines for free or at a savings. quality health care. These innovators have developed their organization Access to medicines is a cornerstone of Pfizer’s ongoing commitment to address needs specific to the communities they serve. to patients around the world. In the U.S., we partner with health care Now in its third year, the GHIG program awarded $100,000 grants to 20 providers, community health centers and free clinics to support their social entrepreneurs in 12 countries. These included an Indian entrepreneur work in helping patients access medicines they need through patient who created a $3 birthing kit to facilitate clean, safe deliveries; designers of assistance programs. a mobile health (mHealth) tool that helps Liberian health workers accurately In 2018, we helped more than 219,000 patients receive 1.6 million Pfizer and rapidly diagnose common illnesses; a chain of primary health clinics prescriptions for free or at a savings. In the last five years (2014-2018), based on a community-ownership model in Kenya; and an ophthalmic care Pfizer has helped more than 679,000 patients receive over 9 million system working to eradicate preventable blindness through screening, Pfizer prescriptions for free or at a savings.2 treatment and referral partnerships in Mexico. Learn how Pfizer RxPathways provides real support for real people: In 2017, at the end of GHIG’s second cohort, programs had reached over 237,000 new patients with services, opened 48 new facilities and –– Hear from JoAnne, a Patient Assisted by Pfizer RxPathways trained over 1,200 new health workers and volunteers. –– Read about Marjorie, a Patient Assisted by Pfizer RxPathways The Pfizer Foundation is a charitable organization established by Pfizer Inc. –– Read Letters from Patients and HCPs Impacted by Pfizer RxPathways It is a separate legal entity from Pfizer Inc. with distinct legal restrictions. 1. This is not health insurance. Terms and conditions apply. 2. Data on file. Pfizer Inc., New York, NY. Global Global Health Health Innovations Innovations Grants (GHIG) Program Grant The GHIG program awarded grants to 20 social entrepreneurs in 12 countries. Global Health Innovations Grant x20 x12 Grants Countries In 2017, at the end of GHIG’s second cohort, programs had reached x20 x12 over 237,000 new patients with services, opened 48 new facilities and trained over 1,200Grants new health workers Countries and volunteers.  Improving the Health of Women and Their Families 48 1,200 237,000 New facilities opened New health workers New patients reached and volunteers trained 48 1,200 237,000 New facilities opened New health workers New patients reached and volunteers trained Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Our Purpose 49 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our culture, Our Business Our Performance Our Performance Global programs and commercial transactions to increase access to medicines in emerging markets1,2 Key Performance Indicators Access to Medicines Top Ten Medicines and Vaccines by Revenues in 2018 Global programs and commercial transactions to increase access 2014 2015 14 19 1 $5,802 million Globaltoprograms and commercial transactions to Prevnar 13 / Prevenar 13 (Pneumococcal 13-valent medicines inincrease emerging access2016 to medicines in emerging 18markets1,2 Conjugate Vaccine [Diphtheria CRM197 Protein]) markets 1,2 2 $4,969 million1 2017 17 2018 17 Lyrica® (pregabalin) Top 21 global burdens of disease addressed by products and pipeline3 2014 2015 18 18 3 $4,188 million Ibrance® (palbociclib) 2016 19 2017 2018 16 19 4 $3,434 million2 Eliquis® (apixaban) Overview3 –– We currently have 285 active programs for launched medicines 5 $2,122 million3 Enbrel (Etanercept) in markets 6 $2,062 million –– This covers 53 countries –– Of these, 16 programs cover multiple therapies while the rest are product specific Lipitor® (atorvastatin) –– In total, these cover 104 different products in our portfolio 1. Program/commercial transaction defined as a Pfizer investment or dedicated contract of over $250,000 with a national government or procurement agency, multilateral organization, non-governmental organization, private institution or aid agency. Represents multi-country initiatives only and does not include numerous local initiatives to address access. 7 $1,774 million Xeljanz® (tofacitinib) 2. Pfizer Foundation programs represent aggregate investment in program areas with several NGO partners. 8 $1,085 million 3. As defined by the World Health Organization. Burdens of illness not addressed include unintentional injuries, transport injuries, malaria & neglected tropical diseases, self-harm, and interpersonal violence. 4. The number of patient access programs with pricing tailored to different patient segments (for at least one product), allowing access for more patients. Chantix® (varenicline) Top Ten Medicines and Vaccines by Revenues in 2017 Footnotes 1. Total Revenue (PIH+PEH) 2. Alliance Revenue & Direct Sales 9 $1,049 million Sutent® (sunitinib malate) 3. Outside US and Canada 10 $1,024 million Norvasc® (amlodipine besylate) Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Key Performance Indicators 50 Injuries Per 100 Colleagues Total injury rate in 2018 was 24% lower than in 2017 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our culture, Our Business Our Performance Colleagues[1] Supply Chain Environmental Sustainability Goal3 Injuries Per 100 2015 0.48 2020 Colleagues goal 2018 2017 2016 2016 0.39 Total injury rate in 2018 was Key suppliers supporting Pfizer’s supplier code 100% 88% 83% 79% 24% lower than in 2017 2017 0.59 of conduct Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2018 0.45 Key suppliers aligning with Pharmaceutical 100% 90% 66% 35% Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) principles Total scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 2019 In million metric tons CO2EQ Key suppliers managing their 100% 85% 84% 76% GHG emissions in 2018 were 1.8% lower than in 2017 environmental impacts Progress on Our 2020 Environmental Key suppliers with reduction goals for GHG, 90% 53% 53% 51% Sustainability Goals[4] waste disposal and water withdrawal 1. Sadly we had one road traffic related fatality in 2018. Refer to the 2017 Annual Review for Greenhouse Gas 2012 2.15 explanation of the injury rate increase noted in 2017. Factors leading to this increase were not repeated in 2018. The primary cause of injuries and illnesses recorded in 2018 related to slips, Emissions trips and falls, and ergonomics. 2015 1.92 2. Applies to facilities within Pfizer’s operational control as compared with a 2012 baseline. Data are Total scope 1 and 2 baseline adjusted, reported absolute, using reporting boundaries per the WRI GHG Protocol. GHG emissions 2016 1.76 The 2012–2017 GHG data was independently verified to the limited assurance level. The In million metric tons CO2EQ verification of the 2018 GHG data will be completed in 2019. In both 2017 and 2018 we met our 2020 goals for greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, waste reductions, and water conservation. Wastein Disposed GHG emissions 2018 were 2017 1.67 While we expect some fluctuations in our environmental sustainability performance due to 1.8% higher Totalthan in 2017 and non-hazardous waste in thousand metric tons hazardous business changes in 2019 and 2020, we are confident that we are in a position to develop new 2020 Goals vs Baseline: Total waste 2018was 3% lower than disposed in 2018 1.7in 2017 goals in 2019 that align with the strategic objectives of Pfizer’s three business units. Through 2020 and beyond we will continue to focus on emission and resource reduction projects. Decrease by 20% Expanded environmental reporting will be posted on www.pfizer.com later in 2019. 3. Key suppliers currently include 126 major contributors to our external environmental footprint, • Baseline strategic collaborators with Worldwide Research and Development, and those suppliers we anticipate having continued involvement with. Key suppliers represent only a portion of Pfizer’s overall supply chains for goods and services and we continue to look for opportunities to broaden our influence on our supply base. Waste Disposed 2012 126.12 Total hazardous and nonhazardous waste in thousand 2015 124.86 metric tons Total wasteWater disposedWithdrawal in 2018 2016 106.53 Excluding was 3% lower than innon-contact 2017 cooling water in million cubic meters 2017 100.07 2020 Goals Totalvswater withdrawal (excluding non-contact cooling water) in Baseline: 2018 Decrease by 15% was 5% higher than 2018in 2017 97.13 • Baseline Water Withdrawal 2012 18.87 Excluding non-contact cooling water in million cubic meters 2015 16.73 Total water withdrawal (excluding non-contact cooling water) in 2018 2016 16.64 was 5% higher than in 2017 2017 15.51 2020 Goals vs Baseline: Decrease by 5% 2018 16.33 • Baseline Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Key Performance Indicators 51 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our culture, Our Business Our Performance Our Performance Financial Performance Three-year summary as of and for the years ended December 31(a) Millions (Except Per Common Share Data) 2018 2017 2016 18/17 17/16 Revenues $53,647 $52,546 $52,824 2 (1) Cost of Sales 11,248 11,228 12,322 – (9) Selling, informational and administrative expenses 14,455 14,804 14,844 (2) – Research and development expenses 8,006 7,683 7,892 4 (3) Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 1,044 351 1,565 * (78) Other (income)/deductions – net 2,116 1,416 3,794 49 (63) Income from continuing operations 11,179 21,353 7,229 (48) * Discontinued operations – net of tax 10 2 17 * (87) Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc.(b) 11,153 21,308 7,215 (48) * Diluted earnings per common share attributable to Pfizer Inc. 1.87 3.52 1.17 (47) * common shareholders(b) Weighted-average shares – diluted 5,977 6,058 6,159 (1) (2) Number of common shares outstanding 5,717 5,979 6,069 (4) (1) Total assets 159,422 171,797 171,615 (7) – Total long-term obligations(c) 63,807 69,714 80,660 (8) (14) Total Pfizer Inc. shareholders’ equity 63,407 71,308 59,544 (11) 20 Shareholders’ equity per common share 11.09 11.93 9.81 (7) 22 Net cash provided by operating activities 15,827 16,802 16,192 (6) 4 Property, plant and equipment additions 2,042 1,956 1,823 4 7 Purchases of common stock 12,198 5,000 5,000 * – Cash dividends paid 7,978 7,659 7,317 4 5 Detailed information on our financial and operational performance can be found in the 2018 Financial Report, which is filed as Exhibit 13 to our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K. See notes on page 49. * Indicates calculation not meaningful or result is equal to or greater than 100%. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Financial Performance 52 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our culture, Our Business Our Performance Our Performance Performance and Financial Guidance1 Revenues (in billions) 2018 Actual 2018 Guidance2 2019 Guidance3 $53.6 $53.0 – $53.7 $52.0 – $54.0 Adjusted cost of sales4 as a % of revenues 2018 Actual 2018 Guidance2 2019 Guidance3 20.7% 20.8% to 21.3% 20.8% to 21.8% Adjusted SI&A expenses4 (in billions) 2018 Actual 2018 Guidance2 2019 Guidance3 $14.2 $14.0 to $14.5 $13.5 to $14.5 Adjusted R&D expenses4 (in billions) 2018 Actual 2018 Guidance2 2019 Guidance3 $8.0 $7.7 to $8.1 $7.8 to $8.3 Adjusted other (income)/deductions4 2018 Actual 2018 Guidance2 2019 Guidance3 $1.3 billion of income Approx. $1.3 billion of income Approx. $100 million of income Effective tax rate on adjusted income4 2018 Actual 2018 Guidance2 2019 Guidance3 15.5% Approx. 16.0% Approx. 16.0% Adjusted diluted EPS4 2018 Actual 2018 Guidance2 2019 Guidance3 $3.00 $2.98 to $3.02 $2.82 to $2.92 Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Performance and Financial Guidance 53 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our culture, Our Business Our Performance Footnotes to Financial Performance –– Reflects a full year of revenue and expense contributions from Consumer Healthcare. (a) 2017 reflects the February 3, 2017 sale of Hospira Infusion Systems net assets to ICU Medical, Inc. 2017 and 2018 reflect the acquisition of the development and commercialization rights to –– Financial guidance for Adjusted other (income)/deductions and Adjusted diluted EPS excludes AstraZeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, primarily outside the U.S. on December 22, the impact of gains and losses on investments in equity securities. 2016. 2016, 2017 and 2018 reflect the acquisition of Medivation, Inc. on September 28, 2016 –– Reflects an anticipated negative revenue impact of $2.6 billion due to recent and expected and the acquisition of Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. on June 24, 2016. For additional information, generic and biosimilar competition for certain products that have recently lost or are anticipated see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Assets and to soon lose patent protection. Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Privately Held Investment in our 2018 Financial –– Exchange rates assumed are as of mid-January 2019. Reflects the anticipated unfavorable Report, which is filed as Exhibit 13 to our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K. impact of approximately $0.9 billion on Revenues and approximately $0.06 on Adjusted Diluted EPS as a result of changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar compared to (b) 2018 and 2017 reflect the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act or TCJA on the Provision/(benefit) foreign exchange rates from 2018. for taxes on income. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 5A. Tax Matters: Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations in our 2018 –– Adjusted Diluted EPS guidance assumes diluted weighted-average shares outstanding of Financial Report, which is filed as Exhibit 13 to our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K. approximately 5.7 billion shares, which reflects share repurchases totaling $12.2 billion in 2018 and the weighted-average impact of an anticipated approximately $9 billion of share (c) Defined as Long-term debt, Pension benefit obligations, net, Postretirement benefit obligations, repurchases in 2019. Dilution related to share-based employee compensation programs is net, Noncurrent deferred tax liabilities, Other taxes payable and Other noncurrent liabilities. Our currently expected to offset the reduction in shares associated with these share repurchases short-term borrowings are rated P-1 by Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) and A-1+ by Standard by approximately half. & Poor’s (S&P). Our long-term debt is rated A1 by Moody’s (Outlook: Stable) and AA by S&P (Outlook: Stable). Moody’s and S&P are major corporate debt-rating organizations. A security (4) Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted EPS are defined as reported U.S. rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and the rating is subject to revision generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) net income(5) and its components and or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization. Each rating should be evaluated reported diluted EPS(5) excluding purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, independently of any other rating. discontinued operations and certain significant items (some of which may recur, such as restructuring or legal charges, but which management does not believe are reflective of ongoing Footnotes to Performance and Financial Guidance core operations). Adjusted cost of sales, Adjusted selling, informational and administrative (1) Please refer to Pfizer’s 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the sections captioned Risk (SI&A) expenses, Adjusted research and development (R&D) expenses and Adjusted other Factors and ForwardLooking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results, for a (income)/deductions are income statement line items prepared on the same basis as, and description of the substantial risks and uncertainties related to the forward-looking statements, therefore components of, the overall Adjusted income measure. As described in the Financial including our 2019 Financial Guidance, included in this Annual Review. Review–Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted Income) section of our 2018 Financial Report, (2) Our 2018 financial guidance reflected the following: which was filed as Exhibit 13 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, –– Pfizer does not provide guidance for GAAP Reported financial measures (other than revenues) 2018, management uses Adjusted income, among other factors, to set performance goals and to or a reconciliation of forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly measure the performance of the overall company. Because Adjusted income is an important comparable GAAP Reported financial measures on a forward-looking basis because it is unable internal measurement for Pfizer, management believes that investors’ understanding of our to predict with reasonable certainty the ultimate outcome of pending litigation, unusual gains performance is enhanced by disclosing this performance measure. Pfizer reports Adjusted and losses, acquisition-related expenses and potential future asset impairments without income, certain components of Adjusted income, and Adjusted diluted EPS in order to portray the unreasonable effort. These items are uncertain, depend on various factors, and could have results of the company’s major operations–the discovery, development, manufacture, marketing a material impact on GAAP Reported results for the guidance period. and sale of prescription medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare (over-the-counter) products–prior to considering certain income statement elements. Reconciliations of certain –– Did not assume the completion of any business development transactions not completed as of U.S. GAAP Reported to Non-GAAP Adjusted information for 2018 are provided in the Financial September 30, 2018, including any one-time upfront payments associated with such transactions. Review–Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted Income) section of our 2018 Financial Report, which was filed as Exhibit 13 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, –– Guidance for Adjusted other (income)/deductions(4) did not attempt to forecast unrealized net 2018. The Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted EPS measures are not, and gains or losses on equity securities. Pfizer is unable to predict with reasonable certainty should not be viewed as, substitutes for U.S. GAAP net income and its components and diluted unrealized gains or losses on equity securities in a given period. Net unrealized gains and losses EPS. Non-GAAP Adjusted income and its components and Non-GAAP Adjusted diluted EPS are on equity securities were recorded in Adjusted other (income)/deductions during each quarter of Non-GAAP financial measures that have no standardized meaning prescribed by U.S. GAAP 2018, reflecting the adoption of a new accounting standard in the first quarter of 2018. Prior to and, therefore, are limited in their usefulness to investors. Because of their non-standardized the adoption of the new standard, net unrealized gains and losses on virtually all equity securities definitions, Non-GAAP Adjusted income and its components (unlike U.S.GAAP net income and with readily determinable fair values were reported in Accumulated other comprehensive income. its components) and Non-GAAP Adjusted diluted EPS (unlike U.S. GAAP diluted EPS) may not be Beginning in the first quarter of 2019, gains and losses on equity securities will be excluded from comparable to the calculation of similar measures of other companies. NonGAAP Adjusted Adjusted(4) results. income and its components and Non-GAAP Adjusted diluted EPS are presented solely to permit investors to more fully understand how management assesses performance. –– Exchange rates assumed were a blend of the actual exchange rates in effect through third-quarter 2018 and midOctober 2018 exchange rates for the remainder of the year. (5) Reported net income is defined as net income attributable to Pfizer Inc., in accordance with U.S. GAAP and reported diluted EPS is defined as reported diluted EPS attributable to Pfizer Inc. –– Reflects the previously anticipated negative revenue impact of $1.8 billion due to recent and common shareholders in accordance with U.S. GAAP. expected generic and biosimilar competition for certain products that have recently lost patent protection. Assumed no generic competition for Lyrica in the U.S. until June 2019, which was contingent at the time on a six-month patent-term extension for pediatric exclusivity, which was granted by the FDA in November 2018. –– Reflected a full year contribution from Consumer Healthcare. –– Reflected the previously anticipated favorable impact of approximately $350 million on Revenues and approximately $0.02 on Adjusted Diluted EPS(4) as a result of favorable changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar compared to foreign exchange rates from 2017. –– Adjusted Diluted EPS(4) guidance assumed diluted weighted-average shares outstanding of approximately 6.0 billion shares, which reflected previously anticipated share repurchases totaling approximately $12 billion in 2018. (3) The 2019 financial guidance (1) is as of January 29, 2019; (2) is not being updated or reaffirmed in connection with this Annual Review; and (3) reflects the following: –– Pfizer does not provide guidance for GAAP Reported financial measures (other than revenues) or a reconciliation of forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP Reported financial measures on a forward-looking basis because it is unable to predict with reasonable certainty the ultimate outcome of pending litigation, unusual gains and losses, acquisition-related expenses, net gains or losses on equity securities and potential future asset impairments without unreasonable effort. These items are uncertain, depend on various factors, and could have a material impact on GAAP Reported results for the guidance period. –– Does not assume the completion of any business development transactions not completed as of December 31, 2018, including any one-time upfront payments associated with such transactions. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review Performance and Financial Guidance 54 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our culture, Our Business Our Performance Additional Information About This Review Scope of Reporting Corporate Responsibility Management This review covers Pfizer’s worldwide business and provides information This review was developed by a core group of Pfizer colleagues on our activities for the year ending on December 31, 2018. It describes representing each business unit and other key functions. The core group key dimensions of our purpose, strategy and performance. It also is managed by our Corporate Affairs department, whose leader is a describes critical challenges in society – from expanding access to member of the Executive Leadership Team and reports directly to the health care to our environmental impact – and our strategies for Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Pfizer’s commitment to society is addressing them. Data in this review covers the calendar year from embedded in our business strategy and vision, and our commercial January 1 to December 31, 2018, unless otherwise stated. There have teams and functional groups share the commitment to integrate such been no significant changes from previous reporting periods in the values into our daily work. The Corporate Responsibility team sets the scope, boundary or measurement methods applied in this review. strategic direction for meeting our commitment to society and supports the integration and implementation of programs and non-financial reporting throughout the company. We are actively engaged in a Corporate Responsibility Materiality dialogue with socially responsible and mainstream investors around their growing interest in environmental, social and governance (ESG) The content of this report is based on two key factors – its importance performance and the impact on financial results. Today, we strive to to stakeholders and its potential to influence business strategy. Pfizer have these principles permeate Pfizer at every level – including our aims to address critical issues most relevant for colleagues and external Board of Directors – which maintains oversight for these issues through stakeholders. These include the following topics that influence the the Corporate Governance Committee. The Committee maintains an sustainability of the organization: informed status on our corporate social responsibility, sustainability –– Access to Medicines and philanthropic efforts and progress. –– Environment (Sustainability) –– Culture and Employee Engagement/Retention Improving Our Access to Medicine Offerings –– Employee Health & Safety Every two years, the Access to Medicine Index (ATMi) analyzes the top 20 research-based pharmaceutical companies on how they make –– United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) essential medicines, vaccines and diagnostics accessible in lowand –– Quality, Manufacturing and Supply Chain Governance and Ethics middle-income countries. The Index ranks these companies according to their efforts and their impact in improving access, including capacity building, research and development, compliance and other variables. Stakeholder Engagement According to the 2018 ATMi, Pfizer improved its overall ranking by three We greatly value our stakeholders’ perspectives, and all Pfizer units places. The performance increase was acknowledged through the globally and locally engage with stakeholders on relevant issues introduction of our access-to-medicine strategy and commitment to throughout the year. We continue to explore new ways to engage a health care system strengthening. Pfizer obtained improvements in the broad range of stakeholders to better understand the evolving reporting following categories: environment and determine how key non-financial indicators are –– Market Influence & Compliance impacting our financial performance. –– Capacity Building –– General Access to Medicine Management –– Pricing, Manufacturing & Distribution –– R&D Pfizer supports the goals of the ATM Index and recognizes the importance of having a tool that attempts to measure access to medicines. Our improved ranking to number 11 on the list is a confirmation of the significant efforts we make to increase access to our medicines, including advancements in our pipeline, the development and implementation of equitable pricing strategies and expanding our various donation programs. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review About This Review 55 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our culture, Our Business Our Performance Global Reporting Frameworks Stock Transfer Agent and Registrar Pfizer continues to evaluate our approach to reporting, including The Principal Market for Our Common Stock Is the New York reference to several existing, globally-recognized external frameworks. Stock Exchange. Our Stock Is Also Traded on Various U.S. Regional These include the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Stock Exchanges International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). We relied on Stock Transfer Agent and Registrar elements of each framework in developing this year’s Annual Review Computershare Investor Services while formally adhering to none in its entirety. We included GRI P.O. Box 505000 Reference Tables as a tool to help readers more readily locate relevant Louisville, KY 40233-5000 information within this review and across Pfizer’s web-based resources. Telephone: 1-800-733-9393 Pfizer also considers elements of other ESG indices and sustainability Outside the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico: 1-781-575-4591 indicators – in particular, the ATMi and the United Nations (UN) Internet: www.computershare.com/investor Sustainable Development Goals (also known as the Global Goals). Throughout this review, you will see the Global Goals icons alongside various efforts to highlight the work we are doing across Pfizer to meet Shareholder Services and Programs these goals by 2030. Please contact our Stock Transfer Agent and Registrar, Computershare, As a signatory to the UN Global Compact – a document that asks with inquiries concerning shareholder accounts of record and stock companies to embrace universal principles and to partner with the UN transfer matters, and for information on: – we submit an annual communication to the UN on our progress made –– Computershare Investment Program toward achieving the Global Goals. View the full progress update. –– Direct purchase of Pfizer stock Read more about our Corporate and Shareholder Information, including Forward-Looking Statements. –– Dividend reinvestment –– Automatic monthly or bimonthly investments Forward-Looking Information –– Book-entry share ownership This Annual Review includes forward-looking statements about, among –– Direct deposit of dividends other things, our anticipated operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, including anticipated regulatory submissions, data read-outs, study Pfizer Political Action Committee and starts, approvals, performance, timing of exclusivity and potential Political Contributions benefits of Pfizer’s products and product candidates, strategic reviews, capital allocation, business-development plans, the benefits expected To review our most recent political action committee and corporate from the reorganization of our commercial operations into three political contributions reports, visit www.pfizer.com/pac. businesses effective at the beginning of our 2019 fiscal year, our acquisitions and other business development activities, our ability to successfully capitalize on growth opportunities or prospects, Patient Assistance manufacturing and product supply and plans relating to share Patients in the U.S. who need help getting access to their Pfizer repurchases and dividends. that are subject to substantial risks and medicines should contact Pfizer RxPathways®. Pfizer RxPathways uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from connects eligible patients to a range of assistance programs that offer those expressed or implied by such statements. Please refer to Pfizer’s insurance support, co-pay help, and medicines for free or at a savings. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, To learn more about Pfizer RxPathways, visit www.PfizerRxPathways.com and Pfizer’s subsequent reports on Form 10-Q, including the sections or call 1-844-989-PATH (7284). thereof captioned “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results,” as well as Pfizer’s subsequent Pfizer RxPathways is a joint program of Pfizer Inc. and the Pfizer Patient reports on Form 8-K for a description of the substantial risks and Assistance Foundation™. uncertainties related to the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Review. These reports are available on our website at www.pfizer.com and on the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) website at www.sec.gov. The forward-looking statements in this Annual Review speak only as of the original date of this Annual Review and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any of these statements, except as required by law or the rules and regulations of the SEC. Pfizer 2018 Annual Review About This Review 56 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our culture, Our Business Our Performance Additional Information You can find more information about Pfizer online: Website: www.pfizer.com Twitter: www.twitter.com/Pfizer Facebook: www.facebook.com/Pfizer LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/company/pfizer Unless otherwise noted herein, the trademarks, logos and service marks appearing in the Annual Review, whether appearing with the trademark symbol, are owned or licensed by Pfizer Inc. or its affiliates. Herceptin® is a registered trademark of Genentech, Inc. Remicade® is a registered trademark of Janssen Biotech, Inc. Bavencio® is a registered trademark of Merck KGaA. Xtandi® is a registered trademark of Astellas Pharma Inc. MabThera® is a registered trademark of F.Hoffman-Roche Ltd Rituxan® is a registered trademark of Biogen Idec Inc. and Genentech, Inc. Humira® is a registered trademark of AbbVie Biotechnology Ltd. Avastin® is a registered trademark of Genentech, Inc. Neulasta® is a registered trademark of Amgen Inc. Connect With Us Twitter: www.twitter.com/Pfizer Facebook: www.facebook.com/Pfizer LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/company/pfizer YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/Pfizer Instagram: @pfizerinc Pfizer 2018 Annual Review About This Review 57 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our culture, Our Business Our Performance Additional Information GRI Reference Table GRI Indicator Description Reference Alignment with the UN SGDs * GRI 102: General Disclosures 2018 Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization Pfizer Inc. 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services CEO Letter 102-3 Location of headquarters New York, New York (U.S.) 102-4 Location of operations Pfizer Global Sites 102-5 Ownership and legal form Corporate and Shareholder Information 102-6 Markets served CEO Letter 102-7 Scale of the organization CEO Letter 102-9 Supply chain Manufacturing and Supply Chain Excellence Goal 9 Goal 12 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Pfizer manages and reports on our risks and impacts in consideration of the precautionary principle. 102-12 External initiatives Governance and Ethics 102-13 Membership of associations Lobbying and Political Contributions Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO Letter 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Governance and Ethics Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Pfizer Compliance Goal 16 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Governance and Ethics Governance 102-18 Governance structure Governance and Ethics 102-19 Delegating authority Board Committees and Charters 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, Environment, Health and Safety Goal 3 and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, Stakeholder Engagement and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its Board of Directors Goal 16 committees Board Committees and Charters Pfizer 2018 Annual Review GRI Reference Table 58 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our culture, Our Business Our Performance GRI Indicator Description Reference Alignment with the UN SGDs * 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body The Pfizer Board: Board Policies Goal 16 SEC Filings 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Corporate Governance Principles Goal 5 Goal 16 102-25 Conflicts of interest The Pfizer Board: Board Policies Goal 16 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, Corporate Governance Principles and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Corporate Governance Principles 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body's performance Corporate Governance Principles 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and Board Committees and Charters Goal 16 social impacts Governance and Ethics 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Board Committees and Charters 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Board Committees and Charters 102-32 Highest governance body's role in sustainability reporting About This Review Board Committees and Charters 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Financials: Annual Reports 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Financials: Annual Reports Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements About This Review 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries About This Review 102-47 List of material topics About This Review 102-49 Changes in reporting No changes in reporting since 2016 report 102-50 Reporting period About This Review 102-51 Date of most recent report March 14, 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle We report on an annual basis 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Chris Gray, Senior Director, Corporate Responsibility 102-55 GRI content index GRI Reference Table Pfizer 2018 Annual Review GRI Reference Table 59 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our culture, Our Business Our Performance GRI Indicator Description Reference Alignment with the UN SGDs * Material topics Economic GRI 103: Management Approach 2017 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary About This Review 103-2 The management approach and its components Product Stewardship 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Product Stewardship Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Performance Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Individual Voices 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Understanding the External Environment Goal 1 Manufacturing & Supply Chain Excellence Goal 3 Community Health Goal 8 Access to Medicines Goal 10 Anti-Infectives Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Ethics and Compliance Goal 12 Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Pfizer Compliance Goal 16 Environmental Water 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts Environment, Health and Safety Goal 6 303-3 Water withdrawal Our Performance Goal 6 Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Our Performance Goal 13 Environment, Health and Safety KPIs 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Our Performance Goal 13 Effluents and Waste 305-2 Waste by type and disposal method Our Performance Goal 12 Supplier Environmental Assessment 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and Our Performance Goal 12 actions taken Pfizer 2018 Annual Review GRI Reference Table 60 From Leadership Our Business Our Innovation Our culture, Our Business Our Performance GRI Indicator Description Reference Alignment with the UN SGDs * Social Occupational Health and Safety 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost Our Performance Goal 3 days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Environment, Health and Safety Goal 8 403-9 Work related injuries Our Performance Goal 3 Goal 8 Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Our Culture Goal 4 Goal 5 Goal 8 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition Our Culture Goal 8 assistance programs Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Our Culture Goal 5 Goal 8 Goal 16 Human Rights Assessment 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Human Rights Statement Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact Our Purpose Goal 3 assessments, and development programs Goal 4 Goal 5 Goal 6 Goal 7 Goal 17 Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions Corporate and Shareholder Information Goal 16 Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer How We Conduct Clinical Trials Goal 16 pri vacy and losses of customer data Pfizer 2018 Annual Review GRI Reference Table 61 www.pfizer.com/annual
