17 years of Compliance with UN Global Compact Pranda Group, one of the most prestigious jewelry traders and the first Thai public company joined the UN Global Compact since 2002, is pleased to announce that it has expanded its relationship with the UN by joining the another UN's potential network called THE UN Global Compact Local Networks. It aims at supporting the advancement and accurate implementation of the UNGC principles in which ensuring the successful synergies among organization members by expressing their commitment to society and the nationwide. This will lead to the sustainable development in the foreseeable future. Signed in the UN Global Compact that embracing a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption for 17 years, Pranda has also expressed its clear intention to settle its core policy in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in order to encourage its employees right attitude and relationship toward their social responsibility. This takes into account the impact on other stakeholders such as shareholders, employees, communities, customers, partners, governments, as well as society and the nation. Lanched in 2000,The UNCG is the world’s largest voluntary corporate responsibility initiative that offers a strategic policy for businesses that are committed toalign their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles. Pranda and its subsidiaries had been operating based on the principles of the UNGC strictly reflecting its serious implementation of the business plan and the emphasis on society and environment in order for the sustainable growth and development of Jewelry industry in Thailand. The company, Pranda Group, does not only pay attention to the operations aligned with the UNGC principles but also support human rights values and employment standards in all issues related such as race, gender, nationality as well as disability. By providing the right working opportunities to the disables fairly and properly in accordance with law, Pranda has currently recruited 30 disabled people to work in the right position, both in the office and factory considering as a ratio between normal employees and disabled employees is 60:1 in which beyond the law setting ration, 100:1. In the corporate ethics, management philosophy and stakeholder responsibilities issue, Pranda adheres to the effectiveness and efficiency of the business administration with transparency, integrity, and good governance for decades. The Operations in Pranda Group’s companies which complying with The UNGC Principles. Project/Campaign/Activity Human Labor The AntiEnvironment No Rights Standards Corruption 1 Pranda Group Institute of     Learning 2 Quality of Life Development   Project 3 Child Development Center   4 Morning Food Quality   5 The Innovation Project   6 Debt Reduction and Legal    Counsel 7 Savings and Credit    Cooperatives 8 The Dual Education System   9 Professional Encouragement   for the Disabled 10 Project 7S’s   11 Energy-Saving Projects   12 Waste Bank   13 Sharing and Implementing the    Benefits to Society PRANDA GROUP With UNGC Ten Principles Pranda Group of Companies has been considered the first Thai company signing with the United Nations or Global Compact since 2002, as well as living with morals for the sake of social sustainable development in compliance with the 10 international principles comprising human rights, labor, environmental and the anti-corruption. 1. Human Rights Support and respect the protection of internationally Principle 1 proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 Ensurethat business does not involve in human rights abuses The company recognizes all human rights principles without discrimination resulting from difference in sex, age, social status, etc. Hence, not only the policy pertaining to abuse of human rights, but the Code of Ethics in regard to respecting human rights principles, such as treating employees on the basis of dignity as human being, respecting personal rights, encouraging employees to exercise their constitutional rights and using their rights in the complaint when not being fair, are established for employees to adhere to. The Company has announced its commitment to participate in upholding human rights principles as follows: • The Company supports and participates in the activities of independent agencies and international organizations, such as the UN Global Compact (UNGC), which systematically operates to promote human rights. • The Company takes part in the brainstorming and networking with other private companies to set up the UN Global Compact Local Networks in Thailand to create a network to exchange knowledge and to promote respect for the dignity of being human 2. Labor Uphold the freedom of laborassociation and the effective Principle 3 recognition of the right to collective bargainingseriously Principle 4 Eliminateall forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 Abolite child labour workforce effectively Principle 6 eliminate discrimination in respect to employment and occupation The Company has set fair rules and procedures to recruit, evaluate, promote for career development and train employees to create quality of life for themselves, their families and communities nearby. The Company also establishes measures and encourages partners to treat their employees or laborors legally and fairly. Furthermore, the Company has no forced labor, child labor, discrimination and segregation against gender, age, education and race as well as respecting to personal rights. The Company has prepared the Corporate Governance and Code of Ethics Manual with the details of the workforce in Section 3 Role of stakeholders. 3.Environment Principle 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies The Company gives importance to business development and sustainability. Besides, business management with prudence to enhance business growth for sustainability, the Company realizes environmental sustainability is the foundation of business success. Therefore, the Company takes part as a good citizen in social responsibility such as technology selection and organizational environment to control impacts on environment resulting from emission and waste control. The implemention in compliance with legal, environmental, and regulatory standards is strictly followed as well. Fair treatment and participation in development of surrounding community are also practiced. The Company reports the result of environmental responsibility practice of which details are shown in “Social Responsibilty Report.” 4. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery The Company attaches great importance to anti-corruption and adheres to transparency, Code of Ethics and responsibility for all stakeholders to refrain from any behaviors driving motives for corruption such as requesting, pledging, providing and receiving property or other benefits to government officials or any other person doing business with the Company whether directly or indirectly to allow such person to perform duties in order to obtain or maintain any other improper business interests; unless otherwise allowed by the laws, rules, regulations, local customs or trade customs. The Company has established the anti-corruption policy and practices in the Code of ethics and Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the Code of Ethics concerning responsibilities of the Executives and employees as follows: Guideliine 1. This anti-corruption policy covers the human resources management processes from recruiting and selecting staff, promoting, training, appraising performance and rewarding employees. The superiors at all levels must communicate with employees to implement this policy in business activities they are in charge effectively. 2. The guidelines set out in the Corporate Governance and Code of Conducts Manual, anti-Corruption Manualincluding regulations and the related company's manual must be used when taking any actions according to the anti-corruption policy. 3. To ensure clear implementation involved with high risk of corruption, the Company requires the Directors, Executives and employees to perform the following duties with caution. 3.1 Neutrality and political assistance The Company has a policy of political neutrality that it will not support or side any political parties; whether directly or indirectly. This includes the use of Company resources in activities that will cause the Company to lose political neutrality and/or get damaged resulting from being involved in such activities. 3.2 Charitable donations and financial grants Charitable donations are part of corporate culture to help the underprivileged, to alleviate the suffering of natural disaster victims or to promote the quality of life at present and in the future. The donations must be in accordance with the set regulations and made with transparency by identifying the name of recipient including the registered organation with its clear purpose. In general the donations are contributed to promote the corporate image or reputation through the social activities. The approval on the denotions must be granted with transparency under the correct contract or with proof of payment by the authorized persons according to the process set by the Company. No funding is provided to cover corruption and bribery. 3.3 Giving or receiving gifts or property or any other benefits/ reception fee and other expenses Giving or receiving gifts or property or any other benefits or reception fee and other expenses will lead to corruption, so Directors and employees must not accept or give a gift or property or any other benefits including reception fee and other expenses that is generally recognized such acts may cause bondage or create a feeling of returning reward, which leads to corruption. Receiving or accepting gifts or property or any other benefits to or from the outsiders is also subject to this regulation. However, receiving or giving a gift or property or any other benefits including reception fee and other expenses can be done, if it does not entail a commitment or burden to the feeling that there must be a corrupt reward and conforms to the tradition of normal practice, the Code of Conduct and the Company's regulations. 3.4 Extortion, fraud, deception, conspiracy, misuse of authority, misappropriation and money laundering Misuse of authority to commit acts such as extortion, fraud, deception, conspiracy and money laundering is considered corruption that is prohibited by law and is clearly prohibited under the Anti-CorruptionManual. It is considered a violation of duty as a Director or employee of the Company; whether there are motives for doing so or not. As the implementation of high-risk corruption does not cover all cases of corruption, Directors and employees must therefore exercise their discretion to consider and refrain from any transactions leading to corruption. 4. Directors, Executives and employees must not claim, receive money or benefits or improper items from a person involved in the business of the company. 5. Directors, Executives and employees must not claim, receive money, benefits, things or other paybacks from the person or entity involved in the business; whether it is a claim or receiving for themselves or others, which is considered as motives to commit or not to commit their duties, leading to malfeasances. 6. Do not offer to give or receive donations or support money, things or other benefits to outsiders, such as government officials, agents, partners, customers, or decision makers, which are intended to induce the person to commit or refrain from any illegal acts or wrongdoing against the position of that person, or to gain advantage or to exchange privileges that should not be deserved. Giving or receiving donations or supporting money must be transparent and legal to assure that donations or grants are not used as a pretext for bribery. 7. In the case a juristic person or a third party related to the business provides items or benefits to the Executives or employees as a gift, the Executives or employees must use discretion to consider the suitability, and / or correctness with regard to government regulations. It is acceptable only if the Executives or employees do not accept, it is considered unkind and has negative effect on business relationship, but the value of such items must be no more than the amount prohibited for government officials by law. 8. According to code of conduct, gift, or property or benefit should be received from the related or relevant person. Acceptance of such items should be made in a general manner and at appropriate value. It is illegal to receive illegal gift or property. 9. Personnel of the Company and of its Subsidiaries including their families must not claim or receive gifts or properties or other benefits from contractors, subcontractors, customers, partners, or anyone involved in the business of the Company, in any event that may affect discomfort or bias on the duty performance or conflict of interest. 10. Personnel of the Company and of its Subsidiaries must not bribe or offer any similarity benefits to the personnel of the company itself or to outsiders, especially government officials. Giving gifts, properties or other benefits to government officials, both domestically and abroad must be made with certainty that such grant does not create conflict with laws and local norms. 11. Do not give and receive gifts, which are of more value than usual that should be provided between the superior and the subordinate in any event. 12. Directors, Executives and employees of the Company and of the Subsidiaries must avoid giving or accepting things or other benefits from business partners or persons involved in the business of the Company, except for normal business purposes or in festivals or traditions. 13. It must be transparent, fair and legal when doing business with a variety of agencies such as government agencies, state enterprises, private enterprises in the country and abroad to comply with Thai and the foreign laws of the countries where the enterprises the Company makes a contact with are situated. The anticorruption laws in the country where the businesses of the Company have been operated must also be followed. 14. Directors, Executive and employees of the Company and of the Subsidiaries must provide knowledge and understanding to customers, partners, contractors, individuals or legal entities involved in the business that the Company does not support and will not be involved in any corruption acts; whether it is getting and receiving bribes. Should such action be found, the Company shall be immediately notified. 15. This policy applies to its Subsidiaries, Associates or other companies the Company has controlling power, including persons involved in the business. 16. According to the company's rules and Articles of Association, Directors, Executives, and employees who do not comply with this policy are considered disciplinary violators. And if the violation or failure to comply with this policy is taken as illegal offence, the Company will notify the law enforcement officer to prosecute such offenders. 17. The Company and persons involved in the business 17.1 Subsidiaries and Affiliates that the Company has controlled power must comply with this anti-corruption policy. 17.2 Agents and middlemen (if any) Directors, Executives and all employees must not hire any agent or middleman to commit or accept bribes or corruption. Measures 1. Directors, Executives and employees must comply with the anti-corruption policy, measures and Corporate Governance and Code of Conducts. They must not be directly or indirectly involved in corruption. 2. When seeing or having any suspicions of the act of corruption, employees should not ignore but notify the superior or the person in charge or inform through the provided channel and cooperate in investigating the facts as specified in the company’s regulations 3. The Company will provide fairness, protection and no punishment or any effects to the Directors, Executives, and employees who refuse or report corruption related to the Company's activities, though such refusal or reporting will cause loss of business opportunity to the Company. The Company will also take measures to protect the complainant or a collaborator in reporting corruptions, as set forth in the policies and regulations regarding treatment of personnel and / or the measure for the corruption complaint and lead. 4. Any personnel who commits corruption is considerd a violator of the Code of Conducts and will be disciplined according to the Company’s regulation and may be punished if such action is illegal. 5. The company communicates policies and measures against corruption, including channels for complaints, leads or advices to Directors, Executives, employees, Subsidiaries and all groups of persons involved, through various means of communications such as orientation for Director and employees, the information media within the organization and the Group of companies to build awareness and understanding of this policy. 6. The Company communicates policies and measures against corruption, including channels for corruption complaints, leads or advices to public and stakeholders,;namely,on the Company’s website, Annual Report, etc. 7. The Company has risk management for corruption that includes risk assessment, priorities setting and appropriate measures. It also tracks the progress of the measures taken by having the Financial and Risk Management Committee to coordinate with the Audit Committee to find out major risks and the risk of corruption, which will be reviewed by the Internal Audit Office. 8. The Company has a human resources management process that reflects its commitment to anti-corruption policies and measures starting from personnel selection to training, to performance appraisal, to promotion and to proper separation of duties and responsibilities to ensure the resources and personnel are sufficiently skilled and appropriate to implement this policy. 9. The Company has clear, efficient, transparent and verifiable corporate authorization procedure for business transaction. 10. The Company has set up an internal control system covering finance, accounting, record keeping and other internal processes related to anti-corruption measures. The results of internal control are communicated to the responsible personnel. 11. The Company has set up an internal control system covering important activities, namely commercial operation and procurement, etc. to ensure the internal control system will achieve the defined goal and the operations will be practiced as stipulated in the operating guidelines and regulations. The recommendations on the development of operating processes will be provided as well. 12. The Company has a policy relating to clues providing and mechanism to protect a person who reports such clues including means to communicate corruption measures, such as through a new employee orientation, e-newsletters, internal and external communication journals and letter to the business partners and customers as well as on the Company’s website. Follow-up and Monitoring It is the duty and responsibility of all Directors, Executives and employees to acknowledge and comply with the policies and regulations incorporated in the Corporate Governance Principles and Code of Ethics Manual(the 5th revised edition). It is also important that the Executives at all levels must support their subordinates to have knowledge and understanding as well as practicing as prescribed in Corporate Governance Principles and Code of Ethics Handbook (the 5th revised edition). The Company will not do anything illegal or contrary to the principles of corporate governance. If the Directors, Executives or employees commit wrongdoing, they will be strictly disciplined. If there is any act that is believed to breach the laws, the Company’s rules and regulations, or government regulations, the Company will report such matter to the government officials for further action. If employees at all levels encounter difficulty in making decision or implementing Code of Ethics that is not stipulated in the Code of Ethics of the Company, they can raise the following questions to themselves. 1) Whether the act is legal; 2) Whether such act contrasts to policy and code of ethics or damages the image of the Company; 3) Whether such act has seriously negative impacts on stakeholders Employees at every level can report complaint, opinions and recommendations including clues, acts leading to corruption of any person in the organization and stakeholders of the Company including misbehavior against the Corporate Governance Principles through the provided channel by the Company. Measure of clue notification and protection mechanism for the notifier The Company has monitored employees at every level to strictly follow the Corporate Governance and Code of Conducts Manualand established the measure for clue notification of misbehaviors through the channels provided for both internal and external complainants on illegal acts, abuses, misconducts, misbehaviors leading to corruption and misbehaviors of people in the organization, starting from the Executive level, employees of the Company and the Subsidiaries as well as stakeholders. The Company has the clear, neutral and transparent verifying and rectifying procedures and protection measures for the informer or witness in accordance with the Company’s regulaitons relating to complaint procedure and notification. Mailing to the Company’s address: Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited, No. 28, Soi Bangna-Trad 28, Bangna, Bangna, Bangkok, 10260 and to the attention of Chairman of the Board of Directors or Chairman of Audit Committee or via the Company’s website at www.pranda.com or email as mentioned under the Category 3 “Roles of stakeholders.” Complaint handling process 1. The complaint in regard to a violation or failure to comply with policy and the rules of personal conduct will have to be sent to Human Resources Manager 2. The complaint regarding a violation or noncompliance with laws or state regulations, the policies, Code of Conducts and regulations of the company will have to be sent to the Corporate Secretary. 3. The complaint on the act that may cause fraud, which means any act to seek unlawful benefits for themselves or others, such as misappropriation, corruption, fraud, etc. will have to be submitted the Audit Committee or the Internal Audit Office Manager. 4. In case the complaint on 1, 2 and 3 is complicated and related to several departments, such complaint will have to be presented to Chairman of Group Executive Committee and Managing Director to appoint the Committee to verify and conduct the investigation. 5. After that a person who receives a complaint will inform further to the Corporate Secretary to register a complaint, record the information for tracking the progress of the complaint prior to proposing to the Board of Directors for acknowledgement as well as assigning the Audit Committee and the Office of Internal Audit to handle further and inform the complainant or notifier of the progress within 15 days. However, if the complaint is sent directly to the Audit Committee, the Company will verify, record the information in written report and keep it confidential. In the case of violation or noncompliance with the law or the Company’s regulation and fraud, the violator will be disciplined according to the regulation set forth and/ or will be punished by law if such act is illegal. Protection measures for the complainant or notifier To protect the right of the complainant/ informer of the clue or the collaborator in investigation, the Company will not disclose the name of such notifier and keep the clue information confidential to prevent impacts that may arise to the complainant. There will be specific protection measure set for the informer who feels unsafe or may get a trouble or damage. The Company will proceed with a fair and reasonable process as well as mitigating the damage when there is someone suffering from damage. Furthermore, the Company has been working on anti-corruption as follows: • On November 9, 2010, the Company announced the intention to join the Collective Action Coalition against Corruption with the Thai Institute of Directors, Thai Chamber of Commerce, International Chamber of Commerce, Thai Listed Company Association, Thai Bankers’ Association. The project is a national project backed by the government and the Office of the National AntiCorruption Commission (NACC). • On October 9, 2012, the Board of Directors adopted the anti-corruption policy of the Pranda Group declaring that Directors, Executives and all employees must comply accordingly. The above policy was communicated by notification to all employees via the internal email platform and periodicals, as well as specified in the Corporate Governance and code ofEthics Manual (4th Revised edition ). Every employee was required to sign in acknowledgement and is held accountable to follow the anti-corruption policy. The above policy was declared through the Company’s website for dissemination for the public’s interest as well. • In the year 2016, the Company filed a self-assessment application on anticorruption measures to be a member of the Private Sector Collective Action Coalition Against Corruption (CAC) to Thai Institute of Directors (IOD). The progress is in pending of consideration by the Sub-Committee. • On March 9, 2017 the Company is certified as a member of the Private Sector Collective Action Coalition Against Corruption (CAC) from Thai Institute of Directors (IOD). The Company provides training courses on anti-corruption and antisuppression measures including knowledge about anti-corruption policies and practices of the Company as well as Code of Ethics to ensure that the Executives and employees of the Group conform to such measures and policies. The training is organized on a regular basis and all employees must sign as a commitment to comply with the Anti-Corruption Manual. 17 Sustainable Development Goals Furthermore, Pranda Jewelry PCL is operating with strictly adhering to 17 Sustainable Development Goals, certified by 193 leaders of the countries of the United Nations in the United Nation General Assembly UNGA to be used as the Global Developing Issue in the next 15 years (2016 – 2030) with the following 17 goals. Commitment to social responsibility activities in 2019 Goal 1: No poverty Solution for Debt Problem Goal 2: Zero hunger Quality Food Project Quality of Life Goal 3: Good health and Development Project well-being Pranda Group Academy Goal 4: Education Equality Career Support for the disables Goal 5: Gender equality Sharing and Giving to Society Project Goal 6: Clean water and Waste Bank Project sanitation 7 “Sor” activity Goal 7: Accessible clean energy Innovation Project for everyone Environmental Conservation Goal 9: Industry, innovation, and Energy Saving Project infrastructure Career Development Project Goal 8: Valued employment and for the Disables economic growth Dual Vocational Education Project Goal 10: Reduce inequalities Quality of Life Development Project Dual Vocational Education Project Goal 11: Sustainable cities and communities Career Development Project Goal 12: Sustainability plan for consumption and production Quality Food Project Child Development Center Project Goal 13: Climate Change Handling Goal 14: The utilization of Environmental Conservation marine resources and Energy Saving Project Goal 15: The utilization of terrestrial ecology Goal 16: Peaceful society, Quality of life Development justice without classification Project Goal 17: Partnerships for Sharing and Giving to Society sustainable development Project PRANDA GROUP With Good Corporate Governance Pranda Jewelry Public Co., Ltd. is committed to operate the business with good corporate governance by building awareness and work ethic to employees as well as giving considerable concern to provide benefits of the shareholders and stakeholders fairly. Since the year 2000, the Company has been having a policy regarding good corporate governance in writing to be the guidelines for the Board of Directors, Executives and all employees to follow. The principles of good corporate governance have been practiced in daily administration at all levels till they become a good corporate culture that builds the shared values for all employees to adhere with together in relation to fair treats to all stakeholders, working in full capacity with integrity, transparency and accountability for the benefit of the Company, which finally brings trust and confidence to the shareholders, investers, stakeholders and any concerned parties. The Board of Directors have therefore kept monitoring the business operation to be in compliance with the principles of good corporate governance of The Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) and the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Capital Market Commission. This is to ensure the corporate governnace consistently meets the international standard practices and efficiently strengthen not only the management system but also the sustainability of business growth. Received an Assessment of Excellent For the Annual General Meeting 2019 Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited (PDJ) announced that from the Thai Investors Association Assessment of the quality of the Annual General Meeting (AGM-Checklist) Ever since 2006 this is the 14th year, which is in accordance to the objective of the Office of the Securities and Exchange Commission and The Stock Exchange of Thailand (SEC) that evaluated the annual general meeting of 2019. The company received a score of 97 points out of 100 points which is in the excellent level. It was the result of giving importance to the rights of every shareholder equally. This lead to good corporate governance and achieved the objectives of the sustainable growth strategy including creating confidence for investors and all the stakeholders The Assessment quality of the annual general meeting by the Thai investors Association said the association considered starting from the process of organizing the shareholders' meeting. Which includes the delivery of the meeting agenda and invitation to the shareholders beforehand. The company disseminated complete and timely information via the company website as well as related activities which shows sincerity and transparency of the company in regards to shareholders' rights Corporate Governance Policy The Board of the Directors has set up the policy of good corporate governance written in the Corporate Governance Manual since the year 2000 and reviewed as well as adjusted the policy to be in line with the Company’s strategies and the Guidelines on Corporate Governance for the listed companies in the year 2013 of the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) and the regulations and the Corporate Governance Report of Thai Listed Companies: CGR of the Thai Istitution of Director (IOD). Also, the Board of Directors has revised the Corporate Governance and the Code of Conduct Manual in the year 2017 as the 5th revised edition as of November 13, 2017 to pply to their own business operation in long term, form trust for shareholders in order to beneficially create value sustainably to the Company. This policy has been thus set up as the operational guidelines or frameworks for the Board of Directors, Executives and employees at all levels to sign up and adhere to as mentioned hereunder. 1. The Board of Directors, Executivesand all employees must follow the Corporate Governance Manual with trust, faith and understanding of the corporate governance that is relevant to the Philosophy of Economic Sufficiency of H.M the Late King Bhumibol Adulyadej who granted an advice on sustainable development that focuses on balance and readiness to rapid changes by giving importance to use of knowledge with carefulness and ethics to complement to the 8 basic principles of the Company as follows: • Accountability: being accountable for your own decisions and actions and can clarify or justify such decisions • Responsibility: being responsible for duties with capacity and sufficient efficiency • Integrity: having the quality of being honest • Equitable Treatment: treating stakeholders with equality and fairness • Transparency: performing duties with transparency and verifiability as well as transparently disclosing information to all parties concerned • Ethics: having moral and business ethics principles of conducting business • Vision to Create Long Term Value: having vision to create added values to the corporate in the long run • Corporate Social Responsibility: being responsible for society 2. The Board of Directors, Executives and employees will practice corporate governance in business administration at all levels to become a good corporate culture. 3. The Board of Directors, Executives and employees will adhere to fairness , equally treat stakeholders and work with full capacity for the benefits of the Company, honesty and transparency, which can be verified. 4. The Board of Directors, Executives and employees may advise to improve the corporate governance policy to be applicable and suitable to the standards of business practices; as well as changing needs of society and international standards. 5. Conforming to corporate governance policy is considered a key indicator to evaluate business management by the Board of Directors and the Executivesas well as evaluation of employees’ performance. 6. The Board of Directors will review vision, mission and strategies annually. Understanding and applying Good Corporate Governance Codes The Board of Directors has the meeting to adopt 8 codes of Good Corporate Governance for listed company in 2017 and realizes a role as governing body of the organization. All Directors have studied or attended to the guideline training of CG Codes so that they understand the benefits and practices of applying them to create values for business sustainability. The evaluation of CG Codes practices has also been made to ensure the appropriate outcome and continual developing plan suitable to the Company. Other Good Corporate Governance Compliances As the Board of Director realizes importance of good corporate governance, the information disclosure policy, there is a policy to disclose important information concerning the Company's financial information and non-financial information in compliance with the guidelines of Securities and Exchange Commission and the Stock Exchange of Thailand with accuracy, completeness, timeliness and transparency. In addition, the Good Corporate Governance Codes have been followed in accordance with the Corporate Governance Standards of listed companies, except for some policies that the Company has implemented in other ways than the prescribed guidelines. This will be considered by the Board of Directors based on reasonability and appropriate business environment to strive for the goals and objectives of the Company as well as the best interest of shareholders. In 2018, there are some of the following issues that are not complied with good corporate governance including reasons. Uncomplied Issue Reason The Company does not implement According to the Company's Articles of Association, only cumulative voting for appointing the one share one vote is required, and the use of cumulative Directors voting may result in the appointed Director having unmatched qualifications to the Board Skill Matrix that is a tool used to appoint Directors to align with the Company's strategy. This may also lead to conflicts with Directors who act for the benefit of only one group of shareholders. The Company does not have The Company has already included the Corporate Social Sustainability Report or Integrated Responsibility Report in the Annual Report in accordance Report. with the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company has Independent As the Board of Directors and the Nomination and Directors who have been in a position of Remueration Committee are aware the Independent Director for more than 9 years. Directors have knowledge, competencies and experiences including ability to act as an Independent Director and freedom of expression;therefore, one Independent Directors is allowed to hold the position more than 9 year. However, the Company has 2 Independent Directors holding terms of office less than 9 years. Each Independent Director has proven that he/she has maintained his independence, no conflict of interest and/or any significant interest to the Company. The Chairman of the Board of The gems and jewelry business needs personnel who Directors is not an Independent Director. has knowledge, compentency and long experience in business in order to achieve the business set. However, the Company and the Board of Directors are operating based on the principles of good corporate governance according to the guidelines of the Stock Exchange of Thailand. The Nomination and Remuneration Though the Nomination and Remuneration Committee is not comprised of the Committee has 6 members, consisting of 1 Independent majority or more than half ofIndependent Director who is the Chairman of the Committee and the Directors. other five members are not Independent Directors, the process of nomination and remuneration for Directors and Executives is carried out not only with clearness and transparency but with no conflict with anti-corruption policy, which is also compatible to other listed companies in the same industry and complied with the long-term benefits of the Company and stakeholders. The Board of Directors does not The Board of Directors is overseeing CG practices of appoint CG Committee of which members the Company by itself. have to be at the director level. The Board of Directors is comprised of In compliance with principles of Securities and less than half of Independent Directors. Exchange Commission and the Stock Exchage of Thailand at least one thirds of the Directors are Independent Directors. The entire Board of Directors is overseeing the Company with fairness, transparency and appropriateness as well as concern of the best interest of the Company. The Board of Director will review the uncomplied matters with CG Codes and set up the good corporate governance policy and guidelines as clearly stipulated in the related manual of Corporate Governance and Code of Business Ethics, which can also be downloaded at www.pranda.com. Equal treatment of shareholders The Company adheres to equal treatment of shareholders in accordance with the principles of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Stock Exchage of Thailand and pays importance to equal treatment of shareholders and protection of their basic rights as follows. 1. To respect to the rights of shareholders, the Company discloses the complete invitation letter to the AGM on the website and sends it in both Thai and English in advance by post according to the set principles. The paper indicates the proxy forms for the shareholders cannot attend the meeting must be submitted no less than 21 days prior to the meeting date pursuant to the principles of the Business Development Department. The detailed guidelines as to how to vote for the others or Independent Directors and the custodian or caretaker for the shareholders with non-Thai nationality are mentioned in such paper as well. 2. The Company provides procedures and channels for minor shareholders to participate in proposing an agenda of the meeting, the names of Directors and sending questions prior to the meeting date during October-December every year by one or multiple shareholders who hold no less than 5% of the total voting shares of the Company. Proposing an agenda or nominating a person to be a Director must be made in accordance with the laws and the Company’s Articles of Association of which details are disclosed on the Company's website. 3. In order to ensure the shareholders of transparency and reliability, the Company has none of additional agenda or any change of significant information without informing the shareholders in advance. In addition, the voting cards for each agenda item as well as the agenda for the appointment of each director are included in the AGM. 4. The Company has issued one class of share, which is ordinary share and gives the right to shareholders to cast a vote of one share: one vote. 5. The Company does not have a structured group of companies that have connected transactions that may cause conflicts of interest. 6. The Company has developed the Good Corporate Governance and Code of Ethics Manual (5th Revised edition), which defines guidelines and best practices. The Company also has a policy to prevent the use of internal information for the Directors, Executives and employees to follow as stated below: 6.1 According to the Notification of the Capital Market Supervisory Board No. Tor Chor. 23/2551, the first four Directors and Executives including spouse and minor children of Directors and Executives of the Company are obligatory to report securities holdings to the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 59 of the Securities and Exchange Act BE 2535 and to submit the report whenever there is a purchase, sale, transfer or being transfered of securities to the Board of Directors on the same day the report is sent to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 6.2 In 2019, there is no Director or Executive trading stocks by using internal information as stipulated in the Corporate Governance Manual pertaining to confidentiality and using of internal information as well as trading securities of the Company. The Directors, Executives, employees of the Company and Subsidiaries and other individuals shall not use inside information in the wrong way for the interest of their own or others that may cause damages to the Company. 7. The Directors, Executives, including spouses and minor children of Directors and Executives and employees of the Company and its subsidiaries wishing to buy or sell the Company's securities will be required to inform the Corporate Secretary at least 1 day in advance of trading. 8. Should there be a connected transaction; an approval from shareholders must be obtained prior to entering into the transaction as prescribed by the Stock Exchage of Thailand . The Company will also have to inform shareholders of details and reasons for such transaction including the Board of Directors' opinion prior to the transaction. 9. The Company has disclosed related transactions at market prices and in the normal course of business according to the SET regulations on the details of Notes to Financial Statements and Related Transactions . 10. The Company has extended no financial assistance to the Company that is not a subsidiary of the Company and no cross-shareholding in the Group of Companies. 11. Employees at all levels are required to report to the Company as to whether they have any potential benefits, which are contrary to the interests of the Company. Roles of stakeholders The Company respects the rights of all stakeholders and has a policy that each group will be entitled to full rights, whether it is the internal stakeholders, namely employees, the Executives of the Company and its subsidiaries or the exterrnal stakeholders, such as shareholders, customers, business partners, creditors, competitors as well as the public and the society, which is defined as a code of ethics. Stakeholders and included in the manual of Corporate Governance Principles and Code of Business Conduct. (The 5th revised edition) on November 13, 2017, available at: www.pranda.com. The Company has treated the stakeholders as follows. 1. Care for the rights of stakeholders 1.1 Shareholders The Company is committed to operating the business with ethics and being a good representative as well as striving for the most benefit with transparency and increasing long-term value to shareholders with a good and sustainable return. As a result, the policy and good practice to shareholders is established for employees to perform their duties with honesty and with no any conflict of interest or violation of the shareholders’ rights. This is related to abuse of the shareholders’ basic rights or misuse of inside information of employees at all levels. The Company has not only created good relations and communication with the shareholders and investors but disclosed transparent and fair information through activities and various channels, for instance public disclosure of information in various media formats, i.e. online through the Stock Exchange of Thailand and the Securities and Exchange Commission including news coverage throughout the year and no seeking for selfinterest and other’s from the duties. 1.2 Customers The Company has established business ethics as well as roles and responsibilities for fair treatment of customers and has been certified by the Responsible Jewelery Concil (RJC), an organization that sets up the standard of jewelry production with the environmental concern and social responsibility. The company is furthermore committed to providing customers with reliable quality products and services under the international standard on quality management system ISO 9001: 2015 to control quality of prodcuts and deliver them in timely manner for the best customer satisfaction by using resources, time, personnel, capital, materials, machinery, equipment, information, technologies, and procedures efficiently and effectively with the great and steady concerns on quality of health, safety and environment. With a mechanism and a customer service system to provide customers with quick response, the Company has been certified by the Global group United Kingdom and has been accredited by UKAS Management Systems for 3 years, valid from December 17, 2018 to December 17, 2021. 1.3 Business partners and creditors The Company has clearly created the Code of Conduct for business partners and creditors and the tangible partner selecting process. The Code of Ethics and anti-corruption guidelines are established and used to treat customers with transparency and fairness. The Company determines the qualification of its partners based on the stability and credibility of the organization; whether it has been accredited with ISO 9001 with at least 3 references and whether it has had a history of timely and efficient product delivery, quality and standardized products with reasonable prices. The details of at least 3 partners will be compared to ensure equality with no request for any benefits leading to injustice. All contracts and conditions will be strictly followed. The Company not only treats its counter partners and creditors fairly but repays the creditors in timely manner in accordance with the terms and conditions stipulated in the contract and financial obligations. In the event that there is a need to change conditions or when there are significant reasons that may significantly affect the financial status and delinquent debts, the Company will inform the creditors to find out the solution and prevention from damage together including using credit approved by the creditor or financial institution for the purpose of the company as notified to creditors or financial institutions. 1.4 Competitors The Company operates its business with a fair treatment of its competitors under the fair practices and business ethics in regard to fair trade and competitive advantage. It will neither act or abuse anything that leads to the pursuit of confidential information of competitors by fraudulent methods, nor violate the intellectual property of competitors. In addition, the Company still refrains from allegations of mischief without truth and does not ruin the reputation of the competition and monopolize the allocation of revenue and market share. 1.5 Employees The Company is aware of the value of human resources and believes it is the most important factor in business. Thus, employees are well taken care and continuously developed under the following policy and guidelines relating to remuneration and benefits for employees. According to the policy of respecting the rights of employee incorporated in the CG manual, the Company has adhered to equal and fair treat to employess regardless of placeof birth, race, gender, marital status, language or position including no child labor, human trafficking and any forms of corruption. Furthermore, the Company provides proper remuneration to employees. For shortterm remunerationsuch as minimum wage according to the law for the unskilled or inexperienced labors but there is an increase in salary based on performance every year. Hence, the average wage in 2018 is 460 Baht/day. Also, there are other fringe benefits provided more than minimum requirement by the law, for instance overtime payment, bonus, diligence allowance, reward with honor rings for 3-year/ 10-year/ 20-year and 30-year work anniversaries, free rice, food coupon, annual health check-up, New Year’s party, employee dorm and so on. When including the aforesaid fringe benefits into the wage, the average wage in form of money paid to the daily hired employee would be 560 Baht/day. The rate and benefits given to each person may be different based on performance. Apart from the tangible benefits, the Company at present provides long-term benefits; for example, providence fund, cooperative for employees of the PRANDA Group. Training and learning development of employees The company has annual training and personnel development plans of which courses are divided into 4 groups as follows: the courses based on the Company’s policy, the courses based on a survey on training needs, the courses based on competency assessments and the courses based on the related laws standard systems. Courses base on the Company’s policy are related to the ones the Executives have provided organization development guidelines; for example, the orientation program for new employees, Basic Knowledge of Gems and Jewelry Business, Development of Positive Thinking and Linking Core Value, Skills for Supervisors, Team building: Grow Together ... Reduce gap and enhance power. Courses based on survey on training needs are the ones based on the needs of the department, for instance Supervisory Skills for Supervisors, Knowledge of Art Copyright, Development of Presentation Skills Courses based on competency assessment are the ones based on assessement of employees’ competency and the results do not meet expectations, such as Creativity, Strategic Management, and Strategic Management for the Executives Courses based on the related laws and standard system are the ones the law or government require the Company to provide adequate training to employees or the ones the business partners ask the Company to conduct after they audit the production process, such as Work Safety Standard, First-aids, Basic Fire Extinguishing, Fire Drill and Evacuation, Environmental Consciousness, Chemical Handling Safety and Chemical Spill Training, Noice Safety, Electrical Safety Training, Compliance with ISO 9001:2015 ,Compliance with Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC), Compliance with Thai LaborStandard (TLS 8001 :2553), and so on. Manual of Employee Training and Development The Company has set up a roadmap for personnel development based on competency (Competency-based Training Road Map) to conform to the requirements of the Quality Management System ISO 9001: 2015, regarding support of the business knowledge needed for business operation and to help set the framework for long-term training planning for personnel in the organization to match the position and ability, based on the core competency, managerial competency and job competency, which will be used to make the Individual Development Plan (IDP) Quality of Life Improvement in the organization The Company has had the policy to improve the quality of life in the organization, which is included in the CG and Code of Conduct manual (the 5th revised edition). Besides the 13 major projects in charge by the Core Value and CSR Committee, the Company is also having the other activities and projects to support improvement on quality of life of employees as described below. Knowledge Development Activities for Employees 1. Library The Company supports and opens our employees at all levels to access to source of knowledges around themselves and keep pace with situations in the Thailand 4.0 era by provided free WIFI to anticipate on change by adding value to innovation from self learning. In additional, the Company provides a number of books for employees at all levels and they can the list of books from the intranet and either send an email to the library’s email or make a booking on the library fanpage and QR code. At present, the library is having more than 3,600 books and magazines. To encourage interest in reading, the library is suggesting new interesting books every week through all communication channels and some books can be read by QR Code immeditately as well asprovided by the Company for employees to borrow up to 3 books a week. At present, the statistics on the average use of library by the walk inand access to intranet due to lifestyle change. This place looks like Library Café which focusing on our employees having the same lifestyle for meeting to promote good relationship. Additionally, the Library Café opens in the evening after the working hours for employees and their children to search for additional knowledge. To promote informal learning, the Company has thus provided more than 10 computers and internet for them to search for information free of charge. 2. Schorlarship The Pranda Group’s cooperative has given schorlarship to employees’ children at primary, secondary, vocational school and Bachelor’s degree. The 79 schorlarships, valued 101,500 Baht and 611 schorlarships have been granted to employees’ children since 2010 upto present at the amount of 808,000 Baht. The 20 schorlarships for the Best Students are rewarded with 20,000 Baht prize to the DualVocational students and there have been total 59 rewards amounting 59,000 Baht provided since 2012 present. The total 670 schorlarships totaling 867,000 Baht have been presented. Financial Supporting Activities for Employees 1. Home Loan Benefit As the Company is seeing employees’ residential issue significant, so the Company works in collaboration with the Government Housing Bank to provide housing loan benefit and guarantee repayment through payroll system, resulting in special low interest rates, which considerably helps them lessen debt burden. 2. Other Financial Supports The other financial supports are additionally offered as well, for instance providence fund, low priced products, financial aid in case of death of parents or spouse, marriage, birth delivery, ordainment and in-patient medical expense and so on. Family Institute Supporting Activities 1. Employees’ residence The 3 buildings of dormitories are provided for all men, women and the married, containing 100 rooms for each building and there are 690 residents at the moment. 2. Children’s Day Activities The activities on the Children’s Day are held every year for employees and their families who are invited to join and rewared with many gifts on that day. Health and Well Being Supporting Activities 1. Exercise Activity such as weekly aerobic 2. Venue and sports activities for example fitness, basketball court and football field 3. Annual health check-up 4. First-aid room with daily working nurses and doctors coming every week 5. In-house fitness 6. Safety week 7. Color sports day Ethical Promoting Activities The following religious and cultural activities are held. 1. The activity giving offerings to monks on the last Friday of every month 2. The water pouring ceremony as paying respects to the seniors on Songkran day 3. The honoring ceremony bestowed to HM the King Bhumibol Adulyadej on his auspicious birthday 4. Almsgiving ceremonies on the important religious days 1.6 Society The Company has conducted the business with concerns for community, society and environment by raising awareness of social and environamental responsibilities in all levels of employees on a regular basis. It is stated in the Business Code of Conduct that the Executive shall give the support to any activities beneficial to community and society including holding the events that help create such consciousness in the organization for employees at all levels, such as the Buddhist Lent Candle Festival, the Ordination Ceremony, and so on. 1.7 Safety, Occupational Health and Working Environment As the Company has given importance to safety, occupational health and working environment, the policy to enhance life safety of employees and the property security in the area of responsibility of the company is established. The security measures are regularly reviewd to be updated to the current situation. Employees must be aware of safety of their own, their colleagues and the property of the Company and realize the importance of prevention measures of accident arising from work and affecting themselves and others. The Company also provides various manuals concerning safety, occupational health and working environment to control, prevent and correct hazards from work for employees and contractors, electrical safety, chemical safety, x-ray generator safety, emergency response plan for disaster, regulations for occupational safety, health and working environment, etc. In the year 2018, the Company organized activities to develop and educate employees as follows: 1. Fire extinguishing and evacuation program Employees are prepared to handle emergency in case of fire, to know how to use the distinguisher to prevent spread of fire to other area (in case of small base) and how to evacuate safely from the building including how to move injured person properly. Fire extinguishing and evacuation project 2. Chemical spill and leakage program Training program on chemical spill and leakage is conducted to educate employees how to work with chemicals properly and safely and to handle an emergency in case of chemical spill and leakage including how to remove chemicals appropriately and safely. Leakage Chemical Project 3. First aid training program The first aid training is provided for employees to give immediate helps to the injured person in case of an emergency. First aid training Project as of 25th Janurary 2018 In addition, to make the environment both within and around the company pleasantly with no impacts on environment and community nearby, the Company supports the use of resources in accordance with the safety, occupational health and working environment management system and in compliance with the concerning law to enhance efficiency of workplace and quality of life of all employees. Statistics of accident, illness and absence in the year The Company is committed to improving safety, occupational health and the environment continuously and promoting occupational safety activities, including monitoring and evaluating implementation of this project to ensure the best practices. Thus, the report on accident statistics according to the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare on the safety of employees is made accordingly. 1.8 Environment The Company realizes responsibilities for environmental impacts on employees, community including any parties concerned, the following policy concerning control and reduction of impacts on environment, natural resources and energy is thus established for the Executives, employees and the related persons to participate and practice. 1. To promote and support all employees to realize significance of environment and take it as the duty to protect, protect, and reduce the environmental impact of all stakeholders and the community. 2. To promote and support any relevant practices in compliance to the environmental laws, standards and regulations. 3. To manage, execute, control, monitor, improve, review and develop any issues concerning environmental conservation regularly and continuously. 4. To support, promote and maximize use of resources and energy for sustainability of business, society and environment. 5. To support resources that enhance knowledges as well as environmental consciousness and responsiblitiy in the organization and the stakeholders. The Company has also organized the activities supporting the development on environment and natural resources including the training courses relating to the waste separation system for the establishment, the environmental consciousness, the toxic waste collection, the pollution control and the waste bank. In addition, there are 2 projects as below :1. Reducing electrical usage 145,540 kwh or reducing emission of greenhouse gas 73,590 kgCO2 equivalent to reducing car usage 52 units per year 2. Utilizing tap water from RO system 6,034,000 litres or reducing emission of greenhouse gas 3,930 kgCO2 equitvalent to reducing car usage 3 units per year In summary, 2 projects reduced emission of greenhouse gas 108,299 kbCO2, reducing car usage 55 units per year 1.9 Infringement of intellectual property or copyright The Company has the Code of Conduct on intellectual property and has the policy preventing infringement of intellectual property or copyright and supporting business execution under the related laws, rules and contractual obligations; for instance, the Company’s personnel is responsible for maintaining trade secrets and formulas, production process or confidential business practices by keeping such secrets as confidential as possible and preventing them from leaking. Personnel must respect the intellectual property rights of others and must not take the work of others, even partially, to be used for his/her own benefit without permission or must pay the owner of the work prior to the use. It also protects the personnel from using software programs illegally. The Code of Conduct for technology use is strictly adhered to prevent violation of the ritghts of others. 1.10 Labor To ensure that the products manufactured by the company are produced by legal labor, the company has implemented labor management in line with international labor standards and human rights principles. It also sets up labor policies and respects to the rights of employees as well. The Core Value and Corporate Social Responsibility Committee has been established to supervise and promote the quality of life of employees by providing debt resolution and legal counseling programs in the workplace as well as educating and providing advice to employees who have problems about relevant laws. This will help and ease such troubles for employees. Consequently, the Company is awarded with the Outstanding Labor Relations and Labor Welfare Award in the year 2017 from the Department of Labor Protection and Welfare, Ministry of Labor and gets a certificate in accordance with the international standard for Workplace Conditions Assessment (WCA) Including compliance wtith Thai-Labor standared (TLS 8001 : 2553) The Company supports employees and stakeholders to participate in the supervision and the compliance with the laws and rules governing the principles of good corporate governance and business ethics. Employees should report and complain any wrongdoing against laws and ethics or any misbehaviors leading to corruption directly through the provided channel or via a letter to: The Chairman of the Board of Directos/ the Chaiman of the Audit Committee Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited No. 28, Soi Bangna-Trad 28, Bangna Tai, Bangna, Bangkok 10260 Or use the channel provided, such as the Company’s website www.pranda.com or email to Department email Telephone no. The Board of Directors board@pranda.co.th 0-2769-9405, 0-27699923 The Office of Corporate cs@pranda.co.th 0-2769-9431, 0-2769Secretary 9403 The Internal Audit Office ia@pranda.co.th 0-2769-9905 The Investor Relations ir@pranda.co.th 0-2769-9431 The Corporate pr@pranda.co.th 0-2769-9494, 0-2769Communication 9432 The Personnel and Human personal@pranda.co.th 0-2769-9961 Resources In the year 2019, there is no violation of laws relating to labor, employment, consumer, competition, and environment as well as no complaint from stakeholders. Transparent information disclosure The Company pays great importance to the disclosure of important information of the Company which has to be made in an accurate, complete, timely, transparent manner and in compliance with the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Stock Exchange of Thailand to provide shareholders and stakeholders with thorough information as stated below. The Company discloses important information on periodic table in both Thai and English, namely the Annual Financial Statements, Annual Registration Statements (Form 56-1), Annual Report (Form 56-2), and Non-Periodic Reports through the electronic system of SCP: SET Community Portal. The Thai and Englsih information of the timely situation of the Company is also revealed on the website on the section “Investor Relations” containing the following subsections: 1. Information of the Company includes organization structures of the Company and the Group, etc. 2. Financial information consists of the current and historical financial statements and etc. 3. Publication comprises Articles of Association, Annual Report and etc. Other important information, such as the information on Board of Directors and Management and the Company's shareholding structure, including the invitation letter, the minutes of Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and so on, can be accessed on www.pranda.com. In addition to information disclosure through key agencies and on the company's website, the Company has reported its performance and important activities through other public relations channels as well as continuously and consistently revealing information on activities that are consistent with the Company's strategy and objectives, and the Company's business direction by taking into account the quality of the disclosed information through the following key agencies. Corporate Communications is responsible for publicizing and disseminating information, news, activities and press releases of the Company. The Company Secretary Office is responsible for accurately, completely, transparently disseminating information in accordance with the regulations of the Stock Exchange of Thailand and the Securities and Exchange Commission subsequent to the screening procedures. The Investor Relations has the duties to proactively organize investor relations activities, to communicate more information from the questions including information beneficial to investors, institutional investors and general investors and securities analysts in order to ensure equality and fairness to stakeholders and establish good relations between the Company and shareholders. They also have to devise an Annual Investor Relations Plan as well as allowing stakeholders to send questions to them through various channels such as sending e-mails and etc. The Company has assigned the Managing Director to reveal information to shareholders, investors, security analysts and journalists and to give additional information in response to the queries raised in the AGM meeting and the meetings with stakeholders. The following information disclosure on website throughout the year is listed below. Activity No. of times Special interview on TV 3 Meeting with the press 5 Corporate news 140 Field trips and site visit 11 Newsletter 6 Stock Market news 84 Company visit 1 Analyst Meeting 2 Opportunity Day 4 In the year, the Company has never been penalized by the regulators due to no disclosure of important information within the specified period. PRANDA GROUP With Economic, Social and Environmental Commitment. Judging from the business operations of the Pranda Group, it guarantees that employees and overall society are well taken care. As the business cannot be separated from the society, the business can no longer be operated and aimed only for profits by neglecting society. When the society encounters any problems, it results in business regression as well. However, the Company aims to develop CSR and business sustainability by integrating CSR activities to corporate operational activities and presenting through more products and services as well as focusing on reporting the results of the operation in compliance with the standard guidelines of information disclosure of the Stock Exchange of Thailand and the international standards for further sustainable development. Pranda Jewelry PCL. is not only adhering to the practice of good corporate governance but also realizing importance of doing business with corporate social responsibilities and environmental concerns for sustainable business growth. The Company has taken benefits to all parties concerned into account and encouraged the Directors, Executives and all employees to work in the same direction and highly hopes that conducting business with CSR will benefit both the public and the Company as well. Therefore, the framework of CSR for sustainability is set up based on the international standard practice covering economic, social and environmental areas under good corporate governance, so every company under the Group can work along together in the same way. The good attitudes and corporate culture are also established for employees to have the same social responsibilities with the following guidelines: 1. Running business with good corporate governance with social responsibilities 2. Paying respect and treating stakeholders with fairness 3. Supporting activities for social benefits, society and environment including government agencies or private corporate that have activities beneficial to society and environment 4. Encouraging employees at all levels to give importance and participate in not only company’s activities with CSR concerns but also volunteer works and as social activities as well. 5. Avoiding any practices that are contrary to moralities or give negative impacts to confidence and trust of the stakeholders for instance shareholders, employees, community where the Company is established, customers, business partners, government agencies concerned, society and country. Strategies and CSR Operational frameworks “ The company strives to operate under good governance and good corporate governance, commits the organization to social responsibility and environment” Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited operates under morals and good corporate governance, commits the organization to social responsibility and environment both business operation and other activities to participate in building good living of society and community and caring for the environment. Also enhancing employees to take part in social responsibility through voluntary program which continually creates the conscious mind towards social responsibility for employees in all levels in order to reach sustainable growth of the organization and overall societies. Pranda Jewelry PCL has had the policy giving significance to Corporate Social Responsibilities and environmental concerns (CSR) along with the core mission to produce quality gems and jewelry products with expertise and sophistication and deliver those valuable workpieces to the customers all over the world including relentlessly building sustainability to the jewelry industry leading to the strong and sustainable society in the end. The Company has then adopted the concept, frameworks and strategies of Social and Environmental Responsibilities and puts them into practice throughout the organization. Moreover, the Company has thus specifically set up the Core Value & CSR Committee to promote and work across functions in regard to shared valued and social responsibilities since 2007 with the following frameworks.  Dual Vocational Education Quality of Life  Group Learning Institute Project of Pranda  Child Development Center  Food Quality Inspection Project Social Economy Innovation Project Supporting Occupation for Disabled Resolved Debt Problem and Legal Consult Savings and Credits Cooperative  7 Sor Activity Environmental  Environmental conservation & Energy Saving Project TheStakeholders involved in the Friendly Waste Bank Corporate  Sharing Social Responsibility & Advantages to Society Important stakeholders of Pranda Group Pranda Group places importance on taking care and taking into account all stakeholders, whether they are internal stakeholders such as: shareholders, employees, customers, partners and external stakeholders such as: creditors, debtors, communities, environment and government agency. By recognizing that responding to the needs or expectations of stakeholders will benefit the operations and business development as well as taking into account the rights of all stakeholders in accordance with relevant laws and regulations Interrelationship with the stakeholder Under the context of Social Responsibility and Sustainability Stakeholder Demand Communication Responsive Strategy Expectation Channel Shareholder Suitable ROI Annual shareholder Treat shareholder and investor and Investor Good governance meeting as good governance administration Annual report Impose to reveal explicit and Disclose correct, true Administrative meeting reliable information. data of the company, Business visitation Supervise shareholder’s right complete and up to Take suggestion and according to good corporate date. complaint via web site and governance Effective risk corporate secretary office management Client Deliver quality and Subgroup conversation Contribute client to realize and standardized products Field trip opportunity share responsibility of Safety, and services. Educated by specialized Quality of products and services. Pass on knowledges team and expert of the Assess client’s satisfaction and technologies company completely in all aspects to through all corporate’s Arrange publish consider improvement of work products. information journal and for better services to Variety of products Customer visiting to gather customers. Maintain confidential opinions and suggestions or Serving customer under ethics of customer data. complaint. and responsibility of operation. Client’s satisfaction survey Good care of customer’s profile Partners and Suitable price with Subgroup discuss Treat all suppliers and creditors creditors appraisal investigation Joint meeting impartially and faithfully as the Punctual debt payment Visiting supplier to gather agreement in contract and Justice and fair of for recommendation. business ethics. employment and work Take opinion and Have supplier acknowledge and auction suggestions or understand the purchasing/hiring Exchanges knowledge requirements. regulation and process of selection and experiences. and evaluation by investigating and report to related person. Conduct explicit and Receive news information Provide monitoring to prohibit Competitors ethical business from media and public stage any implementations of Getting or Compete fairly and using secret trade data of legally competitor illegally. Treat competitor with comprehension and mutual cooperation Fair return of Establish group learning Determine the instruction about Employee investment and farewell (Pranda Academy) ethical and moral in business besides stated by law Open for any opinions and operation for employees to Steadiness and suggestion. commit. advance in occupation. Survey employees’ Provide suitable and justice Developing opinions. earning and farewell. knowledges and Employees’ training and Implementing system and safety potential in work development control equipment and suitable continually. Performance assessment working area to enhance effective Safety and Healthy in Activities joined by and efficiency of work in work. employees as well as activity consideration of safety and Participate in for society. health. developing working Respect employee’s right as method, products and stated by law. services. Training for development Participation in public beneficial program Social and Build and support good Research/Assess the Arrange dual vocational Environment living to the society. demand and satisfaction education by give opportunity to Implementing good Regional routine visitation youth in lack of education area environment, developing Arrange meeting for opinion and work to join the dual community, society, and suggestion. vocational program of jeweler. nature and environment Coordinating with Proceed as safety policy of conservative. community to arrange occupational health and Consider the effect quality of life support environment strictly. towards community and program and activity Contributing the mission for the environment. Arrange field trip and benefit of public, community and Be the corporate enhance the participation of overall societies. responsible for local social and business Participating in social and public country and global development as well as beneficial program society, support and environment conservative. Consideration of suitable conserve the local Take opinion, complaint environment standard for the culture. and suggestions company’s operation Reveal the operating Report information, news, information on fact basis. activity. Follow news information and report from public media Business Operating in compliance with the principles of the Stock Exchange of Thailand Pranda Jewelry PCL. is committed to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and sustainable development and realizes the Company has to be responsible to society, environment, and all stakeholders both within the organization and in society under Code of Business Conduct and anti-corruption policy. The Company adopts the CSR principles of the Stock Exchange of Thailand as the following 8 guidelines for the Executives and employees to follow. 1) Business operating with fairness and ethics 2) Anti-corruption operation 3) Respect for human rights 4) Treating employees with fairness 5) Responsibilities for the Customers 6) Environmental Conservation 7) Participation in Community Development 8) Innovation Project. These are contributed by CSR, environment and stakeholders. 1) Business operating with fairness and ethics Pranda Jewelry PLC has been operating business on the basis of fairness, ethics, integrity and good relations between the companies including individuals and government agencies. The Company also encourages the same practice to other corporates including the competitors with fairness. The Company realizes that efficient and sustainable business must be operated with transparency and standard operating and control system. The Company will fairly treat customers and partners without asking for any unfair benefits in return. In the case the Company cannot comply with any business conditions as agreed, it will inform the partners in advance to seek the best mutual solution and will not take any advantages of the business over competitors, but instead freely and fairly compete with them for the public interest. The Company will disclose accurate and complete news or information of every product. Furthermore, there is a policy to keep customer information strictly confidential. Such business information is normally not supposed to be released to public unless enforced by law. Moreover, the executives and employees at all levels must give good cooperation in using the good corporate governance principles to manage all levels and areas of business routinely until it becomes a good corporate culture and creates the following shared values. Fair business competition: the Company adheres to the code of ethics and the law of business in good faith. Additionally, under free competition, the Company encourages employees at every level to be aware of the importance of fair competition and avoid the monopoly trade as well as improper use of company’s market positioning advantage. Respecting intellectual property rights of others: the Company strictly follows the shared values of not to get involved in any activities concerning violation of property and intellectual property infringement. Supply Chain Responsibility: the Company has established good relationships with the business partners or suppliers with fairness. The contract conditions are appropriately made and enhance social participation and responsibility. 2. Anti-Corruption The Company has determined to operate the business with transparency, ethics and responsibility for the shareholders, customers, employees, society and other stakeholders, so the policy forbidding the executives and staff at all levels to get involved in any forms of corruption regardless of direct or indirect interaction to enhance the stakeholder confidence. The company personnel must follow the anticorruption policy in compliance with good corporate governance, code of conduct, rules and regulations including related laws to strive for organization sustainability. In addition, the Company has participated in anti-corruption activities held by both government and private sectors and joined Collective Action Coalition Program with The Institute of Directors of Thailand, The Thai Chamber of Commerce, The International Chamber of Commerce, The Thai Listed Companies Association and The Thai Bankers Association on November 9, 2010 to counteract corruption. It is reckoned the international Program supported by the government and National AntiCorruption Commission (NACC). Also, the Board of Directors has announced anticorruption policies for the Company’s subsidiaries on October 9, 2012 for all Directors, Executives and employees to regularly follow. 3. Respect for Human Rights The Company has good business ethics and firmly bears responsibilities not to the society but also all stakeholders under the corporate governance principles. As for respect for human rights, the company strictly follows the related laws and international practices especially the United Nations Global Compact: UNGC and the Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work of the International Labor Organization (ILO) to ensure that the organization is free from violation of human rights. Furthermore, the Company pays much importance to both human rights and individual rights and freedoms by treating all staff equally under the labor laws relating to human right protection, non-discrimination in employment, race, nationality, religion, gender and disability. There is no unfair dismissal. The company is open for recommendation, comments and complaints from employees through the communication channels provided. The Company also protects whistleblower who has reported any incidence or suspension happening within the organization and, especially,by no means to support or promote any raw material suppliers who violate human rights from sourcing procedures. 4. Treating employees with fairness The company has been treating all employees with fairness and equality in compliance with the law by following the code of ethics and respect to the individual right to enhance the stability of the Company including promotion of career opportunity in the workplace and support of potential development as well as maintaining the standard of living of employees ;for instance, providing benefits as enforced by law, safe and hygienic workplace, accident prevention and safety consciousness measures including the trainings, work transition, rewards and punishment with fairness under the law. Also, any comments or complaints from employees are always welcome and can be sent to the Human Resources Department. Employment and Labor Relations – the Company respects right and adheres to the policy that giving constant importance to labors and considers employees valuable resources of the organization. Thus, there is the Benefit and Welfare Committee established to support employees to have fair rights and welfares. Health and Safety – up to the present, the Company has realized importance of health and safety including working environment, as a result, there are seminars for employees in regard to working environment and activities supporting quality of life and safety as well as other existing activities they already have every year such as welfare giving, health check, eye sight examination by doctors from the hospital, first aids training and practice so that employees realize their health and health of their friends and families are important. Besides, the basic drills of fire evacuation and prevention and the “Safety Week” activity are provided to give employees consciousness and see importance of safety of working environment and health. Also, there are other activities that stimulate and provide working skills to employees. Diversity and Equality of Opportunity the Company is aware of values of human resources and confident such resources are the most important key to business operation, so support and development of employees are continually taken care of under the Committee of Shared Value and CSR with the following 13 projects. Apart from the 13 projects as mentioned above, the Company has set up the provident fund, 300 units of welfare housing, appropriate remuneration and fringe benefits, opportunity for career path, employee engagement promotion, annual health check, free meals provided to employees at all levels. In regard to employment standard, the Company follows the clear policy that no child or forced labor is hired, no request for financial guarantee from employee when hired. and the equality of opportunity and treat as well as recognition of the rights of employee are taken into account by having the Benefit and Welfare Committee to participate, negotiate and run the meetings or activities concerned. Additionally, health and safety system in the workplace and the training of safety and hygiene in the workplace are also conducted for employees. 5. Responsibilities for the customers The Company gives priority to delivery of good and trustworthy quality products and services to customers with the standard of Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC) Code of Practice under Design& Manufacturer of Jewellery & Accessories. This promotes confidence among customers that corporate social responsibility (CSR) is sustained and adhered to reduce any possible gaps or ricks in jewelry industry, both internally and externally. Moreover, the Company has applied the International Quality Standard ISO 9001:2015 with commitment to produce jewelry and gems with international standard quality and quality control in every step of production process by the expertise, punctuality of product delivery for optimal customer’s satisfaction and continuity of product development. The Company is also committed to the productivities customers are satisfied most and using resources, time, personnel, capital, materials, equipment and tools, information, technology and process with efficiency and effectiveness. All these things need to be strictly and continuously done with quality of health, safety and environmental concerns. In addition, the Company always strictly keeps treating business partners and creditors as committed with equality and fairness without exploiting. For the creditors, the Company regularly follows the terms and conditions stipulated in the loan agreements, discloses true and correct financial status. In addition, the proper procurement policy with partners is implemented fairly and efficiently under the fair competition, no illegal pursuit of confidential information of business competitors, like bribing other competitor’s employees, destroying reputation or framing competitors or taking any incorrect and unfair actions against them. 6 Environmental Conservation The Company realizes importance of the surrounding community and society with consciousness that it is part of the society and determines to develop society, environment and community along with business. The Company is therefore having the clear policy to run business with environmental concern and efficient waste management to prevent any impacts on the surrounding environment and community. Moreover, the Company is encouraging the executives and staff to have social and environmental consciousness through the internal campaigns and activities supporting quality resources management, reuse or recycle of resources to reduce waste, energy saving measure in various forms including the channel for employees and community to file complaints regarding any effects that may be caused by the operation of the Company. Participation in community or society development by acting as a good citizen and supporting activities that are beneficial to community and society in general is also contributed Environmental Policy 1. Encourage, support every person in the organization to recognize the importance of environment and is obligated to save, protect, prevent and reduce any environmental impacts towards all related persons and communities. 2. Encourage, support strictly the operation and implementation in consistent with law and any related standard regulations about environment. 3. Proceed, operate, supervise, monitor, improve, review and develop any related issue for the environmental conservation constantly and regularly. 4. Encourage and campaign for the highest utility of resources and energy in the organization for the sustainability of business, society and environment. . 7 Participation in Community Development Dual vocational training program The Company recognizes the importance of being a part of the community through its corporate social responsibility policy, aiming to develop sustainable business along with environmental care. The Company has the following social responsibility plans: “Dual Vocational” Project has been carried out for more than 17 years by selecting students from public schools in the remote areas throughout the country, especially the following projects after the Silverware Project under the patronage of HRH Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn of the five public schools in Mae Chan, Chiangrai, Loey, Nan, Tak and Petchaboon to further vocational study in Jewelry in collaboration with the Kanchanapisek College Royal Goldsmith and the Bangkok Arts and Crafts College, Department of Vocational Education, Ministry of Education. “Gemstone Jewelry Personnel Development Project “ Currently this program has supported 4th generation in cooperation between Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited and the Kanchanapisek College Royal Goldsmith to open learning opportunity to the disadvantage student, scholar and staff’s children. The Company has granted scholarship to study in Bachelor degree with the Kanchanapisek College Royal Goldsmith, affiliated institute King Mongkut’s University of Technology North Bangkok for 4 generation and there were scholarship student graduated in Bachelor of Arts, Faculty of Royal Goldsmith, Faculty of gems and jewelry design for 14 persons. Participate in community activities by providing support and assistance to schools and disadvantaged children in the community and the remote areas in other provinces. Responsible for internal staff by providing the scholarships to the staff’s children who have outstanding academic records and the welfares including nursing room, annual health check, and other benefits as imposed by laws. 8. Innovation Project The company encourages innovation in the working processes in the organization, which are new working ways and changes in production or concepts to create value. The innovation aims to create positive changes in the better ways. Thus, promotion of innovation is considered one of social responsibilities whether it is communicated or distributed both directly and indirectly to the stakeholders or through other various channels to ensure thorough access to such information. Besides, new ideas or innovations different from what are routinely operated are created as the knowledge covering business, economy, society, technology and environment to benefit both the organization and the overall society. Activities supporting Shared Values and Corporate Social Responsibility in year 2019 Committee of Corporate Social Responsibility In previous year 2019 the Board of Directors has appointed committee of core value and CSR support. The committee consists of 1 president, 8 committee, total 9 persons and meanwhile committee of core value and CSR support has appointed subcommittee to implement various procedures according to company policy. Authority of responsibility as followed: 1. To proceed under core value and social responsibility support policy. 2. To implement /project / activity in association with company vision towards appropriate and practical procedure. 3. To contribute the encouragement and support core value and social responsibility establishment throughout the organization. 4. To encourage, support the administration, management, assessment and working development or methodical responsive core value program besides the appropriate contribution and adjustment. 5. Supporting communication, coordination to create cooperation between employees in the same direction by enhancing understanding of corporate policy and motivation to have a shared vision in heading to the destination of the organization. 6. Comply acceptable performance report. Operation In 2019, the subcommittee of core value and social responsibility support had held 4 meetings to define the framework for social responsibility and determine report format of the important issue in 3 aspects which are economy, society and environment. Also tracking performance of social responsibility program as well as exchanging knowledge and create perception to related person. In addition, there were plan for social responsibility by emphasizing and prioritizing the knowledge and education encouragement for various social responsibility programs in the future. These must be presented to committee of social responsibility to continually consider and observe. Social Responsibility Report 2019 Pranda Group has made and published CSR operation in annual report and website www.pranda.com every year for the benefit of internal and external stakeholders to perceive the determination, operation guideline and performance according to social responsibility. In 2018 the implementation of CSR consists of CSR-In-Process and CSR-After-Process. (CSR-In-Process) In previous year 2019 the Board of Directors has appointed the committee of core value and CSR support. The committee consists of 1 president, 8 committee, total 9 persons and also committee of core value and CSR support has appointed subcommittee to implement various procedures according to 13 company policies as followed. 1. Pranda Group Academy It was found to create a culture and awareness of learning and improving the skills, knowledge and ability to exchange or share knowledge for employees in order to work effectively with good vision, creativity and new knowledge to develop their work and lead to organizational development. In 2019, the Company conducts a wide variety of trainings for employees at all levels, namely Basic Knowledge of Gems & Jewelry Business, Positive Thinking Development, Core Value for Team Development, Team Building, Supervisory Skills, Train the Trainer and Behavioral Interview Techniques as well as other courses conducted in and outside the organization in order to have widespread training. The Company also provides library where employees and their children can borrow books and search for information via intranet. Also, there are books and magazines provided to the target group to access information and knowledge easily. Summary of training and human development 2019 Internal External Train No. List Total Average Training Training OJT Amount of 18 78 1 course training 42 courses 36 courses courses courses for employee Training hours 1,422 12,443 6 2 10,410 hrs. 611 hrs. for employee hrs. hrs. hrs./person/yr. 163.29 Training 3 243,384.15 94,640.00 338,024.15 Baht expenditure Baht Baht Baht /person/yr. Number of employee 1,735 237 2,070 4 trained 98 persons persons persons persons (repeated head count) Satisfaction 5 level in average 86.38% 86.38% training Application for 1,112 course of skill persons development act 1,111 from 6 1 58.64% (no repeat head persons total count only in 1,896 BKK) persons 2. Quality of Life Development Quality of life Development in all aspects is provided to employees through a variety of activities and programs to enhance immunity for life and better quality of life. In 2019, there were activities as followed: 1. Aerobic for health 2. Yoga for health 3. Zumba dance for health 4. Travelling safety 5. Flea market 6. Message from kids Activity Times Participants Average stats Aerobic for health 43 874 20 (person/time) Yoga for health 50 381 8 (person/time) Zumba dance for health 45 726 16 (person/time) Travelling safety 3,947 Flea market 101 19 Message from kids 1 300 3. Child Development Center Child Development Center has continually been operated for 29 years to help taking care of employees’ children during working hours and to enhance physical, intellectual and behavior development of children. The Company has provided babysitters who are permanently hired and directly trained with child caring courses. This makes children ready for studying in the higher levels. Children are under care with the following services provides as follows. 1. Health Services such as health check, examination of health development and physical development and consultation of child caring 2. Nutrition Services for instance, providing proper nutrition foods to children and training good habits and manners on the table. 3. Other Development Services such as, muscle development, language and communication development, creativity development and mental, emotional and social development to get along well with others and act in good manner. Number of children in development center in 2019 No. / No. details Remark Person 1 Total kid in 2018 14 (08.30 am – 17.30 pm) 2 Total kid after school in 2018 22 (15.00 – 17.30 pm) Total kid during vacation / Present only Sat. / holidays / 3 108 holiday in 2018 vacation Total 234 Remarks: In case children come on holiday, not all presents. 4. Food Quality Inspection Project This project is concerned about employees’ health at all levels with the policy encouraging food shops to develop taste of food along with careful selection of quality, hygiene and safe raw materials with no chemical contamination. Food cooking should be made pursuant to nutrition so that cooked foods still have valuable nutrients that give energy and good health to employees. Activities in 2019 1. Campaigning food consumption for low sweet, low salt, trans fat. 2. Campaigning finish all food to reduce waste. 3. Supervise and control distribution shop conforming to principle, regulation, law and 7 Sor of the company. 4. Investigating shop, hygiene, taste, price, and quantity and quality raw material. Performance evaluation 2019 Activity No. of shop No. of shop No. of shop do pass criteria not pass criteria Checkup cart shop both 7 6 1 Internal and external (Average 85.71 (Average 14.29 %) %) Checkup taste of 8 8 Shop in the company (Average 100 %) Enhancing the management and employee to finish all food to reduce waste campaign approximately decreased by 80.00 % Moreover, the committee has held the meeting with the shop to request for collaboration about hygiene in culinary and proceed as the regulation of the company. 5. Innovation Projects The Company has supported and stimulated employees at all levels to have creativity when working. They may modify tools, equipment and some operational processes to be more efficient and effective, which will not only help reduce cost but also create new production know-how for the organization. The company has considered all innovations invented by any groups of employees to further develop and apply within company’s subsidiaries both domestic and international at the fullest utilization. 6. Debt Reduction and Legal Consultation This project has been continued up until now to help employees solve debt issue and give legal advices to tackle debt issue properly in cooperation with financial institutes. On top of that, there is legal information concerning debt issues to be posted on the central board as one of the channels for employees. On top of that, we have increased channel of useful legal information concerning debt issues to be posted on the central board for employees to read and open legal training for loan, guarantee, inheritance law and land for employee to perceive of the source of debt and realize before proceeding any financial procedure and laws. Activity No. of Times No. of participants Open clinic for consultation 120 98 (both debts and other problems) Arrange legal training 1 93 The MOU project with the Islamic Bank of Thailand, employees had consulted about debts burden and loan request for 67 persons, 59 were approved of financial credit for the total amount of Baht 10,014,000. 7. Saving and Credit Cooperatives Established to motivate saving habit and share knowledge of personal financial management to employees. Also, the alternative financial source with lower rate of interest comparing to other financial institutes serving employees who are in need for money. There are 2,358 employees who are members of the Cooperative at present and more than 176,000,000 Baht of operating capital. Currently employees are now having 1,294 saving accounts amounting total 20,845,786.64 Baht. Since 2008 up to present, 2,385 employees have been investing in stock saving in the amount of over 142,000,000 Baht while there are 2,842 loan supports in 2018 totaling 109,061,600 Baht. There have been total amount of 29,081 transactions of loan provided to the employees since start till now, valued 626,080,682 Baht in total The Cooperative in Pranda Jewelry group has recently involved in giving financial supports to the employees’s children in the form of Educational Scholarship in Primary, Secondary, Vocational school, and Bachelor’s degree. . 8. Dual Vocational Education Since year 2000 up to the present, the Company has been closely working in collaboration with the Kanchanapisek College Royal Goldsmith, the Bangkok Arts and Crafts College and Suranari Technical College under Department of Vocational Education, Ministry of Education by giving chances to students who finish Grade 9 from the Public Secondary Schools, Ratprachanukhro Schools and other schools in rural areas all over the country to further Vocational Education in Gems and Jewelry Business by providing chances towards lack of opportunity student in the community. 9. Occupational Support for the disables PRANDA Group always has the policies to support the disables in various ways, starting from accepting the disables to work in the organization, developing the disables to have the same competency as general employees and giving an opportunity for career advancement. Therefore, there is a training conducted for regular employees to have body language skills, so that there is no communication barrier between the normal employees and the disables and can finally work along well together in management, contribution, production level to receive their remuneration and welfare as same as normal people. Since the disables are mostly hearing impaired Activity Procedures • Joined education guideline program and dream career of audiovisual education school in Nakornpathom. • Join children’s day program at audiovisual education school, Karnjanaburi. • Welcome teachers, students and parents from audiovisual education school, Karnjanaburi for their field trip at Pranda PCL . • Arrange meeting of hearing impaired employees. • Training of provident fund and savings cooperative for disabled employee. • Training Thai sign language for basic communication to employee who involves with disabled employee. • Recruit 6 students from audiovisual education school of Nakornpathom and Karnjanaburi to work at Factory. • Join donation program to orphans and disadvantage children at Bot Woradit temple, Ang Thong province. • Training disabled employee to prepare for TLS AUDIT (Thai-Labor standard TLS8001-2553) Data of Key Performance Indicator It is targeted to recruit the disabled for organization increased by 20% of total disabled(6 persons), enhance the potentiality in disabled employee group to promote job security to limit resignation rate not more than 3% of total disabled employee (1 person) In 2019, this project has recruited 6 disabled to work which accomplishes the target. The resignation rate is 2 persons, 1 from Bangkok Plant/1 from Korat which does not comply with the target. 10. Activity “7 Sor” Since year 1999, Pranda Jewelry PCL has been aware of the quality and has development policy by using “5 Sor” activity as a part of quality development in the operation ever since. Until in 2012 Pranda Jewelry PCL has increased another “2 Sor” which are Beautiful and Environment. It becomes “7 Sor” to comply to the company policy in environmental development, this “7 Sor” has been implemented for 20 years. Activity “7 Sor” is the improvement process for better efficiency by maintains cleanliness, tidiness in workplace which is fundamental factor of improvement to continuously increase efficiency and quality. Tidy workplace reflects the participation of the administration and employee in “7 Sor” procedure. Safety in workplace and environment justify the consequence. Concept is • Clear Convenience Clean Improve of workplace and environment • Hygiene Habit improves people to have more disciplines. • Beauty Environment to build tidiness, livable, workable Policy of Activity “7 Sor” The Company has attached importance to the quality and has polity to improve the quality in all aspects by practicing “7 Sor” as the basis of quality development in the organization. It strives to improve tidy environment in workplace for the cleanliness, convenience, hygiene, beauty, good surroundings and quality work. To retain and self-develop of quality and standard. The Company announces their policy as followed: 1. Executives at all levels supervise and control the activity “7 Sor” and give advice in “7 Sor” procedure as well as closely solve the problem. 2. Every personnel have conscious mind and exercise “7 Sor” as part of the working operation. Adapted to use practically as routine work and always exercise it for better development ever. 3. Contribute all personnel to learn, comprehend in “7 Sor” as the basis of self-development. 4. Perform “7 Sor” to the best for good example in social development. Performance and Quality Assessment of Activity group “7 Sor” every unit has the ratio of 85% 11. Environment Conservation and Energy Saving The Company recognizes that resources and the environment are important factors in human life that will have a significant impact on business operations. Hence, environmental care has been carried out both inside and outside the organization to promote efficient use of resources and develop all employees and stakeholders to have energy and environmental consciousness and protection along with business development for sustainability. The Company has also encouraged the employees to protect environment and save energy. They throw in an attempt to maintain the environment to be in the same original conditions as before for benefits of living. Cooperation with other corporates is made to create knowledge, understanding and awareness of conservation, protection and restoration of natural resources for maximum benefits to the employees. Though the business operation of the Company has no impacts on the environment, the Company has still considered this issue socially sensitive and constantly given much importance to environment protection and energy saving. Water Conservation Project Objectives 1. To create awareness of efficient water consumption 2. Decrease cost of water consumption Procedures Re-utilizing the Concentrate water derived from RO system. Productivity target 1. Decrease cost of water and utilize good water from the production in other activities. 2. Conserve water resources, reduce drainage of waste water to outside. Energy Saving Project Objectives 1. To create awareness of efficient electric consumption. 2. Decrease cost of electric consumption. Procedures Change from fluorescent tube to LED type Productivity target 1. Able to decrease the cost of electric consumption. 2. Reduce greenhouse effect. Plan Plan of change from fluorescent tube to LED type Procedures 1. Determine the number of LED to be changed and gather for cost and break-even analysis. 2. Present the administrator for approval to proceed. 3. Proceed to change LED lamp. 4. Monitor and compare result of electric consumption MEA. *** Decrease volume of Carbondioxide gas 276,937 kg CO2/YEAR equal to car use reduction 195 คัน 12. Waste Bank The Bank of recycled wastes has been established to manage wastes in the workplace and educate employees to give full participation in this project. Reduction of unnecessary wastes, material reuse and recycling are promoted apart from sales of recycled materials for 50,000 kilograms on average a year. 13. Sharing and Giving to Society The Company is paying great attention to business development along with continuous community and social contribution and believing good society one of the factors contributing economic sustainable growth with the belief that good community is started from “GIVE”. The Company has strived to enhance employees to always realize, care and help those disadvantaged in social and also are willing to support employees to do good activities, benefit towards community related to business or surrounded of the company, eventually it is society in country where the Company are operating, in addition to main business or routine work. For continuous and effective activity for social, therefore Sharing and Giving to Society program has been found for employee to join good activity after hours. The way employee sacrifice their time and energy, volunteer for community development, allow them to deeply comprehend the sacrifice, collaboration, coordination, harmony for the same purpose which is community development. Good relationship is found between employee to employee or employee to chief and administrator, besides, good relationship between organizations to community. People who have regularly participated in activities for the community, volunteers for public benefit will be able to develop themselves to be a person with good heart and human relations which will be an important resource of the company. Implementation in 2019 Participation in the National Children's Day event With government, school as well as community surrounded factory both in Bangkok and up-country to create good relationship between school and nearby communities and also grow them to become quality children. Join Educational Guidance Program Educational guidance and career build dream” at audiovisual education school, Nakornpathom for the purpose of encouraging knowledge and career guidance for employment and opportunity for professional technician of jewelry in future to hearing impaired children so they can be proud of themselves without being obligation to society and family. Supporting traditional religious Taking part with the surrounding communities in leaving a robe to Buddhist monks and cleaning temple areas, donating candles and offerings dedicated to monks on the religious days or festivals. Join other social activities Anti-corruption Being one of the organizations establishing UN Global Compact Local Network Conserve and rehabilitate environment Blood donation for saving people’s life The Company encourages the staff to participate in any projects helping people, by joining the Thai Red Cross for donating blood every 3 months. Blood donation is used to save people’s life and reserved for emergency cases. Nowadays, only a small number of Thai people are donating their blood and it is inadequate and becoming a serious national issue of blood shortage while there is higher demand of blood in saving sick people. Opportunity for study visit The Company offer the opportunity to institutional academy and other to study and visit the Company to create knowledge to societies and stakeholders ever since the business operation. Supporting business network for social and environment PRANDA Group, as founder and a corporate member of the business network for social and environment which combines of business professionals to exchange experiences and a coordination of business people with a similar paradigm regarding an operation of the business with responsibility on society and environment. Mission is to promote awareness and provide support for the business which concerns with society and environment, the rights of community and society, as well as operates fair business with all parties. Corporate social responsibility after Process (CSR-after-Process) Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited attaches the importance to social responsibility operation or Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) which is operated out of conventional business for public and nearby community benefit routinely in form of assets and participation of the staff both in Bangkok and up-country in different ways as followed: (Corporate Social Responsibility: CSR) 1. Thai Gems and Jewelry Traders Association Calendar contribution 21,400 Baht 2. Community in Nakorn Ratchasrima Province Children’s day contribution 9,000 Baht 3. Karnjanaburi audiovisual education school Children’s day contribution 5,000 Baht 4. Nakornpathom audiovisual education school Children’s day joint contribution 5,000 Baht 5. Pongployanusorn School Children’s day joint contribution 5,000 Baht 6. Sirirattanathorn School Children’s day joint contribution 3,000 Baht 7. Navy Museum Children’s day joint contribution 3,000 Baht 8. Bangna Housing Community Children’s day joint contribution 3,000 Baht 9. Likhit 2 community Children’s day joint contribution 3,000 Baht 10. Thim Rueangwet community Children’s day joint contribution 3,000 Baht 11. School in Nakorn Ratchasrima Province Children’s day joint contribution 20,265 Baht 12. Nong-Sai temple Nakorn Ratchasrima Province Donate for cubicle 5,000 Baht 13. Nakorn Ratchasrima Province Offering royal kathin 5,000 Baht 14. Nakorn Ratchasrima Province Labor day 2,000 Baht 15. Bot Woradit temple, Ang Thong province Lunch and accessory contribution 20,000 Baht 16. Pongploy Viriyarama templeวิริยาราม Donation on Rains-Entry Day 10,000 Baht 17. Association with disabilities Offer 5 kgs. Rice for 20 bags 3,000 Baht Nakorn Ratchasrima Province The Company also joins contribution to other social program as followed: • Anti-Corruption Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited is running business in line with basic principles of good corporate governance and business ethics, fair policy and treats for every party of the stakeholders. The Company has built ethical consciousness of work with fairness concerns for the shareholders and stakeholders. In the year 2010, the Company joined the “Collective Action Coalition Program” to tackle any forms of corruption and make sure that the Company is having defined responsibility, guidelines and regulations to prevent any forms of corruptions. This is to help decision making and business transactions that may be at risk of corruption practices to be considered with care. Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited is therefore having the Anti-Corruption policy in writing as well as Anti-corruption manual to be strictly followed and developed for business sustainability. Furthermore, the Company has always joined the activities and officially announced its intention towards the anti-corruption activities and has committed to suppress corruption and gather all forces to retain public interest. In 2017, the Board of Directors has considered and reviewed the anti-corruption policy, guidelines and principles and held the seminar for the Executives and agreement is signed to counter corruption according to anti-corruption manual. The management is responsible for communicating and stimulating the employees to adhere to this policy. Moreover, the Company has been certified as the member of the “Private Sector Collective Action Coalition against Corruption” or “CAC) on March 9, 2017. • A Participant in establishment of UN Global Compact Local Network In 2015, it was only preparation for establishment of the UN Global Compact in Thailand which includes more than 15 units, and it was supported by the National Human Rights Commission, the Subcommittee of execution of strategic in economic, social and cultural rights. The National Human Rights Commission has participated in an establishment of UN Global Compact Local Network in order to set up the structure of management and role of the related parties as well as the operations concerned to drive for success of the business under the 10 principles of the United Nations covering 4 key issues, including Human Rights, Labor Standard, Environment Protection, and Anti-Corruption for sustainability development. Attended the National Dialogue on Business and Human Rights • Environmental Conservation and Rehabilitation The important duty in the Company’s implementation is responsibilities and care for environment and resources of the community. The Company thus gives importance not only to the efficient management of the environmental system in the production line to reduce the effect towards environment. However, the Company does not take into account of only environment within the organization, but also the responsibility for the social environment and natural resources by participation in the related activities held by Bang na District Office, governmental and private agencies, teachers, students and people in the community, namely Power of Community for Bang na canal. • Blood Donation for saving people’s life The company strongly encourages the staff to participate in any projects related to lifesaving, by joining the Thai Red Cross for donating blood every 3 months. Blood donation is used to save people’s life and reserved for emergency cases. Nowadays, only a small number of Thai people are donating their blood and inadequate for the demand. It becomes a national issue while there is higher demand of blood in saving sick people which causes blood shortage. • Opportunity for study visit The Company offers the opportunity to institutional academy and other to study and visit the Company to create knowledge to societies and stakeholders ever since the business operation. • Supporting the business network for social and environment PRANDA Group, as the founder and a corporate member of the business network for social and environment which combines of business professionals to exchange experiences and a coordination of business people with a similar paradigm regarding an operation of the business with responsibility on society and environment. Mission is to promote awareness and provide support for the business which concerns with society and environment, the rights of community and society, as well as operates fair business with all parties. • Worshipping the Royal Institution and the King In remembrance of the royal institution and the King who have assisted Thais people. The administrator and staff of Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited always arranged activity to express loyalty and retain the royal institution to last forever on important days every year. For instance, Her Majesty the Queen's Birthday, His Majesty the King's Birthday by decorating the national flag with His Majesty flag, doing good and indoctrinate the sufficiency economy to be used in their lives as well as stand up when hearing national anthem, etc. These social responsibility activities of the Company, all levels of employees from administrator and executive are the important part that drives any activities to accomplish successful purposes. Commitment to social responsibility activity in 2019 Judging from the business operations of the Pranda Group, it guarantees that employees and overall society are well taken care. As the business cannot be separated from the society, the business can no longer be operated and aimed only for profits by neglecting society. When the society encounters any problems, it results in business regression as well. However, the Company aims to develop CSR and business sustainability by integrating CSR activities to corporate operational activities and presenting through more products and services as well as focusing on reporting the results of the operation in compliance with the standard guidelines of information disclosure of the Stock Exchange of Thailand and the international standards for further sustainable development.
