Enhanced Oil Recovery SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 1 Consultancy SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Ithimam Digitisation Building a Sustainable Future Estidama Renewable Energies Proud to Serve Oman SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 3 Ithimam Digitisation Renewable Energies HIS MAJE STY SULTAN QABOOS BIN SAID 2 ABOUT THIS REPORT About This Report The body of this report is organised according to eight priority areas, which are integrated into the Company’s business processes. The Company continues to aim to strike the right balance between successfully delivering oil and gas to its shareholders, whilst respecting the welfare of society and of the natural environment. This report also integrates the Company’s sustainability performance, charting its performance to operate safely, responsibly and efficiently to deliver lasting economic benefits to the whole of Oman. The report covers the economic, environmental and social impact of our performance. It was prepared using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines. This update is testimony to our commitment to transparency and honesty in our business dealings. We will be using it as our Communication On Progress to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), which we formally joined in January 2015. We remain firmly committed to the UNGC’s 10 principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This report can also be viewed on our website www.pdo.co.om and on our internal staff intranet. Most of our technical functions are certified by the relevant national, regional or international bodies, and the organisation as a whole is annually audited by the State Audit Institution of Oman which is financially and administratively independent of us. This annual report covers the 2018 calendar year and follows on from our previous Annual Sustainability Report for 2017, which was published in April 2018. It has not been externally assured but has been reviewed by the Ministry of Oil and Gas. It has also undergone the GRI Materiality Disclosures Service. Wherever possible, we endeavour to measure our practices against national and international benchmarks, such as the ISO 14001 certification. Going forward, our intention is to seek full external assurance. If you have any queries about this report, please contact us at corporatecommunications@pdo.co.om Petroleum Development Oman LLC, P.O. Box 81, Postal Code 100, Muscat, Sultanate of Oman SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 3 Contents Ithimam Digitisation Chairman’s Foreword 4 Board of Directors 5 Who We Are 6 Managing Director’s Foreword 14 Our Stakeholders and Priority Areas 18 Exploration and Hydrocarbon Maturation 24 Hydrocarbon Production and Reservoir Management 28 Operations Excellence 32 Project Delivery 38 In-Country Value 42 People and Staff Development 50 General Welfare 54 Environmental Sustainability and New Technology 58 Environmental and Safety Performance 60 Global Reporting Initiative Index 70 Awards and Certifications in 2018 80 Renewable Energies 4 FOREWORD Chairman's Foreword Consultancy “mega” projects at Rabab Harweel and Yibal Khuff and a new chapter has opened with the signing of an agreement for the landmark 100 megawatt solar photo voltaic Independent Power Producer (IPP) project in Amin. This represents another building block in support of Oman’s outstanding potential in solar energy underpinned by the success of the Miraah installation at Amal. Across the full spectrum of its activities, PDO met or surpassed expectations and targets, bolstering safety, introducing further improvements to its operational practices – often through the deployment of new technology such as automation and artificial intelligence – and adding significant reserve volumes. I am pleased to say that the Company also maintained strong momentum on its In-Country Value journey, creating thousands more employment opportunities for Omanis, both in the oil and gas sector and beyond, and supporting new domestic supply chains. The Company also continued to share its expertise with In the Name of Allah, the Compassionate, Government ministries and a wide range of public, voluntary and private organisations in areas such as Lean continuous the Merciful. improvement, training, and project management in the interest of driving sustainable development. At the same time, It is an honour to declare the staunch support and unwavering it engaged stakeholders on priority issues such as energy dedication of all those who work in the Omani oil and gas efficiency and renewable energy through a new thought sector and who share your Majesty’s vision for the sustainable leadership PDO Majlis programme while continuing to set growth and development of our great nation. an example campaigning in priority areas such as road safety, At a time of significant technological disruption and ongoing environmental stewardship, research and development and geopolitical instability, PDO’s strategy has been simple: to stay diversity and inclusion. the course in the face of oil price uncertainty and production PDO will always strive to be a safe, efficient and responsible restrictions while preparing the business to face a changing operator and protect the communities and environment energy reality. in which it works. This report illustrates transparently the This means more sustainable oil and gas, driving energy successes and challenges of this approach in 2018 and the efficiency in all aspects of the Company’s operations, and concerted efforts made by all employees to support the a new PDO strategy, refreshing the business model to nation day in, day out. add value to Oman beyond operations in the concession I renew my pledge to Your Majesty that I will guide the oil area. This approach becomes increasingly important as the and gas industry to the best of my ability through these Company takes significant strides in its transition to become challenging times to ensure its ongoing contribution to the a fully fledged energy concern with a greater emphasis on nation’s success. renewables, especially solar. May Allah protect Your Majesty so that Oman may continue But while this evolutionary change is happening, PDO to progress on its path of peace, prosperity and stability remains steadfast in delivering its main mandate of oil and gas under your visionary guidance and wise leadership. exploration and production. In 2018, staff and contractors celebrated the major milestone of 40 years of gas output without interruption.This gas has helped to power the nation, fuel the country’s economic progress and provide a valuable source of export revenue. Mohammed bin Hamed bin Said Al Rumhy The Company continues to deliver projects of strategic Minister of Oil and Gas and Chairman of the Board of Directors importance to the nation with ever greater efficiency and consistency. There has been excellent progress on the two SUSTAINABILITYREPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT2018 2018 055 Board of Directors Representing the Government of Oman H. E. Dr. Mohammed bin Hamad bin Saif Al Rumhy Minister of Oil & Gas, Chairman H.E. Nasser bin Khamis Al Jashmi H.E. Salim bin Nasser Al Auﬁ Undersecretary of Ministry of Finance, Undersecretary of Ministry of Oil & Gas Deputy Chairman Dr. Salman bin Mohammed Al Shidi Mr. Nasser bin Sulaiman Al Harthy Mr. Musaab bin Abdullah Director General for Petroleum Director General of Investment Al Mahrouqi Investment Management Ministry of Finance Government Board Director Ministry of Oil and Gas Representing the Private Shareholders Mr. Sami Iskander Mr. Christopher Breeze Mr. Walid Hadi Mr. Stephen Michel Dr. Antonio C Silva Shell, Netherlands Shell Oman Shell, Netherlands Total, France Partex Corporation Executive Ofﬁcer Secretary Mr. Raoul Restucci Ms. Haifa Al Khaiﬁ Managing Director Finance Director PDO PDO 6 WHO WE ARE Who We Are Enh Renewable Energies The Company is owned by the Government of Oman (which has a 60% Petroleum Development interest), the Shell Group (34% interest), Total (4% interest) and Partex (2% Oman (PDO) is the leading interest). Gas fields and processing plants are operated by PDO exclusively exploration and production on behalf of the Government company in the Sultanate PDO is a limited liability company and operates on a no-profit, no-loss basis of Oman. We deliver the and is officially revenue-neutral. In 2018, PDO’s capital expenditure (Capex) majority of the country’s crude was US$5.5 billion and operating expenditure (Opex) was US$1.9 billion. oil production and natural gas supply, but above all we focus On 1 January 1980, PDO was registered by Royal Decree as a limited liability on delivering excellence, company in the Sultanate. growth and sustainable value The Company adopted its name in 1951, first struck oil in Yibal in 1962 and Digitisation creation within and well beyond our industry. has been exporting oil produced in its 90,874 km2 concession area known as Block 6 since 1967. Our headquarters is based at Mina Al Fahal in Muscat. Our mission is to find, develop and produce oil and gas safely, responsibly and profitably, in order to contribute to the sustainable development of Oman, Consultancy to the benefit of all our stakeholders. We are the custodians of the major source of national income and one of the largest private sector employers in Oman. We manage a large and diverse portfolio of oilfields in terms of field Ithimam sizes, reservoir and oil types, development methods and maturity. Our aim is to improve the recovery factor of hydrocarbons through the application of a combination of world-leading well and reservoir management, the deployment of the latest innovative technology, and a comprehensive gamut of recovery mechanisms including: • Primary, such as fields on natural flow and artificial lift • Secondary. such as fields under water floods and pressure maintenance SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 7 I treat everyone fairly and respectfully RESPECT ENGAGEMENT I continuously engage, listen and coach others I work proactively I prioritise delivery across boundaries and and continuous build improvement, and act partnerships as a Lean role model COLLABORATION PERFORMANCE • Tertiary, such as enhanced oil recovery (EOR), where we PDO endeavours to meet its wider responsibility to society work to modify the physical/chemical properties of in-situ oil. by aiming to secure a social licence by taking economic, social and environmental considerations into account in all decisions, The Company has become a global pioneer in EOR due to specifically in terms of the provision of oil revenues, domestic its maturing asset base and the complexity and challenging employment, staff and contractor training, the support and nature of Oman’s geology and the three main methods we currently use are thermal, chemical and miscible high pressure development of local businesses and community investment. gas injection. Underpinning this approach is our corporate vision which is The overall aim of our strategy is to maximise production “to be renowned and respected for the excellence of and minimise the financial costs and environmental and social our people and the value we create for Oman and all impact of our operations by following best oilfield practices. our stakeholders.” This means the continual development This means engaging efficiently, responsibly and above all and growth of our people, leading performance across our safely in the exploration, production, development, storage business and adopting a continuous improvement mindset to and transportation of hydrocarbons. ensure we protect our reputation, sustain progress, comply 205operating units >8,000 active wells 35 hoists 55gasﬁelds 46 rigs 28 production stations >30,500 km of pipelines 209producing oil ﬁelds and ﬂowlines 8 WHO WE ARE The scope of PDO business from shareholder investment to delivery of oil and gas EXPLORATION EVALUATION DEVELOPMENT OPERATIONS MAINTENANCE TRANSPORT Identitify and Create and Design, construct, Operate wells Maintain wells Transport, store develop oil & evaluate oil & gas modify and and facilities and facilities and deliver gas development abandon wells products opportunities opportunities and facilities with standards and deliver value to all our stakeholders. provides objectives and guidelines to the Managing Director. The Board consists of thirteen members. There are six At the end of 2018, PDO had 8,596 staff and over 70,000 Government representatives, including the Chairman, who is contracting employees, a combined workforce made up of the Minister of Oil & Gas, His Excellency Dr. Mohammed around 70 nationalities. bin Hamad bin Saif al Rumhy; and five who represent PDO’s private shareholders (Royal Dutch Shell, Total and Partex). To underline our position as champion of workplace diversity and equality of opportunity, in 2018 the 15-strong Managing General Business Principles and the PDO Director’s Committee comprised four women directors a beacon for both the industry and region. Code of Conduct The PDO General Business Principles are the foundation on Managing Director’s Committee which our business strategies and activities are based. These The Managing Director’s Committee or MDC shares lay down an expectation of honesty, integrity and fairness responsibility for the Company’s overall performance and in all aspects of our business, including relationships with business direction. contractors and suppliers. PDO is required to conduct its affairs in accordance with those principles. We are judged It is headed by the Managing Director who is assisted by 14 by how we act and the belief that our reputation will be other Directors, who are responsible for setting the technical, upheld if each one of us acts in accordance with the law and operational and financial standards, the allocation of staff and the ethical standards set out in our Statement of General their development. Business Principles (SGBP). The MDC is answerable to the Board of Directors which The objective of the Company is to engage safely, efficiently The Managing Director’s Committee SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 9 and responsibly in the exploration, production, development, storage and transportation of hydrocarbons and gradual transition to renewables in the Sultanate.The Company seeks a high standard of performance with the aim of furthering the longterm benefits of its shareholders, employees and Omani society at large. Our contracting-out policy is on the basis of open and competitive bidding, where possible, with transparent procedures, providing equal opportunities to qualified contractors and suppliers. We will not, directly nor indirectly, offer, solicit, accept or pay bribes, including facilitation payments, in any shape or form, and require our employees, contractors and suppliers and their employees, to act likewise. Employees are expected to exercise the utmost care to avoid putting themselves into a position where they may be called on to repay favours in a manner detrimental to the Company’s interests. Staff must not take advantage, for their own or for the profit of others, of their position in the Company or of information gained in the course of their employment. They have a duty to notify PDO of any outside interest which could, either directly or indirectly, present them with a conflict of interest, or involve them in a commercial relationship with PDO. The principles are endorsed by our shareholders and apply equally to corporate decision making as well as the individual behaviours expected of employees when conducting business on behalf of PDO. standards and behaviours necessary to achieve the core values of the They are the corporate shield that helps protect Company. It provides requirements and guidance, expressed as clearly, our reputation and it is the duty of every employee concisely and consistently as is possible, within a single, company-wide and contractor to ensure that we adhere to these document for all PDO employees on a number of enterprise-wide risk principles and uphold and protect the reputation areas. of our Company. For this purpose, the code is categorised into five distinct sections Following the core values and SGBP, the Code of addressing compliance in the following areas: Conduct (COC) instructs and advises on how to 1. People and Safety avoid situations that may damage the employee or PDO. It sets standards and shows how to achieve 2. Fighting Corrupt Practices them and demands honesty, integrity and fairness in 3. Safeguarding Information and Assets all aspects of business. The code does not exempt 4. Communications Management anyone, and every PDO employee must operate 5. National and International Trade. within its boundaries of rules and guidelines. PDO expects the same in its relationship with its Violation of the provisions of the code, or of any policies, procedures, contractors and suppliers. laws or regulations governing our operations, may have severe consequences for the individuals concerned and for PDO. Our reputation and our future success are critically dependent on compliance, not just with the law but In January 2015, PDO became the first national with the highest ethical standards. A reputation for oil company in the Gulf to become a member integrity is a priceless asset. This code supports PDO of the United Nations Global Compact – the in safeguarding that asset. It crystallises the basic rules, largest voluntary corporate social responsibility initiative in the world. Under the terms of the 10 WHO WE ARE agreement, the Company is committed to supporting the UNGC’s 10 universal A mandatory online training programme principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We also for all staff is ongoing across all levels of the produced our first Sustainability Report outlining in detail our commitment to business with 10,751 staff and contractor ethical business, the community, environment, economy and our own staff, to employees with access to the Company’s back our application. network having completed the online training at the time of writing this report. PDO remains steadfastly committed to further strengthening its already rigorous internal controls and continuing its membership of the UNGC. We All vendors registering with PDO continue are also now committed to the United Nations’ Sustainable Development to go through the ABC vendor due diligence Goals. process implemented in 2014 which asks questions about their ABC compliance and Anti-Bribery and Corruption involvement in any fraud, bribery or other In 2011, PDO embarked on a comprehensive anti-bribery and corruption ABC-related concerns. This is supported (ABC) strategy aimed at creating a culture of zero tolerance towards bribery by research conducted on the company and corruption. This strategy has proven to be effective in responding to concerned and its owners. the multiple challenges faced and PDO continues to be a champion of ABC compliance in Oman. PDO also manages a mandatory online Conflict of Interest, Gifts, Hospitality and Travel ABC policies and procedures are communicated on an ongoing basis to all and Confidentiality confirmation process. staff. A total of 105 staff attended training sessions for Contract Holders, This process requires all staff to declare their which included a module on ABC awareness. Furthermore, graduate and potential conflicts of interest as well as any mature hire induction sessions included a session related to ABC awareness. gifts, hospitality or travel received or paid and confirm their commitment to confidentiality annually. The Conflict of Interest and Confidentiality process for 2018 resulted in a 1.56% non-compliance rate out of a total of 8,504 active staff (those who joined before 1 October 2018), and 26.34% non-compliance rate of the 3,374 contractor staff with access to our network that were required to complete conflict of interest declarations and confidentiality confirmations. Consequences for non-compliance have been communicated to company and contractor staff and will be applied at the end of 2019. Although no specific formal awareness or training sessions were extended to the Board and MDC in 2018, all members are fully aware of the ABC policies and procedures in place and the MDC is regularly appraised of ethics and compliance incidents and ongoing investigations. The MD and several Directors are active members of the Defalcation committee that reviews alleged and confirmed incidents of unethical and non-compliant behaviours. Further, the Ethics and Behaviours department reports on a quarterly basis to the Board Audit and Internal Assurance Committees. They include providing committee members with statistics relating to our confidential whistle blowing hotline, investigations, conflicts of interest, ABC vendor due diligence, anonymous ABC contractor survey and information on any other ongoing ABC projects or initiatives. One allegation of corruption involving a SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 11 PDO staff member was reported during the year but was unsubstantiated. There were no ABC-related legal cases against PDO during the year. Contracts with one business partner were terminated in 2018 due to concerns around a conflict of interest between the business partner and a PDO staff member and indications of irregularities in a tender in which the business partner had participated. PDO is in the process of reviewing and updating its ABC-related policies and procedures. This exercise is expected to be completed during 2019. Five grievances were raised through PDO’s confidential Blow-The-Whistle hotline in 2018, one of which was “founded” with corrective measures being taken to address the grievance. Two of the matters were “unfounded” while one matter is currently under review. In the case of the identified opportunities for efficiency enhancement and waste elimination. last grievance, despite repeated attempts, These identified a potential cost saving of US$60 million over a 3-4 year the whistleblower has been unresponsive to period. In addition, a further sum of approximately US$240 million was requests for further details on the reported identified through our Low Oil Price Response (LOPR) programme, and grievance, hence limiting the actions that other value improvement ideas and cost saving opportunities. Projected could be taken to review the matter. savings from both CORs and LOPRs are US$300 million. Cost Control Funding Business efficiency is a strategic aim to ensure During 2018, PDO presented a number of proposals to shareholders that PDO’s long-term sustainability and deliver would leverage some of PDO’s assets, but which were put on hold due to value to stakeholders. The Company further overall medium term fiscal policy and debt strategy of divesture. enhanced its rigorous cost management regime in the light of the lower oil price The US$4 billion Pre-export Finance facility PDO secured on behalf of the environment. Government in 2016 was successfully refinanced during 2018 for a further two years. The repayments are scheduled to start from the third quarter of Our 2018 capital expenditure (Capex) was 2020. US$5.5 billion and operating expenditure (Opex) was US$1.9 billion, which includes Memberships more than US$260 million in total cumulative PDO is a member of the: savings. • United Nations Global Compact There were oil Capex savings of US$107 • Regional Clean Sea Organisation million, which came from a mix of drilling • Gulf Co-operation Council (GCC) National Oil Company Steering efficiencies, well optimisation and various Committee project savings, and gas Capex savings of • GCC Standardisation Organisation US$54 million. • Oman Society for Petroleum Services (OPAL) For 2019, the current capital budget is • International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (via Shell) US$5,448 million, including approximately • International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association US$68 million of expected initial savings in (IPIECA) oil Capex. PDO is also the first oil company in the Middle East to be ISO 14001-certified In 2018, the Company held 25 Cost for environmental management, and the first company within the Shell Optimisation Reviews (CORs), which are network to receive the ISO 55001:2014 certification for the ‘Management of focused, multi-day workshops where PDO, Assets to Support Production, Treatment, Storage and Transport of Oil and together with the relevant contractor, Gas’ by the Lloyds Register Quality Assurance (LRQA). 12 MANAGING DIRECTOR’S FOREWORD hanced Oil Recovery Managing Director’s Foreword Estidama It is an honour to present to Your Majesty Petroleum compensating for (unplanned) third party production Development Oman’s Annual Sustainability Report for variations. At the same time, we also had to cope with the 2018, which charts our performance and activities in a impact on our operations of Cyclones Mekunu and Luban. challenging but banner year, in which we celebrated 40 Despite these demands, we achieved oil production of years of uninterrupted gas production. 610,170 barrels per day (bpd), the highest since 2005. The report documents our unremitting efforts to continue The average Government gas supply during 2018 was 64.8 delivering on our vision of excellence and value creation, million m³/d, consistent with customer demand and our while also ensuring we provide full support to Your Majesty’s role as gas swing producer. During the year, in which we vision of sustainable growth. celebrated four decades of uninterrupted gas supply, PDO was able to exceed gas delivery to Oman LNG for export, It outlines our stakeholder expectations, material areas of contributing to the shipment of seven additional cargoes. concern, how we have addressed them and what more needs to be done going forward. At the same time, it also reflects The Exploration Directorate had a very successful year our determination to pursue a sustainable business model, with new oil and gas bookings made across Block 6. It support economic diversification, invest in our communities also achieved an outstanding performance in land seismic and protect our environment In line with our evolutionary acquisition by achieving a new record of nearly one million approach to becoming a fully fledged energy company, with a vibrator points in one month. We expect this performance greater focus on renewables. to improve even further with the completion of the first Ultra-High Productivity seismic acquisition survey, a massive Against a backdrop of fluctuating trends in the global market, operation involving over 700 personnel and the driving I am pleased to announce that in 2018, PDO exceeded performance expectations across a wide range of asset and of nearly seven million kilometres without any Lost Time functional targets including health and safety, production, Injuries (LTIs). This new technology will continue to support exploration, well engineering and job creation. our exploration efforts to sustain PDO’s growth agenda. The Geomatics department continued to build on its exceptional We have successfully migrated to being the country’s safety performance and has now registered a record 37 swing producer as guided by the Ministry of Oil and Gas, years without an LTI, despite working in some of the most requiring us to operate in a highly dynamic mode, frequently challenging terrain and conditions in the world. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 13 As ever, safety remains our overarching priority and we achieved a record 0.15 Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) compared with the improved performance of 0.20 in 2017 – a 25% fall. Another record was the 0.71 Total Recordable Case Frequency (TRCF) against 0.72 in the previous year. On the road safety front, we celebrated the achievements of driving more than 750 million kilometres without a workrelated motor vehicle fatal incident and an official Guinness World Record for the installation of the highest number of solar reflective lights ever on a road. There was also a slight reduction in the Severe Motor Vehicle Incident Rate of 14% (0.07 to 0.06) compared to 2017. Furthermore, I am happy to report a 77% fall in the number of Tier 1 process safety incidents and a 50% drop in Tier 2 incidents – both the lowest since 2010. These improvements highlight the ongoing concerted effort across the Company to enhance safety and operational excellence at the frontline through better supervision, awareness, training, consequence management and the continuous implementation of new systems and technologies with a view to engender an enhanced safety culture. Regrettably, the impressive results were overshadowed by the deaths of two contractor employees at Nimr in April and Yibal in July and 32 LTIs. This is a stark reminder of the need for constant focus on achieving Goal Zero, of no harm to our people, assets or environment. At all times, we need to remain vigilant in regards to working conditions and make sure we fully comply with our Golden Rules and Life Saving Rules. Our new inhouse behaviour-based safety programme Ihtimam (I Care) has already led to improvements in communication, safety leadership and outcomes and so it has been expanded to cover more than 20 facilities. Likewise, more than 1,300 well engineering front line supervisors, including drilling contractors, have now been trained on our Front Line Safety programme for supervisors and we envision it will be rolled out to all PDO staff and contractors in the future. Another key priority is In-Country Value as we strive to support Your Government’s efforts to diversify the economy, provide work for Omani jobseekers and build robust domestic supply chains. Overall, we awarded contracts worth US$3.7 billion to nationally registered firms, retaining a value in country of 44%. Our National Objectives team generated more than 17,000 employment opportunities, exceeding the very ambitious target for the year, in both the oil and non-oil sectors. Such was the success, we have decided to increase the target in 2019 from 19,000 to 21,000. In the fifth year since the unveiling of the ICV Strategy Blueprint for the oil and gas industry, we continue to lead 38 of the 53 opportunities to build local capability and capacity by supporting the opening of plants, workshops and factories supplying vital goods and services to the sector. One such 14 MANAGING DIRECTOR’S FOREWORD was last year’s inauguration of the Gulf Starch Plant in Sohar, Oman’s first and only manufacturer of drilling starch. Ensuring the Sultanate has a flourishing SME community, we began partnering with Phaze Ventures, the first Omani private venture capital company founded to unlock the untapped potential of our young entrepreneurs and develop the local business ecosystem. We are working together to identify and scale companies offering innovative solutions to upcoming energy needs with the aim of creating a global centre of excellence in future energy technologies and efficiencies. So far, five have been selected and the goal is for the start-ups to test their propositions within PDO and provide meaningful ICV proposals to boost the national economy. This initiative very much reflects our collaborative approach to work with local and expert partners on research and development. PDO and Sultan Qaboos University signed the first four R&D agreements through the Ejaad platform, set up with the Ministry of Oil and Gas and The Research Council to ensure closer alignment between academia and industry and share technical opportunities and challenges. Some of the areas where we need to develop solutions relate to environmental sustainability and energy management where we must try harder in the face of mounting climate change realities. We improved environmental performance across many We have made tangible progress in our deployment of solar aspects, including oil spills and waste management. However, technologies, such as the ongoing work at Miraah and the there were increases in greenhouse emissions and gas Mina Al Fahal car park, and the independent power producer flaring, partly due to equipment failures. We have developed project at Amin, the world’s first utility-scale solar project to comprehensive roadmaps to address both, and intend to have an oil and gas company as the sole wholesale buyer of reach the target of zero routine flaring well before the World electricity. Bank’s 2030 deadline. The Managing Director’s Committee SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 15 Enhanced Oil Recovery Estidama Our comprehensive Estidama (Sustainability) programme is being rolled out across the business centralising all our energy management and ‘green’ campaigns while helping to build a positive environmental culture across Oman. One such aspect was the launch of a drive to ban single-use plastics across our operations. In this respect, it is important to fully communicate and engage with our stakeholders in the endeavour to reduce our environmental footprint and the new PDO Majlis thought leadership programme has been invaluable. Two of the four projects, totalling around US$15.5 million, which will have expert sessions were on energy management and renewable tangible impacts on the quality of life of thousands of people energy and proposed a number of recommendations as living in our concession area and beyond, well as raised public awareness of the need for a “greener” economy. There was an impressive project delivery performance with, for example, the second phases of the Saih Nihayda and Protecting and promoting PDO’s reputation remain key. In Kauther depletion compression projects coming on stream total, 2018 saw the publication of more than 70 PDO press in June, well ahead of the planned date in 2019. The Tayseer releases, the execution of more than 140 media engagements, Early Development Facility set a new record after being interviews and activities and almost daily social media updates successfully commissioned in just 23 months, well ahead of on a wide variety of activities, topics and campaigns across the standard project schedule. the Company’s five social media platforms. Consultancy There was also good progress on PDO’s two mega projects. As well as communicating with our communities through The Rabab Harweel integrated project (RHIP) represents the stakeholder engagement programmes, mainstream and new largest reserve addition (more than 500 million barrels of oil media, we have continued to support them through targeted equivalent) and capital project in PDO history. It integrates social investment in the areas of learning and research, sour miscible gas injection in multiple oil reservoirs with community infrastructure development, health, safety and production and pressure maintenance of a government gas environment (HSE), and youth and female empowerment.The condensate field which also contributes to Oman’s overall rationale is to create sustainable benefits for Omani society gas demand. The pre-start-up audit of utility systems was in line with the United Nations’ Sustainable Development completed, and the project is on track to come on stream Goals. Last year, we committed to 36 new social investment by mid-2019. 16 Proud PDO scholars celebrate their graduation We achieved a key milestone at Yibal Khuff with the delivery from across the Company and more than 6,000 have been of an export compressor to the construction site and.the implemented. project remains on track to be on stream by 2021. Both projects are being built with hundreds of highly skilled Omani We continue to encourage all staff to challenge costs and welders who learnt their trade on our pioneering 6G welding discretionary expenditure, and regularly assess and compare programme. their levels of productivity and performance against leading industry benchmarks and continuously improve how they PDO continued with our endeavour to improve capital work in PDO. It is the responsibility of everybody to adapt efficiency and deliver competitive projects. An engineering to changing needs and more agile ways of working to create reorganisation, aimed at c entralising the execution of all more value in support of Oman’s near and longer-term projects, enabling higher productivity, greater consistency and sustainability. compliance, and faster decision making and project delivery cycles, was completed achieving its “go-live” target of January This also means continuing to make progress beyond our 2019. This will enable greater value chain integration between concession mandate, specifically in areas where we are assets, well engineering and project delivery as we work to competitively advantaged because of know-how, opportunity optimally deploy our resources and tools with a One PDO and resolve. mindset whilst further enhancing the skills development and To support our external service delivery efforts, and to capabilities of Omanis. better leverage internal capabilities for an expanding and This restructure presaged a broader organisational restructure more sustainable future, our New Business Development which was introduced this January along functional and asset team is now exploring how to commercialise our expertise lines. This will instil greater rigour in defining and setting in areas such as project management, training, Lean, field standards, processes and tools and deploying new technology, development and enhanced oil recovery. and see us move from a riskto rule-based approach, ensuring There is no doubt that the advent of the Fourth Industrial stronger implementation compliance. Revolution paves the way for greater innovation through This new structure will be underpinned by our ongoing rollthe deployment of new technologies, including artificial out of Lean processes, procedures and projects which are intelligence, Big Data and automation. We have appointed a transforming the way we work to enable us to do more for new Chief Information and Digitalisation Officer to oversee less. In 2018, this supported the delivery of 142 efficiency a reorganisation of the Information Management and improvement projects, securing US$152 million in cost Technology department so that we are ready to exploit the savings. So far, more than 15,700 ideas have been generated myriad opportunities. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 17 There are currently more than 220 ongoing digital projects Our people remain our main asset and we have stepped up across the organisation, including more than 20 regarded as our efforts to attract, retain and develop the best talent, while key future-centric technologies such as machine learning, extending Omanisation and empowering our female staff. robotics and predictive analytics. Drone and smart mobility The 2018 People Survey, which had a record 81% response, technologies are also gaining greater adoption, reducing HSE indicated an ongoing pride among staff about working for exposure in the field and facilitating faster communication the Company. between the Coast and Interior. We are confident that continuing efforts around Diversity These technologies are already making a substantive impact and Inclusion (D&I) to address gender balance, fairness and on our business in terms of risk mitigation and production bullying, will enhance our reputation as an employer of choice. optimisation. For example, our remote working pilot Maktabi was expanded to encompass more staff, D&I training and promotion were For example, on well and reservoir management, the stepped up and maternity benefits enhanced. I am pleased to introduction of automated beam lift technology (known as report a record number of women on staff and we hope to BLADE) across 80 wells at Amal East has resulted in a 31% increase this percentage from 12% to 20% by 2022. reduction in breakdowns and millions of dollars of added value with a 35% increase in oil production. This system can Going forward, we aim to stay true to our strategic imperatives, be replicated to many beam pump wells across PDO. while consistently seeking greater efficiency, striving to exceed expectations and leveraging new technology as an PDO intends to carry on leading by example whether it be enabler to safer, more responsible and productive operations. pioneering such new technology or setting new industry Your Majesty can be sure that we remain committed to our standards or raising public awareness or key issues. We are vision of excellence and value creation in support of Oman’s proud to retain our membership of the UN Global Compact, sustainable development and future prosperity. the world’s largest voluntary corporate social responsibility initiative. We remain committed to its 10 principles on human rights, the environment, labour and anti-corruption, and embedding them in our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. These principles underpin our core values and Raoul Restucci ethical approach to business and provide the framework Managing Director in which our staff and contractors are encouraged and expected to operate. 18 OUR STAKEHOLDERS AND PRIORITY AREAS Our Stakeholders and Priority Areas Our determination to be a good corporate citizen, which puts sustainability PDO is the central engine of at the heart of all it does, necessitates that we regularly engage with our Oman’s economy and its activities stakeholders to understand their needs, opinions and expectations, and any and performance directly impact concerns they have about our business and its impacts. the fortunes and futures of a rich PDO believes it is important to engage with our key stakeholders and diversity of stakeholders, including honestly and clearly report on our achievements and activities, while at the local communities, Government, same time receiving feedback from them as this helps us to respond to any shareholders, customers, concerns and continuously improve our performance. suppliers, regulatory bodies, Enha municipal authorities, academia, Our reporting focuses on the economic, environmental and social challenges non-governmental organisations, the media, and, of course, Renewable Energies that matter most to our key stakeholders and their feedback and information come from a variety of sources, including formal and informal face-to-face and employees and contractors. telephone meetings, visits, workshops, surveys and online communication. Stakeholder engagement continues to play a vital part in building and protecting PDO’s reputation and use as pull-out quote in the opposite page and a wave of new ones introduced in 2018. PDO again hosted a series of local and international VIP delegations in its Mina Al Fahal head office and Interior locations aimed at fostering understanding and There was a engagement. Highlights included an official significant drive visit from His Highness Sayyid Shihab bin Tariq Al Said, Personal Adviser to His to enhance Majesty and Chairman of The Research stakeholder Council (TRC).There were also delegations from State Council members, the Ministry relations SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 19 of Manpower and TRC who were given presentations on for example, included the need for a national action plan technological advancements in oil and gas exploration and with clear strategies, policies and projects to boost energy production and In-Country Value. efficiency in the Sultanate; the establishment and strengthening of strategic partnerships with the Ejaad research and As well as such high-profile engagements, there were development platform and external associations; and the also numerous face-to-face and telephone meetings inclusion of energy efficiency as a pillar in Oman’s energy with stakeholders including local communities and their resilience strategy. representatives, Government, shareholders, regulatory bodies, non-governmental organisations and academia to The Government Relations team also launched the Khebra discuss opportunities, concerns and challenges. project, mainly focusing on providing on-the-job training and knowledge sharing sessions for public and private sector To strengthen stakeholder partnerships, PDO signed five Memorandums of Understanding (MOUs) with the stakeholders.The project delivered training to more 190 trainees National Research Centre for Environment Conservation, mainly from government bodies and knowledge sharing sessions the Ministry of Endowment and Religious Affairs, the Public to more than 1,000 staff from around 60 organisations. Authority for Mining, the Ministry of Tourism and the With a heightened debate around environmental sustainability University of Oman. and climate change, PDO continued its support for, and The year saw the launch of the PDO Majlis thought leadership participation in, the Oman Energy Forum, which in 2018 was programme. Four events on renewable energy, In-Country staged to discuss challenges and opportunities in implementing Value, social investment and energy efficiency were held the country’s energy transition to enable more sustainable in Muscat, Salalah and Sohar and attracted more than 500 economic development. PDO also partnered with the EUattendees. There was very positive feedback from primary GCC Clean Energy Technology Network to host an Executive and secondary stakeholders, underlining PDO’s role as a Energy Efficiency Workshop focusing on solutions and major contributor to Oman’s economy and the country’s methodologies for the industrial and building sectors. sustainable development, and a number of recommendations were proposed. PDO was prominently involved in events which attracted global attention. The Company provided logistical, transport, Some of those derived from the energy efficiency Majlis, technical, media and stakeholder engagement support to the 20 OUR STAKEHOLDERS AND PRIORITY AREAS The AMADEE-18 team with PDO staff and other stakeholders “AMADEE-18: Mars Simulation Mission in Oman.” Staff and parties to co-ordinate efforts, address the concerns and contractors hosted around 20 astronauts from the Austrian work in a constructive manner to settle various issues. Space Forum in Marmul working closely with a number of stakeholders such as the Oman Astronomical Society and Six industrial issues were resolved successfully during the year Ministry of Defence. Additionally, PDO hosted the 9th World including the widening of the Muscat Expressway with a potential Heavy Oil Congress – the first time the prestigious event risk to a pipeline, a water treatment plant at Zukait and two had been held in the region – which attracted hundreds of falaj (irrigation channel) problems at Bidbid and Samail. A labour delegates from across the world. relations matter involving 6G welders and the Consolidated Contractors Company was also successfully managed. PDO carries out an external reputation survey every three years and the next one is planned for 2020. Community Relations In the last one, in 2016, 1,013 face-to-face Interviews were Our Community Relations team is continuously working to conducted. For 86% of the respondents, PDO has a favourable enhance the relationship with external stakeholders in our brand rating and the Company also has the highest awareness concession area and with the locals residing in areas close among oil and gas exploration and production companies in Oman. to PDO operations. The team actively assesses the different types of impacts on the communities and mitigation plans to The top challenge which respondents believe that PDO faces deal with these. is to create more job opportunities for Omanis (23%) and we have continued to ramp up our efforts in this regard going Any concerns or questions raised from the community side beyond our natural boundaries to create more than 17,000 are assessed and then escalated to the concerned PDO training and work opportunities during the year in both the departments for further investigation and an action plan is oil and non-oil sectors of the economy, exceeding our target. formulated to address them. Other top challenges include the developing renewable The team also continues to conduct screening reports for energy (18%) and protecting the environment and safety of people (16%), two areas in which PDO has seen great new projects to identify potential impacts on the community improvements in 2018 with the introduction of a raft of new and formulate action plans, such as possible social investment initiatives (see chapters on General Welfare, Environmental projects that could improve the quality of residents' lives. and Safety Performance and Environmental Sustainability and For example, local communities around the Standardised New Technology). Satellite Fields Development project in Rakid, Shaleem were On the area of issues management, there have been constant engaged on potential project impacts and key stakeholders engagements with the various Government and private were involved in the discussions. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 21 In 2018, continuous efforts were made by the Community Relations department to mark all the graded roads in PDO’s concession and re-assess their maintenance plan, especially for the ones most used. There was ongoing work to build robust communication channels with villagers and municipal leaders to address any concerns they might have directly. Formal engagements were held with locals about the construction of a solar-powered water well and reverse osmosis plant at Awifiya, Bahla (see Environmental Sustainability and New Technology chapter). The Community Relations team, along with colleagues from different departments, also addressed a number of concerns raised by communities in the Marmul area about the distribution of electricity. Communication Maintaining and enhancing PDO’s public profile and reputation continue to be one of the Company’s top priorities. In total, 2018 saw the publication of more than 70 PDO press releases, the execution of more than 140 >200,000 FOLLOWERS media engagements, interviews and activities and almost daily social media updates on wide variety of activities, topics and most followed Omani corporate account in the Sultanate campaigns across the Company’s five social media platforms. >37,000 >29,000 Social media remains a key focus for PDO to reach a wider followers followers audience and increase digital brand visibility. The Company’s ~37,000 ~2,000 LinkedIn account is the most followed Omani corporate followers followers account in the Sultanate with more than 200,000 followers. In addition, PDO has been able to grow exponentially on other platforms with more than 37,000 followers on Twitter, almost 29,000 followers on Instagram and 13,000 followers on Facebook. Our YouTube channel has almost 2,000 subscribers. 22 OUR STAKEHOLDERS AND PRIORITY AREAS From ongoing engagement and inputs, we have drawn up our Materiality Matrix covering our major aspects, the current potential impact on our business and level of concern to our stakeholders. Stakeholder Key Issues Raised Our Response Government, shareholders, State and In-Country Value (jobs, training, See MD's Foreword, and sections on Shura councils (via face-to-face and Omanisation) Exploration an Hydrocarbon Maturation, telephone meetings during the year) Renewable Energy Hydrocarbon Production and Reservoir Management, In-Country Value, General Value Creation Welfare, Environmental and Safety Funding/ Cost Control/Lean Performance, Environmental Sustainability Personal and Process Safety and New Technology Digital Disruption Employees (via online People Survey, Core Values See MD's Foreword, and sections on town hall engagements, face-to-face Diversity and inclusion Operational Excellence, People and Staff meetings during the year, PDO Trade Development and General Welfare Remote Working Union) People Development and Training Omanisation Operational Excellence Quality Healthcare Communities, including municipal Job and Training Opportunities See MD's Foreword, and sections on authorities, governors, and walis (via Infrastructure Development In-Country Value, General Welfare, face-to-face and telephone meetings Environmental and Safety Performance Social Investment during the year) and Environmental Sustainability and Environmental Stewardship New Technology NGOs (via face-to-face and Need for Ongoing Support (both See MD's Foreword and section on telephone meetings during the year) Financial and Non-Financial) General Welfare Business partners and suppliers (via Cost Control See MD's Foreword and sections on face-to-face and telephone meetings Personal and Process Safety In-Country Value, General Welfare, during the year) Environmental Sustainability and New In-Country Value Technology Contracting and Procurement (incl. Contract Optimisation Reviews) Digital Disruption SMEs (via face-to-face and telephone Working with PDO See MD's Foreword and section on Inmeetings during the year and new Technical and Financial Support Country Value online Daleeli system) Academia (via face-to-face and Employment Opportunities for See MD's Foreword and sections on telephone meetings during the year) Graduates In-Country Value and Environmental Closer Collaboration on Research and Sustainability and New Technology Development Digital Disruption Customers (via face-to-face and Reliable, Sustainable Delivery See MD's Foreword and sections telephone meetings during the year) on Exploration and Hydrocarbon Maturation and Hydrocarbon Production and Reservoir Management Media Reliable and Regular Flow of Timely, See this chapter and MD's Foreword Relevant and Accurate Information SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 23 Material Aspect (including key topics) Aspect Boundary (internal and external) HSE Impact PDO (as a whole), Government, Community, • Safe Operation Customers, Suppliers, Contractors • Environmental Sustainability • Energy Management • Water Management Economic Performance PDO (as a whole), Government, Community, • In-Country Value Customers, Suppliers, Contractors • Omanisation – Jobs, Training • Economic contribution • Lean Sustainable Business Model PDO (as a whole), Government, Community, • Funding/Cost Control Customers, Suppliers, Contractors • Continuous Business Improvement (Lean) • Technical Innovation Operational Performance PDO (as a whole), Government, Community, • Exploration and Production Customers, Suppliers, Contractors Employee Satisfaction PDO (as a whole), Government, Community, • Training and Development Customers, Suppliers, Contractors • Remuneration • Employee Engagement • Recruitment and Retention • Employee Well-being (including Occupational Health and Safety) • Diversity and Inclusion • Remote Working Community Commitment PDO (as a whole), Government, Community, • Social Investment Customers, Suppliers, Contractors • SME Support • R&D Collaboration With Academia Corporate Governance PDO (as a whole), Government, Community, Customers, Suppliers, Contractors Business Ethics PDO (as a whole), Government, Community, Customers, Suppliers, Contractors Supply Chain Management PDO (as a whole), Government, Community, Customers, Suppliers, Contractors Customer Satisfaction PDO (as a whole), Government, Customers 24 EXPLORATION AND HYDROCARBON MATURATION Exploration and Hydrocarbon Maturation 2018 Highlights • Booked 119 million barrels of contingent oil resources • Booked significant gas volumes (4.5 Tcf) largely in Mabrouk area • Significant oil discoveries in Rakid South (Gharif) and Ara (Mowaffaq and Shujairat East) • Completed first Ultra-High Productivity (UHP) 3D Wide Azimuth (WAz) seismic data acquisition • Zero Lost Time Injuries SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 25 The directorate safely drilled 35 wells and acquired over Exploration and hydrocarbon maturation 8,320 km2 of 3D Wide Azimuth (WAz) seismic data in Block concentrates on the subsurface aspects of field 6. Production from exploration wells was delivered at a daily development plans: finding hydrocarbon-bearing average rate of 2,600 barrels, with a forecast of increased reservoirs; appraising their size, structure and production from new exploration wells coming on stream properties; accurately simulating the way in which in 2019. the hydrocarbons flow through them into the wells; and then deciding – in light of all the data Oil Maturation and all the uncertainties – how best to extract the The 2018 programme focused on opportunities which can hydrocarbons from them. The task of discovering support PDO’s production target for the coming 10 years and appraising new reservoirs is entrusted to the and rejuvenate the oil portfolio using the latest seismic data, Exploration Directorate. The field simulations to mature future drill-worthy segments for sustainability and and conceptual planning are done in PDO’s growth. Field Development Centre. It allows most of the Company’s reservoir engineers and production Oil bookings for the year were in North Oman in the geologists to plan properly for the future without Shammar reservoir and within the Gharif, Natih and Ara being side-tracked by the exigencies of shortreservoirs in South Oman. Bookings in Rakid South alone term production. exceeded 60 million barrels in 2018, extending the previous success made in Rakid in 2017. Several frontier opportunities were tested without success in 2018, but overall UFCs for oil The Exploration Directorate had a very successful year with were highly competitive at approximately $1.1/b. oil and gas bookings made across PDO’s concession area. A total of 119 million barrels of oil and 4.5 trillion cubic feet (Tcf) Gas Maturation of non-associated gas (NAG) were booked as Commercial The focus was on extending success in the Mabrouk area Contingent Resource (cCR) volumes in 2018. The unit in central Oman and exploring further in the Al Huwaisah finding cost (UFC) of oil was kept at US$1.1 per barrel, with area in North Oman, fully utilising the Haima North AB 3D an overall UFC of $0.3/boe – a world-class performance. WAz seismic data acquired and processed by PDO and its The unit technical cost of these discoveries was also highly contractors. competitive and field development plans are advancing to bring production on stream at the earliest opportunity. Contingent resources were booked in the Barik, Miqrat and 26 EXPLORATION AND HYDROCARBON MATURATION Amin reservoirs in Mabrouk North East (NE) and Al Huwaisah South. Gas bookings of 4.5 Tcf, together with 118 million barrels of condensate, were the highest in over 30 years and Mabrouk NE was one of the most globally significant exploration results in 2018. Manal-2 was spudded in December and aims to extend the Miqrat gas potential further west, following on from the play-opening Manal-1 well completed in early 2018. Geo-solutions Activities Since February 2016, the Exploration Directorate has operated one ‘mega’ seismic crew acquiring data for exploration as well as production assets. Extensive 3D WAz seismic data sets were again acquired during the year in line with the plan. In 2018, the first Ultra-High Productivity (UHP) seismic acquisition survey was completed on time in Greater Nimr, achieving a new record of 38,500 vibration points (VPs) per day. The operation involved over 700 personnel and involved the driving of nearly seven million kilometres without any Lost Time Injuries (LTIs). This innovative technology, developed over three years, will continue to support exploration efforts in the future through better imaging and increased quantities of new data. The first UHP data set made 2018 a challenging year for seismic data processing. By the end of the year, the team had not only adapted to the UHP technology but has also managed to deliver the first intermediate volume a month ahead of plans. The team also delivered a SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 27 Enhanced Oil Recovery gies Estidama revised processing workflow that is suited for Amplitude Variation with Offset (AVO) inversion in central Oman. This is expected to be a game changer that will enable more AVO inversion projects and enhanced geological predictability. The Geomatics team maintained its excellent safety performance registering 37 years without an LTI – a record for PDO. In addition, PDO Earth, which enables staff to browse through assets and infrastructure and distil relevant information, has been further developed to support the PDO Journey Management System and to expand spatial data accessibility across the business. For 2019, the main focus for the Exploration Directorate will be to utilise the new 3D WAz seismic data to strengthen the portfolio of oil opportunities, test new higher risk plays and increase exploration efforts to sustain PDO’s growth agenda. Cons 28 HYDROCARBON PRODUCTION AND RESERVOIR MANAGEMENT Hydrocarbon Production and Reservoir Management 2018 Highlights • Combined oil, gas and condensate production of 1.205 million boepd • Highest oil production since 2005 • Record number of completion and well intervention activities • Average well costs down by 5% the lowest in PDO’s history • Gas demand met for all key customers SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 29 Production (kboe/d) 1,500 Associated Gas 1,250 Non Associated Gas Condensate 1,000 Black Oil 750 500 250 1967 1969 1971 1973 1975 1977 1979 1981 1983 1985 1987 1989 1991 1993 1995 1997 1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 2017 2019 2021 2023 to exceed gas delivery to Oman LNG, contributing to the Hydrocarbon Production and Reservoir shipment of seven additional cargoes. Management aims to optimise production from existing oil and gas fields in such a way that shortPDO has successfully migrated to being the country’s term output is maximised without jeopardising swing producer, requiring us to operate in a highly dynamic production sustainability. mode, frequently compensating for (unplanned) third party production variations. During 2018, PDO successfully continued on its production growth path, despite the current cashconstrained Well Engineering environment. This resulted in a combined daily oil, gas and Continuing on its cost efficiency journey and despite the condensate output of 1.205 million. PDO also celebrated increased complexity of the 2018 drilling scope, the Well four decades of uninterrupted gas supply, a key enabler to Engineering Directorate managed to achieve the lowest the national development. ever recorded cost per metre drilled in PDO’s history (4% lower than 2017). At the same time, it also managed to be The average oil production was 610,170 bpd – the highest more efficient in terms of drilling time per metre with 5% since 2005. This was 1,830 bpd lower than planned, mainly improvement compared to the previous year. due to the impact of Cyclone Mekunu which hit the south of Oman (a 2,300 bpd direct impact). Mekunu’s inundation of Well delivery was impacted by the Mekunu and Luban several production facilities caused latent trips and equipment cyclones, as the directorate was forced to suspend operations failures but the impact was minimised by a professional and on the majority of its southern units to ensure the safety rapid staff response. of people and assets. However, the impact was minimised through collaborative recovery efforts which enabled a Condensate production (a by-product from gas production) smooth restart of operations and the delivery 600 new wells. was 65,300 bpd, around 5,000 bpd below target due This was supported by a very efficient operational approach to a number of challenges including recurring trips and with a new drilling Non-Productive Time (NPT) record of variable performance at Kauther, and delays at Ghafeer and 7.5%, compared to the previous best of 9.5% in 2016. condensate recovery maximisation (CRM) projects. By the end of 2018, the directorate had completed 22,400 The average Government daily non-associated gas supply completion and well intervention (CWI) activities – the highest during 2018 was 64.8 million m³/d, lower than the initially number recorded with the same number of resources. The targeted level of 67 million m³/d due to lower customer number of hoist activities was maintained despite allocation demand, and technical challenges at the Yibal Natih/ of some of the resources to abandonment activities. NPT for Government Gas Plant, variable performance at Kauther, and well and reservoir management was maintained at 7%, and a Halite scaling issue in Saih Rawl. In 2018, PDO was able fell to 2.4% for CWI, a record. 30 HYDROCARBON PRODUCTION AND RESERVOIR MANAGEMENT The directorate also completed 97 days without a Lost Time Enhanced Oil Recovery (EOR) Injury, beating the previous best of 94 days, achieved in 2017. PDO’s journey in growing the future EOR contribution to oil Moreover, 70% of PDO wells are now top quartile, with 46% production continued in 2018 with the completion of another being best in class. critical chemical trial in the Marmul asset. It is anticipated that Another major milestone was the completion of the by 2025 more than 23% of PDO’s production will come “Wells in the 20s” strategy with our 2030 aspiration “to from EOR projects. PDO is currently operating a range of safely deliver our wells at half the current end-to-end commercial-scale EOR projects including chemical EOR, delivery time and lifecycle cost”, with increased focus on miscible gas injection (MGI) and thermal applications. Continuous Improvement, agility and digitalisation. New fiveyear goals were set and a reference plan was developed Full Field Developments Under EOR for the comprehensive strategy, which covers the operating Processes philosophy that will see us through the next decade. The Marmul Polymer phase 1 and phase 2 projects were commissioned in 2010 and 2015 respectively with a total oil Key features of the strategy are: contribution of 17.7 million barrels of oil to date. The average combined production gain from both phases in 2018 was Increased automation in our work units, 6,500 bpd, an increase of 13%. Work is continuing on the well equipment, third phase to further improve on execution readiness. The down-hole tools and project will develop 61 million barrels of incremental oil, with data, information and first oil by Q1 2023. knowledge transfer Gas injection in the Birba field has been ongoing for the past End-to-end Value-based, 24 years, and has yielded an additional 45.7 million barrels value stream outcome-based of oil with a total field recovery factor of 21%. To-date, 5.95 management fit-for-purpose billion cubic metres of gas have been injected and we are on and agile project contract and management target to achieve up to a 50% recovery from infill horizontal procurement drilling and additional gas injection. A Centralised Operations The Harweel 2AB project (Zalzala field) started miscible gas Management approach with injection (MGI) in earnest in April 2014 at a constrained rate fit-for-purpose of up to 1.7 million cubic metres per day and ramped up to supervision models a full-capacity injection rate of up to 4.5 million m³./d since January 2015 after separator replacements. To date, 3.81 Value-stream billion m³ of gas have been injected. A clear response to the Fully digitalised processes and based integration MGI process has been established in terms of incremental oil procedures with of activities rates (incremental oil to date of around 14.1 million barrels selective autonomous planning, (2.24 million m³), and target pressures above the minimum collaboration and implementation. miscibility pressure across the field. The expected total optimisation recovery with MGI is about 50%. EOR contribution to PDO oil production by 2025 11% 23% Primary 37% 34% 2019 2025 Secondary EOR 52% 43% SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 31 Injection in Sakhiya field as part of the Sakhiya mini-flood technologies that have the potential to unlock difficult project has continued since mid-2015 with high injectivity hydrocarbon resources and further reduce the technical of up to 2.1 million m³/d from three injectors. To date, 1.47 costs of these developments. This is being done through a billion m³ of gas have been injected and a positive reservoir series of dedicated laboratory and field testing programmes pressure response has been observed as the depletion rate in collaboration with local and international institutions. slows down. Considerable focus has been placed on ensuring that PDO identifies technologies that will unlock the large difficult The thermal gas-oil-gravity-drainage (T-GOGD) process hydrocarbon resource base within Block 6. As an output from in Qarn-Alam has been underway since late 2011. Up to these alliances, technologies such as foam and low tension gas 2018, 266 million tonnes of steam were injected into the Shuaiba oil-bearing formation, producing 83 million barrels Enhanced Oil Recovery have been tested in the laboratory and have shown positive results. of oil and resulting in a steam-to-oil ratio of approximately three. Project record levels of steam injection were achieved Other research initiatives target cost optimisation of our with peak rates exceeding 17,000 tonnes per day. current and future EOR developments. Work is ongoing to expand surfactant polymer application for more viscous The Amal steam project continues to improve in all oil that, if successful, will allow for additional volumes to be areas, and the year-average oil production for 2018 was matured. Currently, a focused effort on cost optimisation of 10,611 bpd. There was a continued strong steam injection the next phase of chemical floods is ongoing – polymer and Estidama performance with 2018 representing the highest annual alkaline surfactant polymer – to allow for robust technical average injection rate of around 7,854 tonnes per day. and development costs in view of the high price volatility environment. In addition, 2018 ended with the positive There was improved availability of heat recovery steam conclusion of the Haima West trial where polymer was generators in Amal West and more once-through steam injected in a lower quality reservoir extending the boundaries generators in Amal East, and a thermal response has now of polymer application. been demonstrated in both fields. Reservoir performance continues to improve with good cold and thermal performance. So far, 231 wells have been drilled in the Amal West 3.3 acre infill project. Field Trials and EOR Research Concurrently, PDO is continuing to identify novel EOR 32 OPERATIONS EXCELLENCE Operations Excellence 2018 Highlights • A 77% fall in Tier 1 process safety incidents and a 50% drop in Tier 2 incidents – both the lowest since 2010 • Official launch and expansion of Ihtimam in-house, behaviour-based safety system • US$152 million cost savings through Lean business efficiency • Over US$700 million cost avoidance identified as part of Knowledge Management programme SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 33 clearly conveyed to the Operations, Engineering, and Wells Operations excellence (OE) essentially refers to functions and further cascaded to the asset teams. All the the top-class running, maintenance and upkeep of teams came up with SMART (specific, measurable, attainable, all PDO’s surface facilities. Keeping the pumps and realistic/relevant and time-bound) strategic action plans in compressors working, the processing plants running their areas to address issues related to non-compliance. This and the oil and gas flowing safely through pipelines allows the Company to meet its production targets method also laid the ground for achieving a common purpose, and reduce the cost of its operations. alignment and robust assurance mechanisms between the Operations, Surface Engineering and Wells work streams. Process Safety and Asset Integrity To further improve the compliance culture, the chosen theme We remain committed to making continuous improvements for the fifth annual Process Safety Day – where over 4,000 in Asset Integrity and Process Safety Management (AI-PSM) PDO staff and thousands more contractors participated via the enhanced knowledge of staff and contractors, latest in more than 100 engagement sessions organised by team tools, technologies and expertise. leads both at Coast and Interior locations – was “We comply In recent years, we embarked on a number of improvement because we care. Violations are not an option”. initiatives which are already yielding tangible results as is testified by significant falls in the number of Tier 1 and Tier As a part of the management commitment to raise the profile 2 process safety incidents. In 2018, there were three Tier 1 of AI-PSM, the half-yearly Managing Director’s Committee incidents (down from 13 last year – a 77% improvement) and (MDC) “Deep Dive” workshops continued, giving MDC 32 Tier 2 incidents (a 50% improvement), both the lowest members an opportunity to directly hear about the issues from since 2010. front line staff.This was also augmented by the quarterly Gemba Walks and Letters of Assurance (LOAs) reviewing actions. An Non-compliance to established rules and procedures has historically been a major contributing factor to incidents. To AI-PSM steering committee was also formed comprising the address this issue, a step change programme was initiated three functional directors, relevant managers and focal points whereby the Technical Director’s Group, using the goal and this meets every month to ensure alignment and identify deployment approach, ensured that corporate targets were opportunities for collaboration and improvement. nced Oil Recovery Estidama 34 OPERATIONS EXCELLENCE This year, we also launched the 10 Process Safety developed and populated with learning from 120 Incidents, Fundamentals with the aim of providing renewed focus on 40 HBAs and 27 Level 2 PSM Audits. A new Community existing, good operating practices. These fundamentals are of Practice for AI-PSM has also been established, and the similar to the “Life Saving Rules”, but with a specific focused online collaborative tool went live. The focus in 2019 will be on process safety, and guide daily actions to prevent incidents. to mature the LKB and operationalise its use. The third version of the Asset Integrity Portal, which brings Simplification was a key focus area in 2018. A complete together risk indicators from disparate systems to give a review of our AI-PSM and Maintenance Management System clearer view of any integrity issues, went live with 27 key documentation was performed to unify and simplify our performance indicators (KPIs). Standard operating procedures procedures and processes, facilitating compliance for our staff (SOPs) have been developed and plans for the next release and contractors. The permit to work (PTW) process was also are underway. simplified and is now implemented across all assets with the exception of the Greater Birba cluster, as it is a high sour facility. Learning From Incidents To improve learning from incidents, the AI-PSM Incident In 2019, extensive efforts will be made on asset register Databook, which catalogues all incidents and near misses, verification with a target to fix piping and relief valve issues continued to be populated and is now being increasingly used across all assets. across the organisation, especially by engineering teams, to incorporate learnings into new projects. Quarterly fishbowl Maintenance Integrity Execution sessions to discuss common reasons for incidents were held We maintained our efforts to sustain the Maintenance at all Interior locations. Execution (ME) and Integrity Assurance (AI) programme in 2018. All 13 of our assets have retained their calculative status Very good progress was achieved on the AI-PSM training and are now making significant strides towards achieving the front, with more than 8,000 PDO staff and contractors “proactive” ME status. registering for the learning programme through an online training portal. AI-PSM assurance activities this year included Operations Excellence Dashboard an internal Level-2 cross-directorate audits at five assets and hardware barrier assessments (HBAs) at four assets. The Operations Excellence dashboard is a near real-time, single-point operations data information that enables With the aim of retaining critical knowledge and providing Operations staff to make faster, more informed decisions. a platform for knowledge sharing and cross learning within In 2018, a total of 11 elements of the dashboard became PDO, the AI-PSM Learning Knowledge Base (LKB) system was active. The annual planning and budgeting business processes SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 35 WHAT WILL YOU CHOOSE? VIOLATION COMPLIANCE were revamped through Lean methods, and the data from and increase the safety leadership skills of front line supervisors the dashboard is being used to better understand, manage through Front Line Safety (FLS), we also have redefined the and challenge operational expenditure. strategic objectives and plan of the FLS programme to suit growing business needs and continuously improve our safety Operational Reliability culture. The Integrated Operations Centre project, which centralises ownership of operational issues and enhances visibility of Phase 1 of the programme was translated into Arabic to cater optimisation opportunities across the PDO network, is a for staff on in-sourcing hoists, particularly drillers and assistant step towards achieving our aspiration to become a High drillers. It was also extended to other drilling contractors, Reliability Organisation (HRO) and to take our equipment such as Midwesco, Al Baraka, BaOmar, Cactus, and small fields reliability and availability to world-class levels. such as Petrogas and Medco. Along with engaging senior leadership teams at these contractors, we have also ensured There was a significant reduction in alarm rates at all assets. a commitment that they will monitor and close their personal Integrity Operating Windows have been established for action plans. Moreover, Phase 1 was extended to include critical assets and exception-based surveillance has started the Central Project Delivery organisation for the Yibal Khuff to review process parameter deviations. project, where over 150 supervisors have been trained and Notwithstanding the significant improvements made, we 19 certified as FLS Leaders. remain mindful of how far we are from achieving Goal Zero The third phase of the FLS Academy in Well Engineering, where all our facilities operate with no leaks or incidents called The Front Line Management (FLM), was designed causing undesirable consequences and our focus will and developed. continue to persistently close the gaps. Staying the course It provides well on this journey and continue to improve are key to achieving engineers with a the Goal Zero target. The AI-PSM improvement action plan has been communicated to all stakeholders.. Eventually, the risk should become As Low as Reasonably Practical (ALARP) standard template and the skills to Staying the course when AI-PSM has been fully embedded in PDO by 2020. coach their teams on this journey and and build their Operational Safety understanding and continue to improve Front Line Safety (FLS) Leadership compliance with safety leadership are key to achieving As we continue to promote safe behaviour in the workplace responsibilities. the Goal Zero target. 36 OPERATIONS EXCELLENCE More than 1,300 well engineering front line supervisors, Hunt was triggered in 2016 after the inability to correctly including drilling contractors, have now been trained. In the identify hazards at the workplace was identified as a common future, we envision FLS to be rolled out to all PDO staff and key finding from incidents, inspections, and audits. contractors, and we aspire to get it certified by an external accreditation institution. Through walkabouts, observations and hands-on guidance, HSE specialists accompany workers who are asked to Ihtimam participate and spot hazards, identify risks and unsafe acts Our in-house, behaviour-based safety system Ihtimam (I care), or conditions in their own workplace. Each of their findings which is task and risk-specific and allows for a more focused is then photographed and discussed with the relevant approach to observation and intervention, was expanded to personnel with a focus on potential dangers and the best cover 23 rigs and hoists in 14 locations in PDO and some of measures to prevent or mitigate them. our contractors. Since 2016, Hazard Hunts have been conducted at more PDO has already trained more than 3,500 PDO and than 50 sites (including, yards, workshops, production stations, contractor employees on the programme during trials projects, on/off plots, etc.) and involved 200 HSE advisers/ and some companies have already recorded dramatic front line supervisors engaging with more than 1,200 staff. improvements in safety performance. Due to positive feedback from site personnel and for Sustainability reviews conducted for over 700 PDO and sustainability purposes, PDO and its contractors are contractor staff have yielded promising results with 100% of mandated to continue with the Hazard Hunt programme by the participants stating they prefer Ihtimam to other systems, embedding it in all activities across the business. as they have noticed an improvement in communication, safety leadership and their safety culture. Lean Business Efficiency In 2018, we further expanded our Continuous Improvement Ihtimam is now our official behaviour-based safety system, with (CI) programme with the aim of reinforcing it to develop plans to begin implementation at our main office in the Coast PDO into a recognised world-class CI organisation. This was and expanding to six more contractors by the end of 2019. enabled by building more in-house capabilities. Hazard Hunting A long-term transformation map has been developed detailing The Corporate Health, Safety and Environmental (HSE) team the journey for the Company to become a CI leader. As such, launched a revitalised Hazard Hunt programme at all PDO one of the priorities for 2018 was to take stock of all the best worksites, as part of a “back to basics” approach. The Hazard practices achieved across the Company and work on identifying a SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 37 single standard for the rest. More than 12 strategic standardisation projects were executed using in-house capabilities to build a stronger foundation for the next stages of CI transformation, including a world-class assurance system which helps teams plan and progress their CI maturity. Further focus was devoted to the Lean leadership aspect to respond to anticipated challenges in sustaining improvements. This resulted in upgrading the training and coaching programme for Lean to become state-of-the-art, and more than 80 managers have already undergone the new training. Additionally, and to further embed CI ways of working, all MDC members subscribed to an extensive CI coaching programme fully supported by our in-house coaching capability. An additional 112 staff completed the extensive Lean Practitioner (LP) training programme raising the total of certified LPs to 400. This supported the delivery of 142 efficiency improvement projects, securing US$152 million in cost savings. So far, more than 15,700 ideas have been generated from across the Company and more than 6,000 have been implemented. Additional to the Lean Practitioner programme, PDO also initiated a large-scale training programme to build organisationwide leadership capability in structured and complex problem solving, as well as team improvement coaching. We have continued spreading Lean awareness and knowledge as Some of our key achievements to date include: part of our commitment to support the sustainable development of the nation. In 2018, we organised Lean awareness sessions for over 800 representatives from more than 50 public and private organisations in Oman. We also hosted more than 138 leaders from over 12 public bodies including the Ministry of Manpower, The Research Council, and the Oman Gas Company to learn Over 7,000 more about the programme. learning and best practices captured Knowledge Management Launched the Awareness first KM Oman Knowledge Management (KM) has grown successfully in training for over Community of PDO to become recognised as a key business enabler. 200 staff Practice The PDO Knowledge Management programme began in 2014 to facilitate the better identification, capture, sharing Shared PDO KM experience and application of our collective knowledge, learning, and growing insights and expertise to help support projects, operational Multiple competencies in performance, process and health and safety, alongside directorate awards a new global KM continuous improvement. book Following stakeholder endorsement, we adopted a best practice approach to KM and three initial pilots (Lessons Learned, On-boarding and Communities) were launched in 15 Projects Delivery. We then expanded into Well Engineering and AI-PSM where learnings have helped with improvements in wells assurance and operations and process safety incident 25 PDO staff internationally Over management. We are in the process of extending KM to accredited in the first international Trained US$700 another five directorates. Omani public million cost Certified and private avoidance Knowledge identified from One of our key success factors is the development of a organisation in Management (CKM) CKM – the first learning and strategic KM Framework, which included the key components training in Oman application in Oman of People and Expertise, Collaboration, Learning and Content. 38 PROJECT DELIVERY Project Delivery 2018 Highlights • SNDC2/KDC2 came on stream well ahead of schedule • Tayseer EDF, Ghafeer A2C Field Development, and Mabrouk Deep Phase 3 projects were brought on stream • Continued good progress on both Rabab Harweel and Yibal Khuff “mega” projects • Re-organisation of Engineering and Project Delivery to centralise the execution of all projects, enabling higher productivity, faster decision making and project delivery cycles. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 39 • Share best practices and lessons learnt at scale Successful project delivery – in its widest sense • Ensure small projects are executed – is simply constructing and commissioning • Enhance interfaces between Operations and Engineering facilities on time, within budget and delivering • Do more with the same as people efficiency improves. the products as promised. In the short term, the Company is focused on producing oil and gas in The Tayseer Early Development Facility (EDF) which set a as cost-efficient way as possible from its existing project delivery record after being successfully commissioned fields, according to existing development plans. in just 23 months, as opposed to standard project delivery But, in the longer term, good project delivery schedules which are 3-5 times longer, was brought on stream becomes even more important as the Company in November 2018. brings on stream more complex sour and The EDF development will allow for the maturation of 7-8.5 enhanced oil recovery projects, which require steam or chemicals to produce the oil. million barrels of condensate and sweet gas export of 2.1-3.2 billion m³ (resulting in volumes of 20 – 30 million barrels of oil equivalent). PDO continued with its endeavour to improve capital efficiency and deliver competitive projects. An engineering The second phases of the Saih Nihayda (SNDC-2) and re-organisation, aimed to centralise the execution of all Kauther (KDC-2) depletion compression projects came on projects, enabling higher productivity, faster decision making stream safely in June 2018, months ahead of schedule. Their and project delivery cycles, was completed achieving its “goscope involved the installation of two gas compressors each live” target of January 2019.The new central Project Delivery with a capacity of 17 megawatts (MW), and downstream of organisation will bring greater consistency and efficiency to the existing inlet SNDC-1/KDC-1 separators, with associated a broad sweep of project delivery activities, and will aim to: inlet coolers, scrubbers and discharge. • Adopt a standardised approach to engineering projects They aim to enhance gas production from wells at Saih • Move towards top quartile project delivery (schedule/cost) Nihayda, Kauther and Fakhr fields by reducing the flowing • Create further development opportunities for technical tubing pressure, while maintaining the required inlet pressure engineering disciplines to SNDC-1 and KDC-1 compressors. 40 PROJECT DELIVERY The projects were finished with minimal pre-start-up audit September 2018, paving the way for the ultimate recovery (PSUA) findings and no Lost Time Injury (LTI) incidents, with of 6 billion m³ of non-associated gas and production of around 7.5 million manhours worked and more than 4.3 approximately 3.9 million m³ of discounted incremental million kilometres driven without a road traffic accident. condensate from the Ghafeer fields. At the same time, Amal Steam Phase 1C came on stream The third phase of Mabrouk Deep also began operating in to cater for the needs of the Amal West and East steam December 2018. The facility is designed to handle 8 million developments. The scope comprised the expansion of the m³ of gas along with the associated condensate and water, steam generation capacity by an additional 6,000 tonnes per and has the capacity to handle 20 producers. day, expansion of the water treatment plant’s capacity by an Our in-house Front End Engineering Design (FEED) Office additional 6,850 m³/d and an enhancement of the production is making strides in its journey to become an Engineering station to handle 24,000 m³ of oil per day. Design Centre of Excellence. There was good progress on PDO’s two mega projects. The Some of its key achievements in 2018 were: Rabab Harweel integrated project (RHIP) represents the 20 largest reserve addition (more than 500 million barrels of oil major projects equivalent) and capital project in PDO history. It integrates completed sour miscible gas injection (MGI) in multiple oil reservoirs during the year with production and pressure maintenance of a government gas condensate field which also contributes to Oman’s overall gas demand. The PSUA of utility systems was completed, and the project is on track to come on stream by mid-2019. 87% utilisation all-time high As part of our efforts to increase Omanisation of highdemand positions in the oil and gas sector, graduates from the PDO-funded Omani 6G certified welder programme were assigned to RHIP onand off-plot contractors and at Registering Yibal Khuff (YK), which achieved a key milestone with the delivery of an export compressor to the construction site and remains on track to be brought on stream by 2021. 520,000 billable manhours The Ghafeer A2C project was brought on stream in SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 41 Skills continue to be Omanised and more than 200 engineers PSM competencies elements, rolling out trainings for specific are receiving accelerated training, coaching and development disciplines, enforcing AI-PSM assurance for engineering and in all engineering disciplines through the Graduate construction deliverables and improving incident investigation Development Programme. and learning from incidents. PDO’s continuing AI-PSM improvement journey has focused on engineering and project delivery and, in 2018, dedicated In the terms of Lean, the Project Delivery value stream teams have been working on asset integrity and process has identified more than 30 potential opportunities for safety in the delivery of engineering projects, addressing AIimprovement in 2019 and beyond. Enhanced Oil Recovery Further reducing Establishing and the average developing a charge rate to procurement department Estidama US$69 – a 2% reduction specifically to support PDO projects delivered in the FEED Office compared to 2017 Developing a number of IT systems to improve productivity and reduce manhour requirements 42 IN-COUNTRY VALUE In-Country Value 2018 Highlights • Created more than 17,000 employment-related opportunities in the oil and gas sector and beyond • Contracts worth US$3.7 billion awarded to nationally registered firms • Sponsored a technical support initiative programme for 300 entrepreneurs in co-operation with Riyada • Total Value of SLCC and LCC turnover: US$393 million • Total spend on SMEs: US$329 million – a 41.2% increase on 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 43 supporting the training of 450 young women to work in the PDO’s In-Country Value (ICV) strategy aims at clothing industry. supporting local community companies and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), increasing PDO celebrated the graduation of 2,457 young Omanis the procurement of local goods and services, and from its training for employment programmes including improving the capacity and capability of Omani 360 trainees to work in the aviation sector, 600 female people and companies in order to secure long-term kindergarten teachers. sustainable commercial benefits for the Sultanate. The graduates underwent training lasting up to 6-18 months at a variety of training institutes and will now take up work Jobs and Training employment with more than 150 different employers. PDO continued to support His Majesty’s Government call to A total of 150 more Omanis are undergoing training to work create jobs for young Omanis. In order to help boost Omani as key commissioning staff in the oil and gas sector. Upon employment and economic diversification, we delivered passing the course, the recruits will gain an internationally a record 17,027 job, training, re-deployment, transfer and recognised oil and gas Offshore Petroleum Industry Training scholarship opportunities with our contracting community, Organisation (OPITO) or Edexcel certificate, and take up fullexceeding our target. This included more than 9,000 direct time employment with Kentz (or other oil and gas companies hires and almost 3,600 students in training-for-employment in or outside Oman), which is a wholly owned subsidiary schemes, and brings the total of opportunities which have of SNC-Lavalin, one of the world’s leading engineering and been created since 2011 when the National Objectives construction groups. programme was launched to more than 55,000. These opportunities are aimed at young Omani jobseekers so Goods and Services they can take up skilled employment in a range of jobs such as PDO has stayed the course with its commitment to retain electricians, mechanics, pipe fitters, scaffolders, maintenance more of the wealth of the oil and gas industry in Oman and men, steel fixers, sheet metal workers, fabricators, lifting has managed to retain a value in country of 44% in 2018. operators, warehouse staff, cooks, receptionists, waiters, We awarded contracts worth US$3.7 billion to nationally kindergarten teachers, cabin crew and cashiers. We are also registered firms. These agreements included: 44 IN-COUNTRY VALUE • The provision of liner hanger equipment and scope including all development wells in the North region associated installation services except foam cementation in Fahud, Qarn Alam steam and The seven-year agreement was signed with Schlumberger some Qarn Alam fields. Oman & Co. to supply equipment and associated installation services through its facility in Nizwa, which will reduce both As part of our efforts to maximise ICV, all cementing services costs and delivery times. have been restricted to local companies. PDO has traditionally imported liner hanger equipment but • Supply of oil-based and water-based mud wanted to boost ICV by increasing the use of local products PDO struck a deal with Halliburton Worldwide LLC for the and services as well as by improving the capability of Omani supply of oil-based and water-based mud for the North for nationals and companies to manufacture and supply key a period of 10 years. The contract includes the construction items. The first made-in-Oman thermal hanger has already of mud plants in Qarn Alam on a plot of PDO land and been run successfully. all construction materials will be sourced locally. The plants will create about 50 Omani jobs and provide a number of • A DBOOM contract training and internship opportunities to young Omanis. A 10-year Design-Build-Operate-Own-Maintain (DBOOM) contract has been awarded to M/s Enerflex Middle East LLC Supporting Omani Businesses for the Sadad North Early Development Facility (EDF). PDO has played a critical role in the establishment of Omani factories, workshops and repair facilities offering in-country The leased facility will be designed for 24-hour manned operation, and a control room will be provided locally to engineering services, equipment and materials to the oil and facilitate the operation and control of the facility.The contract gas sector. aims to reach an Omanisation rate of 80% for the Operate PDO continues to lead 38 of the 53 opportunities outlined and Maintain phase, to be achieved within two years of the in the ICV Strategy Blueprint on behalf of the oil and gas on-stream date which is set for November 2019. sector, two of which were delivered in 2018. We have • A cementing services contract also stepped up our efforts to develop Omani skills and This was awarded to Abraj Energy Services to perform capabilities with the Omanisation of our entire hoist fleet for cementing services that include the provision of cement and the first time in our history, after signing 10-year deals with additive materials in addition to equipment. five local companies worth more than US$800 million. The agreements mean that PDO has now completed 24 of the The agreement addresses 27% of the pan-PDO cementing 53 ICV opportunities. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 45 The Gulf Starch Plant, Oman’s first and only manufacturer In addition, we have endeavoured to share our ICV experience of drilling starch, was opened in 2018. The US$13.5 million and are currently collaborating with different ministries to facility, which also has a quality-controlled on-site laboratory, share our best practices and assess the feasibility of replicating will provide the vital chemical for PDO’s drilling operations. our ICV model across Omani industries. These include the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, the Ministry of Tourism, It currently employs 20 Omani production technicians who graduated from our National Objectives programme. the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Health. A further 20 are also expected to join and the long term plan is to be eventually 100% Omanised. The fully automated Small and Medium Enterprises complex can manufacture 10,000 tonnes of starch a year and PDO increased its spend on small and medium enterprises has the potential to serve all operating and drilling companies (SMEs) in 2018 to US$329 million – a 41.2% increase on 2017. in Oman and the region. In support of the Government’s quest to encourage SMEs, Ahead of the fifth anniversary of the ICV Strategy Blueprint, PDO also supported the allocation of work opportunities for the country’s second artificial lift systems assembly and repair 16 SMEs in areas including HSE, ICV assurance and auditing, plant (by Baker Hughes GE) was opened in Nizwa.The facility the RAHDP, and waste management. will support PDO’s operations and other customers in the region, with the aim of optimising production and saving costs. In partnership with SparkLabs and Phaze Ventures, the New Business Development team incubated the first cohort of We also supported the establishment of a number of Omani entrepreneurs working in disruptive technologies at workshops which provide and deliver new services in the the Knowledge Oasis in Muscat. The programme offers startcountry including the repair of rotating equipment, valve ups funding, co-working space and mentorship to help grow automation and rigs and hoist maintenance. their businesses, and develop cutting-edge products and Another project where maximising ICV is a priority is the services for the energy sector. Ras Al Hamra development project (RAHDP) which has seen all contracts being awarded to local contractors and In addition, to further nurture entrepreneurial performance consultants, including SMEs for all minor services. Moreover, in the Sultanate, PDO launched the second wave of its Ta’zeez the majority of the raw materials used in the project are (Enhance) training to boost the capabilities of Omani SMEs in procured locally and continuous efforts are made to involve key business areas such as HSE, financial management, business more SMEs. In 2018, a contract for the construction of 212 ethics, PDO’s tendering process and vendor registration. In residential units as part of the third phase of the project was 2018, it focused on around 20 SMEs specialising in oil and gas awarded to Al Tasnim Enterprises LLC. engineering, an area where PDO is looking to localise more of its contracts. It also organised workshops for 44 SMEs The project, which will be completed by 2022, features in well services aimed at empowering and enhancing their stunning residential and leisure facilities for employees and capabilities in doing business with PDO and improving their their families. entrepreneurship skills. RAHDP In Numbers PDO sponsored a technical support initiative programme for 300 entrepreneurs in co-operation with Riyada (the Public Phase 1: Phase 2A & 2B: Authority for Small and Medium Enterprises Development). 272 new residential 197 units under The programme aims to enhance the competitiveness of existing businesses and the capabilities of entrepreneurs to develop their projects on a sustainable basis. units constructed construction Community Development Local Community Contractors (LCCs) Phase 2C: Phase 3: PDO continued to support LCCs in 2018, a year marking the 20th anniversary of our LCC initiative. This support is 80 units under 212 units to be provided through a ring-fenced scope in our main contracts, which is offered to them via an inter-bidding process. A total of 410 LCCs had registered in the Joint Supplier Registration construction constructed System (JSRS) up to the end of 2018, with 128 new LCCs registering last year alone. These LCCs are providing various services in oil and gas operations, such as civil engineering, equipment hiring, mechanical, electrical, manpower supply and logistics. There are also 14 LCCs which have direct contracts with PDO and are considered as matured LCCs. 46 IN-COUNTRY VALUE PDO conducted two LCC business awareness workshops in their business growth, PDO organised the annual SLCCs the concession area, focusing on different topics essential for Board Members Sustainability Workshop which shed light their business such as HSE, lifting awareness, the inter-bidding on corporate governance and investment opportunities in process, contract management and the benefits of registering different sectors including oil and gas, tourism, manufacturing, on the JSRS. mining and logistics. These opportunities were presented by officials from the National Programme for Enhancing Super Local Community Contractors (SLCCs) Economic Diversification (Tanfeedh) and other private and PDO has continued to support the development of Super governmental organisations. Local Community Contractors (SLCCs). These companies are registered as closed Omani shareholding companies, and Moreover, PDO organised an awareness workshop for are owned by more than 9,700 shareholders who reside in SLCCs shareholders in Nimr and Nizwa with the objective of our concession area. SLCCs provide a range of core oil and educating shareholders on their roles, responsibilities and rights gas activities, including hoist operations, well intervention, including how to elect suitable Board of Directors’ members. pipeline maintenance, drill water services and flowline New board members were then elected in March 2018 to replacement. support the growth of their respective SLCCs.. 2018 Full Year SLCCs/LCCs Spend (Revenues) Throughout 2018, SLCCs delivered shareholder benefits and generated employment and entrepreneurship opportunities The cumulative total contract value awarded for work to all for locals. All four SLCCs working under PDO – Al Baraka four SLCCs has exceeded US$1.1 billion. In 2018, the total Oilfield Services, Al Haditha Petroleum Services, Al Sahari Oil cumulative revenue from PDO contracts for SLCCs was Services and Al Shawamikh Oil Services – are progressing well more than US$131 million, the LCC spend (revenues) was around US$186 million and matured LCC spend was about with a strong focus on business growth, diversity and efficiency. US$176 million. The total SLCC/LCC turnover for the year With the aim of encouraging these companies to sustain was US$494 million a 25% increase on 2017. The following chart illustrates the SLCCs/LCCs revenue growth over the last five years: SLCCS/LCCS SPEND GROWTH 500 494 450 400 395 350 336 300 273 279 276 US$ (Mln) 250 235 234 200 165 177 150 131 116 96 102 100 70 50 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 SLCCs LCCs Total The following chart illustrates the SLCCs, Matured LCCs and LCCs revenues in 2018: 2017 FULL YEAR SPEND 500 494 450 400 350 300 US$ (Mln) 250 200 186 176 150 131 100 50 0 LCCs Matured LCCs SLCCs Total (US$) More than 4,400 Omanis are currently working with SLCCs and LCCs in different disciplines. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 47 Community Services As income from oil revenues has not been stabilised due To meet the essential needs of stakeholders in rural areas, to the prevailing low oil prices, PDO is still pursuing all PDO continues to deliver water to houses and camel possible opportunities to work efficiently and to identify and troughs (Izbas) of local communities. The Company delivers implement cost savings across all our activities. more than 400,000 m³ of water annually to more than 1,785 At the same time, there has been an onus on maximising beneficiaries in various locations. production and ensuring timely project delivery so as to accelerate monetisation of our investments whilst staying the It has also successfully trialled the use of solar energy to course on our ICV journey. With this in mind, our priorities in operate a community water well at Awifiya, Bahla (see 2018 remained on improving the sourcing cycle time to ensure Environmental Sustainability and New Technology chapter) faster contract awards, enhancing material management and with the intention of expanding the project to include other water wells in the future. Enhanced Oil Recovery vendor delivery performance, and working closer with our suppliers to identify and implement cost efficiencies. Road safety remains a top priority. As such, the Company grades Additionally, we embarked on a transformation journey to and re-sheets around 4,000 km of roads annually for safer become a valued business partner and deliver the most commuting for contractors and citizens within its concession area. competitive supply chain to PDO by 2020.The transformation On the education front, the team has built upon the existing journey has defined five key outcomes: Community Scholarship Programme to sponsor 165 general 1. Increasing the value delivered Estidama diploma graduates annually from the concession area to 2. Reducing sourcing cycle times continue their higher education. In addition, the team is 3. Improving business partnerships sponsoring 50 students annually for the Tawteen programme, 4. Improving the timely delivery of materials run in collaboration with the Ministry of Education and 5. Reducing inventories Ministry of Higher Education, so they can work as teachers in their own communities. The programme has identified several projects/initiatives and a roadmap to drive these key outcomes which have Contracting and Procurement been defined with measures and targets as strategic key PDO’s contracting and procurement vision is to become the performance indicators for contracting and procurement. partner of choice for delivering our business targets. Our 2019 programme build indicates an annual spend on oil and gas in excess of US$6 billion, of which more than 80% is through third parties. 48 PEOPLE AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT People and Staff Development 2018 Highlights • Highest number of women on staff • Signing of a landmark Terms of Reference (ToR) agreement with the PDO Trade Union • Expansion of the Maktabi (My Office) remote working pilot • Increase of maternity leave to 112 calendar days SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 49 Employee Engagement PDO’s people are the Company’s greatest asset. There was a record response to our annual People Survey, They are skilled and they are knowledgeable and with a participation rate of 81%, up from 75% in 2017. The the great majority of them are Omanis. It will be survey is an invaluable tool for gauging employee sentiment, the collective commitment, skills and expertise identifying areas for improvement and highlighting best of all PDO’s people that helps to sustain the practice. From the 6,572 surveys completed, there were development of the nation. improvements on the majority of areas covered where yearon-year comparisons could be made. There was an increase of favourable ratings in six out of the 11 survey dimensions At the end of 2018, PDO had 8,596 staff, of which 6,993 including Collaboration (81%), Diversity and Inclusion (81%) were Omanis. The Omanisation rate increased from 79% and Responsible Business (80%).The results for Organisational to 81%, and we are expecting this to reach 90% by 2020. Leadership, Reputation, and Speed of Decision Making were There were 1,032 women on staff, including 946 Omanis, the rated top quartile. highest number in our history. A total of 485 Omanis were hired in the year and the total number of Omani graduates PDO employees and contractors again participated in was 720. There were 1,537 Omani promotions with 310 their team’s face-to-face follow-up sessions in response to Omanis in senior positions. the People Survey. This allows the Company to hear and understand the stories behind the numbers and to initiate solutions and measures that yield positive change and effective improvements. PDO recognises an independent company trade union 8,596 affiliated to the Omani General Federation of Trade Unions staffs at the 6,993 in line with the Omani Labour Law. Arrangements with the end of 2018 Omani staffs PDO Trade Union extend to “consultative rights.” A landmark Terms of Reference (ToR) agreement was signed between 81% Omanisation 485 Omanis hired PDO and our Trade Union, documenting the rights and obligations of both, with the objective of fostering a positive and constructive relationship between the two parties in this year their mutual pursuance of a harmonious and constructive employee relations climate. 946 Omani women This recognition covers all directly operated PDO activities but does not extend to contractors and sub-contractors.The right to exercise freedom of association and the consultative 50 PEOPLE AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT arrangement with the PDO Trade Union are not considered to be at risk of either restriction or withdrawal. Diversity and Inclusion With a workforce We continued to raise the bar on diversity and inclusion (D&I) with new drawn from around 70 initiatives to tackle the three main pillars of fairness, gender balance and bullying. With a workforce drawn from around 70 countries, PDO is firmly committed countries, PDO is firmly to D&I and providing opportunity for all in a supportive working environment. committed to D&I and Each pillar is sponsored by a member of the Managing Director’s Committee providing opportunity (MDC), who also sits on the MDC Diversity and Inclusion sub-committee. for all in a supportive PDO defines a fair workplace as one where people are treated equally without bias, favouritism or discrimination, and where the people processes are meritworking environment. based and provide opportunities based on ability and skills. Progress on gender diversity and work-life Around 1,500 staff attended the 67 sessions of the new mandatory D&I balance is another important area. We have awareness course that was first introduced in 2017 to boost understanding of provided mentoring, training and facilities to D&I concepts and of how to handle issues professionally. This was in addition to department-specific D&I engagement sessions that teams continue to arrange. enable women to be based in the Interior in operational roles, providing them with a More staff in both Coastal and Interior locations volunteered for D&I advisory greater opportunity to develop their skills and roles to guide those who need direction on how to handle issues, and HR realise their full potential. Business Partners fully participate in all people-related processes, including ranking and progression, to ensure fair opportunities for all. We have scrapped gender-specific recruitment requirements for all jobs. In A dedicated full-time Diversity and Inclusion Officer raises awareness around the past, PDO’s field positions were open the issue and investigate complaints and a confidential reporting hotline has to men only but the decision was taken by established for staff to report concerns. A total of 79 issues relating to D&I were the Gender Balance team to increase female logged, 91% of which were closed by the end of the year.. representation across PDO and specifically Communications continue to play an important part in building understanding in the directorates with the lowest gender around D&I. This has included producing videos, enhancing the Company balance: Operations and Well Engineering. website and intranet pages as well as staff magazine and newsletter articles. Currently, women comprise 12% of staff in D&I branding is prominently displayed around the offices in our headquarters PDO overall, but the aspiration is to make building in Muscat to raise the D&I profile across the organisation. that one in five people by 2022. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 51 Training Remote Working The scope of the remote working Maktabi pilot (My Office), was More than 1,620 staff have enrolled in our Graduate expanded and now covers more than 250 staff.The scheme was Development Programme (GDP), which was launched in launched in 2017 to help assess how best to execute a major 2013 to provide structured, on-the-job training, monitoring change in our work arrangements and offer employees the and assessment for Omanis who join the Company after flexibility to either work from home and/or a hub located in Seeb. graduating from universities or colleges with Bachelor degrees or above. It now covers more than 50 technical and It now includes more participants from all functions at the non-technical disciplines, such as mechanical engineering, coastal area and there is a plan to increase the hub capacity production operations, petrophysics, geosciences real estate to cater for a growing number of participants. commercial services and finance in business. Last year, the second batch of 275 employees successfully exited the GDP. The pilot measures the effect of remote working on employee performance and productivity, development, work-life PDO currently has 161 scholars and development staff balance, hub utilisation and cost saving and effectiveness. Initial studying at different degree levels in the UK, Australia, results have been largely positive with slight improvements in Canada, USA, Germany, Oman and the Netherlands, and 93 the areas of work-life balance and productivity. celebrated their graduation last year – the 30th sponsored batch to successfully qualify from courses in a range of We will continue to closely monitor these measures to disciplines since we launched our flagship Scholarship Scheme ascertain the success of the pilot and to explore innovative in the 1980s. approaches to support greater flexibility in work locations and opportunities and part-time working patterns to The successful scholars studied subjects including exploration underpin the Company’s D&I strategy and employee welfare. geophysics, oil and gas pipeline engineering, petroleum engineering, project management, information technology Pay and Conditions and translation. PDO’s workforce is predominantly comprised of Omani nationals, with direct hire expatriates and secondees from In 2018, PDO continued supporting its staff development Shell. The benefits provided to these groups reflect the by offering six undergraduate scholarships in chemical policies and terms of employment guided by the Omani engineering and electrical engineering. The Distance Learning Labour Law and the established standards in the national and Scheme annually supports 40 PDO staff to complete their expatriate employment market. Benefits provided to Shell BScs and MScs, allowing staff to continue their academic secondees are largely aligned to Shell international mobility development while continuing their current work duties. policies, with direct hire expatriate packages including benefits Currently, we have 141 active staff on this scheme. and allowances typical of expatriate contracts, such as home travel and educational support for children. The PDO Learning and Development Centre continued to maximise in-house delivery of courses as part of the cost PDO applies a basic 3% minimum annual pay increase subject efficiency strategy. We delivered more than 464 technical, to “good performance” for all nationals, in line with the Omani non-technical, HSE and process safety courses, covering Labour Law. Whilst not required by law to non-nationals, PDO 45,471 mandays. implements this standard across the board. All increases above the threshold are linked to performance and the employee’s As part of our efforts to extend training beyond our salary relative to the maximum limit on their salary scale. All borders, we delivered 152 learning events with a focus on full-time Omani employees are eligible for the PDO Pension process safety to 953 candidates from both PDO and local Fund that provides a defined benefit, the final salary pension. operators, contractors at our state-of-the-art Wells Learning This is not available to national locals employed on temporary Centre, which is accredited by the International Well Control contracts or non-national staff. A minimum notice period of a Forum (IWCF). This has resulted in overall savings of more month is given for operational changes. than US$1 million. Parental Leave We enhanced our Maternity Leave and Benefits policy in October 2018 in line with our D&I strategy and our desire to be the employer of choice for females in the country. The Maktabi (My Office) pilot maternity leave was increased from 70 to 112 calendar days. The Company also extended the provision of one nursing hour per working day granted to mothers with children up project for remote to six months old until the child reaches the age of one year. working now covers more than 250 staff A total of 111 female employees embarked on maternity leave in 2018, 44 of whom benefited from the policy update. 52 GENERAL WELFARE General Welfare 2018 Highlights • Delivered a record road safety performance • More than 750 million km driven without a work-related motor vehicle fatality • Committed to 36 new social investment projects totaling US$15.5 million • Completed work on five majlises and a fish market SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 53 Road Safety The welfare of people and the natural environment PDO is committed to improving road safety both within our are enshrined in PDO’s Business Principles own boundaries and beyond. – the document at the top of its Corporate Management Framework. The Company will Our dedicated Journey Management Control Centre never be satisfied with the way it carries out its (JMCC) is helping to manage road exposure to an even ambitious plans unless it does so in a way that greater degree in the future, along with greater compliance, respect’s people’s health and safety, that benefits consequence management and coaching across both our neighbouring communities and that maintains the staff and contractor vehicle fleet. environmental richness of the country. The JMCC, which was established in 2016, to track vehicles Safety remains PDO’s overarching priority with an unrelenting and driver behaviour on the road, has led to a 97% drop focus on Goal Zero – no harm to people, environment and assets. in the average number of violations per vehicle per month (such as speeding nor not wearing seat belts) to less than 1 PDO concluded 2018 with a record safety performance. and is now monitoring more than 8,250 vehicles in the PDO The Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) per million manhours and contractor fleet across 224 contracts. worked dropped from 0.20 to 0.15, a 25% fall, while the Total Recordable Case Frequency (TRCF) per million manhours The centre’s functionalities have been expanded to include worked also fell from 0.72 to 0.71. Unfortunately, the e-journey management for PDO with a view to including performance was marred by two work-related fatal incidents contractors soon. We are also in the process of expanding involving contractors. these functionalities further to include fatigue management by piloting in-cab cameras, as well as mandating contractors The annual exposure was 214.8 million manhours worked and to introduce online monitoring and daily violation reporting. 314.4 million kilometres driven. There was a slight reduction in the Severe Motor Vehicle Incident Rate of 14% (0.07 to PDO launched a commuter bus scheme in the summer of 0.06) compared to 2017. In the process, PDO also celebrated 2013 to reduce the rate of road accidents by cutting the the achievement of driving more than 750 million kilometres number of staff and contractors using private vehicles to get without a work-related motor vehicle fatal incident. to and from work. 54 GENERAL WELFARE The service has expanded steadily and now covers 28 2018 SOCIAL INVESTMENT SPEND hubs and 65 villages. Since it started, it has carried 436,110 passengers, including 152,556 PDO staff, and an average of 4.60% 10,539 passengers a month now use it. According to the latest study, 80% of PDO staff are using one of the commuting modes provided by the Company. 54.50% 20.50% PDO’s nationwide “Tell A Friend” campaign, which was launched in 2013, continued to spread a culture of road safety targeting areas such as responsible driving, speed management, vehicle maintenance, proper seat belt usage 20.40% and driving whilst fatigued. The “Tell A Friend” roadshow, featuring exhibitions, lessons, competitions and plays, visited locations in Saham, Salalah and Sur and a four-day event was organised in Nizwa. It also Learning & Research held the inaugural road safety student conference in Salalah Community Infrastructure Development offering a course on road safety and a workshop on critical Health, Safety & Environment thinking and problem solving. Youth, Women Empowerment & Civil Society Support An analysis of the social return on investment for the campaign revealed that: Learning and Research In an endeavour to improve access to education for rural populations and support learning for girls, PDO pledged to expand 12 schools in the concession area by adding wings for female students and building five classrooms in Al Khairan School in Muscat to replace the existing damaged caravans. generated Every OMR 1 OMR 3 In addition to constructing a new school in Dhahboon, we inaugurated the Oman Innovation Hall in Sinaw, invested in 2017 now equipped with state-of-the-art equipment. We also in social change completed renovation of three school science laboratories to raise the interest of students and the public in the fields of Social Investment robotics, nanotechnology, 3D printing and virtual reality, and As a responsible corporate citizen, give them hands-on experience in STEM [science, technology, PDO is committed to delivering engineering and maths] subjects. meaningful social investment Community Infrastructure programmes that create sustainable benefits for Omani society in line Work on five public majlises in Thumrait and with the United Nations’ Sustainable Izki – offering safe spaces for gathering for local Development Goals (SDGs). community celebrations – was completed in 2018. We further pledged to build five more Our focus throughout the year was on four social investment majlises in Shaleem and Samayel and a camel themes: learning and research, community infrastructure racetrack in Haima. development, health, safety and environment (HSE), and youth and female empowerment (the latter supporting The Company also committed to building infrastructure grassroots organisations in local initiatives). to access safe potable water and food supplies with the renovation of a falaj in Samael, the construction of the Food We committed to 36 new social investment projects, and Water Control Laboratory in Haima to cater to Al totalling around US$15.5 million1, which will have tangible Wusta Governorate, and the maintenance and expansion of impacts on the quality of life of thousands of people living a falaj in Izki. in our concession area and beyond, including infrastructure development, training, and the provision of technology and The year also saw the completion of public parks in Manah equipment. A further US$1.2 million was distributed in and Samayel, and a multi-purpose hall and a fish market in sponsorships, grants and donations to support impactful Ibri to provide a safe and hygienic environment for the sale initiatives from local organisations. of perishable seafood products in remote areas. 1 This year, the total amount invested includes contributions from capital expenditure (Capex) and operational expenditure (Opex), whereas last year, the total reported amount included the Opex contribution only. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 55 Youth and Female Empowerment 300 teachers and nurses to deliver the training and the As part of our efforts to empower youth, distribution of medical kits to schools. women and the larger civil society by Road safety was also enhanced with the installation of the supporting grassroots organisations in local highest number of solar reflective lights ever on a road, initiatives, PDO renewed its commitment to achieving an official Guinness World Record. The 43,550 its Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) “cat’s eye” units were fitted on a 650 kilometre stretch of Development Programme for the third time highway in the south of our concession area. In an effort to with funding and knowledge-sharing provided reduce child road fatalities and support the Government’s to 10 new NGOs for a period of two years. mandatory child seat law, PDO teamed up with Shell and the In collaboration with the Omani Women’s Association in Oman Liquefied Natural Gas Foundation to launch a joint Salalah, our flagship social enterprise Banat Oman introduced road safety campaign targeting children and parents on the new training for 25 women in bakhour and perfume making need for proper child seating in vehicles. to generate a new stream of income. In an initiative to boost both the rural economy and animal We further committed to train 30 jobseekers in Bahla to welfare, PDO financed the provision of nine mobile veterinary equip them with the necessary skills to enter the job market clinics for rural areas within our concession. as part of an employability skills programme. Contractor Welfare HSE Accommodation Facilities PDO pledged to fund the construction a PDO has continued to improve the standards of its 21-bed in-patient ward for the Neurology permanent accommodation camps (PACs) and temporary Department at Khoula Hospital. It also supplied accommodation camps (TACs) in the Interior through a range of medical equipment to local hospitals internal specifications and inspections. including CT scan equipment for Masirah Hospital to help with the accuracy of diagnosis and speed of treatment; 51 These inspections are done annually by trained occupational physiotherapy beds for the treatment of elderly and disabled health specialists who visit the camps and verify that our people in 50 clinics; and an ambulance for Al Mashas Health stringent stipulations are effectively implemented. In 2018, Centre in Maqshan to improve emergency response times. PDO adopted the OPAL Camp Standard, further improving In addition, the Company funded a walking trail with outdoor the accommodation standards and benchmarks. exercise equipment in Dhank’s public park to promote a healthy lifestyle. Accommodation camps consist of sleeping, kitchen, ablution and recreational facilities. Compliance levels have improved The first aid training programme for school students, school significantly since the initial inspections were done in 2014 nurses and teachers to become certified first aiders, which when only 23% of TACs were found compliant with the was launched in 2017, was kicked off with the selection of formal public health requirements. PAC/TAC DEC 2018 160 151 147 140 124 120 110 107 107 100 92 No. of Camps 83 91 79 82 80 70 71 60 40 23 26 17 20 11 13 12 8 10 7 8 3 3 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Years <40% 40-69% 70%+ Compliance No. of Inspections 56 Enhanced Oil Recovery GENERAL WELFARE ergies Estidama Consultancy The graph below indicates the number of inspections and improvements that have occurred since then. The project team is also exploring collaboration opportunities with the Shell Welfare team in the area of data analytics to establish productivity/performance indicators from the Prism am A total of 110 inspections were carried out in 2018 and 91% data. of the accommodation facilities were compliant by Q4 in 2018. All deviations are immediately reported and corrective Disaster Relief actions are closely monitored. Penalties are imposed if actions PDO donated RO 5 million to ease the suffering of those are not carried out. affected by the Cyclone Mekunu storms that hit southern This has impacted positively on the wellbeing of employees Oman and support recovery efforts. A separate staff appeal and contractors in the Interior, with improvements noted raised a further RO 166,000 for the cause. in food quality, laundry, accommodation, ablution and More than 1,400 employees contributed from their salaries recreational facilities. to help repair houses damaged in the storms with the money Prism being divided between the southern wilayats in Dhofar and residents’ property that has been damaged in the concession Project Prism, a industry-first three-year initiative to improve area. contractor welfare standards for those working in the Interior by embedding a duty of care mindset across the wider Additionally, a further RO 50,000 was donated to help victims PDO contractor community, was successfully completed in of the devastating floods in Kerala, India which displaced 2018. A total of 90,000 interviews involving personnel from more than a million people. 200 Interior-based contractors and sub-contractors were conducted, with more than 600 coaching sessions delivered Medical Care to drive worker welfare improvements. PDO’s Medical Centre in Mina Al Fahal, along with eight The next phase of Prism will continue in 2019 with the aim Interior clinics, has established its commitment to delivering of improving PDO’s processes on worker welfare and making high quality, integrated health care to PDO employees, their them the best in class before launching the standards to the dependents and PDO pensioners. rest of the oil and gas industry. It provides patients with state-of-the-art facilities as well as SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 57 a comprehensive range of services to address the needs management in chronic diseases. of every patient. It also ensures support for secondary and tertiary care levels, mostly through external providers. The We arranged a number of external training sessions covering team includes 15 doctors and 44 well-trained nurses. various medical topics and attracting hundreds of medical professionals from different specialties. We also presented Provision includes an occupational health department, a highour experience at the 7th GCC Conference and Exhibition tech multi-disciplinary lab, a pharmacy, specialist clinics, and on Wellbeing and Occupational Health held in Oman last vaccination, dietician and ante-natal services. There is also a year. medical emergency response with a fleet of 15 ambulances The Medical department has continued to support Ministry which not only serve PDO but also the community at of Health blood donation campaigns in its efforts to maintain large. A wellness services and exercise facility for both men a good stock of blood reserves. In 2018, more than 1,200 and women is run under medical management. The total staff participated in these events maintaining PDO’s ranking number of patient visits to PDO clinics in 2018 was 73,355. as the largest corporate blood donor in Oman. The Medical department also referred over 17,000 visits to private medical care facilities. Child Labour, Forced Working and We are also working on the centralisation of medical facilities Indigenous Rights in the Interior with a new central medical complex in Fahud. As a responsible employer, PDO does not employ staff The facility, which is expected to be operational in 2020, below the age of 18 and, to the best of our knowledge, will serve as a reference clinic providing better health and neither do our contractors. We also do not force or make medical emergency services to PDO staff and contractors. compulsory any employment relationships within our organisation. In all cases, PDO applies, and enforces on its Health promotion and education remain an integral part contractors, the complete application of the Omani Labour of the department’s medical responsibilities. PDO’s medics Law. There has not been any registered case against PDO or were involved in a wide range of training and awareness any of its contractors related to child labour or the exposure programmes and activities which attracted hundreds of of young workers to hazardous work, neither through the staff and contractors. Support in 2018 included advice and Labour Inspection Department of the Ministry of Manpower, sessions on stress management, the importance of physical nor from our Corporate Occupational Health department, activity, Ramadhan health tips, first aid and CPR, dietary which conducts frequent visits to the sites of the Company’s 58 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY AND NEW TECHNOLOGY Environmental Sustainability and New Technology 2018 Highlights • Contract agreed for world-first solar power site • Significant improvement in power generation efficiency • Over 75 new technologies matured • Greater collaboration between academia and business through Ejaad SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 59 In 2018, PDO awarded the contract to the Japanese-Omani While oil and gas will continue to be fundamental Marubeni consortium to build and operate the country’s first to our energy mix, we are developing innovative solar photovoltaic (PV) independent power producer (IPP) renewable solutions to create new growth at Amin field. It will also be the world’s first utility-scale solar opportunities for the Company as well as for the project to have an oil and gas company as the sole wholesale nation. This gradual transition to a fully fledged buyer of electricity. energy company also means leveraging new technology and greater collaboration as well as The desert facility will consist of more than 335,000 solar PV improving our overall energy efficiency and water panels, producing enough energy to power 15,000 homes, management. and span an area equivalent to 480 football pitches. The project will be structured as an IPP under the terms of the power purchase agreement for a period of 23 years from the Renewable Energy scheduled commercial operation date, which is planned for The transition to renewables will help address growing May 2020. The consortium will build, own and operate the climate change realities, free up huge quantities of natural gas facility and then transfer it back to PDO. that can be used for Omani industry or for export and to establish the Sultanate as a hub of “green” energy expertise, The plant is expected to introduce an equivalent fuel saving creating new jobs and localised supply chains. of 70.5 million cubic metres of gas annually, resulting in a total saving of US$17 million a year through the use of solar power We have conducted detailed studies which have identified as an alternative to natural gas. It will also reduce overall great business potential in three areas: carbon dioxide emissions by around 137,121 tonnes annually, the equivalent of taking 23,000 large cars off the road. The • Electricity to replace gas-fired power plants project includes the design, procurement, construction, • Power-to-x to supply areas that have so far been covered commissioning, financing, operation and maintenance of by burning of gas or liquids such as steam, heat or hydrogen the solar photovoltaic plant with a 100MW capacity and generation associated infrastructure. • Industrial growth that focuses on attracting new demand based on low cost energy. With partners GlassPoint Solar, we also launched the new 60 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY AND NEW TECHNOLOGY SolaRISE technology centre near the giant Miraah project in Ministry of Oil and Gas Car Park Amal which it is building and operating to generate solar steam PDO is managing a similar installation for solar parking at the for use in thermal enhanced oil recovery as an alternative to Ministry of Oil and Gas to further showcase the ministry’s burning gas. The first 100 MWt of Miraah came on stream in commitment to renewable energy and energy efficiency 2017 and the installation is meeting all performance targets. initiatives. The project consists of converting around 500 car SolaRISE (standing for Solar Research, Innovation and parking lots to generate power and involves a number of Sustainability in Energy) is a joint initiative formed to Omani SMEs specialising in renewable energy. develop and test next-generation solar technologies in an oilfield environment. The centre will focus on continuous cost reduction, including new concepts and designs to reduce material costs, ease oilfield integration and automate operations. It will also pilot and evaluate solutions for using solar energy for other industrial processes in Oman and around the world. Other solar ventures include: Mina Al Fahal Car Park PDO has embarked on the second phase of the Mina Al Fahal solar project to cover a wider area and increase renewable energy penetration in the grid. A further 12,500 solar PV modules are being fitted and, once completed, the car park will have a total capacity of 10.3 MWp (megawatt installed peak) and be one of the largest in the world. The generated power will be fed into the local grid, meeting most of PDO’s power demand at the Coast. Awifiya Water Well The second phase is being directly managed by PDO through PDO installed a solar system to power a water well serving a its established contractors and it is expected that up to half rural community of 200 people. The work on the 10 kilowatt of the project’s total contract value for goods and services (kW) scheme was carried out by an Omani company Nafath will be retained in country. Renewable Energy LLC in Awifiya, Bahla. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 61 A total of 42 PV panels were installed and the system has Additionally, an Energy Efficiency Surveillance Tool has been been connected to the grid, meaning the green electricity can deployed in six assets after a successful trial in Marmul and be fed into the network or the well can draw on additional Lekhwair. The tool indicates any inefficient use of power or power if required. fuel gas, which helps operators to take corrective action. PDO has also started energy assessments at Fahud Station, The project marked another step on our renewable energy one of the high-energy consumers, to identify improvement journey to extend the concept of eco-friendly power into opportunities. the community. PDO is now considering whether to expand the scheme to power a reverse osmosis plant. Water Ras Al Hamra PDO currently produces close to 910,000 m³/d of water which is set to exceed 1,000,000 m³/d from this year onwards. PDO also installed a 10 kW capacity for 10 villas in Ras Al Around 55% of this is used for pressure maintenance and Hamra to showcase the residential contribution that can be some 300,000 m³/d of the excess is disposed of into deep made to renewable energy. formations known as deep well disposal (DWD). PDO continues to seek alternative methodologies for the cleaning Energy Efficiency and reuse, or disposal of, produced water in a manner that Improving energy efficiency is a key focus of PDO’s Gas consumes less energy and with minimum impact on the Conservation Strategy. environment. In addition to flare reduction (see Environmental and Safety Enhanced Oil Recovery The award-winning Nimr Reed Beds, operated by Bauer rgies Performance chapter) a number of initiatives have been Nimr on behalf of PDO, are currently treating approximately implemented, including the use of energy-efficient power 115,000 m³/d of produced water at a fraction of the cost and generation turbines, the deployment of electric submersible energy intensity of gas-hungry conventional DWD. In total, pumps to replace gas lift technology and power station waste by the end of November 2018, the Reed Beds had processed heat (co-generation). approximately 258 million m³ of produced water and Power generation efficiency has improved significantly. In recovered around 2.1 million barrels of oil since operations 2010, 320m³ of gas was required to generate 1 MWh, but began in October 2010. This pioneering enterprise has also led to a greening of 10.5 km² of desert and a projected saving Estidama this has been reduced to 301m³/MWh, with the further aim of cutting it to 275m³/MWh by 2021, once all the planned of more than 64.5 gigawatts of energy which is equivalent to combined cycle gas turbine units are commissioned. saving 680 million m³ of gas over 10 years a 98% reduction in energy requirements. Energy benchmarking of all PDO facilities has now been completed to improve understanding of their performance As part of PDO’s effort to further reduce the energyintensive DWD operation, an additional volume of 60,000 and identify gaps in terms of power and fuel gas consumption. 320m³ 301m³ of gas was required to generate 1 MWh. of gas was required to generate 275m³ 1 MWh. Consultancy 2010 2017 2021 m 62 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY AND NEW TECHNOLOGY FAHUD ENERGY CONSUMPTION GAP TO POTENTIAL 2.50 2.00 3rd quartile 1.50 2nd quartile 1.00 1st 0.50 quartile 0.00 Fahud Energy Efﬁciency Index Gap to Potential Power Gap to Potential Fuel Gas Gap to Potential Industry Benchmark (PDO 1st quartile) m³/d of produced water is planned to be exported to the that resulted in a 4,500 m³/d increase in WTP production scheme with its expansion in 2019.This will save an additional capacity by without any capital investment 15 MW of energy which is equivalent to saving 40 million m³/ • The WM team carried out another optimisation study year of gas. The wetland plant will contribute to a reduction for 31 potable water reverse osmosis (RO) plants across of more than 200,000 tonnes of CO2 per annum as a result PDO assets with the aim of increasing the permeate of the removal of DWD pumps. recovery and reduce disposal load. This effort culminated As part of PDO’s commitment to ensuring that all of our in converting 7,000 m³/d of RO reject water into permeate water management efforts are in accordance with Omani water and reducing additional aquifer abstraction by 14,000 laws and regulations, we continue to seek alternative m³/d without incurring a capital cost or deteriorating water strategies to reduce, reuse and relocate produced water. quality • At the Qarn Alam Steam (QAS) WTP, the WM team There were a number of key milestones on PDO’s water successfully demonstrated the beneficial use of low management sustainability journey in 2018: pressure steam condensate (that was being disposed of), • The Water Management (WM) team carried out an as an additional source for boiler feed water (BFW). This optimisation study for Amal Water Treatment Plant (WTP) resulted in an additional 4,000 m³/d of BFW for the asset. • Water Injection • DWD • SWD Before • Developing detailed 2009 Reed bed (NWTP) strategies for water managment • SWD=0 • Reject water reuse 2010 • Reject reuse Project • 2 RO plants optimised in SR with FO to save aquifer water technology Fahud Salt Project 2014 • Reed beds expansion • Save Fars Water and awarded / Dio-saline • Reduction of PW from reuse PW in Agriculture subsurface by applying Lekhwair R&D activities started technologies & best • Successful R&D for for re-use PW. practices PW re-use to make 2015 bricks 2016 2017 2018 • 3 RO plants optimised to save aquifers water • Joined Oman Strategic Research Committee • Reuse of PW in drilling, construction and dust control SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 63 The above green initiatives resulted in a substantial capital expenditure saving, a and last year we officially opened up reduction of 12,000 m³/d of disposal volume and savings of 23,000 m³/d in aquifer our Gas Network Operations Centre water abstraction. (at Saih Rawl which has centralised the Company’s gas operations remotely to The three-year biosaline agriculture trial at Nimr (which commenced with more efficient communication channels contractor Bauer in 2015) is coming to its final phase with a number of crops and enhance efficiency. All other identified as having promise for possible commercial application, and the possibility operations will be rolled into a new of producing biomass and oil seeds. Integrated Operations Centre which will be built at Mina Al Fahal. There is ongoing collaboration work with Sultan Qaboos University to use local soil and low-salinity treated produced water to manufacture compressed stabilised In 2018, PDO appointed a Chief soil blocks to reduce building costs. The study is also coming to an end and bricks Information and Digitalisation Officer, have been used to build a small room to test the strength and thermal conductivity becoming the first government of the walls. PDO and SQU are collaborating in identifying further work and majority-owned entity in the Sultanate deployment for this opportunity. to have a coherent data strategy. Each directorate also now has an analytics New Technology focal point who is responsible to track PDO continues to innovate and invest in technologies to address the challenges ideas that unlock value from data and from complex reservoirs, ageing facilities, the need to optimise production and articulate them at the corporate level. minimise cost and the imperative of enhancing personal and process safety. In 2018, over 75 new technologies were matured by the New Technology team with a trial success rate of over 94%. Progressing technologies from the pilot phase to full implementation is now taking place seamlessly with the introduction of an interim deployment strategy which has helped realise over US$12 million to date. Over 75 new With the advent of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, we are increasingly leveraging technologies were digital systems, automation, artificial intelligence and data analytics. matured by the New Analytical tools and systems have a vast range of surface subsurface applications, helping to identify anomalies in the functioning of artificial lift pumps, enabling Technology team predictive maintenance of equipment, generating automatic interpretations of with a trial success seismic volumes and offering real-time optimisation of drilling parameters. rate of over 94%. PDO collects over 1.2 billion pieces of data per day from its wells and various assets and that number is set to grow. Our systems enable us to spend less time in More than 220 digital projects are identifying operational or tactical issues and more on fixing problems. ongoing across the organisation, with The deployment of in-house designed automated technology (known as BLADE) over 20 of them regarded as key futureacross 80 wells at Amal East has seen the development of algorithms which centric technologies such as machine automatically control the variable speed drives on beam pump wells.This has added learning, software robotic automation 1,250 barrels a day, freed up production technologists, reduced breakdowns by and predictive analytics. 31%, lowered operational expenditure and eliminated HSE exposure. The system can be replicated to over many beam pump wells across PDO. We continue to work beyond our boundaries to share knowledge and Other systems include Nibras which employs an exception-based surveillance learn from best practice. Through our approach programmed to automatically flag out-of-sync data variables from the New Technology team, we are also millions of data values it collates every two minutes. Another is Al Fikr, a webleading the way for integrated industry– based system which significantly improves the management of projects, decreasing academia research and development project duration time.This automated system liberates the equivalent of up to four projects. The first four agreements, all full-time staff a year to take on additional work. for PDO work, were awarded through the online Ejaad platform, which has However, far from being an engineering-only tool, numerical techniques to interpret helped foster collaboration, transfer the flood of data are being used in many functions all the way up to management knowledge and build a new R&D to support business decisions. ecosystem in Oman. We are also using drone, smart mobility and video collaboration technologies to PDO also continues to collaborate boost field staff productivity (with a 25% time saving). These systems also increase assurance compliance, real-time monitoring and data quality while reducing HSE with international bodies such as the exposure. Our Smart Worker Mobile solution gathered momentum in 2018, with European Union, United Nations, more than 300 staff using HSE-approved mobile or tablet devices to increase International Energy Agency, World efficiency in the field. Bank, International Energy Renewable Agency and others to leverage their The new tools ushered in by the age of the digital oilfield have facilitated collaboration, expertise. 64 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE Environmental and Safety Performance 2018 Highlights • Substantial fall in oil spills • Significant improvement in waste management • Launch of campaign to curb single-use plastic • Adoption of global HSE management system ISO-45001 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 65 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions PDO is constantly striving to protect Oman’s Due to the increase in gas flaring and emissions from environment and prevent pollution. In 2018, we combustion sources in 2018 and a change in the calculation improved environmental performance across methodology, PDO’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions many aspects, including oil spills and waste increased by 25%, reaching 0.20 tonnes (CO2 equivalent) management and broke new ground in the field per tonne of production compared to 0.16 tonnes of CO2 of renewable energy. The achievements are equivalent in 2017. summarised below. GHG emissions remained a focus area in 2018 and a detailed Spills GHG roadmap was developed to support PDO’s corporate In continuance of our efforts to improve integrity and reduce Energy Management Strategy which addresses GHG the number of spills, PDO completed the replacement of reduction by the implementation of three main approaches more than 3,300 kilometres of flowlines and pipelines in reduce, replace and renew. 2018. Many on-plot lines were also replaced and the work • The “reduce” element focuses on flaring and the will continue. consumption of power and fuel gas by improving the There was a significant decrease of 85.6% in the quantity of efficiency of the facility, identifying improvement projects oil lost per million tonnes of production, from 3.46 tonnes through the energy assessments and use of an Energy in 2017 to 0.46 tonnes in 2018. The number of oil spills per Efficiency Surveillance Tool (EEST) million tonnes of oil production also showed a 58.6% fall • The “replace” element aims at replacing non-efficient down to 0.65 in 2018 compared with 1.57 in 2017. No major equipment such as the replacement of old open-cycle oil spills were recorded in 2018 which helped in achieving power generation plants to more efficient closed-cycle this milestone. ones and using light emitting diode (LED) bulbs instead of conventional lights OIL SPILLS PERFORMANCE POTENTIAL • And the “renew” element continuously looks into possible renewable energy sources such as solar (see Environmental 35.0 7.0 Sustainability and New Technology chapter). Energy such as 30.0 6.0 solar lights, the “Miraah” solar steam project, the Mina Al 25.0 5.0 Fahal solar car park and the recently announced Amin 100 MW solar IPP project. Quantity Numbers 20.0 4.0 15.0 3.0 Gas Flaring 10.0 2.0 PDO is a signatory of the World Bank initiative to end routine 5.0 1.0 flaring by 2030, and we are working hard to meet the target well before the deadline. 0.0 0.0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Quantity of Oil spilled > 1 Barrel (0.16m3) per Million ton of Production [t/Mt Production] We focus on both routine and non-routine flaring (the latter # of Oil Spills > 1 Barrel (0.16m3) per Million ton of Production [#/Mt Production] comprises more than 70% of the overall total) to ensure the GREENHOUSE GAS INTENSITY RATIO (TONNE OF CO2 EQUIVALENT/TONNE OF HC) Greenhouse gas intensity ratio (Tonne of CO2 equivalent / Tonne of HC) 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.25 0.26 0.25 0.23 0.1 0.20 0.14 0.16 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 66 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE achievement of flare reduction in line with our aspiration. As a result, on an annual basis, all PDO assets identify flare reduction projects to reduce flaring. Last year, PDO developed and implemented a detailed gas flaring roadmap to address flaring challenges within the organisation. This roadmap focuses on reduction of nonroutine flaring, implementation of flaring reduction projects and deployment of technological solutions. A number of activities have been accomplished as part of its implementation. These include the establishment of Enhanced Problem Solving teams to study “big hit” flaring events using causal learning methodology, a rotating equipment reliability improvement initiative, proactive technical monitoring and preventive maintenance optimisation studies on “bad actor” equipment. We are currently engaging with third party contractors to propose and implement gas-to-power new technology solutions to reduce or mitigate some or all of the flares. In PDO, all non-routine flaring activities are now managed by a Flaring ALARP (as low as reasonably practicable) and Waiver Tool to evaluate each flaring scenario on an economic and environmental basis. The successful trial of micro-turbine technology at Anzauz to convert gas into electricity to power facilities could pave the way for the recovery of some 500,000 cubic metres of flare gas a day if fully deployed across Block 6. Additionally, we are working on a flare monetisation project for all PDO routine flares. In terms of non-routine flare reduction, and as part of operational excellence, the Company has added flare elements in the EEST for eight operational facilities, ensuring appropriate and timely operator action in the case of excessive flaring. In 2018, PDO flared 17.91 tonnes of gas for every 1,000 tonnes of hydrocarbon produced. This 22% increase on 2017 was mainly due to equipment failures in some fields. FLARING PERFORMANCE 2018 1.40 Flaring Intensity (tonne per 1000 tonne HC production) 30.00 1.20 25.00 Flared Gas, million tonnes 1.00 20.00 0.80 15.00 0.60 10.00 0.40 5.00 0.20 0.00 0.00 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Flaring (upstream) (million tonne flared) Flaring intensity (tonne/1000 tonne of HC) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 67 Before Waste to the waste yard. In total, 21,603 m³ (136,000 barrels) of We have made a determined effort to reduce our crude oil (excluding Nimr) was recovered from oily sludge. environmental footprint while boosting In-Country Value. With respect to the reuse and recycling of hazardous waste, Our local contractor Tradebe began its work in 2016 to deal around 65,200 tonnes have been recycled by Omani SMEs, such as Arab Lead, which recycles lead batteries. with five main waste streams: naturally occurring radioactive material (NORM); contaminated soil; oil-based mud (OBM) Collaboration continued with a number of external parties cuttings; oily sludge and chemical waste. to further improve waste management in PDO including: The firm, which has Omanised all field-operating and semi• A waste-to-energy feasibility study in co-ordination with skilled jobs, has made great progress. For example, it has Oman Environmental Services Holding Company, Be’ah exceeded its target for decontaminating NORM, so far • The signing of a Memorandum of Understanding with the managing to treat more than 50,000 tubular items, such as United Nations Environment Programme to co-operate pipes, and around 4,500 well accessories. on environmental issues • A waste disposal workshop on NORM in co-ordination There was a significant improvement in waste management with the Ministry of Environment and Climate Affairs in comparison to 2017. In terms of non-hazardous waste, (MECA), the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Be’ah and other oil around 1,600 tonnes were recycled this year, including wood, and gas operators plastic, metal and cartons. • A research project with Sultan Qaboos University on The handling of hazardous waste was also substantially waste reuse opportunities. expanded. For instance, average monthly OBM cuttings treatment increased 136% to 4,341 m³ from 1,837 m³ in 2017 Environmental Projects In 2018 and the volume of treated hydrocarbon-contaminated soil As part of our five-year Environmental Strategy and Action increased 204% from 51,721 m³ in 2017 to 157,315 m³ in 2018. Plan developed in 2015 (a key enabler to achieve the overall corporate objectives of sustainable growth, operational Furthermore, the successful effort to reduce the overall excellence and meeting sustainability commitments) a volume of oily sludge through better oil/water separation at number of key projects were launched or accomplished last source resulted in an overall oily sludge reduction delivered year. 68 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE Single-Use Plastic Campaign PDO joined the global initiative to eliminate the consumption of single-use plastic as part of our environmental campaign,“Estidama” which aims to: • Promote sustainable thinking about natural resources • Increase environmental awareness at all levels • Encourage waste reduction at source. A taskforce was established and MECA and the Environment Society of Oman were engaged to identify relevant best practice and options. Plastic Type* Plastic Plastic Plastic Single use Cutlery Cups (PS) Bottles (PET) Bags (LDPE) (HDPE) Recommended option Eliminate Recycle Reduce/Reuse Eliminate to manage plastic waste at PDO Main reasons for the Non-reusable due to PDO stopped ordering Reusable bags are The use of selection health impacts and it is and bottles brought in encouraged reusable cutlery is economically feasible from outside will be recommended to be recycled recycled *PS= Polystyrene, PET= Polyethylene Terephthalate, LDPE= Low-Density Polyethylene, HDPE= High-Density Polyethylene To ensure an effective and sustainable transition, the team agreed on the following: • Provide reusable water bottles to PDO staff • Introduce water-filling stations across Interior camps • Establish PET water bottle recycling plants in co-ordination with an Omani SME • Conduct single-use plastic awareness sessions across PDO. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 69 Flaring Waiver and ALARP Evaluation of the flaring scenarios on an Demonstration Tool economic and environmental basis To help combat operational flaring, PDO has developed an electronic system which Environmental enables management to make Cost of CO2 due to ﬂaring Cost of Deferment informed, value-led decisions on of Oil whether it is economically and/ or environmentally preferable to flare during non-routine events, Cost of Gas lost due to such as when plant operating ﬂaring conditions are upset or if equipment (e.g. compressors) are temporarily unavailable. The Flaring Waiver and ALARP Demonstration Tool evaluates each flaring scenario on a caseCost of Total cost of Cost of by-case basis to help determine Flaring Decision to Flare Avoiding Flaring when flaring should be reduced. HSE In Contracts critical staff positions, a focus on coaching and mentoring for HSE remains an integral part of the day-to-day business and such roles, and a formal assessment programme to support PDO continues to promote it through the distinct and simple the individuals. requirements of different contract phases. We recently adopted the global HSE management system ISO-45001 and Environmental Requirements Guide have further simplified our HSE documentation to assist the In line with our strategy of simplifying and streamlining contracting community. procedures, PDO, in co-operation with MECA, has developed a guide on environmental compliance conditions To embed and sustain this HSE front line discipline in the future, for our projects and facilities. The booklet contains clear, PDO began a more exacting HSE competence framework facility-specific, one-page requirements enabling operators for critical positions, such as Contract Holders, in 2018. This and contractors to fully understand and comply with the includes a review of the roles and responsibilities for HSEenvironmental rules, regulations and laws for each installation. 70 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE ENVIRONMENTAL DATA-PDO 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016* 2017 2018** Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Direct total GHGs (million tonnes CO2 equivalent) 7.7 8.4 8.8 8.6 9.7 10.6 13.0 GHG intensity ratio (tonne of CO2 equivalent /tonne of hydrocarbon) 0.23 0.25 0.26 0.25 0.14 0.16 0.20 Flaring Flaring (upstream) (million tonnes flared) 0.80 0.84 0.84 0.72 0.88 0.95 1.15 Flaring intensity (tonne/1,000 tonne of hydrocarbon) 22.50 25.10 25.10 20.85 12.86 14.62 17.91 Energy Intensity Upstream (gigajoules per tonne production) 1.99 2.22 2.47 2.27 1.46 1.77 1.92 Acid Gas and VOC Emissions per Unit of HC Production Sulphur oxides (Sox) (tonnes per thousand tonnes) 2.70 2.97 3.07 2.39 1.03 1.58 1.92 Nitrogen oxides (Nox) (tonnes per thousand tonnes) 0.63 0.63 0.64 0.60 0.31 0.34 0.96 Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) (tonnes per thousand tonnes) 0.39 0.42 0.42 0.40 0.21 0.22 0.37 Spills and Discharges # of oil spills > 1 barrel (0.16m³) per million tonnes of production [No/Mt production] .. 2.22 6.04 2.53 1.97 1.57 0.65 Quantity of oil spilled >1 barrel (0.16m³) per million tonnes of production [t/Mt production] .. 6.11 15.82 9.54 32.00 3.46 0.46 Oil in effluents to surface environment (OIW to sea) thousand tonnes 0.003 0.017 0.007 0.009 0.010 0.008 0.022 Water Water consumed from desalination units (million cubic metres) 5.10 5.30 6.55 7.37 6.88 7.03 7.06 Produced water (1,000 m³/day) 619.80 665.30 714.99 769.62 803.97 855.52 908.95 Produced water used for injection activities (1,000 m³/day) 313.28 301.62 323.21 359.06 412.84 449.50 484.21 Produced water used for disposal activities (1,000 m³/day) 306.47 307.69 348.96 334.33 348.81 336.96 329.22 Waste Generation Hazardous (thousand tonnes) 142.4 184.7 230.4 209.7 225.9 222.00 383.69 Non-hazardous (thousand tonnes) 29.0 25.0 27.5 34.6 41.5 62.15 76.47 Total waste (thousand tonnes) 171.4 209.7 257.9 244.3 267.4 284.15 460.15 *From 2016, data includes gas asset performance, while earlier years only presented data from oil assets. ** In 2018, one of the reasons for an increase in GHG emissions was a change in the calculation methodology of fugitive emissions. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 71 SAFETY DATA-PDO 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Fatalities Total number 2 2 4 2 3 1 2 Employees 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Contractors 2 2 4 2 3 1 2 Fatal accident rate (fatalities per 100 million working hours, both employees and contractors) 1.25 1.17 2.17 1.08 1.56 0.44 0.93 Injuries Total recordable case frequency (TRCF) Enhanced Oil Recovery (All injuries per million working hours, both employees and contractors) 1.17 0.98 0.97 0.98 0.98 0.72 0.71 Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) (Lost time Injuries per million working hours, both employees and contractors) 0.29 0.26 0.32 0.28 0.22 0.20 0.15 Motor Vehicle Incidents (MVIs) Serious MVI Frequency (LTI, MTC, RWC and roll-over MVI incidents per million km driven) 0.16 0.15 0.16 0.11 0.12 0.07 0.06 Estidama Process Safety Tier-1 incidents 11 13 22 11 8 13 3 Exposure Million manhours worked 160 170.5 184.0 184.9 196.3 224.9 215.8 Million kilometres driven 252 251.1 262.2 278.2 300.5 314.1 314.4 Illnesses Total Recordable Occupational Illness Frequency (TROIF) (Illnesses per million working hours, employee only) 1.7 0.17 0.07 0.13 0.13 0.06 0.57 Consulta 72 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE CONTENT INDEX Global Reporting Initiative Content Index The report is ‘In Accordance’ with the GRI Standards – Core Option. General Standard Definition UNGC Principle Page External Assurance Disclosures Strategy and Analysis 4, 12 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Statement of Key impacts, risk and opportunities continuing support 102-15 22, 23 Organisational Profile No specific COP 102-1 Organisation’s name 6 Ministry of Oil and Gas requirement 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services “ 6-8 Ministry of Oil and Gas 102-3 Location of the organisation’s HQ “ About This Report Ministry of Oil and Gas 102-4 Countries of major operation “ 6-8 Ministry of Oil and Gas Ministry of Oil and Gas, 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form “ 6-8 Ministry of Finance Ministry of Oil and Gas, 102-6 Markets served “ 29 Ministry of Finance Ministry of Finance, Ministry 102-7 Scale of organisation “ 6-8 of Oil and Gas 102-8 Total number of employees “ 9 Ministry of Manpower Percentage of total employees covered 102-41 “ 51 Ministry of Manpower by collective bargaining agreements 102-9 Organisation’s supply chain “ Significant changes during the reporting 102-10 “ 4, 12-17 period Implementation of the precautionary Ministry of Environment 102-11 Principle 7 53, 55, 65 approach and Climate Affairs Endorsement of external economic, About This Report, 11, ISO 14001:2004 102-12 environmental and social charters and Principles 1-10 65 ISO 55001:2014 initiatives Memberships in national/ international No specific COP 102-13 13 associations requirement Identified Material Aspects And Boundaries Entries included in the organisation’s State Audit Institution, 102-45 6-8 consolidated financial statements Ministry of Finance Process for defining the report content No specific COP 102-46 18-19, 22-23, 81 and the aspect boundaries requirement Material aspects identified in the process 102-47 “ 22-23 for defining report content 103-1 Aspect boundary within the organisation “ 23 103-2 Aspect boundary within the organisation “ 23 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 73 General Standard Definition UNGC Principle Page External Assurance Disclosures Effect and reasons of any restatements of 102-48 “ 10-11 information provided in previous reports Significant changes from previous There are no specific 102-49 reporting periods in the scope and aspect “ changes boundaries Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 Organisation’s stakeholder groups “ 18-19, 22 Identification and selection of 102-42 “ 18-19, 22 stakeholders Approach to stakeholder engagement, 102-43 18-19, 22 and organisational response Key topics/concerns raised through 102-44 stakeholder engagement, and 22 organisational response Report Profile 102-50 Reporting period Sphere of influence About This Report 102-51 Date of most recent previous report “ About This Report 102-52 Reporting cycle “ About This Report Contact point for questions regarding the 102-53 “ About This Report report Chosen “in accordance” option including 102-54 reference to the GRI content index and “ About This Report, 72 102-55 the external assurance report Organisation’s policy and practice with 102-56 “ About This Report regard to seeking external assurance Governance 102-18 Organisation’s governance structure Principle 10 8 Ethics and Integrity Organisation’s codes of conduct and 102-16 Principle 10 8-11 codes of ethics Disclosures on Management Approach 103-1 Generic Disclosures on Management ISO 14001:2004 103-2 Principle 7 6-11, 18-23 Approach ISO 55001:2014 103-3 Indicators by Aspects CATEGORY: ECONOMIC Economic Performance Direct economic value generated and No specific COP 201-1 43-47 Ministry of Finance distributed requirement 74 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE CONTENT INDEX General Standard Definition UNGC Principle Page External Assurance Disclosures Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the 201-2 Principle 7 59-63, 65-69 Ministry of Finance organisation’s activities due to climate change Coverage of the organisation’s No specific COP 201-3 51 Ministry of Finance defined benefit plan obligations requirement Financial assistance received from the No specific COP 201-4 11 Ministry of Finance government requirement Market Presence Proportion of senior management No specific COP 202-2 hired from local community at 8, 49 Ministry of Manpower requirement significant locations of operation Indirect Economic Impacts Development of impact of No specific COP Ministry of Social 203-1 infrastructure investments and 17, 20, 43-44, 54 requirement Development services supported No specific COP Ministry of Social 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 54-55 requirement Development Procurement Practices Ministry of Oil and Gas, Proportion of spending on local No specific COP 204-1 43-47 Ministry of Manpower, suppliers requirement Ministry of Finance CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Ministry of Environment 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Principles 7,8,9 60-61, 65, 70 and Climate Affairs Energy Energy consumption within the 302-1 Principles 8,9 59, 65, 70 organisation 302-3 Energy intensity Principles 8,9 59, 65, 70 Ministry of Environment 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Principles 8,9 14-15, 59-62, 65-66 and Climate Affairs Water Ministry of Environment 303-1 Total water withdrawal by source Principles 8, 9 61, 70 and Climate Affairs Water sources significantly affected 303-2 Principles 7, 8,9 61, 70 by withdrawal of water Percentage and total volume of water 303-3 Principles 7, 8, 9 recycled and reused SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 75 General Standard Definition UNGC Principle Page External Assurance Disclosures Biodiversity Ministry of Environment 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Principles 7, 8, 9 20, 61, 63 and Climate Affairs Emissions Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) Ministry of Environment 305-1 Principles 7, 8, 9 65, 70 emissions (Scope 1) and Climate Affairs Energy indirect GHG emissions 305-2 Principles 7, 8, 9 65, 70 (Scope 2) Other indirect GHG emissions 305-3 Principles 7, 8, 9 65, 70 (Scope 3) 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Principles 7, 8, 9 65, 70 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Principles 7, 8, 9 65, 70 Emissions of ozone-depleting 305-6 Principles 7, 8, 9 70 substances (ODS) NOx, SOx and other significant area 305-7 Principles 7, 8, 9 70 emissions Effluents and waste Total water discharge by quality and 306-1 Principles 7, 8, 9 70 destination Total number and volume of 306-3 Principles 7, 8, 9 65, 70 significant spills Products and Services Percentage of products sold and No specific COP 301-3 their packaging materials that are Not applicable requirement reclaimed by category Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary 307-1 Principles 7, 8, 9 Not applicable sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Supplier Environmental Assessment Percentage of new suppliers that 308-1 were screened using environmental Principles 7, 8, 9 47 criteria Environmental Grievance Mechanism Number of grievances about environmental impacts, addressed Ministry of Environment 103-2 Principles 7, 8, 9 20 and resolved through formal and Climate Affairs grievance mechanisms 76 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE CONTENT INDEX General Standard Definition UNGC Principle Page External Assurance Disclosures CATEGORY: SOCIAL LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Total number of and rates of new employee hires and employee No specific COP 401-1 49 Ministry of Manpower turnover by age group, gender and requirement region Benefits provided to full-time Ministry of Manpower, employees that are not provided to 401-2 ” 51 Ministry of Finance, temporary or part-time employees, Ministry of Oil and Gas by significant locations of operation Return to work and retention rates 401-3 “ 51 after parental leave, by gender Labour/Management Relations Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including 402-1 “ 51 Ministry of Manpower whether these are specified in collective agreements Occupational Health and Safety Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 403-2 “ 13, 71 absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities HSE topics covered in formal 403-3 “ 49 agreements with trade unions Training and Education Average hours of training per year 404-1 per employee by gender, and by “ 51 employee category Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the 404-2 continued employability of employees “ 51 and assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 404-3 “ 51 development reviews, by gender and employee category Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to No specific COP 405-1 5, 49 gender, age group, minority group requirement membership and other diversity indicators SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 77 General Standard Definition UNGC Principle Page External Assurance Disclosures Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Ratio of basic salary and 405-2 remuneration of women to men by Principle 6 51 employee category Supplier Social Assessment Percentage of new suppliers that 414-1 were screened using labour practices Principles 3,4,5,6 47 criteria Labour Practices Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about labour practices filed, addressed, and 103-2 3,4,5,6 None reported resolved through formal grievance mechanisms HUMAN RIGHTS Total hours of employee training on human rights policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights No specific COP 412-2 50 that are relevant to operations, requirement including percentage of employees trained Non-Discrimination Total number of incidents of 406-1 discrimination and corrective actions Principle 6 50 taken Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective 407-1 Principles 3,4,5,6 56 bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Child Labour Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents Royal Oman Police, 408-1 of child labour, and measures taken to Principles 3,4,5,6 57 Ministry of Manpower contribute to the effective abolition of child labour Forced or Compulsory Labour Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, Royal Oman Police, 409-1 Principles 3,4,5,6 57 and measures to contribute to the Ministry of Manpower elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour Security Practices Not available will Percentage of security personnel endeavour to include trained in the organisation’s human in future reporting 410-1 Principles 3,4, 5,6 rights policies or procedures that are cycles as the next relevant to operations phase of Project Prism (p. 56) progresses 78 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE CONTENT INDEX General Standard Definition UNGC Principle Page External Assurance Disclosures Indigenous Rights Total number of incidents of Not applicable. 411-1 violations involving rights of Principles 1-2 There were no such Royal Oman Police indigenous peoples and actions taken incidents Human Rights Assessment Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject 412-1 Principles 1-2 56 to human rights reviews or impact assessments Supplier Social Assessment Not available. Will endeavour to include Percentage of new suppliers that in future reporting 414-1 were screened using human rights Principles 1,2 cycles as the next criteria phase of Project Prism (p. 56) progresses Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances filed, Not applicable. 103-2 addressed and resolved through Principles 1,2 There were no such formal grievance mechanisms instances SOCIETY Local Communities Percentage of operations implemented with local community 413-1 Principle 1 20 engagement, impact assessments and development programmes Operations with significant actual and Not applicable. 413-2 potential negative impacts on local Principle 1 There were no such communities instances Anti-Corruption Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related 205-1 Principle 10 10,11 to corruption and significant risks identified Communication and training on anti205-2 Principle 10 10 corruption policies and procedures Confirmed incidents of corruption 205-3 Principle 10 10,11 State Audit Institution and actions taken Public Policy Not applicable. Total value of political contributions No specific COP 415-1 PDO does not make by country and recipient/beneficiary requirement political donations SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 79 General Standard Definition UNGC Principle Page External Assurance Disclosures Anti-Competitive Behaviour Not applicable. Total number of legal actions for PDO is not engaged anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, 206-1 Principle 10 in anti-competitive and monopoly practices and their behaviour, anti-trust or outcomes monopoly practices Compliance Monetary value of significant fines Not applicable. and total number of non-monetary 419-1 Principle 10 There were no such State Audit Institution sanctions for non-compliance with instances laws and regulations Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Percentage of new suppliers that No specific COP All PDO suppliers are 414-1 were screened using criteria for requirement screened for HSE impacts on society Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society Number of grievances about Not applicable. impacts on society filed, address and 103-2 Principles 1-10 There were no such resolved through formal grievance instances mechanisms PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Customer Health and Safety Type of product and service Not available. Will information required by the No specific COP endeavour to have PDO is subject to 417-1 organisation’s procedures for product requirement this information by Omani law and service information and labelling next reporting cycle Marketing Communications Not applicable. PDO No specific COP PDO is subject to 102-2 Sale of banned or disputed products does not sell banned requirement Omani law or disputed products Not applicable. There were no Total number of incidents of such incidents of non-compliance with regulations non-compliance 417-3 “ and voluntary codes concerning with regulations and marketing communications voluntary codes concerning marketing communications Customer Privacy Not applicable. There Total number of substantiated were no substantiated complaints regarding breaches of complaints regarding PDO is subject to 418-1 “ customer privacy and losses of breaches of customer Omani law customer data privacy and losses of customer data 80 General Standard Definition UNGC Principle Page External Assurance Disclosures Compliance Monetary value of significant fines Not applicable. for non-compliance with laws and PDO is subject to 419-1 “ There were no such regulations concerning the provision Omani law instances and use of products and services CATEGORY: ECONOMIC Reserves Volume and type of estimated OG1 Principles 7, 8, 9 12, 25, 29 Ministry of Oil and Gas proved reserves and production Energy Total amount of renewable energy OG3 Principles 7, 8, 9 59 generated by source Ecosystem Services Including Biodiversity All significant Number and percentage of operating sites have PDO fully co-operates significant operating sites in which been subjected with the Ministry of OG4 Principles 7, 8, 9 biodiversity risk has been assessed to rigorous Environment and Climate and monitored environmental impact Affairs assessments Effluents and Waste Volume and disposal of formation or OG5 Principles 7, 8, 9 61, 70 ISO 14001: 2004 produced water Volume of flared and vented OG6 Principles 7, 8, 9 65, 70 ISO 14001: 2004 hydrocarbon Amount of drilling waste (drill mud OG7 and cuttings) and strategies for Principles 7,8,9 67, 70 ISO 14001: 2004 treatment and disposal Indigenous Rights Operations where indigenous communities are present or affected OG9 Principle 1 20 Royal Oman Police by activities and where specific engagement strategies are in place Local Communities Number and description of significant Not applicable. OG10 disputes with local communities and Principle 1 There were no such indigenous peoples instances SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 81 General Standard Definition UNGC Principle Page External Assurance Disclosures Involuntary Resettlement Operations where involuntary resettlement took place, the number Not applicable. OG12 of households resettled in each and Principle 7 There were no such how their livelihoods were affected in instances the process Asset Integrity and Process Safety Number of process safety events, by Ministry of Environment OG13 Principle 7 33, 70 business activity and Climate Affairs PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Fossil Fuel Substitutes Not applicable. PDO Volume of biofuels produced and does not produce OG14 purchased meeting sustainability Principle 7 biofuels for use in its ISO 14001-2004 criteria operations or for third parties HSE impact Infrastructure development Economic performance Very High Sustainable business model Operational performance Corporate governance Community commitment Customer satisfaction Level of concern to stakeholders Business ethics In-Country Value Supply chain Employee satisfaction Supply chain management High Media Diversity and Inclusion R and D Medium Low Low Medium High Very High Current potential impact on our business Visual representation of prioritisation of aspects (G4-18) 82 AWARDS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN 2018 Awards and Certifications in 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 83 Award Organiser Award Category Award Title Shell Upstream International Impact Safety Leadership and the Pit-Less Drilling System Awards Environment Category Shell Upstream International Impact Effective People Category PDO Insourcing Project Awards Shell Upstream International Impact Safety Leadership and the Ras Al Hamra Development Project Awards Environment Category HSE Training Centre Shell Upstream International Impact Competitive Portfolio Category Contract Optimisation Reviews Awards Shell Upstream International Impact Effective People Category Diversity and Inclusion Mission in Awards PDO Shell Upstream International Impact Fit for the Future Category Seismic Acquisition: Ultra High Awards Productivity and PreSDM Delivery Oman Society for Petroleum Services Best Practice in Health, Safety and 6 MWp Solar Power Car Park Project (OPAL) Awards Environment Category Oman Society for Petroleum Services Best Practice in the Small Business Banat Oman Programme (OPAL) Awards Development Category Oman Society for Petroleum Services Best Practice in Health, Safety and Ihtimam Behaviour-based Safety (OPAL) Awards Environment Category (BBS) System Al Roya Economic Awards Best Private Sector Project Award Miraah Solar Steam Project Oil and Gas Review’s Excellence in Best Sustainable Energy Project Miraah Solar Steam Project Energy Awards Award Gas and LNG Middle East Summit Gas Executive of the Year Award Raoul Restucci Awards Oil and Gas Review’s Excellence in Energy Person of the Year Award Amran Al Marhubi Energy Awards Alam al-Iktisaad Wal A’mal (AIWA) Inspiring Leadership in In-Country Abdul Amir Al Ajmi Awards Value (ICV) Award American Association of Petroleum Women in Geoscience Award Intisaar Al Kindy Geologists (AAPG)
