Vodafone Turkey 2019 Sustainability Report İçindekiler İçindekiler 03 Message from CEO 22 Women’s Empowerment 44 Our Employees Vodafone Against Domestic Violence Equal Opportunity and Diversity 04 About the Report Easy Rescue Digital Employee Experience 05 Vodafone Turkey Equalmeter Talent and Performance Management Vodafone in Figures First 6 Years Employee Engagement and Volunteering Vision, Mission, Values Women First in Entrepreneurship 53 Responsible Business and Value Chain Our Financial Performance and Economic Impact 28 Energy Innovation Supply Chain Sustainable Business Strategy Climate Change and Energy Management Occupational Health and Safety Waste Management Human Rights 16 Digitalisation Our Contribution to Circular Economy Corporate Governance Vodafone Vitrin Data Security OKSIJEN 39 Youth Skills and Jobs Mobile Devices, Masts and Public Health ITU Vodafone Future Lab Coding Tomorrow FreeZone Studio #BuMamaBenden A Tweet to Feed 65 Vodafone Turkey Foundation My Vodafone App Future Jobs Finder: What Will You Be? Mobile Financial Services 67 Appendices Learn Technology From the Expert Digital Score Application Women’s Internship Programs in V-Life Technology and Sales Other Practices Dreams Academy E-Sports Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Message from CEO contribute to Sustainable Development Goals and carry out purpose-led operations. We continue to develop products, services and projects for Women’s We consider Vodafone’s role in the Empowerment, one of our areas of focus. We touched the lives of 54,000 women economy and society from a broad until today with the Women First in Entrepreneurship project that we launched perspective. The most important building block of our redefined to support female entrepreneurship. We issued Procedure on Fighting against worldwide business culture is to be a Domestic Violence to create awareness regarding violence in the family and to purpose-led company. Our goal is to support our employees. Training young people to ensure they have the digital connect people for a better future. skills required by this age is crucial for sustainable development. We continue Using our core business, we aim to programs such as Discover focused on the Youth Skills and Jobs. The Coding create a digital society that supports Tomorrow project, launched to introduce coding to children, completed its second socioeconomic development, embraces everyone, and cares about the future of year and reached 43,000 children. We invest in Energy Innovation to fight against our planet. From this perspective, we made a promise to the whole world: We will climate change and improve waste management. We reduced our energy density improve the lives of 1 billion people and halve our environmental impact from our by 64% within the last two years by improving the energy efficiency in our base operations by 2025. We believe that a sustainable environment is critical to society stations with the use of latest technologies. In Adana Cloud Technology Centre, 3 and future generations. Accordingly, we made sustainability an essential part we implemented the largest solar energy plant in Turkey to directly energize of our business. The products and services that we develop focus on improving a data centre. the quality of life, making life easier and fully integrating with the age of digital economy. We are pleased to present our Sustainability Report covering all such efforts carried out in line with our main principles of transparency and accountability. As This year, we developed Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Narrative to guide our Vodafone Turkey, we will continue our projects and investments for a sustainable sustainability efforts and to optimize the use of our potential to create value for future. I thank all our stakeholders that contribute to these goals. the stakeholders in our industry. We established a Sustainability Committee in charge of spreading this narrative that is fully aligned with our material issues to all divisions of our company, executing the sustainability strategy and carrying out Colman Deegan respective projects. This Committee and its Work Groups will enable us to both CEO , Vodafone Turkey Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 102-45 About the Report In Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2019, we share our economic, corporate governance, environmental and social performance during the fiscal year between 1 April 2018 and 31 March 2019. We measure our progress within the framework of our strategy, developed in line with the Vodafone Group goals. This report has been prepared according to the core option of GRI Standards published by Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and is structured according to the material issues determined in line with our sustainable business strategy. While the report is a Communication on Progress for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) that we have signed, it also includes our 4 contributions to Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) and United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). You can contact surdurulebilirlik@vodafone.com for your questions and remarks about the report. 1 Vodafone Turkey refers to the total of Vodafone Telekomünikasyon A.Ş., Vodafone Dağıtım Hizmetleri A.Ş., Vodafone Teknoloji Hizmetleri A.Ş. (OXYGEN), Vodafone Net İletişim Hizmetleri A.Ş., Vodafone Holding A.Ş., Türkiye Vodafone Vakfı, Vodafone Bilgi ve Iletişim Hizmetleri A.Ş., Vodafone Elektronik Para ve Ödeme Hizmetleri A.Ş. and Vodafone Mobile Operations Limited. Vodafone Mobile Operations Limited (Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus) is only included in the Report while disclosing financial performance. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Vodafone Turkey Vision Leading the digital transformation in Turkey. Mission To be a more agile and faster company which is also lean and ready for the digital future in regard to our employees and customers. Vodafone in Figures Values We provide fast, high-quality, simple and reliable services to enhance our 23.7 Million 27% increase 3 885,000 customers’ lives and to support them in enjoying diverse opportunities and Mobile Customers Fixed Broadband Customers realize their potential. TRY 1.5 Billion TRY 10.5 Billion As an international company with local roots, we are within the body of Vodafone Investment Group, one of the largest telecommunication companies across the globe. We 5 Organic Service Revenue are a customer-oriented, innovative and competitive company. With our vision TRY 4 Million2 3,137 to lead the digital transformation of Turkey, we support the individuals and Social Investment Employees institutions to prepare for the digital codes of the future. Our strategy is based on deepening the customer experience, offering the best gigabit networks, scaling 1,040 540 our platforms, thinking “digital first”, radically simplifying, and adopting agile Stores Vodafone Turkey Volunteers ways of working. TRY 15.3 Million 4.077.422,49 TL 2 17% increase 4 3 compared to the previous year 4.5G Customers 4 compared to the previous year Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t BEETECH 2018 Technology Awards MediaCat Felis Awards “Intellectual and Industrial Property 9 Felis Awards in 6 branches and 14 Rights” Award in “Large Scale Achievement Awards in 8 categories Company” category with OKSIJEN with important projects including Equalmeter Aw a r d s Kristal Elma Awards 2018 Spotlight Awards Global 6 Crystal, 3 Silver, 7 Bronze and 1 Communications Competition Press Award for products and services Gold Award in including the Vodafone Pet Tracker “Sustainability Report” category 6 The Mobile Marketing Association Stevie International (MMA) Smarties Awards Business Awards 13 awards for products and 1 Gold Stevie and 3 Silver Stevie applications including the Vodafone Awards for our efforts including IoT Smart Watch the Sustainability Report and the “Life Stages” study of our Human Resources department Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t We are among the Our Financial Performance and Our Contribution to Public Policies biggest foreign direct Economic Impact Public policies in the telecommunication industry investors in Turkey. We We are among the biggest foreign direct investors in should be developed in line with the technological continued to offer our Turkey. We also continue our strong growth with the developments and to enable healthy competition. We services to millions with impact of our “We are the Digital, We are the Future” assume responsibility for this objective, and follow the program aiming to become a more agile, faster, simpler respective regulations both in the world and Turkey closely. an investment of TRY 1.5 digital company. We exchange information with regulatory bodies, public billion and to support institutions, non-governmental organisations and the Turkey’s economic Our goal is the end-to-end digitalisation of Turkey. Within public to contribute to the welfare of consumers. development. the scope of this goal, we offered our services to millions with an investment of TRY 1.5 billion in the fiscal year To this end, we endeavour to; of 2018/19. We continued to support the economic Identify the best policies based on international examples development in Turkey with the taxes paid through the by reviewing the existing regulations, 7 customers that benefit from our services (VAT, special Increase the global competitiveness of Turkey by communication tax etc.). encouraging the development of policies that contribute to its digital transformation, The organic service revenues reached TRY 10.5 billion Raise awareness regarding the social and economic with an increase of 14% compared to the previous financial benefits of digitalisation, year. Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Enable the information and telecommunication industry Amortisation (EBITDA) reached TRY 3.3 billion with an 18% to have an impact on every fields of the economy and to increase. The Operational Free Cash Flow was recorded as improve efficiency and effectiveness by facilitating the TRY 1.9 billion within this period. digitalisation of the economy, Implement competition policies effectively and oriented to the purpose, Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Overcome the legislative obstacles through mutual As Vodafone Turkey, we plan our call centre investments In the city of Van, we have solutions in order to offer products and services benefiting in a way that it contributes to economic and social invested approximately social welfare and development, development, and we try to generate employment TRY 61 million in 5 years, Take steps for the legislation amendments required to opportunities to the youth. We employ almost 5,000 providing employment facilitate the new generation technology to meet the people at our call centres founded all around in Turkey, opportunities to 505 customers, such as Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir, Samsun, Konya, Şanlıurfa, people in 13 stores. Encourage investment, R&D and innovation in fixed and Afyon, Malatya, Elazığ and Adana with an investment mobile broadband infrastructure, network and services, amount totalling up to almost TRY 900 million. Use limited resources, particularly with frequencies, effectively and efficiently. We opened our 11th call centre in Van in 2018. Almost 380 young individuals are working at the centre launched with Our Contribution to Local Employment world-class technologies and a total investment close to We contribute to the economy while creating benefits for TRY 10 million, and 64% of the workforce is composed of society with our products and services. Local job creation is women. Our centre has the capacity to respond to monthly 8 an important part of our economic impact. 2,25 million, annually 27 million minutes of calls, and responds to 9% of the call received by Vodafone Turkey At Vodafone Turkey, we directly employ 3,137 employees Customer Services. We aim to help the young population and support local economic development through our of the region achieve their career and future goals with operations in different regions of Turkey. Considering this call centre investment. Furthermore, we opened 16 the indirect employment generated through suppliers, kindergartens in Van with the First Step to Future project store and outsourced employees, we offer employment in cooperation with Ministry of National Education and opportunities to more than 40,000 people in total. Mother Child Education Foundation (AÇEV), enabling 1,930 children in Van to receive pre-school education until today. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Sustainable Business Strategy Sustainability Management As Vodafone Turkey, we lead digital Within the scope of our sustainability strategy, we designed transformation, and impact the lives of Our purpose is to connect everybody to a regular management structure within the company individuals and organisations directly and live a better today and build a better tomorrow in order to encourage different divisions to embrace indirectly. We are preparing society to a this subject. We established an organisational structure better future. We focus on areas in which including a Sustainability Committee and Working Groups Transformation Areas we can most effectively use the value to ensure a systematic sustainability management. creation potential of our industry. The Directly reporting to the CEO and composed of potentially Sustainable Business Strategy developed Women’s Energy Youth Skills three working groups, the Sustainability Committee Empowerment Innovation and Jobs by the Vodafone Group guides our takes decisions within the framework of our sustainability sustainability efforts. We determined our strategy, monitors the progress in targeted areas, and sustainability road maps in the fields of develops large scale projects that are in line with the goals Digital Society, Inclusion for All and Planet of Vodafone Group and Turkey. considering our material issues defined 9 Our Transparency Areas following comprehensive stakeholder CEO analysis last year. Our objective is to Tax and Total Supply Chain pioneer sustainable transformation in the Economic Integrity Coordinator: industry. And for this goal, we localized Contribution and Safety Corporate Relations Sustainability Committee Manager the sustainable business strategy of President: External Affairs Director Vodafone Group considering the needs, Mobiles, Digital Rights local requirements and stakeholder Masts and Health and Freedoms expectations in Turkey, and created Working Groups Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Narrative. Principles and Practice Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 102-42 102-43 102-44 102-47 102-49 Importance to Stakeholders Stakeholder Analysis + External Trend Analysis Vodafone Turkey Material external trends analysis. We also included Issues and Scope the issues highlighted by international Important Very Important Extremely Important We care about the impact of our organisations and global sustainability business on our stakeholders and indices. our stakeholders’ impact on our business. We create value through this While analysing the materiality for Technological Innovation interaction. Focusing on the material Vodafone Turkey; topics by prioritising them gives us the We investigated the opinions and Risk and Crisis Management opportunity to scale the value expectations of the management through Climate Change and Energy Financial Performance we create. face-to-face interviews and focus group Data Security and Privacy Becoming a Digital Human Rights meetings. Additionally, we evaluated the Solution Partner Women’s Empowerment Last year, we carried out a materiality strategic areas driving the company. Youth Skills and Jobs Equal Opportunity and Diversity analysis in line with AA1000 Stakeholder We evaluated the financial impacts and Waste Management Digital Customer and Employee Engagement Standard by cooperating risks, as well as the legal impact by using Mobile Devices, Masts Experience 10 and Public Health Talent Management with an independent consultancy. With Four Factor analysis of SASB (Sustainability Responsible Supply Chain Management Occupational Health and Safety an holistic approach, we identified our Accounting Standards Board). Likewise, we Water Digital Rights Employee Responsible Products, Services and Accessibility and Freedom Satisfaction Management high-priority issues after considering discussed the competitive advantages and Transparency and Information Sharing Customer Satisfaction and Loyalty both the local and global trends. innovation opportunities of the issues. Responsible Communication and Marketing of Products and Services While identifying the materiality for our This year, we have also conducted a stakeholders; strategic analysis and updated materiality We collected opinions of stakeholders analysis accordingly. Thus, waste through a stakeholder analysis. management is now been included among We identified the trends in the global our top priority issues in accordance with agenda and industry through an corporate and industrial concerns. Importance to Vodafone Turkey Management + Strategy + 4 Factor Impact Analysis Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 102-44 102-46 Relation to Sustainable Respective Section Material Issue Scope of the Issue Development Goals Refers to the section(s) that we share our performance in material issues. Technological The impact of the transition to digital technologies are felt Digitalisation Innovation more and more in every area of life every day. We follow rapidly Energy Innovation developing technologies such as robotics, Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Internet of Things (IoT) closely. Becoming a We offer fast, high-quality and inspiring products and services Digitalisation Digital Solution to individuals and corporations in line with our vision to lead Energy Innovation Partner and the digital transformation journey of Turkey. By digitalising the Digital Customer customer experience, we facilitate their lives and help them fulfil Experience their potentials. 11 Women’s To achieve our dream of a better future with healthy, educated Women’s Empowerment Empowerment and informed generations, we must first ensure gender equality. Our Employees By taking steps towards gender equality and equal opportunity, we support women’s empowerment. Climate We prioritise the fight against climate change which is one of the Energy Innovation Change and biggest issues of our age. We regularly monitor the consumption Energy values at the base stations and technology centres where we consume the highest energy. We manage our energy consumption both in line with our internal policies and the international standards. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 102-44 102-46 Relation to Sustainable Respective Section Material Issue Scope of the Issue Development Goals Refers to the section(s) that we share our performance in material issues. Financial A strong financial performance is the precondition of creating the Vodafone Turkey Performance highest level of shared value and change in areas of value. We are among the biggest foreign direct investors in Turkey. Data Security The issue of data security and privacy takes the lead among the Responsible Business and and Privacy risks that are born with digitalisation. We take comprehensive steps Value Chain at international standards to manage the risks stemming from data security. Talent We care about the talents we invested to take actions that will Our Employees 12 Management provide growth to our company and constantly contributing to our business success. With talent management, we both enable highpotential people to stay within Vodafone and prepare high-potential employees to leadership positions. Responsible We want our products and services to be understood as accurately Energy Innovation Products, as possible by our customers. We develop our products with a Digitalisation Services and sense of responsibility to facilitate their lives, and offer facilities to Responsible Business and Accessibility improve their access to them. Value Chain Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 102-44 102-46 Relation to Sustainable Respective Section Material Issue Scope of the Issue Development Goals Refers to the section(s) that we share our performance in material issues. Occupational Protecting the occupational safety and health of our people and Responsible Business Safety and creating the ideal working environment are among our top priorities. and Value Chain Health We commit to being the pioneer in the telecommunication industry in the areas of health, occupational safety and welfare. Youth Skills Supporting the skill development and employment of the young people Youth Skills and Jobs and Jobs is among our strategic priorities. Thus, we support them in developing the skills and talents required for the digital economy, and create employment opportunities. 13 Equal Creating an inclusive corporate culture that respects the differences Women’s Empowerment Opportunity of its people is our goal. We manage all work processes with Our Employees and Diversity this approach, and grow together with the diversity in the work Youth Skills and Jobs environment. Responsible We carry out our business processes with numerous suppliers. Responsible Business Supply Chain We are developing a strong supply chain management to and Value Chain Management maintain the high standards that we embraced. The set rules and regulations enable us to manage the risks concerning the supply chain effectively. Thus, we improve the quality of the products and services that we offer, as well as our competitiveness. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 102-44 102-46 Relation to Sustainable Respective Section Material Issue Scope of the Issue Development Goals Refers to the section(s) that we share our performance in material issues. Mobile Managing issues such as public health that are affected by Responsible Business Devices, our operations composes an important part of our sustainable and Value Chain Masts and management approach. Thus, we display an open and Public Health transparent attitude towards any concerns that may arise in the society. Risk and Crisis We carry out awareness efforts to act fast and in a timely manner Responsible Business Management as a company in case of disasters and other emergencies, and to and Value Chain contribute to the society that we operate in. 14 Employee Our people are our greatest assets. We want them to create value Our Employees Satisfaction for a long time in our business with satisfaction in the digital and Digital experience and improvement opportunities offered to them at Employee Vodafone. Experience Waste Equipment and devices that are replaced or no longer used Energy Innovation Management as a result of developing technology must be disposed of appropriately. With our operations, we focus on reducing the electronic waste created as a result of our operations, products and services, and increasing their recycling rate. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 102-40 102-42 102-43 Stakeholder Communications Stakeholder Group Communication Tools Direct Economic Employees Sustainability Report Red Loves Green Internal Communication Channel Impact Digital Office Screen Orientation Program Customers Call Centres Sales Channels and Dealers Sustainability Report Vodafone Media Centre Vodafone Turkey Social Media Accounts My Vodafone App Suppliers Sustainability Report Supplier Performance Management Vodafone Media Centre Level of Impact Government Agencies and Indirect Information Reports Sustainability Report Regulatory Bodies Economic 15 Impact Business Partners and Initiatives Dealer Portal V-Star App Sustainability Report Vodafone Media Centre Non-Governmental Organisations Sustainability Report Vodafone Media Centre and International Organisations Stakeholder Mailings Vodafone Official Website Sustainability Report Vodafone Media Centre Media Vodafone Turkey Social Media Accounts Universities Sustainability Report Stakeholder Mailings New Opportunities, Think Tanks Sustainability Report Vodafone Media Centre Insights and Perception Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Digitalisation Striving for a better future, we introduce digital technologies to more people and close the digital opportunities’ gap in the society. 16 Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Digitalisation In line with our vision to lead digital transformation, we develop information and communication technologies, and create exemplary best practices. Digitalisation is seen as the strongest transformation factor today. This age, which we refer to as the digital economy age due to the widespread digital technologies, brings many innovations and opportunities along with itself. However, the digital inequality in accessibility for these opportunities must be eliminated to ensure full integration. For this, the 17 need to improve digital skills and to facilitate and accelerate internet access stand out. Companies are required to review their business methods and launch innovative products and services in order to keep up with digital transformation. As Vodafone Turkey, we develop information and communication technologies, and constantly improve efficiency in line with our vision to lead digital transformation. Thus, we contribute to both our customers and to the economy with respect to digitalisation and access to products and services. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Our Contribution to Sustainable Development Goals Vodafone Vitrin OKSIJEN Sustainable Development Goal* Our Contribution We launched Vodafone Vitrin *Sub-indicators are summarized. program to add value to the scale-up 9.1. Universal access to We increase the areas of use for access ecosystem in Turkey. We collaborate information and communication to innovative technologies such as with companies that provide digital Our global innovation company technologies IoT, and generate new need-oriented 9.2. Promote inclusive and solutions through customers. services or products to our customers OKSIJEN (Vodafone Teknoloji sustainable industrialisation We develop infrastructure with mobile via mobile apps. The Vodafone Vitrin Hizmetleri A.Ş.) continues its efforts 9.4. Upgrade all industries and communication technologies and base stations. member companies with recognized at the ITU ARI Technocity to lead infrastructures for sustainability We offer solutions exceeding the performances start the program with the digital transformation of Turkey. demands of the customers in subjects that are creating opportunities for the a financial support of TRY 500,000 in OKSIJEN, which is an important business world, such as Industry 4.0. the Silver segment, and get the chance employment centre in the field of to raise the level of their segments R&D with its team of 239 people, 17.16. Increasing the number We establish multi-stakeholder at the end of performance reviews also produces innovative products of partners sharing knowledge, partnerships to scale the applications, held every 6 months. Vodafone Vitrin and services for corporates and 18 expertise, technology and products and opportunities that will be financial resources to support developed in the digitalisation. members are also assisted in business customers. Until today, OKSIJEN has achievement of SDGs. promotion, training, IT support and received 78 R&D projects and 329 operational issues besides financial patent applications. 12.a. Increasing technological We develop technological innovations support. The companies that succeed capacity for sustainable and IoT apps to improve Industry 4.0. consumption and production in the Turkish market with Vodafone Vitrin will get the chance to go global and reach customers in all the other countries that Vodafone is operating in. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t ITU Vodafone Future Lab FreeZone Studio We established Vodafone Future Lab, the smart technology Turkey’s first digital music studio centre producing new technologies, with the partnership Vodafone FreeZone has held 6 live of Istanbul Technical University. Our objective is to concerts so far. The concerts were build on the local and national economy, and create the broadcast live from the Vodafone digital future of Turkey. Hosted by ITU Vodafone Future FreeZone Youtube channel and young Lab inside Istanbul Technical University’s IT Institute, people from all over Turkey enjoyed we organized the first Future Lab Partner Day, where these performances like never before. technology production and global exports were discussed by the Vodafone R&D Team and ITU doctorate students. This year we held the second iteration 19 Future Lab, home to 34 different types of technology and of the “Son Ses” Online Music At the BEETECH 2018 Technology Awards has 30 business partners, will continue to support the Contest, organized to discover new organized by ITU ARI Technocity, we digitalisation of Turkey in the following years. young voices of Turkey. We reviewed received the “Intellectual and Industrial more than 6,800 participants, Property Rights” award in the “Large Scale Currently, 7 graduate and 1 undergraduate R&D projects whose finals were held in Vodafone Firm” category. For the third time, we supported by Vodafone Turkey and coordinated by ITU are FreeZone Studio inside Vodafone became the highest patent applicant with being carried out by 21 students at Future Lab. Park, and welcomed famous names as 60 applications in total. our jurors. The winner of the contest got a chance to release an album. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t My Vodafone App Mobile Financial Services Increasing access to financial services is important for financial inclusion With My Vodafone App (Vodafone and sustainable development. Where Yanımda), we enable our customers digital technology is currently at to perform many transactions on makes mobile financial services digital environment without needing much more important. Vodafone to go to dealers or use call centre. Electronic Money Payment Services By enabling our subscribers to Inc. (VEPAŞ) gathers all payment digitalize and save time with this systems of Vodafone under a app allowing all mobile transactions, single roof, allowing us to continue we also reduce costs. Thanks to our offering innovative solutions and recently initiated cooperation with services regarding Fintech, one of Masterpass, the new digital payment the most important phases of digital 20 solution of Mastercard, we facilitated transformation. With Vodafone Pay, topping up mobile money and paying we provide services in various areas bills on My Vodafone App. ranging from payment by reflecting to mobile phone invoices to shopping without risk with prepaid cards, from money transfer to insurance premium payments with mobile payments. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Digital Score Application V by Vodafone process and decrease the number of We continue to hold Turkey The Vodafone personal IoT product lost documents, in turn increasing Technology Meetings in different family V by Vodafone enables customer happiness and preventing cities under the body of TOBB, the customers to monitor whether their unnecessary paper waste. Since April support of Ministry of Industry children, elderly members of the 2019, we have completed 3 million and Technology, and Ministry of family, pets, bags and cars are safe transactions through biometric Trade. Aiming to provide support via the mobile application and offers signatures and digitalized 13.5 million to SMEs in their adaptation to rapid different features developed for documents to prevent the loss of 231 digitalisation, Turkey Technology each product; Like the V-Helper’s mature trees. Meetings are held under the theme of pulse measurement and medication Other Practices “Digital Transformation, E-commerce reminder features. With V by Positioning ourselves as the digital We securely record personal and E-export for SMEs”. We measure Vodafone reaching 40,000 users via solution partner for customers is information with Digital ID and the digitalisation levels of SMEs and 5 products which are V-Kids Watch, our main priority. We also attain prevent impersonations. So far, local companies, and score them. V-Helper, V-Pet, V-Auto and V-Bag, we environmental gains through we have completed 6 million 21 Based on these scores obtained offer a smart product family which is innovative practices that improve transactions with digital ID and with Digital Score Application, we always connected and can be setup the digital experience and customer digitalized 8.5 million documents to provide support and consulting to via the mobile app. By adding more happiness. prevent the loss of 145 mature trees. participating companies. Overall IoT products to the V by Vodafone Turkey score, which was only 53 product portfolio, we will continue We sign subscription agreements when we started, has increased to 63 to provide innovative solutions and virtually with Biometric Signatures, thanks to our support and consulting services so that our customers can making sure to minimize human error. within the last year. connect more and control better. This practice digitalizes the shipping Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Women’s Empowerment A better future is only possible with strong women and when the gender equality is an indispensable part of the society. 22 Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Women’s Empowerment We aim to enable access of more women to technology to fight for gender equality and fulfil the needs of qualified workforce in the digital economy. The role of digital technologies in the establishment of gender equality is growing every day. The transformative effects of mobile technology have direct impacts on daily life. Mobile technologies offer effective solutions to empowering women physically and economically, fighting for gender equality in businesses and education, and fulfilling the qualified 23 workforce needs of the digital economy. Giving women access to technology gives them the means to improve themselves and their skills through training and employment opportunities. As Vodafone Turkey, we aim to enable access of more women to technology and to leave no one behind. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Our Contribution to Sustainable Development Goals Vodafone Global 2025 Goals Sustainable Development Goal* Our Contribution *Sub-indicators are summarized. As Vodafone Turkey, we contribute to Vodafone 4.1. Providing high-quality education to all girls and boys We work on projects that will close the Group’s goals concerning women’s empowerment. 4.4. Increasing the rates of employment, decent work and digital gap with respect to social gender individuals with entrepreneurship-oriented technical and and strengthen the female occupational skills customer base. To connect an additional 50 million women in We try to raise awareness. 4.5. Removing gender inequality in education, ensuring developing markets to mobile. equal access to vulnerable populations in education and We develop mobile communication occupational training technology apps to prevent violence against women. 4.a. Establishing non-violent, inclusive and effective To become the world’s best employer for women learning environments that are sensitive about gender We design programs contributing to female leadership and competency. by 2025. equality and safe for everyone We offer accessible, affordable products and services. The main transformation areas that we focus on 5.1. Ending all discrimination against women and girls We work to provide quality training to for empowering women: everywhere women, particularly to improve their 24 5.5. Providing equal opportunities for the full and effective competencies in the business world. Facilitating women’s access to mobile technologies inclusion of women in decision-making processes of political, economic and social life Ensuring gender equality for the digital economy 5.b. Developing the use of enabling technologies, particularly information and communication technologies Offering employment opportunities to women and for women’s empowerment improving their competencies 8.3. Supporting decent employment, entrepreneurship and We design practices that provide equal innovation, encouraging micro, small and medium scale opportunities to women in employment organisations by enabling their access to financial services and facilitate their participation in 8.5. Ensuring all women and men have access to full and business life. productive employment and decent work, and embracing ‘equal pay to equal work’ principle Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Vodafone Against Violence Support Line to employees Easy Rescue Domestic Violence affected from direct or indirect Gender equality and prevention of domestic violence. Prepared by violence are the basic conditions of Vodafone Group Foundation, we social and economic development. have translated toolkit on domestic According to the study conducted violence and abuse at work, written by Vodafone Group Foundation by Gender Equality Expert Dr. Jane We aimed to raise awareness with 1,725 employees working in Pillinger, in a way that can be used regarding violence against women different industries and companies by all managers/employees and as Vodafone Turkey Foundation. In in 9 countries including Turkey, 1 presented it to our stakeholders as line with our Technology Serves Life of every 3 employees is exposed to an easy-to-ready Turkish booklet. approach and with the support of domestic violence. Two thirds of The guide includes the definitions of Ministry of Family, Labour and Social the study participants indicate that violence, the impact of violence in Services, we improved the Easy the domestic violence affects their the workplace, the possible actions Rescue application that we launched 25 careers negatively. As Vodafone, our that can be taken by the employees in 2014. We have added the “Walk me objective is to provide a safe work and managers to minimize these Home” feature to the app. Thanks to environment based on equality, impacts trough case studies. this feature, women can now share with zero tolerance to all types their route/locations in a journey or of violence. Thus, we issued the an environment that they may feel Procedure on Fighting against insecure at with 3 individuals, and Domestic Violence. The procedure be monitored by these individuals covers up to 10 days of paid leave, via the app. This app can be used on financial support and other support smart mobile devices free of charge. such as 24/7 access to the Domestic 5 Vodafone Domestic Violence and Abuse-Policy Guide Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Equalmeter converted into 780,000 actions. While the rate First 6 Years Mobile Application of sexist words identified in the articles of the writers was 11% before the Equalmeter, this rate initially dropped to 7% after the Equalmeter and became 0% as of January 2019. The First 6 Years app that developed in cooperation with In the second phase of the project, we the Mother Child Education Foundation (AÇEV) is still Language is the skeleton of society. People use cooperated with Star TV. We identified the ongoing. Thanks to this app, we offer online information consciously or unconsciously discriminatory sexist phrases in the TV series Erkenci Kuş and to parents with children in the pre-school age, a very words in their daily lives and even in major İstanbullu Gelin broadcasted on Star TV and important period for personality development. In the media channels. We believe that correcting our informed the screenwriters. The viewers tracked First 6 Years app, the parents can benefit from the free language with the insight that discrimination the correction from the bands at the bottom of storage of 1,200 items including photos, educative videos and violence begin in language will be the key the screen, and shared the sexist language use and animation movies. By the end of March 2019 we have to preventing gender discrimination. they want a correction for on social media with reached more than 500,000 users with this app, featuring 26 #KırmızıÇizgi (referring to Equalmeter). content that has regularly been updated and improved. With this in mind, we developed an AI technology, a first in the world, which finds Equalmeter has a 10% share among the Please see Our Employees section for our programs and corrects discriminatory words in digital resources we allocate to social investments focused on the women empowerment and employment. publications, and we started to use this as Vodafone Turkey. Our goal is to spread technology in the framework of our cooperation this project by ensuring its use both by the with Hürriyet. The Equalmeter has analyzed publishers and the content producers in 2,800 columns on Hürriyet.com.tr since July a wide spectrum. 2018. The Equalmeter button on Hürriyet.com. tr website has been viewed 41 million times and Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Women First in Entrepreneurship Women First in As Vodafone Turkey Foundation, since 2015 we run Entrepreneurship Contest the Women First in Entrepreneurship through our cooperation with the Ministry of National Education, General Directorate of Lifelong Learning and Turkish Informatics Foundation(TBV). We sell the handmade crafts of women using the technological opportunities of today. Our goal is to help the inclusion of women, who are left In order to support successful outside the economic life, into economic life and to raise entrepreneurial women and inspire family welfare levels. We provided entrepreneurship and other women in the project with their technology training to more than 37,000 women within the stories as role models, we organize scope of this project. As of July 2019, the number of women the Women First in Entrepreneurship that our project reached was almost 54,000. The project’s Competition, and reward the most e-store, oncekadin.gov.tr has reached the sales figure over successful women entrepreneurs 27 TRY 1 million. with lifeline capital. We also gave an Innovation in Product award to In order to reach even more women using technology the project participant designing and to improve the penetration of technology use, we the most innovative product, scored developed the Women First in Entrepreneurship mobile according to the features of the app in 2018. Thanks to this app that transfers classroom product and their reinterpretations, training to the digital medium, women from all 81 cities for the first time in 2019. Thus, the of Turkey got the chance to join our project. Women First total lifeline capital provided with this in Entrepreneurship mobile app was downloaded almost contest in the last 3 years reached 30,000 times, and the number of women trained via the TRY 120,000. app exceeded 10,000. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Energy Innovation Striving for a better future, we reduce our ecological footprint both as a company and for our customers. 28 Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Energy Innovation While we continue to fulfil the growing customer need on one side, we aim to halve our environment impact and decrease our carbon emissions. The energy consumption of the telecommunication industry is estimated to increase by 9% every year. Mobile data traffic increased 18 times in the last 5 years, and this increase is expected to accelerate in the following period.6 Mobile data traffic and thus energy needs are rapidly rising. However, reducing carbon emissions is critical in 29 tackling climate change. While the demand for our services grows, we need to develop innovative approaches that will minimize the energy use in our sector. While we continue to fulfil the growing customer need on one side, we also aim to halve our environment impact and decrease our carbon emissions. In line with our 2025 climate goals, we are reducing our consumption and emissions with efficient energy management and renewable energy use. Additionally, 6 Cisco Visual Networking Index: Global Mobile Data we are decreasing the carbon footprint of our customers by Traffic Forecast Update, 2017–2022 White Paper developing innovative products and services. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Vodafone Global Goals Our Contribution to Sustainable Development Goals Sustainable Development Goal* Our Contribution At Vodafone Turkey, we contribute to Vodafone *Sub-indicators are summarized. Group’s goals on environment and climate change. 7.2. Increase substantially the share of We are transitioning to renewable energy renewable energy in the global energy mix systems at our base stations in line with our To purchase 100% of the electricity from renewable 100% renewable energy target. sources by 2025. We increase clean energy use by generating resource diversity in our operations. To reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 50% by 2025.6 13.2. Integrate climate change measures into We are reducing greenhouse gas emissions national policies, strategies and planning both in operations and in the value chain with energy efficiency projects and IoT The main transformation areas that we focus on solutions. for energy innovation: Managing energy efficiently with innovative solutions 30 and using renewable energy Reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions by energy sharing Offering products, services and solutions that improve energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions 6 2016/17 is the reference year. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Climate Change and Reducing Carbon Emissions in Operations Energy Intensity of Our Base Stations (GJ/ Petabyte) Energy Management This year, we were able to reduce both the total carbon 3,923 64% Climate change, the biggest emissions and the energy intensity of base stations. While 4,000 dec rea environmental challenge of our reducing the energy intensity of our base stations by se 3,000 century, is in the agenda of the 64% compared to 2016 with our energy efficiency efforts 2,173 entire business world. To address and renewable energy use, we kept the total energy 2,000 1,415 climate change, all stakeholders consumption of our technology centres constant despite of from governments to NGOs and the the growth in our network. 1,000 business world must act urgently in 0 a global scale. According to the Paris 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Agreement signed by governments the goal is to limit the global Energy Consumption (GJ) Scope 1 and 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (ton CO2 ) temperature rise under 2°C in this century. The solutions provided by 31 300,000 digital technologies offer significant contributions to tackling climate Base Stations Technology Centres 280,000 278,272 276,614 264,205 change. Besides reducing greenhouse 2016/17 1,554,385 272,387 260,000 gas emissions in our operations, we are also enabling our customers to 240,000 manage their business processes 2017/18 1,571,225 272,376 more efficiently and reduce their 220,000 carbon footprint with IoT solutions 200,000 2018/19 1,596,104 271,307 and smart apps that we offer. 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t ISO 50001 Energy Energy Efficiency and deactivating non-efficient Energy Management System Policy Management System Energy efficiency is managed in air conditioners, reorganising Energy Management System (EMS) We obtained the ISO 50001 Energy the cope of ISO 50001. Efficiency temperature settings, optimising Policy defines the main processes Management System Certificate projects are very important to reach systems and replacing them with new and principles that our energy which covers 5 technology centres our carbon goal. ones. We started to control the air management is built on. The Energy two years ago. We included 4,261 conditioning units in the data centres Team, composed of employees from base stations to the certification Energy Efficiency Program includes and provided efficiency in cooling different divisions, is responsible for scope in the period of 2018/19. efficient management of various with artificial intelligence. the development and operation of We continue to work to include all aspects. The program covers the EMS. remaining base stations within the replacement of old or inefficient In the last two years, with the next term. network equipment with new and efficiency projects in technology We aim to ensure the effective efficient ones, the modernisation centres we saved 36,617 GJ of energy, operation and control of EMS. ISO 50001 and optimisation of cooling systems, which is almost equivalent to the Accordingly, defining the required the use of natural ventilation annual electricity consumption of methods, and raising awareness 32 systems, the remote and effective 925 households. With the efficiency at all levels regarding policies and In the last two years, management of generator and projects in the base stations, we goals are among the main duties and energy saving of 148,000 energy infrastructure systems, achieved an energy saving over responsibilities of the Energy Team. GJ in base stations and and the effective management of 111,000 GJ equivalent to the annual technology centres, energy subscriptions and renewable consumption of 2,803 households The Energy Team aims to come equivalent to the annual energy investments. We continued within the last two years. All these together at certain times to create electricity consumption of to replace the energy and cooling projects enabled us to save 148,000 new ideas in order to ensure more 3,728 households systems with more efficient devices GJ of energy in total. efficient energy use and to achieve and in the last three years we realised our carbon targets. different practices such as detecting Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Renewable Energy We install renewable energy systems to base stations as well as purchase renewable energy in order to achieve the 100% renewable energy goal by 2025. With our 66 wind turbines and 9 base stations operating fully with renewable energy, we continue to invest in renewable energy. This year, we began solar hybrid energy station application in 10 base stations. Thus, we supply 25% less electricity from the network at these stations. At Adana Cloud Technology Centre, one of the five large cloud technology centres of Turkey, we aim to generate on average 2,765 GJ of electricity annually for selfconsumption. When the investment, which is expected to 33 reach approximately 4 million TL in total, is completed, 20% of Adana Bulut Technology Centre’s annual electricity need will be met by solar energy. The project, where losses due to shading, cabling and temperature is lowered Adana Technology Centre aims to generate on average 2,765 to a minimum and high-efficiency panels are used, GJ of electricity annually using a solar energy system. Carbon has the largest capacity among the solar power plants emissions will be reduced by 389 tons with this project, which that provides energy directly to a data centre in Turkey. is the largest data centre solar energy project of Turkey. Supporting Vodafone’s Green Data Centre strategy, the project will also contribute to reducing our carbon footprint target by 389 tons of CO2 reduction per year. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Reducing Carbon Emissions of Customers IoT Solutions Smart Village In the field of Internet of Things In Vodafone Smart Village, created in cooperation with the (IoT) we offer solutions with a Agricultural Information and Communication Technologies broad portfolio including products (TABIT) as a next-generation rural development model, for various sectors extending we improve the efficiencies of the farmers via digital from smart equipment to power technologies. We plan to popularize the use of digital management. With these solutions, technologies such as IoT applications, drones, smart we enable organisations to monitor sensors, automatic irrigation methods, meteorological their connected objects, machines surveillance stations and early warning systems. Thus, and devices instantly, and to we will achieve efficiency and income increase, and get manage energy more efficiently. environmental benefits by reducing water and pesticide Our customers achieve significant use. We aim to turn this model into an example and spread 34 reductions in their carbon emissions it to throughout Turkey. with smart energy measurement systems, smart logistics and smart While the milk yield of the farmers who switched to the city applications. There are different Common Milking System increased by more than 20%, the solutions such as automatic meter animal ownership rate increased by 50% with the ease of reading, chronic disease tracking and agricultural works. This resulted in an increase of over 75% smart building applications among in the livestock income of farmers. In addition, the animal the offered products. production and cost losses were prevented by 20%. Please click to learn more about Vodafone Smart Village. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Smart Cities Smart Junction: The traffic lights at Smart Lighting: Lights can be Urbanisation is increasing rapidly and the junction change instantly based controlled remotely with this there is a need to develop solutions on the state of traffic, preventing solution. Energy, time and labour is in line with this rapid growth. Within vehicles from stopping for no reason saved with this solution that tracks the scope of our smart city solutions, and providing an average reduction of energy consumption. we offer various IoT solutions ranging 6% in fuel consumption. from buses to automatic machines, Smart Parking Lot: It enables from elevators to building lighting and Smart Irrigation: Saves water by remotely checking the occupancy ventilation systems, from municipality controlling irrigation remotely. rate of parking lots in real time. The applications to security systems. users can also reserve a parking Smart Waste Management: The space for a specific time. Thus, the We carried out smart and practical fill rate of waste containers can be vehicle owners both gain time and technological solutions in line with tracked instantly per location to reduce their carbon emissions. the needs of cities by cooperating determine the routes of the waste 35 with Diyarbakır, Patnos and Yalova collecting vehicles more effectively. Please visit here for our IoT solutions. Municipalities. iTaxi app used in Thus, we can achieve fuel saving up Istanbul provides payment, security to 30%. and mobility facilities, and supported with Vodafone IoT technologies. Moreover, the broadcasting system and the mobile apps of Vodafone Park, the first smart stadium of Turkey, run while interacting with the fans. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Waste Management E-wastes From Waste to Code Waste generation has significant environmental impacts in our industry. Equipment and devices that are replaced or no longer used as a result of new technology must 14% be disposed of appropriately. We focus on reducing the 85% 1<% electronic waste generated as a result of our operations, products and services, and increasing their recycling rate. By embracing the circular economy approach, we aim to achieve resource efficiency and carbon emission reduction. Recovered and recycled Reused Sent to landfill Vodafone Global Goals With the income obtained from We contribute to the waste management goal of Vodafone in recycling more than 370 kg Turkey, and carry out projects serving this goal. E-waste (kg) 2018/19 electronic waste that our employees 36 all around Turkey brought from their Recovered and recycled 2,867,635 homes to the boxes in our offices, 100% of e-waste Reused 482,595 we built a coding class in Sakarya Aycan Çaltekin Primary School of Sent to landfill 3,927 Mardin. This coding class is built Total 3,354,157 within the scope of the Coding Tomorrow project carried out with With efficient waste management almost all the the cooperation of Vodafone Turkey Reuse Resell Recycle e-wastes are reused, resold or recycled. Foundation and Habitat, and gives all the children in Mardin and surrounding cities a chance to receive coding training. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Green Office With the “Plastic Free Vodafone” Green Office Program aims to raise movement initiated in our Headquarters awareness among our employees and Digital Operations Centre, we and customers regarding energy ended the use of 2.5 million disposable conservation, renewable resources, plastic cups and 1.3 million other plastic the responsible allocation of products on average annually. natural resources, lifestyle changes and especially, carbon emissions. After our Headquarters in Maslak/ Istanbul, we were granted Green Office Certificate for our Digital Operations Centre in Küçükyalı by fulfilling the WWF Turkey Green Office criteria. Our Digital Operations 37 Centre is also the first building to have a LEED (Leadership in Energy Sustainability in our Offices and Environmental Design) Platinum We believe that the most important step Certificate in Turkey. for sustainability is creating awareness. We implement a comprehensive environmental management system in order to minimize our environmental footprint and implement projects and programs aimed at reducing the environmental impact of our operations. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Smart Phone Renting We offer smart phone rental services to fulfil the mobile phone need of our corporate Second Hand Project customers. We aim to offer this We sell our broken or damaged service for 30,000 corporate equipment as used products, and devices per year. This way, we enable them to be reused. With our contribute to the circulation project partner Akademi Çevre, we Our Contribution to of phones and the circular developed a model to resell the Circular Economy economy. waste that we used to send as scrap. We restore the damaged equipment and send them to different countries 38 and telecommunication companies. Buyback Campaign Thanks to this project, we contribute We replace the old devices of Vodafone to the circular economy by enabling subscribers with new ones with the discounts the reuse of these equipment while that we offer them. We exchange more than reducing the cost of storing 100,000 old mobile phones with new tech damaged products. products every year. Thus, we facilitate both the access of our customers to the latest technologies and prevent the e-waste to end up in landfills by refurbishing them. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Youth Skills and Jobs A better future is only possible when the youth has the skills and competencies demanded by the digital world. 39 Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Youth Skills and Jobs To increase welfare and sustainable development, the inclusion of youth in the socioeconomic life with required skills of the digital age is crucial. We offer them an opportunity of digital experience and support them to develop their skills. Inclusion of young people in the socioeconomic life by giving them required training is crucial for welfare and sustainable development. High level of unemployment, life on the edge of poverty and lack of digital skills cause 40 serious social and economic issues in the global scale. While the radical measures that governments, private sector and non-governmental organisations can agree and take provide support to local economies in short term with regards to growth and cost reduction, they also raise level of welfare by improving inclusion in the long term. As Vodafone Turkey, we offer training, internship and apprentice programs to the youth. Furthermore, we support the development of their digital work experience, and invest in their participation to the workforce. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Our Contribution to Sustainable Development Goals Vodafone Global Goals Sustainable Development Goal* *Sub-indicators are summarized. Our Contribution Connect 10 million young people to digital skills, 8.3. Promote policies to support job creation We improve the digital skills of young learning and jobs by 2025. and growing enterprises people to enable their participation in 8.5. Full employment and decent work with the work force, and offer them job and Offering almost 100,000 youth the digital workplace equal pay internship opportunities. experience at Vodafone by 2022. 8.6. Promote youth employment, education and training 4.4. Increase the number of people with We design applications to improve relevant skills for financial success digital skills. 4.5. Eliminate all discrimination in education We support training socially disadvantageous groups with innovative products and services, and include them into the workforce. 41 Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Coding Tomorrow participant Adana #BuMamaBenden Future Jobs Finder: VakıfBank Primary School competed A Tweet to Feed What Will You Be? in the MakeX Robotics Contest 2018 The children, who received coding As Vodafone, we aim to be one of the Finals held in China. XSun Team training with the Coding Tomorrow joint top 100 companies in employment took third place in the “Junior High project of Vodafone Turkey Foundation of next generation youth. We have School” category that included and Habitat Association, developed a launched the What Will You Be? 56 teams advancing to the final, food machine that runs with codes in program that will help 10 million selected from 350 teams of order to feed animals. By posting the young individuals from 18 countries 20 countries. hashtag #BuMamaBenden on social to have professions. We offer career Coding Tomorrow media you can place food on the plates advice on digital economy and To bring coding training in Turkey’s of pets thanks to this code. These provide training material access. villages and towns, Coding for food machines were built considering Furthermore, we expanded the scope As Vodafone Turkey Foundation, we Tomorrow Truck covered over 6 the demand of sensitive people and of graduate, intern and job experience launched the Coding Tomorrow thousand kilometers of roads in 13 number of street animals in need. programs in order to reach almost 42 in cooperation with the Habitat provinces in 2018 reached 3,700 #BuMamaBenden has 13 different 100,000 young individuals by 2022. Foundation in order to achieve children. feeding stations. the IT-oriented transformation of Turkey through children, and has just completed its second year. Until today, we introduced coding language to more than 43,000 children in 60 cities of Turkey. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Learn Technology students who participated in Women training app of Turkey. Thus far, we From the Expert in Technology program in 2018/19 reached 3 million hearing impaired Learn Technology from the Expert period, were included in the Discover individuals and their loved ones. master/apprentice program Young Talent Program; 8 of the 12 continues to train the work force women were included in the Discover having the required skills for Young Talent Program and joined transitioning to digital economy. among the talents of Vodafone Since 2 years, within the scope of Turkey. this program we offered internship opportunities to 15 students of Dreams Academy E-Spor Vocational High Schools for one year, Dreams Academy continues to help We continue to offer new areas Two individuals won the contest in the period of 2018/19. disabled and socially disadvantaged of freedom to the young people held among the users of Vodafone individuals for economic and social by increasing our support and FreeZone Package; we continue Women’s Internship inclusion. Thanks to the Dreams investment to the field of e-sports, to offer privileges with E-sports 43 Programs in Technology Academy, we reached 6,000 young which has been receiving a lot of Gamer Packages. The winners were and Sales individuals with the support of attention from the youth. We are awarded with a trip for Taipei to The programs are aimed at young 20,000 volunteers until today. Within the name sponsor of the League watch the semi-final and final of MSI women in their senior year of the the scope of this program, carried of Legends Championship which is (MidSeasonInvitational) 2019, one of university education if they want out with the cooperation of Vodafone one of the Turkey’s largest e-sports the largest international League of to pursue a career in technology Turkey Foundation, Alternative Life organization. The 1907 Fenerbahçe Legends tournaments. and telecommunications. We Association (AYDER) and United E-sport won the championship at provide participants with internship Nations Development Program Vodafone FreeZone Championship opportunities in technology and (UNDP), we developed the SIGN, the League 2019 Winter Season final. sales departments. While 6 of the 6 most comprehensive sign language Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Our Employees Striving for a better future, we grow with the professionals to lead the digital transformation. 44 Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Our Employees We provide for a digital working experience where inclusion and diversity are accepted as enriching factors. We invest in talent management. In the working environment that we created at Vodafone Turkey, our employees feel equal and valuable. Differences are accepted as prosperousness through the dominance of diversity and inclusion. Talent development is always a priority. As we pioneer digitalisation, we also enable our employees to be part of the digital working experience. 45 While offering opportunities to our employees for professional development, we ensure them to take part in the digital transformation of Turkey. Making career in Vodafone Turkey gives employees the opportunity to connect people to better tomorrow. We see our employees as the assurance of our success in future. We offer them the opportunity to manage their own future with performance and talent management and prioritise internal career opportunities. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Vodafone Global Goals Our Contribution to Sustainable Development Goals Sustainable Development Goal* Our Contribution * Sub-indicators are summarized. As Vodafone Turkey, we contribute to the goals determined by Vodafone Group to empower women 5.1. End all forms of discrimination against all We focus on gender equality in workforce and apply practices within the scope of focus on diversity and inclusion women and girls everywhere facilitating the participation of women in professional life. in workforce. 5.5. Ensure women’s full and effective We design programs contributing to female leadership and participation and equal opportunities for competency. leadership at all levels of decision making in At Vodafone Turkey, we attach importance to employment ➢To become the best employer for women by 2025 political, economic and public life of women. We strive to increase the female employee ratio 5.5.2. Increase the rate of women in above 40%. management positions Main Transformation Areas on Focus: 8.3. Promote development-oriented policies Our goal is simplicity, flexibility and agility with Offering job opportunities to women in the that support productive activities, decent job digitalisation in office experiences and career paths of telecommunication industry and contributing to the creation, entrepreneurship, creativity and employees from recruitment to retirement. 46 competencies of female employees in the industry innovation, and encourage the formalisation We published the Digital Culture Manifest for a corporate and growth of micro-, smalland mediumculture nurtured by benefits of the digitalisation. sized enterprises, including through access to financial services 8.5. Achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women and men, including for young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t We believe in the requirement for cooperative way of doing own future within the scope of internal performance and Female manager rate business in order to offer the everlasting best services. talent management %37 Based on this belief, we established the Vodafone Way Increasing female employee ratio above 40% structure defining the framework of our way of doing %33 %34 business and creating collective consciousness throughout Equal Opportunity and Diversity the company. This structure guides us on how to team up At Vodafone Turkey, we offer equal opportunities for equal job with and cooperate with our customers to thrive. by treating each employee equally regardless of language, religion, race, gender, ethnicity and sexual orientation. As of 2018, we are a family of nearly 3,000 people. We have While guaranteeing this approach with our Wage Policy, we 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 a young and dynamic team of more than half of employees once again offer additional benefits considering equality. are under 30 years. We support the financial empowerment of women and their Employee rate by gender involvement in businesses by attaching importance to gender Employee commitment and working under the umbrella equality. As a result, 42% female employee ratio is maintained %42 %58 of Vodafone Turkey for long years are important factors for the last three years. We also aim to take part in cultivating 47 behind our corporate success. As a result of this approach, leaders by supporting women to be involved in decisionemployee turnover rate became 17 decreasing by 18% maker positions. At Vodafone Turkey, the female employee compared to previous year. ratio in managerial positions rose from 32% to 37% in the last three years. Manager ratio by gender Our goal is to cultivate professionals who would pioneer %37 %63 the digital transformation in Turkey. Our priority goals in We help women continue their careers without any this respect are as follows: interruption by removing possible obstacles on their path. 98% of our female employees that took maternity leave in the Improving digital culture 2018/19 fiscal year returned to work after their leave ended. Offering our employees the opportunity to manage their Female Male Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Digital Employee Experience system, to monitor the lunch line and to use printers through First of all, we ensure the full integration of our employees mobile phones. to digitalisation processes, and aim simplicity, flexibility and agility with digitalisation in office experiences and We aim to expand agility in the workforce by creating career paths of employees from recruitment to retirement. comfortable working conditions for our employees through At Vodafone Turkey, we offer a working environment digitalisation. Employees at Vodafone Turkey can work at any independent of time and space. While working in the digital section of the office within the day and at a location outside environment, employees facilitate their lives using digital the office once a week. apps during their time in the workplace. The digitalisation of career planning allows employees to The opinions of our employees have an important role in apply for vacant positions via the system. Recruitment and improving the processes regarding our human resources. promotion procedures are planned through tablets instead All Vodafone Group employees share their feedback and of review documents. For preliminary elections, candidates opinions regarding the processes through the global and are requested to respond to the directed questions in the 48 independent line ExpoLink by calling 0850 2101901 or video format. We completely ruled out the use of paper and visiting wrs.expolink.co.uk/vodafone. wet signature in internal assignments. Moreover, we offer employees the opportunity to flex side benefits and to DigitalYou easily exchange the benefits used less often through an We provide flexibility and convenience for our employees with online platform. the DigitalYou app, launched in 2018. Smart phones are used instead of IDs in building exits and entrances, floor entrances and dining halls via the app. Soon, it will be possible to see the occupancy rate of the parking lot before arriving to the office, to turn off the building lights, to set the air-conditioning Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t At Vodafone Turkey, Talent and Performance Management The performance improvement process is composed of we focus on attracting We attach great importance to talent management in four main steps: target setting, quarterly interviews, halftalents and developing order to achieve our corporate goals. At Vodafone Turkey, year reviews and end-of-the-year review. The strengths the talents that we have we focus on attracting talents and developing the talents and improvement areas for managers and employees that we have. We care about the fact that leaders grow up are regularly assessed. Personal improvement plans for in order to achieve our among our own employees with a good command of our long-term career goals are identified at the end of these corporate goals. business manner. The Red Experience app launched with interviews and personal performance assessments are this approach announces the vacant positions internally made. These outputs contribute to the human resources first, thus prioritizing our own employees for recruitment. processes such as training and development programs, pay The rate of positions filled by internal candidates in the and career management, and rewards. 2018/19 fiscal year was 67%. Please click here to see the performance management approach Please click here to learn more about the talent management of Vodafone Turkey. approach of Vodafone Turkey. 49 At Vodafone Turkey, the remuneration system is based on The Performance Improvement System enables our attracting and retaining the talents who fit the corporate employees to set open and clear individual targets in line strategy best, and rewarding employees in a fair and with our corporate goals, and guides them in achieving consistent manner. It includes rewarding the employees these goals in line with the working principles of Vodafone. with a base salary, a bonus system per position based on Thanks to our system involving regular and instant sales and quarter, and a comprehensive and flexible feedback, we focus on the development of our benefits package. employees at maximum level. We care about creating a high-performing organisation culture and achieving Please click here to see the remuneration approach of corporate goals. Vodafone Turkey. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Red Academy Red Academy Training Programs With Red Academy, Vodafone Turkey’s Digital Catalog (Change Management, Art of Reconciliation, development centre, Vodafone can Effective Decision-Making Skill etc.) respond to changing needs rapidly, and contribute to the development Discover Development Program of our stakeholders and especially our employees. We put into practice Onboarding Programs projects that will improve the technological skills of our employees, Leadership Trainings (Fundamentals of Management, the employees of our dealers, Getting Started to Management, Leaders Developing our business partners, university Potential etc.) students and our customers. With these projects, we reached more Culture & Exchange Programs than 35,000 people including 50 Total training of 3,137 Vodafone, 8,366 distributor, Vodafone Unlimited Team Coaching Program 17,960 sub-distributor, 4,363 call 101.050 centre employees in the fiscal year hours Technical Training Programs (Itıl4, Phyton, SQL, Cloud etc.) 2018/19. We provided a total training of 101,050 hours in the fiscal year Competence Training Programs (Presentation skills, Excel, 2018/19, and offered an average of 5 An average of foreign language, other digital competence training) hours online training per employee 5 and 36 hours classroom training per hours online 36 Agile Training Programs (Agile 2.0, Product Owner training, training per employee. employee hours classroom Scrum Master training etc.) training per employee Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tü r k i y e S ü r d ü r ü l e b i l i r l i k R a p o r u 2 019 Coaching processes focused on employee development continues under three main titles as of 2017: ReConnect Executive Coaching Program, Internal Coaching Program, ReConnect Coaching Program. The ReConnect Program was initiated by Vodafone Group and aims to employ around 1,000 qualified women taking a break from their careers in 26 countries in order Every year, almost 30 medium and top-level managers take support from Executive to enhance women’s participation in business. These Coaching consultants providing professional coaching service. With 8 hours-long women, who restart work within the scope of this program, Program programs, managers select their coach and identify the targets that they take coaching and mentorship support as a part of the will work on throughout the process. ReConnect program. 10 women began working at Vodafone Turkey as a part of ReConnect in the 2018/19 fiscal year. Employees in different roles or professional coaches Internal provide support regarding career improvement and talent Coaching management to employees in a process of 6-8 sessions. Program 51 ReConnect Coaching support is provided to new recruits employed within Coaching the scope of the global recruitment program in order to help Program them manage their adaptation process as best as possible. In addition to coaching programs, the Corporate Mentorship Program that has been ongoing since 2014 supports the professional development and career management of employees regardless of their age, experience and position. The 10th term of the program ended as of 2018, and was discussed as a Case Study in the international platform. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t International Young Talents: Discover Young Talents Employee Engagement and Volunteering Development Program & Global Columbus Talent Exchange Program We attach importance that our employees take part This program provides the Discover Young Talents Program, which is used by Vodafone in Vodafone Turkey Foundation’s corporate social opportunity to work for 4 to 10 Turkey to contribute to the professional and personal responsibility projects which are put into practice in order weeks in one of the countries that developments of young talents, and to discover and recruit to create value for the society. We aim to build emotional Vodafone Group operates in. Through the leaders of the future, raised more than 430 young bonds between employees and help them experience the program, employees improve talents until today. We provided full time employment touching different lives via these social responsibility themselves in different environments opportunities to 88 young talents in 2019, doubling projects. Our employees serve as trainers to the students and transfer the knowledge they the number of participants compared to previous year. at Coding Tomorrow, and mentors to the women at Women obtained at Vodafone Turkey to After two years of work at Vodafone Turkey, candidates First in Entrepreneurship. We give two days annual leave to employees in other countries. who succeed according to the global assessment centre our employees thus they can work for these projects. As of Furthermore, observing different obtained the right to work at a different Vodafone the 2018/19 fiscal year, the number of employees working positions enables the career country for a specific period and explore the global work in volunteer projects is 540. improvements of employees and environment within the scope of the Columbus Program. 52 to establish relations with other Vodafone Digital Entrepreneurship Hackathon employees fulfilling similar roles in We attach importance on supporting digital the global scale. In this program, 12 entrepreneurship in a way that it would bring solutions to employees from 6 countries took current issues. We held Vodafone Digital Entrepreneurship roles in Turkey and 6 employees Hackathon for two days with the participation of our from Turkey took roles in 5 employees in order to develop smart solutions that would different countries. facilitate the lives of our customers. 14 teams competed at the Hackathon, and we collected innovative ideas for the My Vodafone App. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Responsible Business and Value Chain Striving for a better future, we observe the rights of all stakeholders in the value chain while encouraging them for a responsible conduct. 53 Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Responsible Business and Value Chain We take action by assuming responsibility in environmental, social and ethical issues affecting our stakeholders and relating to our operations throughout the value chain in order to ensure long term and sustainable success. We deliver our products and services to a wide stakeholder network. We take action by assuming responsibility in environmental, social and ethical subjects affecting our stakeholder ecosystem and relating to our operations 54 throughout the value chain in order to ensure long term and sustainable success. We care about establishing healthy and safe working environments, and preventing human right violations. We protect the rights of all our stakeholders in the value chain including our employees, contractors, customers and suppliers with the rules that we set to protect the confidentiality of personal data. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Our Contribution to Sustainable Development Goals Sustainable Development Goal* Our Contribution *Sub-indicators are summarized. 8.5. Enabling access to decent work for all We include respect for human rights into all women and men work processes along with the Vodafone Code 8.7. Ending forced labour and child labour of Conduct, based on international principles concerning human rights, and minimize the 8.8. Protecting employee rights and establishing risks for the violations of human rights such as safe working environments for all employees forced labour and child labour. We establish safe and healthy working environments within the scope of Vodafone Occupational Health and Safety Management System and encourage suppliers to do the same. 16.6. Establishing accountable and transparent We share our way of working, based on scientific organisations studies regarding mobile devices and base Supply Chain stations transparently, with the public. We have a multi-layered and wide supplier network due 55 We take the opinions of the local public and the local administrators by enabling stakeholder to the nature of our business. Besides the suppliers and participation. distributors, our supply chain also includes other suppliers that these groups work with. We strive to ensure integrity and harmony at every ring of the supply chain in order to offer the highest quality products and services to our customers, and to strengthen our competitive position. We manage environmental, social and ethical risks effectively in the supply chain, and aim to grow together with our suppliers. Our number of suppliers as of the 2018/19 fiscal year is 728. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Our teams conducting supply chain and purchasing We execute the Vodafone Supplier Performance Program Vodafone Supplier processes receive training on Vodafone Code of Ethical to support the improvement of our existing suppliers. Performance Program help Purchasing. We ensure that the standards we set in various We identify the improvement areas of our suppliers and our suppliers to improve subjects such as information security, quality, occupational encourage them to improve their performances in their performance health and safety are fulfilled in our supplier selections. these areas. We support our suppliers in managing environmental and social issues responsibly, and embracing sustainable business practices. Social: We expect them to abide by the Vodafone Code of Conduct and Vodafone Code of Ethical Purchasing. Supplier Day We demand they regulate their relations with their own We organize a Supplier Day every year, welcoming more suppliers in the same manner, and conduct audits with than 100 suppliers. We provide trainings in subjects such site visits. Besides, the suppliers receive 20 minutes of as Anti-Corruption Practices and Ethics, Trade and Network training in Modern Slavery to manage more effectively the 56 Operations, Occupational Health and Safety. Furthermore, risks directly associated with their business in this area. we get the chance to hear the opinions of our suppliers Ensuring all employees work safely in the supply chain is about our corporate policies and practices. very important for us. We inform our suppliers regarding occupational safety and health. By organizing the Supplier Occupational Health and Safety Forum Safety Forum every year, we raise awareness regarding This year, we held the OHS Forum with our 100 suppliers. occupational safety and health among suppliers deemed We share the pioneer approaches that we embrace as a high-risk group. regarding OHS in the telecommunication industry, and Environmental: We consider the environment criteria in aim to make our suppliers put OHS into the focus of product and service purchases within the framework of their operations. Vodafone Energy Management System. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Occupational Health and Safety the Vodafone Group Health and Safety Principles. These HSE-W training delivered We commit to be the pioneer company in the standards are also in line with internally recognized for employees is 7,132 telecommunication industry in the subject of safety. We systems such as International Safety Rating System (ISRS) person-hours whereas it is encourage all stakeholders in our value chain to embrace and ISO 39001 Road Traffic Safety Management System. 84,695 person-hours high security applications, and expect them to display We expect all employees, contractors, suppliers and their for contractors. responsible behaviours all the time. Ensuring that our sub-contractors to fulfil HSE-W standards, and monitor this. employees and business partners work in safe and healthy We set an example to the telecommunication industry with environments is among our main responsibilities. our actions in this field. Health, Safety, Environment and Welfare (HSE-W) Senior We aim to establish a strong corporate culture covering Manager, the top executive in the field of OHS, serves our stakeholders in the subject of HSE-W. While we only two reporting levels below the CEO. Moreover, provided a total 7,132 person*hour HSE-W training OHS Boards hold regular meetings every two months corresponding to 8 hours per employee in 2018/2019, we as of 2009. The 11 boards all around Turkey, including also provided a total of 84,695 person*hour training to 57 the headquarters, include department representatives, our contractors. Moreover, we implement other programs employer representatives and employee representatives. to encourage our employees regarding healthy living. All parties can share their demands regarding HSE-W issues Vodafone Wellbeing Challenge awards our sportive at OHS Boards, and the boards make decisions regarding employees in October of every year both nationally in these demands. Turkey and globally among all Vodafone countries. Healthy Living Program motivates our employees. Non-Smoking In line with our Occupational Safety Excellence and Life Healthy Life Program supported 61 individuals to stop Zero Accident goal, we aim to send every employee smoking with doctor’s consulting and gifted Red Points for home safely. We set standards regarding Health, Safety, every non-smoking month. Environment and Welfare (HSE-W) within the scope of Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t The surveys that we conducted indicate that OHSE-W We always drive safely and legally: is embraced by our employees. In the results of the we always wear a seatbelt. People Survey, the internal HR customer satisfaction measurement survey conducted annually in all Vodafone countries, the top satisfaction score goes to the We always drive safely and legally: occupational health and safety for the past four years. we always obey the speed limit. Vodafone tracks incident statistics in all countries that it operates in within the scope of is Zero Accident goal. We always drive safely and legally: In case of an accident at Vodafone Turkey, Vodafone we never use a handheld mobile device when driving. Occupational Safety teams are notified within 24 hours and the accident is entered into the system. Thanks to this We never work under the influence of alcohol or drugs. global system, the accident study processes are constantly improved, and the reporting process gets more efficient. Never carry out work on any electrical equipment unless 58 you’re qualified. Vodafone 7 Absolute Occupational Health and Safety Rules When working at height, always wear protective gear, attach 7 Absolute OHS Rules included in Vodafone Code of a safety harness and use fall protection equipment. Conduct to minimize the risks of the telecommunication industry and to create a safe working environment are required to be applied in all work processes. With these Never undertake any street or underground work activities 7 Absolute Rules defined by focusing on the common unless competent to do so. reasons of loss of life and/or injury cases, we aim to eliminate the risks. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t We include Vodafone OHS standard compliance, penal Digitalized OHS processes OHS and Contractors sanctions against OHS non-compliances and site İWe accelerated digitalisation in work processes in order occupational safety visits to our contracts with the 300 262 to make OHS processes more effective. We conduct OHS contractors. Within this scope, we carry out site visits to base 200 192 190 audits via mobile phones through a developed mobile app. stations. The number of contractors that we audited this 82 By integrating our business processes with our contractors, 100 22 61 year increased 23% and became 1,616. we supported their digitalisation, too. One of the main 0 benefits of this app is that it displays the site visits and Number of Site Audits at Base Stations 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 audits of the OHS team within the year on a map. It creates a density map and we ensure all the sites are covered. Number of Contractor OHS 2,000 23% Violations Number of Contractors Audited 1,616 in terms of OHS 1,500 1,387 1,316 The Team Supervisor Incentive 1,000 Program launched in 2016 59 encourages site workers of 500 contractors about safe working with a reward system. We measure and 0 audit to ensure that the teams carry 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 out their operations safely. Thus, we create a positive competitive environment among the teams. We distributed awards totalling up to TRY 404,250 to 441 employees as of the start of the program. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Human Rights Our guidance is based Corporate Governance We embrace international principles to respect human on International Bill of We have a corporate governance mentality that establishes rights, include these principles into all business processes Human Rights, UN Guiding relations with all stakeholders based on the principles of and established processes that will minimize human rights Principles on Business fairness, transparency, responsibility and accountability. violations. International Bill of Human Rights, UN Guiding Vodafone Code of Conduct defines the ethical rules and Human Rights and ILO Principles on Business and Human Rights and International that we set under the titles of individual behaviour, fundamental conventions. Labour Organisation fundamental conventions are compliance with laws, health and safety, financial integrity, our guides in this respect. Our guidance is based on public policy, communication, customers, employees, International Bill of Human Rights, UN Guiding Principles communities, and society and environment. Code of on Business and Human Rights and ILO fundamental Conduct is binding to all parties working with Vodafone conventions. besides employees, contractors, affiliates, joint ventures and suppliers. Vodafone Code of Conduct reveals our sense of responsibility and expectations regarding human rights. Vodafone’s Chairman and CEO roles are carried out by 60 We respect the rights and freedom of our employees, different individuals in line with the principle of separation suppliers, business partners and locals of the regions of power. Vodafone Turkey Board of Directors is composed that we are operating in. We offer our employees working of 5 members including 3 women, and Executive Board is environments and conditions that fulfil human rights, composed of 9 members including 2 women. occupational safety and health, ethics and environment protection standards. We ensure all our suppliers and business partners also act in line with these standards with Code of Ethical Purchasing. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Work Ethics and Anti-Corruption We assess corruption risks and take precautions. We Our work processes are centred around the Vodafone Code established a corruption monitoring system for sales ISO 37001 of Conduct, which guides our employees and stakeholders channels and a scoring system for the performances of our within the framework of ethical values. Anti-bribery and dealers in this respect. Thus, we prevent corruption before anti-corruption rules set by the Code of Conduct follow it happens and reduce financial losses. the policies of Vodafone Group alongside national and international laws and regulations. We review anti-bribery We have ethical notification channels such as SpeakUp for and anti-corruption principles and share any changes the employees and Red Line for the external stakeholders with our stakeholders. We assess suppliers and business to be used in case of a doubt regarding violations of ethical partners regarding their anti-bribery and anti-corruption principles, anti-bribery and anti-corruption rules, and policies before signing contracts. We became the first human rights. All employees can report their questions company to receive ISO 37001 Anti-Bribery Management and/or remarks, and witnessed and/or suspected abuses System Standard in the Turkish technology and to authorities anonymously via the website or the phone. A telecommunication industry with our efforts in this disciplinary action is taken against the violating employee. 61 field in 2018. We offer classroom and online trainings to our employees regarding the fight against bribery and corruption. The first Turkish technology and telecommunications company with ISO 37001 Certification for Anti-Bribery Management Systems Standard. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Corporate Security Management Within the scope of Corporate Security Management, we identify possible threats that may damage the brand and reputation of Vodafone Turkey, and come up with solutions that will prevent them. Accordingly, we manage the processes of identifying and preventing abuse, fighting against corruption, preventing laundering crime revenues, identifying the states of suppliers, ensuring information security, confidentiality and work continuity, raising physical safety and security awareness. This year, we held a Workshop on Anti-Bribery and AntiCorruption Awareness, and a Workshop on Improving Compliance of External Stakeholders to Corporate 62 Security Standards within the scope of Sense of Security, a corporate security culture change and awareness program. The goals of these workshops that welcome almost 80 Search and Rescue Team individuals from various levels are to incorporate corporate We made a Search & Rescue Team call for Istanbul employees first in the fiscal security issues to the business processes and to make our year 2018/19. Almost 70 employees attended this training program. We provided employees guide the stakeholders of our ecosystems in technical trainings such as nature walk, stretcher preparation and handling besides this direction. the theoretical trainings. Next year, we plan to complete their field training. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Data Security Standard ISO/IEC 27001 and PCI-DSS security standards Management. This system automated Data security gains more and more importance every defined by the PCI Security Standards Council. the authority demand flows/authority day for our customers as a result of the technological review processes of some operating developments and acceleration in digitalisation. We We notify our customers through various channels systems, databases and applications, see data confidentiality and security as one of our top within the framework of Personal Data Protection Law. and ensured that they are no longer duties towards our customers in order maintain their The customer can access the information regarding performed manually. We integrated trust in Vodafone and thus the continuity of our business. the protection of personal data through our website, the databases of critical apps Vodafone Code of Conduct ensures our employees and sales channels and customer services, and forward their such as dealer management and business partners also fulfil this commitment. We have the requests regarding this subject. We hold training sessions reporting to the operating system required governance processes and control mechanisms to raise awareness regarding personal data protection within the scope of the Corporate to proactively manage cyber security risks faced by our among employees including sales channels and customer Access Management Phase 1 project customers and to protect their data. services divisions. completed in the 2018/19 fiscal year, and improved the processes. We abide by the ISO 27001 Information Security We add the Data Processing Addendum (DPA) to the Thus, we realized an application that 63 Management System standards, Personal Data Protection contracts of our suppliers and business partners in order to would eliminate the problems in the Law and respective regulations. We protect the mobile improve and audit their data protection performances. access process and enable end-tocommunication and credit card information of our We classify our suppliers based on the quality of the end access management. We will customers as well as their personal information in line service that they provide, and assess them once a year with integrate other important systems with the International Information Security Management a visit made by our information security and technology such as fixed infrastructure customer safety teams. systems and revenue assurance by Customers’ personal data is protected launching the Phase 2 project next with international security standards. We carry out operations to integrate data confidentiality year in order to extend the scope of and security to the processes of all business divisions the application and to improve its use under the title of Vodafone Turkey Corporate Access within the company. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Mobile Devices, Masts and Public Health we do not allow the use of devices with a SAR value higher To eliminate the concerns of our Vodafone’s commitment to protecting the health, safety than the ICNIRP standard, which are not approved or do stakeholders about mobile devices and welfare of its employees, contractors, customers and not offer information about SAR value in their manuals. and base stations and to ensure a others who may be affected by its activities and decisions The studies indicate no proof of a negative impact on healthy flow of information; is an integral part of Vodafone’s vision and values. With human health when mobile devices and base stations are We publish up-to-date scientific respect to RF standards for Radio Base Stations and used within WHO and ICNIRP science-based reference researches on our website and Terminal Equipment, we comply with local regulations compliance limits. provide information about EMF, or global standards, depending on whichever stipulates We provide EMF training to our more stringent standards. We follow a transparent attitude employees and suppliers, and we do towards all kinds of concerns that may arise in the public ‘’A large number of studies have been undertaken on not allow any supplier to work in the due to mobile devices and base stations. both acute and long-term effects from HF exposure field without this training, typical of base stations. Research at these levels of We place warning signs related to At Vodafone, base stations and mobile devices that we exposure has provided no conclusive evidence of any EMF in our sites and perform field provide to our customers are primarily installed and used related adverse health effects.” ICNIRP inspections. 64 in compliance with the laws and regulations determined by the Information and Communication Technologies ‘’Considering the very low exposure levels and Authority in our country; however, they operate in research results collected to date, there is no accordance with the scientific guidelines established by convincing scientific evidence that the weak RF the International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation signals from base stations and wireless networks Protection (ICNIRP), an independent advisory body working cause adverse health effects.” WHO in cooperation with the World Health Organization (WHO). Mobile devices use radio waves to make calls, send and receive data from a base station, creating a kind of electric and electromagnetic field (EMF). Under our EMF policies, Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vodafone Turkey Foundation Striving for a better future, we support common values through the transformative power of technology. 65 Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Vodafone Turkey Foundation Vodafone Turkey Foundation won Our Contribution to Sustainable Development Goals Vodafone contributes to the Cannes Heavent Awards Grand Prix, socioeconomic development of BEAWorld Awards Best Roadshow, Ace Sustainable Development Goal* Our Contribution *Sub-indicators are summarized. countries with the foundations of Mice: Best Roadshow Awards with established in the countries that it Coding Tomorrow project and the 4.4. Increasing the number of young people with Coding Tomorrow operates in since 2002. Founded in Gold Stevie with the Women First in decent work, entrepreneurship-oriented technical 2007 as one of these 27 foundations, Entrepreneurship Mobile App. and occupational skills Dreams Academy Vodafone Turkey Foundation aims to be 4.5. Removing the social gender inequality in education, ensuring equal access to vulnerable Women First in Entrepreneurship the pioneer of social development and We organized a comprehensive groups including children and individuals with change in Turkey. workshop regarding the issues faced by disabilities Easy Rescue women in Turkey with the participation of various stakeholder groups in the First 6 Years Mobile Application As Vodafone Turkey Foundation, we 5.2. Removing violence against women and girls reached more than 4 million people 2018/19 fiscal year. This workshop in public and private spaces with an investment higher than TRY welcomed almost 40 representatives 5.b. Increasing the use of information and 41 million until today. We prioritize from the business partners of the communication technologies by women foundation, entrepreneurship 66 projects creating value in the axis of women-, childrenand disabled ecosystems, universities and non8.5. Ensuring access of all women and men people-oriented and technologygovernmental organisations, who made including the young and the disabled to full and based education and entrepreneurship solution suggestions regarding three productive employment, and decent work using the transformative power of main issues: gender equality, violence 8.6. Reducing the rate of unemployed or uneducated youth significantly technology. We implemented proactive against women and inclusion of women different projects in the last 11 years to economic life. These suggestions including main projects such as will be an important base for future 17.16. Increasing multi-stakeholder partnerships Coding Tomorrow, Women First in projects. Entrepreneurship and Dreams Academy and also others such as First 6 Years Vodafone Turkey Foundation Advisory Mobile Application and Easy Rescue. Board shares experiences and ideas regarding project development and strategy and road maps development. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Appendices 67 Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Memberships and Collaborations Mobile Telecommunication Operators Association (MTOD) Association of Intelligent Transport Systems (AUSDER) Payment and Electronic Money Association (ÖDED) Association of Accumulator and Recycling Industrialists (AKÜDER) Private Sector Volunteers Association (ÖSGD) Mother Child Education Foundation (AÇEV) PERYÖN People Management Association of Turkey Information Security Association Turkish Advertisers Association (RVD) United Brands Association (BMD) TEGEP Training and Development Platform Association United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) WTECH Call Centre Association (ÇMD) Telecommunication Operators Association (TELKODER) Environment Protection and Packaging Waste Recovery and Recycling Trust (ÇEVKO) Foundation Association of Businessmen of Satellite Electronic and Communication Sector (TUYAD) Foreign Economic Relations Board of Turkey (DEIK) TOBB Young Entrepreneurs Board (TOBB GGK) Foreign Economic Relations Board, Turkish-British Business Council (DEİK TİİK) TOBB Telecommunication Council 68 GSM Association (GSMA) Turkish Industry and Business Association (TÜSIAD) Endeavor Turkey Informatics Association for Turkey (TBD) The Union of Access Providers (ESB) Turkish Informatics Foundation (TBV) Global Relations Forum (GIF) Turkish Public Relations Association (TÜHID) Habitat Foundation Turkish Businesswomen Association (TIKAD) Interactive Advertising Bureau of Turkey (IAB Turkey) Third Sector Foundation of Turkey (TÜSEV) Istanbul Chamber of Industry (ISO) The British Chamber of Commerce in Turkey (BCCT) International Investors Association (YASED) Istanbul Chamber of Commerce (ITO) World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Women Corporate Directors (WCD) Chain Stores Association (KMD) WWF Turkey Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Environmental Performance Indicators Water Consumption (m3) 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Municipal water 45,792 41,659 39,939 Energy Consumption (GJ) 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Technology centres 272,387 272,376 271,307 Waste (tons) 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Base stations 1,554,385 1,571,225 1,596,104 Non-hazardous waste 965 814 1,279 Office buildings 58,685 56,657 57,659 Hazardous waste 1,995 1,444 1,667 Vehicles fuel 49,872 51,519 50,561 Total 1,935,328 1,951,777 1,975,632 Recycled Waste Amount (kg) 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Renewable energy Paper 11,353 12,029 23,059 961 959 1,027 consumption (within total) Plastics 2,267 3,188 8,772 Domestic waste 230 Emissions (tons CO2 ) 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Other (glass, metal etc.) 100 1,058 Scope 1 15,687 18,129 15,921 Fuels 4,495 4,666 5,068 Reporting Principles Vehicles 3,747 3,873 3,804 Our greenhouse gas emissions are calculated according to WRI / WBCSD’s Greenhouse Gas Protocol methodology. In the calculations, CO 2 equivalent factors consisting of CO 2 , CH 4 , N 2O and HFCs (refrigerant gas) emissions were used. Global warming potential (GWP) coefficients F-gases 7,445 9,590 7,049 are taken from the IPCC 5 th Assessment Report. The sub-thermal values and TOE conversion coefficients of the energy resources used are Scope 2 248,518 260,143 260,693 taken from the tables in the regulation on “Increasing the Efficiency of Energy Resources and Energy in the Use of Energy”, published in the 69 Official Gazette dated 27 October 2011 and numbered 28097. 1 kcal = 4.184 k J, 1 GJ = 0.2777 MWh. For the calculation of the greenhouse gas Base stations 204,945 215,268 215,878 resulting from electricity consumption, the updated TEİAŞ (Turkish Electricity Transmission Corporation) data are used. Data centres 36,479 37,944 37,674 Office buildings 7,094 6,931 7,141 Total (Scope 1 + 2) 264,205 278,272 276,614 Scope 3 2,974 2,638 3,489 Service vehicles 1,412 1,239 2,089 Travels by Planes 1,561 1,399 1,399 Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Social Performance Indicators Parental Leave 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Female Male Female Male Female Male Number of Employees on 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 79 84 68 89 76 104 Parental Leave Employees by Gender Female Male Female Male Female Male Number of Employees Retur77 84 68 89 74 102 ned from Parental Leave Number of Employees 1,397 1,901 1,324 1,848 1,328 1,809 Employee Trainings 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Total 3,298 3,172 3,137 Total Training Hours 130,760 104,792 101,050 Employees by Term of 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 OHS Training 95,626 91,827 Employment Female Male Female Male Female Male 0-5 years 767 878 714 874 704 859 Employee Turnover by 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 Gender and Age Female Male Female Male Female Male 5-10 years 251 442 253 410 281 415 <30 Years Old 96 56 86 61 122 67 10 years 379 581 357 564 343 535 31-49 Years Old 58 92 59 129 112 204 70 Number of Employees 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 at the Senior Management by >50 Years Old 5 3 3 0 13 Gender and Age Female Male Female Male Female Male Total Number of 154 153 148 193 234 284 <30 Years Old 6 3 6 4 0 0 Employees who Left 31-49 Years Old 212 451 229 439 62 98 Number of New Recruits 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 by Gender and Age Female Male Female Male Female Male 50 years Old 12 18 1 22 1 11 <30 Years Old 215 101 126 117 110 98 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 31-49 Years Old 92 146 81 128 78 115 Performance Review Female Male Female Male Female Male <50 Years Old 1 1 0 5 Number of Employees Subject to Performance 1,389 1,882 1,369 1,889 1,328 1,809 Total Number of Employees Review 307 248 207 246 188 218 Recruited Within the Year Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t GRI Content Index During 2018/19 fiscal year, there were no significant changes 102-10 regarding size, structure, GRI Standard Disclosure References ownership or supply chain. GRI 101: Foundation 2016 102-11 60, 61 General Indicators 102-12 68 Organizational Profile 102-13 68 102-1 4 Strategy 102-2 4,5 102-14 3 Vodafone Plaza, Büyükdere Cad 102-3 No: 251, Maslak 34398, İstanbul 102-15 7, 8, 61, 64 102-4 4 71 GRI 102: Ethics and Integrity General Disclosure 2016 All shares of Vodafone Turkey 102-5 Group of Companies are owned by Vodafone Group Plc. 102-16 60, 61 102-6 4 102-17 61 102-7 5 Governance 102-8 70 102-18 60 102-9 55, 56 102-19 60 102-20 60 Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Stakeholder Engagement 102-53 4 102-40 15 102-54 4 102-55 71-76 Although Vodafone Turkey employees are not unionised, 102-41 102-56 No assurance is taken. we respect the right of collective bargaining. GRI 200: Economic Standard Series 2016 102-42 10, 15 Economic Performance 102-43 10, 15 103-1 7, 12 GRI 103: Management Approach 102-44 10, 11-14 103-2 7 2016 Reporting Practice 103-3 7 72 GRI 201: Economic Performance 102-45 4 201-1 7 2016 102-46 11-14 Indirect Economic Impact 102-47 10 103-1 7, 8 102-48 There were no restatements. GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 7, 8 2016 102-49 10 103-3 7, 8 102-50 4 GRI 203: Indirect Economic 203-1 7, 8, 64 102-51 1 April 2018 31 March 2019 Impact 2016 203-2 7, 8, 66 Sustainability Report is 102-52 published annually. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Anti-corruption Water 103-1 60, 61 103-1 14, 29 GRI 103: Management Approach GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 60, 61 2016 103-2 29 2016 103-3 60, 61 103-3 29 205-1 60, 61 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 69 205-2 60, 61 Emissions GRI 300: Environmental Standards Series 103-1 11, 29-34 Energy GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 29-34 103-1 11, 29-34 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-3 29-34 73 103-2 29-34 2016 305-1 69 103-3 29-34, 69 305-2 69 302-1 69 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-3 69 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-3 31 305-5 31-34 302-4 31-32 Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Water and Effluents 401-1 47, 70 103-1 36-37 GRI 401: Employment 201 401-2 49 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 36-37 401-3 47, 70 2016 103-3 36-37 Labour/Management Relations GRI 303: 306-2 36, 69 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 47 Water and Effluents 2016 2016 Supplier Environmental Assessment 103-2 47 103-3 47 103-1 55, 56 GRI 402: Labour/Management Minimum legal notice GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 55, 56 Relations 2016 402-1 periods are applied regarding 2016 operational changes. 103-3 55, 56 Occupational Health and Safety 74 308-1 55, 56 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental 103-1 13, 57-59 Assessment 2016 308-2 55, 56 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 57-59 GRI 400: Social Standards Series 2016 103-3 57-59, 70 Employment 403-1 57-59 103-1 45-47 GRI 403: Occupational Health GRI 103: Management Approach 403-2 57-59 103-2 45-47 and Safety 2018 2016 403-3 57-59 103-3 45-47 Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 403-4 57-59 Non-discrimination 403-5 70 103-1 46, 47 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 46 403-7 57-59 2016 103-3 46 403-8 57-59 GRI 406: Non-discrimination Training and Education 406-1 46 2016 103-1 45, 49 GRI 103: Management Approach Supplier Social Assessment 103-2 45, 49 2016 103-1 13, 55, 56 103-3 45, 49-51, 57 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 55, 56 404-1 50, 70 2016 GRI 404: Training and Education 103-3 55, 56 404-2 50-52 75 2016 GRI 414: Supplier Social 404-3 70 414-1 55, 56 Assessment 2016 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Customer Health and Safety 103-1 13, 47 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 64 103-2 47 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 64 103-3 47 2016 103-1 64 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal 405-1 47, 70 GRI 416: Customer Health and Opportunity 2016 416-1 64 There is no gender-based Safety 2016 405-2 discrimination in renumeration. Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vo d a f o n e Tu r k e y 2 019 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t Customer Privacy Women’s Empowerment 103-1 63 103-1 11, 23 GRI 103: Management Approach GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 63 2016 103-2 23, 24 103-3 63 103-3 25-27 GRI 416: Customer Privacy 2016 418-1 63 Youth Skills and Jobs Material Topics That Are Not Covered by the GRI Standards 103-1 13, 40 GRI 103: Management Approach Technological Innovation 2016 103-2 40, 41 103-3 41, 43 103-1 11, 17, 29 GRI 103: 103-2 17-21 76 Management Approach 2016 103-3 17-21 Digital Customer and Employee Experience 103-1 11, 17, 29 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 17-21 103-3 17-21 Message from CEO About the Report Vodafone Turkey Digitalisation Women’s Empowerment Energy Innovation Youth Skills and Jobs Our Employees Responsible Business and Value Chain Vodafone Turkey Foundation Appendices Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report 2019 Reporting Consultancy S360 Yeşilce Mahallesi, Yunus Emre Caddesi, Nil Ticaret Merkezi Contact No: 8 Kat: 1, 4. Levent 34418, Istanbul Vodafone Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. www.s360.com.tr Vodafone Plaza, Büyükdere Caddesi, No: 251, Maslak 34398, Istanbul T: 0850 542 00 00 (Vodafone Headquarters) T: 0542 542 00 00 (Vodafone Customer Services) or 542 (Vodafone Customers) Report Design www.vodafone.com.tr Daniska Contemporary Advertising and Design Agency Asmalımescit Mahallesi, Meşrutiyet Caddesi For more information on the Sustainability Report: No: 27 Kat: 6, Beyoğlu 34430, Istanbul surdurulebilirlik@vodafone.com www.daniska.com.tr/en Vodafone Turkey Sustainability Report was prepared solely for informative All rights reserved. Vodafone Turkey 77 purposes. All content and information in this Report are prepared using the information and sources deemed to be accurate and reliable in the period the Report was written. None of the information and content in this Report can be interpreted as a statement, warranty and/or commitment; nor is it guaranteed that the information and content in this Report is complete and unchangeable.
