UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Updated: May 2019  Blue Moon is a privately owned business in Egypt. The company was established in 2008 as a limited liability company. Our mission is to provide comprehensive services to the fresh produce sector in an effort to enhances the competitiveness of the Agriculture Sector in Egypt. Further information is available at our website www.bluemoon-eg.com  We started in 2008 with one office in Cairo and 3 employees. The company now has 3 registered branches in Beheira, Luxor, and Aswan.  During the implementation of the USAID-funded Premium Project for Egyptian Smallholders (August 2011 February 2018), BlueMoon employed 30 full time employees with a growth rate exceeding 30%.  Blue Moon joined the Global Compact Network Egypt in 2012 and signed the UN Global Compact Letter of Commitment. We also joined the Global Compact Business for Peace as a founding member in 2013. Statement by  Our Code of Practice underlines the principles that Blue Moon uses in its relationship with employees, business partners and other stakeholders. It also illustrates that the UN Global Compact principles and the UN Social Development Goals (SDGs) are an integral part of our business strategy, day-to-day operations and organizational culture. General  We regularly assess our risks and opportunities, as well as the impact of our operation in order to develop and refine our goals, strategies, and policies. As a result of our assessment, we share good practice to advance practical solutions and strategies to common challenges in the fresh produce sector. We also advance sustainability solutions in partnership Manager with our stakeholders including UN agencies, governments, civil society, and others within the sector.  Our accomplishments are greatly connected to our corporate culture, which is based on an entrepreneurial spirit and a passion for business, where healthy profitability and sustainable growth are key factors for success.  In the “Communication on Progress” we describe our actions to continuously improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy and daily operations. We also commit to share this information through our website and within our sphere of influence. Manal Saleh General Manager Blue Moon, Egypt May 2019 www.bluemoon-eg.com 2 Blue Moon is an Egyptian Limited Liability Company Established in 2008 to drive convergence with good agricultural practice, good manufacture and hygiene practice, and social responsibility through partnership programs with primary production stakeholders in Egypt, Africa and the Middle East Blue Moon’s sustainability strategy is based on UNGC principles , UN Sustainable Development Goals, Egypt’s Sustainable Strategy 2030 Vision, and ISO26000 guidelines Blue Moon is invited to worldwide events to share its local experience with Egyptian Smallholders and students/graduates of Agriculture Technical Schools. May 2019 www.bluemoon-eg.com 3  Human Rights  Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and  Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.  Labour  Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;  Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and UNGC  Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. principles  Environment  Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and  Principle 9: encourage the development and  The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles are diffusion of environmentally friendly derived from: the Universal Declaration of technologies. Human Rights, the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental  Anti-Corruption Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio  Principle 10: Businesses should work against Declaration on Environment and corruption in all its forms, including extortion Development, and the United Nations and bribery. Convention Against Corruption May 2019 www.bluemoon-eg.com 4  Human Rights  Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and  Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses  Commitment  Blue Moon actively supports the universal declaration of Human Rights. We respect and promote Human Rights within our sphere of influence and operate our business in a transparent and trustworthy way UNGC  Management system  Our Code of Practice illustrates Principles 1 & 2 as an integral part of our business strategy, day-to-day principles operations and organizational culture  We use the Global Compact Self Assessment tool to regularly assess our risks and opportunities, as well as the impact of our operation, in order to develop and refine our goals, strategies, and policies  Activities  Blue Moon strictly follows national regulations and pays special attention to avoid involvement in human rights abuses owing to societal practice e.g. discrimination, gender issues, etc.  Performance  Based on Blue Moon’s scope of services and code of practice, there are no significant risks that might cause a violation to our commitment to the Global Compact Principles 1 & 2  During the past year, we did not receive any negative feedback from our stakeholders concerning violations of Principle 1 May 2019 www.bluemoon-eg.com 5  Labour  Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;  Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and  Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.  Commitment  Blue Moon actively supports the universal declaration of Human Rights. We respect and promote Labour Rights within our sphere of influence and operate our business in a transparent and trustworthy way. UNGC  Management system  Our Code of Practice illustrates Principles 3-6 as an integral part of our business strategy, day-today operations and organizational culture. principles  We use the Global Compact Self Assessment tool to regularly assess our risks and opportunities, as well as the impact of our operation, in order to develop and refine our goals, strategies, and policies.  Activities  Blue Moon strictly follows national regulations and exerts a lot of effort to promote labour rights within its sphere of influence  Blue Moon facilitates the Egyptian Suppliers Ethical Trade Forum since 2010 in partnership with UK retailers (The cooperative Food, Marks and Spencer, and Sainsbury’s) in an effort to improve the working conditions of workers in Egypt with a focus on casual workers and labour providers. National legislations and ETI code underpin the Forum’s activities.  Performance  Based on Blue Moon’s scope of services and code of practice, there are no significant risks that might cause a violation to our commitment to the Global Compact Principles 3-6.  During the past year, we did not receive any negative feedback from our stakeholders concerning violations of Principle 3-6. On the contrary our efforts to raise awareness for labour rights has been commended. May 2019 www.bluemoon-eg.com 6  Environment  Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and  Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.  Commitment  Blue Moon actively supports the universal declaration of Human Rights. We respect and promote Human Rights within our sphere of influence and operate our business in a transparent and trustworthy way. UNGC  Management system  Our Code of Practice illustrates Principles 7-9 as an integral part of our business strategy, day-to-day operations and organizational culture. principles  We use the Global Compact Self Assessment tool to regularly assess our risks and opportunities, as well as the impact of our operation, in order to develop and refine our goals, strategies, and policies.  Activities  Blue Moon strictly follows national regulations and exerts a lot of effort to promote Good Agriculture Practice within its sphere of influence  Blue Moon established the GLOBALG.A.P. national technical working group for fruits and vegetable in Egypt.  Blue Moon designed and implements the USAID-funded Premium Project for Egyptian Small Growers since 2011. The project serves 11 small producer organisations with more than 4000 small growers, and 10 Agriculture Technical Schools with more than 20,000 students in 4 governorates. For further information, please visit www.smallgrowers-eg.com  Performance  Based on Blue Moon’s scope of services and code of practice, there are no significant risks that might cause a violation to our commitment to the Global Compact Principles 7-9.  During the past year, we did not receive any negative feedback from our stakeholders concerning violations of Principle 3-6. On the contrary our efforts to raise awareness for labor rights has been commended. May 2019 www.bluemoon-eg.com 7  Anti-Corruption  Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery  Commitment  Blue Moon actively supports the universal declaration of Human Rights. We respect and promote Human Rights within our sphere of influence and operate our business in a  transparent and trustworthy way. UNGC  Management system   Our Code of Practice illustrates Principle 10 as an integral part of our business strategy, day-to-day operations and organizational culture. We use the Global Compact Self Assessment tool to regularly assess our risks and opportunities, as well as the impact of our operation, in order to develop and refine our principles goals, strategies, and policies.  Activities  Blue Moon strictly follows national regulations and exerts a lot of effort to promote Good Agriculture Practice within its sphere of influence  Blue Moon is a member of EJB anti-corruption task force since 2012  In 2013 Blue Moon joined the GC Business for Peace as a founding member  Blue Moon designed and implements the USAID-funded Premium Project for Egyptian Small Growers since 2011. The project serves 11 small producer organisations with more than 4000  small growers, and 10 Agriculture Technical Schools with more than 20,000 students in 4 governorates. For further information, please visit www.smallgrowers-eg.com  Performance  Based on Blue Moon’s scope of services and code of practice, there are no significant risks that might cause a violation to our commitment to the Global Compact Principle 10.  During the past year, we did not receive any negative feedback from our stakeholders concerning violations of Principle 10. On the contrary our efforts to raise awareness for labor rights has been commended. May 2019 www.bluemoon-eg.com 8 USAID-funded Premium Project for Egyptian Small Growers Designed and implemented by Blue Moon LLC August 2011-February 2018 https://www.usaid.gov/egypt/agriculture-and-food-security Matrouh (2) • 880 vegetable growers • 1 Produce handling unit (PHU) BRC Geographic • (operating under the Egyptian Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamations) (10) distribution of Beheira Fairtrade Small • 3,126 fruit and vegetable growers (operating under the Egyptian Ministry of Agriculture and (11) Land Reclamations GLOBALG.A.P Producer • 1 Produce handling unit (PHU) Organisations Luxor 8,053 small growers • 177 fruit and vegetable growers (operating under (12% females) (2011-2016) the Egyptian Ministry of Social Solidarity) • 3,214 fruit and vegetable growers (operating under the Egyptian Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation) Cooperative Enterprises • 1 Produce handling unit (PHU) 11 SPO Build a Better World • A small producer organization (SPO) can be either an Agriculture Cooperative operating under the Ministry of Agriculture, or an Agriculture Association operating under the Ministry of Social Solidarity. An MOU is signed between Blue Moon (USAID implementing partner) and each SPO in the 3 governorates May 2019 www.bluemoon-eg.com 10 39 supply contracts (including Fairtrade markets) Total Volume 4,360 ton 10 Value Chains Community and & 6.1 million Artichoke heads (fresh & processed) Sales Value: $1,715,079 economic development Average sales Average Net Average local price $322/ton profit $112/ton price $223/ton Household increase ~35% on average May 2019 www.bluemoon-eg.com 11 Small Producer Organizations (11) 33 jobs Produce Handling Units (3) 4 female extension officers, data M. Ismail PHU: 48 jobs 40 females entry and supervisors Issra PHU: 6 males 400 jobs (hazardous waste bags, Esna PHU: 33 jobs 25 females field toilets, protective clothes, Community and etc.) economic development ATS (10) Internship program : 457 job opportunity Blue Moon Entrepreneurship program: 142 job 38 jobs 8 females Technology: 80 teachers 40% Females May 2019 www.bluemoon-eg.com 12 Tomatoes (5_ cold-trucks, Beheira (1.5 tons) May 2019 www.bluemoon-eg.com 13 Artichokes (5_ cold-trucks, Beheira (1.5 tons) May 2019 www.bluemoon-eg.com 14 Sweet Potatoes (5_ cold-trucks, Beheira (1.5 tons) May 2019 www.bluemoon-eg.com 15 Social and Environmental Impact for small growers May 2019 www.bluemoon-eg.com 16 USAID-funded Premium Project for Egyptian Small Growers Agriculture Technical Schools (ATS) August 2014September 2016 Beheira Geographic • Kom Hamada ATS 10 ATS distribution of • Nobaria ATS • Wadi Natroun ATS Agriculture 215 Technical Schools Qena Supervisor (ATS) • Qena ATS • Qeft ATS (12% females) (2011-2016) • Khozam ATS Luxor 1,200 teacher • Esna ATS (30% females) 16,232 student Aswan • Kom Ombo ATS • Edfo ATS (6% females) • Eneiba ATS An MOU was signed in February 2015 between Blue Moon (USAID implementing partner) and the Egyptian Ministry of Education to enable the implementation of the USAID-funded Premium Project for Egyptian Small Growers at (10) Agriculture Technical Schools in four (4) Governorates May 2019 www.bluemoon-eg.com 18  Improve management practice at (10) agriculture Goals technical schools (ATS) in an effort to improve the income of ATS students/graduates:  Improve management practice of school administration team  Improve performance of technical and basic education teachers  Link Agriculture technical schools with the agriculture sector and provide internship opportunities outside schools  Establish Career Development Centers in an effort to sustain the USAID-Funded Premium Project efforts in developing:  Business and personal skills of students/graduates  An internship program for students  An entrepreneurship program for students/graduates  An employment program for graduates May 2019 www.bluemoon-eg.com 19 Implementation Entrepreneurship Internship Program Program Employment Capacity Building Program (9) Career Development Centers May 2019 www.bluemoon-eg.com 20  Improve personal and Active learning and lesson plan technical skills for • TOT: (75) supervisor supervisors, teachers and Capacity • Training of 235 supervisor (technical & basic education) • Training of technical & basic education teacher; Beheira (358), Qena (409), students Luxor (157), Aswan 243) Building  Professors from Cairo Strategic planning: ATS management team (48) University participated in the Technical training project, as well as other • Responsible use of pesticides (RU) and Spray Service Provider Program (SSP): 74 supervisor and teacher, and 522 student professional business • Identification of plots with GPS: 60 teachers • Feasibility study for small projects: 51 teacher institutions such as CropLife, • Use of information technology in the agriculture sector: 74 teacher Human Capital, and WEF Personal skills • Part (1) TOT: 15 supervisor and 95 teacher on “efficient communication – resume writing – team work – personal interview – problem solving) • Part (2) TOT: training of 158 teachers on “ leadership – personalities – negotiation – disputes) Business ethics • Training of 40 supervisors, 166 teacher and 1419 student Awareness of international standards: GLOBALG.A.P., Fairtrade, BRC: 81 teachers Awareness of EU Marketing Standards: 74 teachers Modern Agriculture techniques e.g. hydroponics, aquaponics, 66 teachers May 2019 www.bluemoon-eg.com 21 Capacity TOT  building  65 ATS supervisors and teachers  A memorandum of understanding (cont’d) is signed between Blue Moon and CropLife to provide a capacity building program that fits within the scope of activities related to the USAID-funded Premium Project for Egyptian Small Responsible use of Pesticides (RU), and Spray Service Providers (SSP) Growers especially:  (1) Compliance with  500 student GLOBALG.A.P. and Fairtrade criteria for the responsible use of pesticides (RU) and Container Management  (2) Provide job opportunities through the spray service provider program (SSP) May 2019 www.bluemoon-eg.com 22 Up to 30/9/2016 Buisness Case Ground Rules Internship Company Student  ATS need to provide an internship program for  ATS students/graduates provide a sustainable Program Belco 56 students to improve their technical skills in solution to the industry’s need for “identified workers” Daltex 113 preparation for market needs  Standard agreement to ’A student who has spent time in an internship program, will show dedication, enthusiasm, and most El-Baraka 40 specify the internship importantly, will have real time experience’ –Walt El-Heba 44  Egyptian F&V suppliers program, and to ensure Disney. have to use casual the health and safety of El-Morshed 56 workers due to the students during the seasonality of their internship program El-Rowad 10 products, and they face  Guaranteed direct El-Salamony 48 daily challenges with payment to students. labour providers Fresh Fruits 15  Regular meetings  Human trafficking and between ESET Kadco 37 child labour issues are participants and ATS stressing the administration to Lina 38 improve success rates of international and local the pilot project Pico 65 supply chain Total 522 The Egyptian Suppliers Ethical Trade Forum (ESET) is an activity of Blue Moon since 2010 with the continual support of UK retailers: the Co-operative, UK Marks and Spencer – Sainsbury’s. The Forum aims at improving the working conditions of Egyptian workers May 2019 www.bluemoon-eg.com 23  Capacity building for 5 teachers from each ATS on “initiating and managing a small project”  Provision of EGP1500 only for inputs  Teachers supervised the entrepreneurship programs in their school  Most of the projects were successful and some parents participated in the projects of their children. Entrepreneurship  E.g. a student in Nobaria ATS started a rabbit project in March 2015 and his father invested with him. In August 2016 their profits were EGP 25,000 Program  2 consecutive programs: ATS students demonstrated that they have the will but need guidance:  345 feasibility studies (including basic education departments; art, photography, etc.) ‘If you can dream it, you can do it. --Walt Disney;  156 students were eligible to initiate their small projects after submitting their feasibility studies March 2015 March 2016  207 proposals – 92 finals  138 proposals – 64 finals  Best project from Esna ATS  Best project from Edfo ATS  Student name: Ms. Doaa Bakr  Student name: Ms. Jamea ElTohamy  Project: Ducks  Project: Bread  Capital: EGP 1500  Capital: EGP 1500  Revenues EGP16,800  Revenues EGP8,850  Total profit: EGP8,800  Total profit: EGP7,350 May 2019 www.bluemoon-eg.com 24 A new generation of entrepreneurs from Agriculture Technical Schools May 2019 www.bluemoon-eg.com 25 Sustainability tool for Before After students/graduates Career  One class at each school was Development transformed into a CDC. The ATS/CDC Center (CDC) management team are expected to sustain the positive ‘when the winds of change blow, some impact of the the people build walls, and others build windmills’ USAID-funded • Activities of the CDC: Premium Project • Follow the good management practice manual after its lifetime. • Update the ATS database for participants  9 centers  Beheira (2) • Implementation of capacity building programs for  Qena (3) teachers/students/graduates  Luxor (1) • Update and implementation of:  Aswan (3) • Internship program • entrepreneurship program • Employment program (136 graduates were May 2019 www.bluemoon-eg.com employed in 2016 through the CDC) 26 Plan Do ATS database Planned Actual activities Activities Use of technology Check Act Student’s Reports ID card (+QR code) May 2019 www.bluemoon-eg.com 27 Mohamed Hassan received training from CropLife (Responsible use of pesticides (RU) and Spray Service Provider Program (SSP) Updated Resume of student/graduate Name ID number Date of birth Governorate School ATS database Training Program Internship Program  Student’s Use of Technology ID card (+QR code) Entrepreneurship Program The QR code on the back of the card will link to the student’s electronic training and employment record and users can search based on required experience The database is designed to include updated information on students/graduates as well as scores by trainers and supervisors at work i.e. the database will reflect the true calibre of students/graduates May 2019 www.bluemoon-eg.com 28 ESET May 2019 www.bluemoon-eg.com 29
