Sustainability Report 2 018 − Web version − The Air You Live in Every year the Daikin Group reports on its CSR (corporate social responsibility) activities. On the Sustainability section of the Daikin Web site, we have past years’ data and related information so that you can read the details of all activities we are involved in. This PDF file contains all the fiscal 2017 information from the Sustainability section of our Web site. You may download and print it out. Note: The printed version of the Sustainability Report 2018 focuses on our main activities and efforts. It can also be downloaded as a PDF file. Contents Editorial Policy 4 Daikin CSR at a Glance 10 Daikin s Sustainability 18 CSR and Strategy 25 CSR and Strategy ………………………………………… 26 CSR Management ………………………………………… 41 Message from the President ………………………… 29 CSR Action Plan 2020…………………………………… 44 CSR Philosophy …………………………………………… 32 Participation in the Global Compact ……………… 55 Value Chain and Daikin's CSR ………………………… 36 Environment 57 Environmental Vision 2050 …………………………… 61 Eﬀective Use of Resources ………………………… 145 Basic Environmental Policy …………………………… 65 Eﬀective Use of Resources in Products ……… 147 Overview of Environmental Impact ………………… 67 Waste Reduction…………………………………… 153 Environmental Management ………………………… 69 Home Appliance Recycling Results …………… 154 Management Structure ……………………………… 71 Water Resource Reduction …………………… 156 Risks and Opportunities …………………………… 72 Management and Reduction of Environmental Action Plan ………………………… 73 Chemical Substances ………………………………… 158 Environmental Management System …………… 77 Management and Reduction of Environmental Audits………………………………… 83 Chemical Substances Contained in Products 160 Green Heart Factories and Oﬃces ……………… 84 Compliance with J-Moss ………………………… 164 Environmentally Conscious Design ……………… 85 Management and Reduction of Green Procurement ………………………………… 91 Chemical Substances during Production …… 168 Environmental Accounting ………………………… 94 Preventing Pollution ……………………………… 171 Response to Climate Change …………………… 98 Protecting Biodiversity ……………………………… 174 Developing and Promoting Products and Protecting Biodiversity …………………………… 175 Services That Reduce Environmental Impact 101 History of Environmental Activities ……………… 183 Increasing Air Conditioner Eﬃciency ………… 103 Endorsement as an Eco First Company ………… 186 Low Environmental Impact Refrigerants …… 109 Promoting the Use of Inverter Products ……… 114 Promoting the Use of Heat-Pump Type Space and Hot Water Heaters ………………… 117 Energy-Eﬃciency through Fluorochemical Products and Oil Hydraulic Products ………… 121 Reducing Greenhouse Gases during Production and Transportation ………………… 125 Providing Solutions ………………………………… 129 Recovery, Recycle and Destruction of Fluorocarbons ……………………………………… 135 -1New Value Creation 188 Daikin's Goal for Value Creation …………… 191 Start-Up Arises from Collaborative Management Structure ………………………… 194 Innovation ………………………………………… 198 Value Creation through Collaborative Innovation ………………………………………… 200 Customer Satisfaction 206 Product Quality and Safety ………………………… 209 Protecting Customer Information ………………… 226 Customer Satisfaction………………………………… 216 Human Resources 227 Fostering Human Resources………………………… 230 Work-Life Balance …………………………………… 254 Workplace Diversity ………………………………… 237 Employee Evaluation and Treatment …………… 261 Occupational Safety and Health…………………… 245 Labor Management Relations ……………………… 263 Corporate Governance 265 Corporate Governance ……………………………… 268 Prohibiting Bribes ……………………………………… 285 Risk Management ……………………………………… 274 Information Security ………………………………… 287 Compliance……………………………………………… 279 Respect for Intellectual Property Rights ………… 289 Free Competition and Fair Business Dealings 284 Respect for Human Rights 292 Respect for Human Rights …………………………… 294 Supply Chain Management 298 Philosophy on Suppliers……………………………… 300 Green Procurement Guidelines …………………… 311 Working Closely with Suppliers …………………… 305 Stakeholder Engagement 312 Stakeholder Engagement …………………………… 314 Dialogue with Government and Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors ……… 316 Industry Groups ……………………………………… 319 -2Communities 323 Daikin s Philosophy of Social Contribution……… 326 Harmony with Communities Protecting the Environment ………………………… 327 ̶ Contributing to Promotion of Art and Culture 359 Supporting Education ………………………………… 331 Harmony with Communities Harmony with Communities ̶ Contributing to Promotion of Sports ………… 362 ̶ Strengthening Bonds ……………………………… 338 List of Daikin's Social Contribution Activities …… 365 Key Activities 387 List of Fiscal 2017 Key Activities …………………………………………………………………………………………………… 388 Environment: Environmentally Conscious Products Come from Green Heart Factories ………………………………………… 392 New Value Creation: Reducing Fatigue and Realizing Pleasant Air Environments through Open Innovation ……………………… 396 Customer Satisfaction: Create a Mechanism That Brings Peace of Mind by Promoting Adoption of Low-Environmental-Impact Heat-Pump Heating ………………………………………………………………………… 400 Human Resources: Human Resource Development in the U.S.̶ Growing with Local Communities ……………………………… 404 Sustainability Report 408 Third-Party Veriﬁcation ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 409 Method of Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions Data ………………………………………………………………… 412 Honors for Daikin ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 416 Search for CSR Contents 420 Search by Guidelines …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 421 Search by ESG Data …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 443 -3Sustainability Report 2018 －Web version－ Editorial Policy Editorial Policy -4Sustainability Report EDITORIAL POLICY Editorial Policy This report covers the basic philosophy of the Daikin Group with regards to sustainable growth, achievements in fiscal 2017, and plans for the future. Information that, due to space limitations, could not fit into the Sustainability Report 2018 (printed version) released in July 2018 is included on this website. Printed Version In this Sustainability Report, we focus on the most important information from among the Daikin Group's strategies toward a sustainable society; the four key themes of CSR for Value Provision, which are environment, new value creation, customer satisfaction, and human resources; and Fundamental CSR, which forms the basis of these themes. Under Key Activities, we report on activities we are focusing on in each of our four key CSR themes. For more details, see the PDF version of the report. (http://www.daikin.com/csr/report/) Key Activities (Page 388) Website This website comprises detailed data and case studies and is divided into CSR and Strategy, which explains the policy, strategies, and plans of the Daikin Group's CSR; and nine CSR themes that the Daikin Group prioritizes (four themes of CSR for Value Provision, which are environment, new value creation, customer satisfaction, and human resources; and five themes of Fundamental CSR, which are corporate governance, respect for human rights, supply chain management, stakeholder engagement, and communities). Third-Party Verification To ensure reliability of the content of this report, Daikin had a third-party verification conducted for data on greenhouse gas emissions, water use, waste water, waste emissions, and chemical substances emissions. Third-Party Verification (Page 409) Editorial Policy -5Reference Guidelines This report was created with reference to the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards 2016 released by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Guideline comparison tables are on our website. Our CSR activities are conducted in line with ISO 26000. Since 2008, the Daikin Group has been taking part in the United Nations Global Compact, an initiative for companies committed to operating based on 10 universally accepted principles in areas including human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. Daikin also issues this CSR Report as an annual Communication on Progress (COP) to the United Nations, a public disclosure on progress made in implementing the 10 principles of the Global Compact. Search by Guidelines (Page 421) In reporting on fiscal 2017 CSR activities, data was carefully reviewed and was revised in cases where discrepancies occurred between actual fiscal 2017 results and information reported for fiscal 2016. Also, because figures are rounded off, totals may not equal the sum of individual figures. Forecasts, Expectations, and Plans This report includes forecasts, expectations, and plans, in addition to past and present facts, about Daikin Industries, Ltd., and its subsidiaries (collectively called the Daikin Group). Please be aware that these are assumptions and judgments made based on the information available at the time this report was written and thus incorporate a degree of uncertainty. Consequently, there is a possibility that events occurring in the future may turn out differently from the forecasts, expectations, and plans stated in this report. Editorial Policy -6What This Report Covers Term Covered This report covers fiscal 2017 (April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018). Daikin Organizations Covered This report covers Daikin Industries, Ltd. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Environmental performance data, however, covers four Daikin Industries, Ltd., production bases; eight production subsidiaries in Japan, and 47 production subsidiaries overseas. Japan Daikin Industries, Ltd. Head Office Tokyo Office Sakai Plant Air conditioning/refrigeration equipment, compressors Shiga Plant Air conditioning equipment, compressors Yodogawa Fluorochemical products, hydraulic equipment, air-conditioning equipment, precision Plant defense equipment Kashima Plant Fluorochemical products 8 Production Subsidiaries Daikin Sheet-Metal Co., Ltd. Daikin Piping Co., Ltd. Daikin Hydraulic Engineering Co., Ltd. Daikin Rexxam Electronics (Japan) Ltd. Daikin Sunrise Settsu Ltd. Toho Kasei Co., Ltd. Kyoei Kasei Industries, Ltd. Nippon Muki Co., Ltd. Editorial Policy -7Overseas 47 Production Subsidiaries Daikin Australia Pty., Ltd. Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. Daikin Airconditioning (Thailand) Ltd. Daikin Europe N.V. Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd. Daikin Chemical France S.A.S. Daikin Chemical Netherlands B.V. Daikin Device Czech Republic s.r.o. Daikin Industries Czech Republic s.r.o. Daikin Air-conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Daikin Air-conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (Huizhou Branch) Xi'an Daikin Qing'an Compressor Co., Ltd. Daikin Fluoro Coatings (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd. Daikin Device (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Daikin Motor (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Daikin America, Inc. Daikin Refrigeration (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Rotex Heating Systems GmbH Daikin Airconditioning India Pvt. Ltd. Daikin Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Daikin Refrigeration Malaysia Sdn.Bhd. McQuay Technology (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. Daikin Electronic Devices Malaysia Sdn.Bhd. Daikin Steel Malaysia Sdn.Bhd. Shenzhen McQuay Air Conditioning Co., Ltd. McQuay Air Conditioning & Refrigeration (Wuhan) Co., Ltd. McQuay Air Conditioning & Refrigeration (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Editorial Policy -847 Production Subsidiaries AAF (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. AAF (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. American Air Filter Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd. AAF (Wuhan) Co., Ltd. Daikin Applied Americas Inc. American Air Filter Company, Inc. (Delaware) Daikin Air-conditioning (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. J & E Hall Limited (United Kingdom) Coulstock & Place Engineering Co. Limited (United Kingdom) McQuay (UK) Limited (United Kingdom) AAF-Limited (United Kingdom) AAF International B.V. (The Netherland) AAF International s.r.o. (Slovakia) Daikin Applied Europe S.p.A. Daikin Isitma Ve Sogutma Sistemleri San. Tic. A.S. JiangXi DaTang Chemicals Co., Ltd. Daikin Refrigerants Europe GmbH Goodman Manufacturing Company, L.P. Quietflex Manufacturing Company, L.P. Editorial Policy -9Sustainability Report 2 018 －Web version－ Daikin CSR at a Glance Daikin CSR at a Glance 10 DAIKIN CSR AT A GLANCE Daikin uses the technologies and knowledge related to air cultivated over many years to make life on Earth more comfortable. Going forward, we will provide new value that makes people and air comfortable and healthy through energy-saving technologies. Contributing to the Conserving Forests with Mitigation of Global People around the Warming with EnergyWorld Efficient Air Conditioners Creating Comfortable Spaces with Small Amounts of Energy Protecting Human Health with Air Creating Environments in Which Everyone Can Work Energetically Daikin CSR at a Glance 11 More Information about Daikin's CSR Message from the President Sustainability Report Forests for the Air Project (Page 29) (https://www.daikin.com/csr/report/) (https://www.daikin.com/csr/forests/) Message from Masanori Download the PDF file Daikin carries out forest Togawa, Representative conservation activities in the Director, President and CEO seven regions worldwide Other Environment-Related content (https://www.daikin.com/csr/environment_special/) Daikin CSR at a Glance 12 Contributing to the Mitigation of Global Warming with Energy-Efficient Air Conditioners *1 Products that satisfy either or both of consume at least 30% less electricity than conventional products or use refrigerants with at least two-thirds less global warming potential than conventional refrigerants *2 Difference between the amount of energy-efficient air conditioners sold by Daikin and the amount of energy saved in consideration of total sales volume with CO2 emissions of energyefficient air conditioners as the baseline Daikin promotes the spread of energy-efficient air conditioners using refrigerants with low global warming potential. Daikin will contribute to the mitigation of global warming by reducing CO2 emissions by 60 million tons (about 80% of the amount of CO2 emitted by Japanese private cars in one year) in fiscal 2020. The Society Daikin is Aiming Toward A society that does not exacerbate environmental burdens Aiming for a society that reduces environmental burdens while making people and air healthy and comfortable by promoting the spread of air conditioners that have a minor impact on global warming. Response to Climate Change (Page 98) Daikin CSR at a Glance 13 Creating Comfortable Spaces with Small Amounts of Energy *3 Energy saved through energy conservation and efficient operation of buildings and facilities, and energy created by solar power generation (fiscal 2016 results) Daikin promotes R&D to reduce building energy consumption to zero. At Daikin research facilities (TIC), we reduce energy consumption by 82% compared to standard buildings by introducing highly energy efficient equipment and management systems that control incorporate natural light and air and reduce the amount of air conditioning and electric lighting requirements. The Society Daikin is Aiming Toward A Society that Uses Energy Efficiently We aim for a society that maintains comfortable living and office spaces with less energy and are launching efficient energy management initiatives that work for individual air conditioners as well as entire buildings and cities. Providing Solutions (Page 129) Daikin CSR at a Glance 14 Protecting Human Health with Air Daikin pursues the possibilities of air that contributes to human health and comfortable lifestyles. Amid increasing needs for air environments in light of air pollution caused by economic development in emerging countries and tightening regulations regarding spatial hygiene in the pharmaceutical and food industries, we pursue safer, healthier and more comfortable air environments from a variety of perspectives including cleanliness, airflow and odor, contributing to the creation of office, home, hospital and factory environments. The Society Daikin is Aiming Toward A Society Offering Health and Comfortable Lifestyles We pursue societies where people throughout the world can live in health and comfort, as we seek to solve air problems and pursue improvements in the quality of spaces including air environments that enhance concentration. Value creation through collaborative innovation (Page 200) Daikin CSR at a Glance 15 Creating Environments in Which Everyone Can Work Energetically Daikin believes in the possibilities of people brimming with diversity. In promoting the active participation of women, we have announced a goal (*4) of making 10% of our managers women by the end of fiscal 2020. To this end, we are implementing measures including increasing awareness among male managers and female employees and offering measures supporting women's return to work after childbirth or childcare to avoid career gaps. *4 Daikin Industries, Ltd. goal The Society Daikin is Aiming Toward A Society in Which Everyone is Useful With the aim of realizing a society in which everyone's diverse possibilities can be utilized, we engage in people-centered management that links people's individuality and strengths to business growth and global sustainable development. Human Resources (Page 228) Daikin CSR at a Glance 16 Conserving Forests with People around the World Daikin cultivates forests with local communities in seven locations around the world. There are many unnatural factors causing deforestation, including agricultural cultivation and the use of timber for firewood and fuel. In response to these issues, Daikin promotes initiatives aimed at achieving a balance between peoples lives and forest preservation. The Society Daikin is Aiming Toward A Society in Which Humans Coexist with Nature Daikin cooperates extensively with governments, local communities NGOs and other groups to engage in conserving and restoring nature with the aim of creating a sustainable society in which nature and people coexist throughout the world. Communities (Page 324) Daikin CSR at a Glance 17 Sustainability Report 2 018 －Web version－ Daikin’s Sustainability Daikinʼs Sustainability 18 DAIKIN'S SUSTAINABILITY Problems such as climate change and changing demographics are presenting our advancing global society with many challenges. Daikin aims to contribute to sustainable growth for the world by solving social problems and providing society with new value. What kind of company is Daikin? We are a global company that operates on the three business pillars of air conditioning, chemicals, and filters. Basic Management Policy Corporate Policies Strategic Management Plan 1. Absolute Credibility 2. Enterprising Management 3. Harmonious Personal Relation Co‒create New Value in the Air and Environment Fields with Wisdom and Passion Details here (https://www.daikin.com/ Details here (Page 32) investor/management/strategy/) Daikinʼs Sustainability 19 Daikin's Three Business Pillars Details here (Page 26) How does Daikin think society can solve its problems? The world faces many problems, and to solve these will require that all stakeholders, whether from government, industry, or other parts of society, work together to create globally linked frameworks. Daikinʼs Sustainability 20 Outlook for Global Risk Extreme weather Failures of climate events and Natural disasters change mitigation Cyber attacks Water crises temperatures and adaptation Source: World Economic Forum Global Risks Perception Survey 2017-2018 International Framework Paris Agreement to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Sustainable Development Goals Change (SDGs) All major greenhouse-gas emitting Common goals to find solutions by 2030 countries, including emerging countries, for pressing world problems such as shall reduce their emissions in order to poverty, inequality, and climate change in limit global warming by less than 2°C order to realize a sustainable society compared to pre-industrial levels by the latter half of this century Kigali Amendment to the Montreal U.N. Global Compact Protocol A worldwide framework for achieving The Kigali Amendment mandates to phase sustainable growth by having member down the production and consumption of companies recognize universal values in HFCs in CO2-equivalent in order to relation to issues such as human rights, mitigate their impact on global warming labor, environment, and corruption Daikinʼs Sustainability 21 What kind of value does Daikin provide to society? Daikin's Aims for Value Creation Provide new value that makes people and space healthier and more comfortable while at the same time reducing environmental impact. Value Creation for the Earth Reduce environmental impact through all business activities and contribute to alleviating climate change Further raise the environmental performance of products Make effective use of resources Protect forests and help sustain their inherent functions Work toward sustainable development goals (SDGs) Value Creation for Cities Contributing to solving energy-related issues arising from urbanization and contribute to the creation of sustainable cities Effectively use energy throughout entire buildings and entire cities Build systems for recycling-based societies Create new types of energy Work toward sustainable development goals (SDGs) Daikinʼs Sustainability 22 Value Creation for People Pursue new possibilities for air and contribute to healthy, comfortable lifestyles Protect people from heatstroke and infectious diseases Protect people's health from atmospheric pollution Improve indoor environments to support people's comfortable and affluent lifestyles Raise productivity to contribute to economic advancement Work toward sustainable development goals (SDGs) Details here (Page 191) Human Resource Development Supports Value Creation Foster human resources who spur innovation and who spread newly created value around the world. Contribute to the growth of employees and local citizens Training of highly skilled personnel Job creation Contribution to local economic development Creation of new products and services that help raise people's lifestyles Daikinʼs Sustainability 23 What is Daikin doing about these problems? Based on Our Group Philosophy, which is the unifying force for our management, we create and implement proposals for Group action in five-year cycles under our Fusion strategic management plans. In fiscal 2018, we formulated Daikin Environmental Vision 2050 in order to contribute to solving increasingly serious global environmental problems over the long term. Based on this environmental vision, we set targets and implement measures under our Fusion strategic management plans with the goal of contributing to a sustainable society by taking on the world's problems through our business (https://www.daikin.com/ investor/management/strategy/) (Page 32) (Page 61) Daikinʼs Sustainability 24 Sustainability Report 2 018 －Web version－ CSR and Strategy CSR and Strategy ………………………………………… 26 CSR Management ………………………………………… 41 Message from the President ………………………… 29 CSR Action Plan 2020…………………………………… 44 CSR Philosophy …………………………………………… 32 Participation in the Global Compact ……………… 55 Value Chain and Daikin's CSR ………………………… 36 CSR and Strategy 25 CSR and Strategy CSR AND STRATEGY In 2016, Daikin began its Fusion 20 strategic management plan targeting 2020. Under Fusion 20, we will increase demand mainly in emerging markets and seek solutions to numerous global challenges, such as climate change impact, through our business activities in order to create new value and help realize a sustainable society. Daikin Sustainability toward 2020 Basic Management Policy CSR Philosophy (Page 32) CSR and Strategy 26 External Factors Impact on Climate Change Increase in Air Conditioner Demand Growing Worldwide Energy Demand Air conditioner demand in 2020 4 times compared to 2000 (Daikin forecast) Energy-induced CO2 in 2030 69 % increase compared to 2000 (IEA) Environmental Impact of Refrigerants Global warming impact from fluorocarbons (HFCs) in 2030 5 times compared to 2010 (Daikin forecast) Management Strategy and CSR Fusion 20 Strategic Management Plan Daikin Group CSR CSR for Value Provision Co-create New Value in the Air and Environment Fields with Wisdom and Environment Passion New Value Creation Customer Satisfaction Key Strategies Human Resources Strengthen Existing Businesses / New Business Fundamental CSR Domains and New Business Structure Corporate Governance Create More Sophisticated Technologies and Respect for Human Rights Production Methods Supply Chain Management Create More Sophisticated Management Stakeholder Engagement Control Communities Implement a Unique Daikin Philosophy CSR Philosophy (Page 32) Fusion 20 Strategic Management Plan (https://www.daikin.com/investor /management/strategy/) CSR and Strategy 27 Goals for 2020 Achieve Net Sales of 2.9 Trillion Yen, We provide healthy and comfortable Operating Income Margin of 12% air environments for people around the world while at the same time Enhance existing businesses (air conditioning, reducing environmental impact. chemicals, filters) Expand new business (heating/water heater, energy solutions, commercial refrigeration, Contribute to mitigating global warming refrigerants, air environment engineering) FY2020 Target 2020 Company-Wide Quantitative Targets Contribution to Greenhouse Gas Emission Reductions Net Sales 2.9 trillion yen 60 million tons-CO /year 2 Operating Income 3,480 billion yen Contribute to sustainable urban development Operating Income Margin 12.0 % Contribute to people's health and comfort CSR and Strategy 28 CSR and Strategy MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT The Daikin Group strove to increase sales in North America, Asia, and other key regions under the Fusion 20 strategic management plan in fiscal 2017. Besides marking the fifth year in a row that we broke our financial performance record, we invested in increased production capacity and larger sales and service networks as we strove to strengthen our foundation toward sustainable development. Reducing Environmental Impact through Energy-Efficient Air Conditioners Air conditioners, Daikin's main product, have revolutionized labor and lifestyles in hot regions. They have contributed to higher-quality lifestyles and economic growth and today are a key part of the infrastructure supporting society. However, the proliferation of air conditioners has led to higher electricity consumption and may be a factor in negative impacts on the environment such as climate change. We believe that a company cannot grow its business unless it contributes to solving environmental problems. Based on our strategic management plan, therefore, we have stepped up efforts to reduce environmental impact caused by our products and business activities. To alleviate the impact we have on climate change, we are working to spread the use of environmentally conscious products that use energy-efficient inverter technology and R-32, a refrigerant with low global warming potential. In fiscal 2017, environmentally conscious products as a percentage of group sales of residential air conditioners was 83%, which resulted in a contribution to CO2 emission reductions of 54 million tons-CO2. CSR and Strategy 29 Long-Term Environmental Vision for 2050 As economic activities intensify and transcend international borders, the world is undergoing major changes, as exemplified by accords such as the Paris Agreement and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations. Investment decision-making is also changing as investors today are judging companies by different criteria. More and more are assessing companies based on their efforts toward common worldwide targets that emphasize risk and opportunity from a long-term view; an example is Climate Action 100+, an initiative aimed at getting companies to improve transparency regarding their impact on climate change. Against this background and in the spirit of the Paris Agreement, Daikin has announced a long-term environmental vision for 2050 through which it aims to achieve zero CO2 emissions by 2050. Besides making products and production activities more energy efficient and developing and spreading the use of refrigerants with lower global warming potential, we are reducing CO2 emissions through IoT-and AIdriven solutions; for example, we are boosting energy efficiency by improving the interaction between air conditioning and buildings. Furthermore, we are aiming for zero CO2 emissions by recovering and recycling refrigerants at use in the market. By working with various partners to reduce greenhouse gases, we are on a mission to provide safe and healthy air for society. Human Resource Development Spurs Innovation The innovation needed to solve social issues like climate change can only come from people. We believe that the cumulative growth of all group members serves as the foundation for the group's development, and we strive to create an environment in which employees can achieve growth by realizing their full potential. We believe that by utilizing recent lightning-fast developments in IoT and AI, air conditioning can create new value in both industry and people's lives. In fiscal 2017, we opened the Daikin Information and Communications Technology College in our Technology and Innovation Center under a comprehensive collaboration agreement with Osaka University. The agreement will foster human resources capable of developing AI-driven technologies and businesses, and lead to innovation by combining Osaka University's state-of-the-art information sciences with Daikin's air conditioning technologies and wealth of data. Daikin continues to take part in the United Nations Global Compact, an initiative to promote the implementation of 10 universally accepted principles in the four areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. We do everything possible to ensure that our activities are sound, transparent, and ethical throughout the entire value chain. CSR and Strategy 30 As a corporate group that co-creates new value in the air and environmental fields, we will provide society with solutions through our business, and meet the expectations of customers, shareholders, procurement business partners, community members, and all of our other stakeholders. CSR and Strategy 31 CSR and Strategy CSR PHILOSOPHY Basic Management Policy of the Daikin Group Our Group Philosophy and People-Centered Management Our Group Philosophy is the basis for all action aimed at becoming a corporate group that is trusted by customers worldwide, and that instills pride in Daikin employees around the globe. Daikin's People-Centered Management, meanwhile, is based on the belief that employee growth generates corporate growth and is implemented with the goal of creating a workplace where employees can use their talents to the fullest. The Daikin Group believes that if both employees and company executives put Our Group Philosophy and People-Centered Management into practice, then we can achieve sustainable development and growth. Our Group Philosophy 1. Create New Value by Anticipating the Future Needs of Customers 2. Contribute to Society with World-Leading Technologies 3. Realize Future Dreams by Maximizing Corporate Value 4. Think and Act Globally 5. Be a Flexible and Dynamic Group 6. Be a Company that Leads in Applying Environmentally Friendly Practices 7. With Our Relationship with Society in Mind, Take Action and Earn Society's Trust 8. The Pride and Enthusiasm of Each Employee Are the Driving Forces of Our Group 9. Be Recognized Worldwide by Optimally Managing the Organization and its Human Resources, under Our Fast & Flat Management System 10. An Atmosphere of Freedom, Boldness, and Best Practice, Our Way OUR GROUP PHILOSOPHY (ABOUT DAIKIN) (https://www.daikin.com/about/corporate/philosophy/) CSR and Strategy 32 How We View CSR 1. Through the strict implementation of Our Group Philosophy, the Daikin Group will fulfill its social responsibilities worldwide in all facets of relationships with stakeholders, thereby raising corporate value and contributing to the sustainable development of society. 2. Based upon thorough observance of legal compliance and corporate ethics, the Daikin Group will focus on contributing to society through its business activities. As a good corporate citizen, we will be highly sensitive to the needs of each world region in carrying out our social contribution activities. 3. We will incorporate CSR into business activities so that CSR and our business are integrally intertwined in an ongoing synergy that contributes to better business performance. 4. We will carry out CSR activities through open, two-way communication with society and always ensure that we are accountable for, and transparent in, our actions. Key CSR Themes When we formulated Fusion 20 in fiscal 2015, we revised the importance (materiality) of various efforts to the Daikin Group, and as a result came up with four key CSR themes — the environment, new value creation, customer satisfaction, and human resources — as ways to carry out CSR for value provision. We also established five CSR themes fundamental to our business activities: corporate governance, respect for human rights, supply chain management, stakeholder engagement, and communities. CSR for value provision Fundamental CSR Corporate We provide healthy governance Environment and comfortable air Respect for human New value We respond to societal environments for rights creation demands for greater people around the Supply chain Customer transparency and more world while at the management satisfaction open business same time reducing Stakeholder Human resources practices. environmental impact. engagement Communities For key CSR themes up until fiscal 2015, see the following page. History of CSR Activities (CSR Management) (Page 42) CSR and Strategy 33 Group Conduct Guidelines 1. Providing Safe, High Quality Products and Services We shall make every effort to ensure the safety and quality of our products and services from the standpoint of our customers. Should a problem occur regarding safety, we shall immediately take appropriate action. 2. Free Competition and Fair Trading We shall observe all applicable laws and regulations relating to fair competition and fair trade of each country and region, including antimonopoly laws. Furthermore, we shall conduct fair sales and procurement activities based on proper corporate ethics and in accordance with sound business practices and social norms. 3. Observing Trade Control Laws We shall not participate in any transactions that may undermine the maintenance of global peace and security and world order. We shall always act in compliance with all applicable exportand import-related laws and regulations of each country and region, as well as the Daikin Group Security Trade Control Policy, which relates to foreign trade control. 4. Respect and Protection of Intellectual Property Rights Recognizing that intellectual property rights are important company assets, we shall strive to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights and effectively utilize them. Furthermore, we shall respect and make every effort not to infringe upon the intellectual property rights of other companies. 5. Proper Management and Utilization of Information We shall properly manage and effectively utilize the confidential information of our company, the confidential information obtained from other companies, and the personal information of our customers and employees and shall not obtain any information through improper means. We shall thoroughly execute IT security management for our computer systems and the data-resources saved on them. 6. Prohibition of Insider Trading To maintain the trust of the securities market, we shall not use non-public information about the Daikin Group or other companies to buy or sell stocks or other securities (insider trading). 7. Timely and Appropriate Disclosure of Corporate Information Aiming to be an open company with high transparency and earn the respect of society, we shall actively convey corporate information in a timely fashion not only to shareholders and investors but also to a wide spectrum of society, and engage in two-way communication. 8. Preservation of the Global Environment We shall observe all applicable environmental laws and regulations of each country and region and practice initiatives that preserve the global environment in all aspects of our business operations, including product development, manufacturing, sales, distribution, and services. Also, each and every one of us shall deepen our knowledge of environmental issues, reduce the environmental load in the workplace and at home, and strive toward biodiversity conservation. CSR and Strategy 34 9. Ensuring the Safety of Operations We shall take all possible precautions for safe operations and act with a mindset of Safety First to ensure the safety of the workplace and further gain the trust of people in the regions we serve. 10. Respect for Human Rights and Diversity and Observance of Labor Laws We shall respect the human rights of each and every employee and shall not engage in conduct that discriminates on the basis of nationality, race, ethnicity, religion, color of skin, age, gender, sexual orientation, or disability. Diversity in individual values is enthusiastically accepted, and we shall work to make the unique talents and abilities of each and every person the driving force of the organization. We shall also observe both the letter and spirit of all labor laws and regulations of each country and region, and under no circumstances shall we sanction the labor of underage employees, minors who do not meet the minimum legal age requirements (child labor), or labor performed under compulsion or against a person's will (forced labor). 11. Protection of Company Assets We shall properly manage the tangible and intangible assets of our company to protect and utilize effectively these assets. 12. Proper Handling of Accounting Procedures We shall comply with all accounting standards and tax laws of each country and region as well as internal company rules in properly performing accounting procedures. 13. Practicing Moderation in Entertainment and Gift Exchanges We shall exercise moderation and perform within the acceptable range of social norms and obey the laws and regulations of each country and region in regards to entertainment, the exchange of presents, and invitations relating to the development of our global business. In particular, we shall not entertain, provide gifts of monetary value to, or extend invitations to public officials in Japan or abroad that violate the applicable laws and regulations in each respective country and region. 14. Maintaining a Firm Attitude against Anti-social Activities We shall take a firm attitude against anti-social force or organization that threatens the safety and order of the citizens of society. 15. Relationship with Society We aim to be a good corporate citizen that is trusted by society and we shall do our best to act with humility and modesty while at the same time having self-awareness and taking pride in our actions. Moreover, we shall participate in social contribution activities centered on environmental conservation, education support, and cooperation with the local community. 16. Observing Each Category of Industry Law and Regulation We shall accurately comprehend and observe all business laws and regulations of each country and region applicable to our business activities. CSR and Strategy 35 CSR and Strategy VALUE CHAIN AND DAIKIN'S CSR Establishing Key CSR Themes toward Sustainable Development The Daikin Group's business activities impact society in various stages of the value chain, and the scope of this impact is expanding with globalization. We therefore identify the importance (materiality) of our actions with consideration of these impacts and incorporate this into our strategic management plan. Business impact, what Daikin must do Efforts of significant materiality Throughout the globally expanding supply chain, Supply chain management Daikin is expected to respond to various Anti-corruption procurement risks involving, for example, quality Free competition and fair business dealings control, labor practices, and environmental protection. CSR and Strategy 36 Business impact, what Daikin must do Efforts of significant materiality As air conditioner demand grows in emerging Response to climate change markets and other countries, Daikin must develop Effective use of resources and energy products that offer comfort and superb Management of chemical substances environmental performance and meet regional Waste and water-use reduction needs. New value creation Product quality and safety Customer satisfaction Information security Business impact, what Daikin must do Efforts of significant materiality It is crucial that Daikin increase productivity while Response to climate change at the same time improving manufacturing Effective use of resources and energy quality and reducing environmental impact at all Management of chemical substances worldwide production sites. Waste and water-use reduction New value creation Product quality and safety Customer satisfaction Information security Business impact, what Daikin must do Efforts of significant materiality Faulty air conditioner installation not only causes Response to climate change quality problems but also leads to environmental Product quality and safety problems such as refrigerant leakage. It is crucial Customer satisfaction that Daikin raises the level of installation skills of Anti-corruption employees and retailers worldwide. Free competition and fair business dealings Information security CSR and Strategy 37 Business impact, what Daikin must do Efforts of significant materiality Global warming impact from air conditioner use Response to climate change presents a huge challenge. At the same time, air Customer satisfaction conditioners provide benefits such as preventing Information security heatstroke and making people more productive. Business impact, what Daikin must do Efforts of significant materiality To achieve a recycling-based society, it is crucial Response to climate change that we are thorough in recycling air conditioners Waste and water-use reduction and recovering/recycling refrigerants. Customer satisfaction Information security Business impact, what Daikin must do Efforts of significant materiality In order to continue contributing to society, we Human resource development must develop the human resources who conduct Workplace diversity our business, comply with laws and regulations, Occupational safety and health and have in place a system of corporate Labor-management relations governance. Respect for human rights Corporate governance CSR and Strategy 38 Business impact, what Daikin must do Efforts of significant materiality In order to spread Daikin technologies and thus Response to climate change contribute to solving society's problems, it is Biodiversity protection essential that we work closely with numerous Communities partners, including governments, United Nations Stakeholder engagement bodies, international organizations, NGOs, key individuals, and local communities. Materiality (of Key Initiatives) Revising Materiality in Line with the Fusion 20 Strategic Management Plan In line with our Fusion 20 strategic management plan, we revised the materiality of our CSR initiatives in fiscal 2015. We also added key items when we formulated our plan for the latter half of fiscal 2018. Evaluation was conducted with consideration in two areas: concerns and impacts of stakeholders, which include stakeholder engagement, international guidelines, and criteria of socially responsible investment survey institutes; and importance to Daikin, which includes Our Group Philosophy and medium-term management plans. Materiality analysis CSR and Strategy 39 9 Key CSR Themes Reflected in Fusion 20 Strategic Management Plan We identified nine materiality issues: four themes of CSR for value provision, which are aimed at achieving sustainable development for Daikin and society; and five themes of fundamental CSR. We have incorporated these as key focal management points in the Fusion 20 strategic management plan, and the entire Daikin Group is working toward solving these issues. Daikin's CSR CSR for value provision Fundamental CSR Corporate We provide healthy governance Environment and comfortable air Respect for human New value We respond to societal environments for rights creation demands for greater people around the Supply chain Customer transparency and more world while at the management satisfaction open business same time reducing Stakeholder Human resources practices. environmental impact. engagement Communities CSR and Strategy 40 CSR and Strategy CSR MANAGEMENT CSR Management Structure Daikin has set Value for CSR Provision and Fundamental CSR as its key CSR themes toward achieving sustainable development in its business and in society as it strives to solve the world's problems through its business activities. The CSR Committee, chaired by the officer in charge of CSR, sets Daikin's CSR direction and monitors the progress of CSR activities. The CSR & Global Environment Center, which has been established under the CSR Committee, leads comprehensive, cross-organizational CSR activities throughout the entire group. The CSR Committee is made up of officers in charge of the key themes and meets once a year to discuss and share ideas on social trends, progress in key CSR themes, and issues that require addressing. Items decided on by the CSR Committee are submitted to the President and then reported to the Board of Directors. At the fiscal 2017 meeting of the CSR Committee, members discussed the necessity and content of Daikin's long-term environmental vision based on international framework agreements such as the Paris Agreement to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, which aims to limit global warming by less than 2°C compared to pre-industrial levels, and the common Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations. Materiality (of Key Initiatives) For more information, refer to Materiality (of Key Initiatives) (Value Chain and Daikin's CSR). (Page 39) CSR Targets and Achievements For more information, refer to CSR Action Plan 2020. (Page 44) CSR and Strategy 41 History of CSR Activities Deepening Focus on Key Issues in Response to Society's Expectations Daikin has rapidly expanded as a global corporate group, and with this expansion have come greater demands from society and greater corporate social responsibility (CSR). We have striven to fulfill our CSR by responding to the expectations of our various stakeholders while implementing our Group management philosophy. 2002 Daikin Formulates Our Group Philosophy as Its Basic Philosophy of Business Daikin formulated Our Group Philosophy with the aim of becoming a corporate group trusted by worldwide customers and where employees in all countries could work with pride. By sharing Our Group Philosophy as the fundamental business philosophy of the entire Group, it has become the cornerstone of all employees' thoughts and actions. The management policies and plans of Daikin Industries, Ltd. and all other Group companies were created in line with Our Group Philosophy, and we believe that the embodiment of this philosophy has brought us closer to becoming a truly global and excellent company. Our Group Philosophy (CSR Philosophy) (Page 32) 2005 The Daikin Group Defines Its Philosophy on Responsibility toward Stakeholders We expressed our belief that the Daikin Group's CSR is to conduct business that puts Our Group Philosophy into practice and fulfills our responsibility to society by meeting the expectations of shareholders. How We View CSR (CSR Philosophy) (Page 33) 2008 Daikin Establishes Key Themes with Consideration for Business Plans and Impact on Stakeholders In light of the unique characteristics and business plans of Daikin, a global manufacturer of air conditioners and fluorochemicals, we established key CSR themes in four areas: the environment, quality & customer satisfaction, human resources, and social contribution. CSR and Strategy 42 2011 to 2015 Active CSR Based on the Fusion 15 Strategic Management Plan In fiscal 2011, we launched our Fusion 15 strategic management plan to respond to the demands of society. CSR Action Plan 2020 (Page 44) 2016 onward Revision of Key Themes in Line with Fusion 20 Strategic Management Plan When we formulated Fusion 20, we revised the materiality of various efforts to the Daikin Group, and as a result came up with four key CSR themes — the environment, new value creation, customer satisfaction, and human resources — as ways to carry out CSR for value provision. We added to this the theme of fundamental CSR, thus giving us five key themes under Fusion 20. CSR and Strategy (Page 26) CSR and Strategy 43 CSR and Strategy CSR ACTION PLAN 2020 Based on four themes of CSR for value provision and five themes of fundamental CSR, Daikin formulated CSR Action Plan 2020, which stipulates targets for 2020 that the entire group is working together to achieve. We will provide separate reports on the targets for each theme for 2020 and progress with these themes in fiscal 2017. Targets and Achievements (62KB) (https://www.daikin.com/csr/company/plan.pdf) CSR for Value Provision We provide healthy and comfortable air environments for people around the world while at the same time reducing environmental impact. Environment New Value Creation Customer Satisfaction Human Resources Fundamental CSR We respond to society's requests through corporate action based on transparency and sincerity. Corporate Governance Respect for Human Rights Supply Chain Management Stakeholder Engagement Communities CSR and Strategy 44 CSR Action Plan 2020 ENVIRONMENT Introduce state-of-the-art technologies to the market in order to address environmental and energy issue About the CSR Initiatives Provide Environmentally Conscious Products and Services Worldwide Promote use of energy-efficient air conditioners, including inverter products Promote use of air conditioners using refrigerants with lower global warming potential Promote use of heat-pump-type heating systems and hot water heaters Expand our environmental solutions business 2020 Target Fiscal 2017 Achievements Through the worldwide adoption of Through the adoption of environmentally environmentally conscious products, contribute conscious products, contribute to reducing to reducing greenhouse gas emissions greenhouse gas emissions 60 million tons-CO 2 54 million tons-CO 2 We measured how much we contributed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions through the <Six Sustainable Development Goals Daikin Is adoption of Daikin's environmentally conscious Contributing to through Its Business> products. Environmentally conscious products as percentage of group sales (residential air conditioners) 83 % We measured how much we increased sales of air conditioners using inverter technology and refrigerants with lower global warming potential. CSR and Strategy 45 About the CSR Initiatives Minimize Environmental Impact in Production Activities Reduce greenhouse gases Make effective use of water and other resources Reduce chemicals Promote green procurement 2020 Target Fiscal 2017 Achievements Greenhouse gas emissions during production for Reduction ratio of greenhouse gas emissions entire Daikin Group from production (over fiscal 2005) 70 % reduction over fiscal 2005 74 % reduction We measured how much we reduced greenhouse gas emissions generated in the product <Six Sustainable Development Goals Daikin Is manufacturing process. Contributing to through Its Business> CSR and Strategy 46 About the CSR Initiatives Expand the Green Heart Circle of Love for the Earth Encourage employees to take part in environmental activities inside and outside work Promote environmental and social contribution activities 2020 Target Fiscal 2017 Achievements Achieve Green Heart Factory certification for all Number of factories certified as Green Heart production bases Factories 24 bases Preserve 11 million hectares of forest at 7 Gold Rank: 2 worldwide locations Silver Rank: 10 Bronze Rank: 12 Implement and expand environmental activities We measured the increase in the number of in collaboration with stakeholders production bases that bases achieved Daikin's inhouse standards for environmental action. Contribution to CO2 emission reductions through forest preservation 7 million tons-CO 2 We measured contribution to CO2 emission reductions through forest preservation activities at 7 worldwide locations where we are working together with an international NGO. CSR and Strategy 47 CSR Action Plan 2020 NEW VALUE CREATION Share dreams and ambitions inside and outside Daikin to realize a healthy, comfortable lifestyle through air About the CSR Initiatives Create New Value to Meet the Expectations of Customers and Society Value Creation for the Earth Value Creation for Cities Value Creation for People 2020 Target Fiscal 2017 Achievements Use IoT and AI for open innovation that creates R&D expenditure new value 62.1 billion yen <Six Sustainable Development Goals Daikin Is Contributing to through Its Business> Number of patent applications Japanese applications: 780 Overseas applications: 352 (FY2016) (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) We measured how much we invested in value creation and how many new technologies we came up with. CSR and Strategy 48 CSR Action Plan 2020 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Provide peace of mind and reliability through a focus on customer orientation, experience, performance, and advanced technologies About the CSR Initiatives Provide Customers with the Ultimate Satisfaction Provide safety and quality Provide customer satisfaction 2020 Target Fiscal 2017 Achievements Establish a service network covering the globe Progress rate of after-sales services, regarding the base year as 1.00 Grasp worldwide customer needs and pursue Japan: 1.11 high customer satisfaction China: 1.01 Establish a high standard of quality Singapore: 1.03 Italy: 1.00 We measured how much we improved after-sales service customer satisfaction. CSR and Strategy 49 CSR Action Plan 2020 HUMAN RESOURCES Respect individual personalities and values, and maximize the potential of each employee About the CSR Initiatives Create a Work Environment Where Employees Can Use Their Talents to the Fullest through People-Centered Management Develop human resources Promote workplace diversity Promote occupational safety and health 2020 Target Fiscal 2017 Achievements The ratio of excellent or advanced skilled The ratio of excellent or advanced skilled engineers in manufacturing engineers in manufacturing 1 in 4 employees 1 in 3.4 employees (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) We measured the number of employees we Women as percentage of all managers trained, out of those involved in manufacturing, 10 % (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) who possess advanced skills and knowledge and who can lead production activities. Increase percentage of overseas bases where local Women as percentage of all managers nationals are presidents 4.9% (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) Frequency rate We measured progress in training women to be (shows frequency of occurrence of labor managers in Japan. accidents) 0 CSR and Strategy 50 Percentage of overseas bases where local nationals are president 46% (overseas bases) We measured progress in appointing local nationals as presidents of overseas bases. Frequency rate 1.33 We measured how well we succeeded in the safe operation of production bases. CSR and Strategy 51 CSR Action Plan 2020 FUNDAMENTAL CSR Corporate Governance Accelerate decision-making and operational execution in response to management tasks and the changing management environment, and raise the level of management transparency and soundness to raise corporate value About the CSR Initiatives Fiscal 2017 Achievements Degree of independence from the company, Number of directors who are outside the diversity, and transparency of the Board of company, women, and foreign nationals Directors (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) Thoroughness of compliance 3 outside directors, 1 female director, 1 foreign national director (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) We measured the diversity of the make-up of directors. Self-assessment implementation rate Implementation rate: 99% We measured how well we were in compliance through the implementation rate of self assessments. CSR and Strategy 52 Respect for Human Rights Show respect for basic human rights in accordance with all international norms based on the laws and regulations of each country and region About the CSR Initiatives Fiscal 2017 Achievements Thoroughness of respect for human rights Self-assessment implementation rate Implementation rate: 99% We measured how thorough we were in respect for human rights through the implementation rate of self assessments. Supply Chain Management Fulfill corporate social responsibility through environmental impact reduction, quality assurance, and occupational safety and health throughout the entire supply chain About the CSR Initiatives Fiscal 2017 Achievements Conduct CSR procurement CSR procurement rate Create a CSR procurement survey (survey conducted starting in fiscal 2018) We measured our suppliers' progress in CSR activities. CSR and Strategy 53 Stakeholder Engagement Engage in dialogue with all members of society and reflect outside opinions in our business, and continuously examine our actions to ensure that we meet society's demands and expectations About the CSR Initiatives Fiscal 2017 Achievements Engage in dialogue with stakeholders and Number of air conditioner forums held, number reflect this dialogue into management of countries that outside participants represent, and total participants 6 forums held in 5 worldwide regions; 118 participants from 46 countries; university professors, specialists, etc. Among the engagement activities, the number of times dialogue was held with key figures from around the world on air conditioning, a core Daikin business. Communities Respect the culture and history of different countries and regions, and create strong bonds with communities as a good corporate citizen About the CSR Initiatives Fiscal 2017 Achievements Contribution to environmental conservation, Expenditure for social contribution activities education support, and cooperation with the local community 1.6 billion yen We calculated the monetary amount, through donations, goods, and other ways, that we provided to communities. CSR and Strategy 54 CSR and Strategy PARTICIPATION IN THE GLOBAL COMPACT Participation in the Global Compact Building a System for Unified Group Action Since 2008, Daikin has endorsed and participated in the Global Compact. The Global Compact, proposed by former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan at the World Economic Forum in January 1999, encourages companies to act as good members of society and aim to realize sustainable growth. It also urges participating companies throughout the world to support and practice the Ten Principles in the four areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Based on the environmental philosophy of leading the way to an environmentally conscious society, Daikin is focused on resolving environmental issues through business. Further, the Group Conduct of Guidelines constituting the guideline for each group company's standards of conduct, reflects the spirit of the Global Compact in Group management by clarifying details related to respect for human rights, the elimination of forced and child labor, anticorruption and other issues from the perspectives of thorough transparency, soundness and ethical business activities throughout the entire value chain. CSR and Strategy 55 Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Standards 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. CSR and Strategy 56 Sustainability Report 2018 －Web version－ Environment Environmental Vision 2050 …………………………… 61 Eﬀective Use of Resources ………………………… 145 Basic Environmental Policy …………………………… 65 Eﬀective Use of Resources in Products ……… 147 Overview of Environmental Impact ………………… 67 Waste Reduction…………………………………… 153 Environmental Management ………………………… 69 Home Appliance Recycling Results …………… 154 Management Structure ……………………………… 71 Water Resource Reduction …………………… 156 Risks and Opportunities …………………………… 72 Management and Reduction of Environmental Action Plan ………………………… 73 Chemical Substances ………………………………… 158 Environmental Management System …………… 77 Management and Reduction of Environmental Audits………………………………… 83 Chemical Substances Contained in Products 160 Green Heart Factories and Oﬃces ……………… 84 Compliance with J-Moss ………………………… 164 Environmentally Conscious Design ……………… 85 Management and Reduction of Green Procurement ………………………………… 91 Chemical Substances during Production …… 168 Environmental Accounting ………………………… 94 Preventing Pollution ……………………………… 171 Response to Climate Change …………………… 98 Protecting Biodiversity ……………………………… 174 Developing and Promoting Products and Protecting Biodiversity …………………………… 175 Services That Reduce Environmental Impact… 101 History of Environmental Activities ……………… 183 Increasing Air Conditioner Eﬃciency ………… 103 Endorsement as an Eco First Company ………… 186 Low Environmental Impact Refrigerants …… 109 Promoting the Use of Inverter Products ……… 114 Promoting the Use of Heat-Pump Type Space and Hot Water Heaters ………………… 117 Energy-Eﬃciency through Fluorochemical Products and Oil Hydraulic Products ………… 121 Reducing Greenhouse Gases during Production and Transportation ………………… 125 Providing Solutions ………………………………… 129 Recovery, Recycle and Destruction of Fluorocarbons ……………………………………… 135 Environment 57 CSR for Value Provision Environment Policy Introduce State-of-the-art Technologies to the Market in Order to Address Environmental and Energy Issues CSR Targets 2020 Air conditioners, Daikin's main products, consume large amounts of energy during operation, and fluorocarbons used as refrigerants significantly influence climate change. In addition to reducing Group-wide greenhouse gas emissions by 70% compared to fiscal 2005, we will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 60 million tons-CO2 by promoting environment-conscious products using inverter technologies and low environmental impact refrigerants throughout the world. Fiscal 2017 Achievements We measure our contribution to greenhouse gas emission reductions based on the sales ratio of environmentally conscious products and reduction in greenhouse gas emissions during manufacturing. Contribution to greenhouse gas emission reductions 54 million tons-CO2 Sales ratio of environmentally conscious products 83 % Reduction Ratio of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Production (over fiscal 2005) 74 % Environment 58 Overview of Environmental Environmental Vision 2050 Basic Environmental Policy Impact We formulated Environmental We have established a basic We report on the overall impact Vision 2050 with the aim of environmental policy that serves of our business activities on the reducing CO2 emissions to zero as the basis for our efforts. environment (through the by 2050. categories of input and output). Environmental Response to Climate Effective Use of Resources Management Change We regard environmental We focus on mitigating the We will effectively utilize measures as important effects of global warming from resources in product design and management resources and our products and reducing production processes and combine environmental response greenhouse gas emissions from contribute to the realization of a and corporate management. production. circular economy. Management and History of Environmental Reduction of Chemical Protecting Biodiversity Activities Substances We are reducing the use and We strive to protect biodiversity Daikin publishes an annual emission of chemical substances through our business activities report detailing our and strive to prevent pollution and environmental contribution environmental protection from chemical substances. activities. activities. Environment 59 Endorsement as an Eco-First Company Daikin Industries, Ltd. has been endorsed as an Eco First Company under the Eco First Program of Japan's Ministry of the Environment. Related information Environment—Key Activities of Fiscal 2017: Environmentally Conscious Products Come from Green Heart Factories (Page 392) Environment 60 Environment ENVIRONMENTAL VISION 2050 Daikin formulated Environmental Vision 2050, the aim of which is to contribute to solving increasingly serious global environmental problems over the long term. With the aim of reducing to zero the CO2 emissions caused by our business activities and our products and services, we set targets and implement measures every five years under our Fusion strategic management plans. We will reduce the CO2 emissions generated throughout the entire life cycle of our products. Furthermore, we will create solutions that link society and customers as we work with stakeholders to reduce CO2 emissions to zero. Using IoT and AI, and open solutions, we will meet the world's needs for air solutions by providing safe and healthy air environments while at the same time contributing to solving global environmental problems. Environment 61 Daikin's Philosophy on Zero CO2 Emissions We aim to reduce CO2 emissions to zero by recovering and recycling refrigerants while at the same time creating products and solutions that minimize CO2. First Step Toward 2050 We have already taken our first step toward our long-term goals for 2050 by beginning work on themes related to our environmental vision under the Fusion 20 Strategic Management Plan. Through products Through solutions Through the power of air Creation of products and Creation of environmental Creation of air value services with high solutions Engineering of air environmental performance Use of energy environments that protect Promotion of energy management to achieve people's health from air efficiency through inverter optimal operation through pollutants such as PM2.5 and other technologies a system that integrates air and VOCs Adoption of R-32 and conditioners and their Pursuit of value added in other refrigerants with peripheral equipment, air through, for example, lower global warming buildings, and renewable office environments potential, development of energy conducive to high next-generation Recovery and recycling of productivity and home refrigerants, adoption of refrigerants in use on the environments that improve heat-pump heaters market the quality of sleep Materials development, reduction of environmental impact throughout entire life cycle from material procurement to disposal and recycling Environment 62 Formulating Environmental Vision 2050 We forecast what the world would be like in 2050 and came up with how Daikin should proceed toward this based on risks and opportunities. Forecast of Society in Which Daikin Will Operate in 2050 Based on the relationship between Daikin's business and the global environment, we came up with a long-term environmental to-do list that takes into account what the world will be like for Daikin's business in 2050 judging by current social scenarios. How Daikin Should Proceed Based on Risks and Opportunities Daikin came up with business risks and opportunities in relation to the environmental problems specified above. We determined how we should proceed in order to solve these problems based on the company's resources. Environment 63 Daikin referred to the following reports when making its forecasts *1 World Population Prospects: The 2017 Revision, by the United Nations *2 The World in 2050, by PwC *3 World Urbanization Prospects: The 2018 Revision, by the United Nations *4 Estimates and Forecasts for the World's Waste Generation, by the RISWME *5 World Energy Outlook 2017, by the International Energy Agency (IEA) *6 The Future of Cooling, by the International Energy Agency (IEA) *7 The Future of Forests: Emissions from Tropical Deforestation with and without a Carbon Price, 2016-2050, by the Center for Global Development (CGD) *8 The Problem of Worldwide Resource Restrictions by 2050, by the National Institute for Materials Science (NIMS) *9 OECD Environmental Outlook to 2050, by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) *10 Quantitative risk assessment of the effects of climate change on selected causes of death, 2030s and 2050s, by the World Health Organization (WHO) Environment 64 Environment BASIC ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Basic Environmental Policy of the Daikin Group Environmental Philosophy Lead the Way to an Environmentally Conscious Society As we continue developing our business operations in various fields, it is our mission to proactively develop initiatives to respond to environmental issues. Incorporating environmental initiatives throughout our management must be a priority for us. In all aspects of our business operations, including product development, manufacturing and sales, we need to formulate initiatives that sustain and improve the environment. Meanwhile, we need to promote the development of new products and the innovation of technologies that will lead to a more environmentally healthy world. Under the precept environmental response is an important management resource, we must integrate environmental initiatives into our corporate management since they can lead to business expansion, improved business performance, and further enhancement of our credibility with outside parties. We intend to continue being a leading company in the practice of environmental management, thus contributing to a healthier global environment as a good citizen of the earth. Action Guidelines 1. Ensure that all members of the Group deepen our understanding of environmental issues and take responsibility for the impact our actions have on society in general. 2. Establish, promote, and continuously improve an Environmental Management System to actively and effectively implement Environmental Management as a Group. 3. Develop and implement environmental initiatives in all aspects of our business operations, including product development, production, sales, distribution, services, and recycling. In particular, be a leader in society by developing products, technologies, and business opportunities that contribute to sustaining and improving our environment. 4. Implement environmental initiatives that are globally consistent as well as promote initiatives that respond to the particular circumstances of each country and region. Furthermore, actively promote cooperation and alliances with related companies, external organizations, and institutions. 5. Disclose environmentally related information in a truthful and fair manner. Listen to the views of people both inside and outside the company to continuously improve our environmental preservation efforts. Environment 65 The Daikin Environment Symbol In February 2002, we created an environmental symbol for the Daikin Group. In environmental protection activities, the little efforts that individuals make add up to big things. The symbol, the Earth in the shape of a green heart, represents a determination on the part of each and every employee of Daikin to think green (think of the Earth and take care of the environment). Environment 66 Environment OVERVIEW OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT The Daikin Group measures the impact that its business activities have on the environment throughout the value chain: in materials procurement, development, production, transportation, installation, product use, recovery, and recycling. Air conditioners are products that consume large amounts of electricity, and within their product lifecycle, the energy consumed during product use makes a particularly large contribution to climate change. Verified Data Verified by Third Party Note: The figures on this page represent the total for the global group in fiscal 2017. Figures in ( ) are for Daikin Industries, Ltd. only. Figures in < > are for the Daikin Group in Japan. Environment 67 Environment 68 Environment Environmental Management Management Structure Risks and Opportunities Environmental Action Plan We see climate change and other We believe that the risks and We formulated an environmental problems as tasks opportunities of climate change environmental action plan based that we must tackle as part of are key themes that affect our on our strategic management our management, and we are management. plan. We aim to achieve both doing so on a global scale. corporate growth and environmental protection. Environmental Green Heart Factories and Environmental Audits Management System Green Heart Offices We have created and operate an We strive to maintain and We have a proprietary standard environmental management improve our environmental for designating environmentally system in line with ISO 14001. management system through conscious facilities as Green environmental audits. Heart Factories or Green Heart Offices. Environmentally Conscious Green Procurement Environmental Accounting Design We strive to develop products We carry out green procurement We calculate investment in with low environmental impact. in order to reduce environmental environmental measures and the impact in the supply chain. effect of this investment. Environment 69 Related information Basic Environmental Policy (Page 65) Supply Chain Management (Page 299) Environment 70 Environmental Management MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE Toward the realization of a sustainable society, Daikin makes environmental issues, particularly response to alleviation of the effects of climate change, a key theme in its efforts to provide value to society through its business activities. Air conditioners, our flagship products, consume large amounts of electricity, and the fluorocarbons they use as refrigerants contribute to climate change. In responding appropriately to the risks that could arise, we implement an environmental strategy, led by directors in charge of environmental protection, in which we disseminate the energy-efficient environmentally conscious products and services that are our main strength. Directors in charge of environmental protection lead annual regional environmental meetings (in Japan, Europe, North America, China, and Asia-Oceania) attended by environmental managers from each base as part of Daikin's management of environmental issues related to climate change, water, and waste. Directors in charge of environmental protection are also members of the CSR Committee. This committee meets to discuss action policy on climate change, set targets and confirm how well they are being achieved, and look at the risks and opportunities for Daikin. Results of the meetings are reported to the Board of Directors. In fiscal 2017 meeting, attendees shared information on institutional investors such as the Climate Action 100+ initiative and social trends aimed at meeting the targets of the Paris Agreement, and also discussed details of Daikin's long-term environmental vision. They also confirmed Daikin's contribution to greenhouse gas emission reductions through the dissemination of environmentally conscious products, and how well the company is doing in setting and achieving climate-related targets such as greenhouse gas emissions from production. System Driving Environmental Management Environment 71 Environmental Management RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES Among environmental risks and opportunities, Daikin takes firm measures in dealing with climate change because it considers this to be the issue with the greatest impact on its management. In our main business of air conditioning, our products consume electricity during usage and the fluorocarbons used as refrigerants impact climate change. In responding to the risks that could arise, we make it our environmental policy to work toward achieving a low-carbon society by proliferating the use of our energy-efficient environmentally conscious products. To understand and properly respond to risks and opportunities, we prioritize the ones that are periodically reported by our worldwide bases and make plans to deal with them. Each base implements these plans and reports on their progress to the Board of Directors. For example, governments are stepping up regulations on refrigerants with a high global warming potential, and this constitutes a regulatory risk that can dramatically affect Daikin's business. Refrigerants with a low global warming potential have properties such as flammability and toxicity, and since each country has differing safety regulations, we are formulating policies on safety standards that we implement in each country. There are also physical risks; for example, a typhoon could cause flooding that inundates a Daikin factory and halts operation, or one of our parts suppliers could have operational problems and no longer be able to supply Daikin. The flooding that occurred in Thailand a few years ago provided us with information that we use to identify issues and measures that we can use in other regions where we do business around the world. Environment 72 Environmental Management ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN Environmental Action Plan 2020 Daikin positions environmental protection as one of its most important management tasks. Based on our Fusion 20 strategic management plan, we formulated Environmental Action Plan 2020, under which we aim to decrease environmental impact throughout the value chain so that we can achieve sustainable business growth and protect the environment. Under our Environmental Action Plan 2020, which targets fiscal 2020, we are taking actions based on three pillars: 1 provide environmentally conscious products and services, 2 minimize environmental impact through manufacturing and other activities, and 3 expand the Green Heart circle worldwide. Because air conditioners, our flagship product category, emit a particularly large amount of CO2 when used, we are focusing on disseminating worldwide the use of energy-efficient air conditioners and air conditioners that use low-global-warming-potential refrigerants. We set a target of reducing worldwide greenhouse gas emissions in fiscal 2020 by 60 million tons-CO2. Calculations show that in fiscal 2017 we achieved the reductions of 54 million tons-CO2. In efforts to reduce environmental impact during the production stage, we set a target of reducing total Group greenhouse gas emissions in fiscal 2020 to 1.58 million tons-CO2 (70% reduction over fiscal 2005). In fiscal 2017, we succeeded in lowering these emissions to 1.35 million tons-CO2 . We work with our stakeholders in activities that raise environmental awareness. One of these is our Forests for the Air project, under which we aim to protect 11 million hectares of forest in seven locations worldwide. Another is our environmental education program for elementary school students, under which in fiscal 2017 we provided free teaching materials to 26 schools and helped instruct 1,700 children in Japan. Environment 73 Environmental Action Plan 2020 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2020 SelfAction targets target Fiscal 2017 results target values assessment values 1 Provide Environmentally Conscious Products and Services Worldwide Contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by spreading the use of Contribution to Contribution following products Greenhouse Gas to Emission Contribution to Emission Emission Energy-efficient air Reductions Reductions ★★★ Reductions*1 conditioners and 50 million 54 million tons-CO2 60 million tonsservices including tons-CO2 CO2 inverter products Air conditioners using refrigerants with lower global warming potential Sales of Environmentally Heat-pump-type Increase in Ratio of Conscious Products as heating systems and Environmentally Conscious ★★★ Percentage of Residential hot water heaters Products*2 Air Conditioners 83% Energy-efficient solutions business Environment 74 2 Minimize Environmental Impact in Production Activities 74% reduction 70% reduction over fiscal Emission (reduction 2005 (reduction to 1.58 69% reduction ★★★ Reductions to 1.35 million tons-CO2) million Greenhouse tons-CO2) Gas Unit reduction in energy2% 5％ Reduction of Japan ★★★ induced CO2 emissions of reduction reduction Energy-Induced 5% against Standard 2% 9% CO2 Emissions Overseas ★★★ value*3 reduction reduction 2% 12% Unit Reduction in Emissions Japan ★★★ reduction reduction Emissions of 5% against Standard value*3 2% 5% Overseas ★★★ reduction reduction 2% 6% Unit Reduction in Water Japan ★★★ reduction reduction Water Intake of 5% against Standard value*3 2% 9% Overseas ★★★ reduction reduction 2% 11％ Unit Reduction in Chemical Japan ★★★ reduction reduction Chemicals Emissions of 5% against Standard value*3 2% 2% Overseas ★★★ reduction increase Green procurement Increase in Green Procurement Rate 76% ★★ Environment 75 3 Expand the Green Heart Circle of Love for the Earth Encourage employees 24 bases to take part in Certify all production bases certified (6 environmental ★★ as Green Heart Factories*4 in Japan, 18 activities inside and overseas) outside work Carry out and expand environmental Reduce activities in emissions by collaboration with 7 million Promote Carry out forest protection stakeholders tons-CO2 environmental and activities with NGOs Educate Provide free ★★★ social contribution the younger generation learning activities about the environment materials to 1,700 students *1 Difference between emissions from all Daikin environmentally conscious products sold and emissions from noninverter products, air conditioners using conventional refrigerants, and gas-combustion space heaters and hot water heaters. *2 Products that satisfy either or both of the following conditions: consume at least 30% less electricity than conventional products, or use refrigerants with at least two-thirds less global warming potential than conventional refrigerants. *3 Average for fiscal 2013-2015. *4 A Daikin standard for assessing and certifying how well each production base is doing in achieving environmental criteria related to energy efficiency, waste reduction, and biodiversity protection. Self-assessment: Shows level of achievement of targets in three designations: ★★★ : Succeeded ★★ : Will soon succeed ★ : Doing all we can Environment 76 Environmental Management ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Basic Policy Building a Group-Wide Environmental Management Promotion System Daikin has built and operates an environmental management system (EMS) in accordance with ISO 14001. This EMS is shown in the diagram below. The creation of environmental management systems is proceeding at companies that are new to the Daikin Group as we work toward certification for ISO 14001 at all bases. To ensure the reliability of data and improve our mechanisms for environmental management, we have data on emissions of greenhouse gases, water, waste, and chemicals verified by a third party. Environmental Management System Ratio of Employees Belonging to Facilities That Obtained ISO 14001 Certification (FY2017) Environment 77 Global Environmental Meetings Boosting Environmental Action by Sharing Information and Discussing Challenges To ensure the continuous improvement of the entire Daikin Group's environmental management, environmental meetings are held once a year in four regions (Europe, North America, China, and Asia/Oceania). In addition, once every two years Global Environmental Meetings are held. At the meetings, local base presidents, environmental heads, and environmental managers in each division, along with the environmental managers in each division in Japan, share Group policy and mediumand long-term targets. In April 2017 the 3rd Global Environmental Meeting was held at Daikin Industries Czech Republic s.r.o. After seeing improvement examples at the company's plant, which is one of the most advanced in the Daikin Group, environmental heads from worldwide Daikin bases conducted an active discussion on the next stage of energy-efficiency activities. In November 2017, we established a new environmental office in China that allows us to closely monitor our 17 production bases in the country for progress in environmental measures during each fiscal quarter. With the aim of helping achieve the targets of the Paris Agreement, we are stepping up energyefficiency efforts at our worldwide bases. Touring an upgraded plant at Daikin Industries Czech Republic s.r.o. DAIKIN BASES CERTIFIED FOR ISO 14001 (JAPAN, OVERSEAS) Daikin Bases Certified for ISO 14001 (Japan) Japan 1996: Daikin Group in Japan* * Sakai Plant certified in October 1996. Certification followed at Daikin Industries, Ltd.'s bases and domestic manufacturing subsidiaries. In March 2004, certification for the Daikin Group in Japan was upgraded to integrated certification. Environment 78 ISO 14001 Certification for Overseas Subsidiaries (as of March 2018) China Date Subsidiary certified Nov. 2001 Xi'an Daikin Qing'an Compressor Co., Ltd. Nov. 2001 Daikin Air-Conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Jun. 2002 Daikin Fluoro Coatings (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Nov. 2002 Daikin Air-Conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Huizhou Branch Nov. 2004 Shenzhen McQuay Air Conditioning Co., Ltd. Dec. 2004 Daikin Airconditioning France S.A.S. Dec. 2005 Daikin Device (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Jul. 2006 Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd. Sep. 2006 Daikin Motor (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. May 2007 McQuay Air Conditioning & Refrigeration (Wuhan) Co., Ltd. May 2007 Daikin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. Aug. 2007 Daikin Airconditioning (Hong Kong) Ltd. Nov. 2007 Daikin Air-Conditioning Technology (Shanghai), Ltd. Dec. 2007 Daikin Air-Conditioning Technology (Beijing), Ltd. Dec. 2007 Daikin Air-Conditioning Technology (Guanghou), Ltd. Jan. 2008 AAF (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. Jan. 2008 AAF (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Feb. 2008 Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd., Shanghai Branch Feb. 2008 Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd., Beijing Branch Feb. 2008 Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd., Guangzhou Branch Jun. 2008 McQuay Suzhou Jul. 2010 Daikin Refrigeration (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Mar. 2011 AAF (Wuhan) Co., Ltd. Feb. 2012 JiangXi DaTang Chemicals Co., Ltd. Jun. 2012 McQuay Technology Environment 79 Asia and Oceania Date Subsidiary certified Feb. 1998 Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. Jan. 2004 Daikin Airconditioning (Thailand) Ltd. Dec. 2004 Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd. Jan. 2005 Siam Daikin Sales Co., Ltd. Mar. 2005 Daikin Trading (Thailand) Ltd. Mar. 2005 Daikin Airconditioning (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Apr. 2005 Daikin Asia Servicing Pte. Ltd. Oct. 2006 Daikin Australia Pty., Ltd. Dec. 2006 Daikin Airconditioning India Pvt. Ltd. Mar. 2007 DAIKIN Electronic Devices Malaysia Aug. 2007 Daikin Airconditioning (Malaysia) Sdn., Bhd. Nov. 2008 Daikin R&D Sdn Bhd Mar. 2009 DAIKIN Steel Malaysia Aug. 2009 DAIKIN Refrigeration Malaysia Aug. 2012 Daikin Airconditioning India Pvt. Ltd. (Neemrana Plant) Environment 80 Europe, Middle East, and Africa Date Subsidiary certified Feb. 1998 Daikin Europe N.V. Jan. 2004 Daikin Chemical Netherlands B.V. Jan. 2004 Daikin Airconditioning Germany GmbH Jun. 2004 Daikin Airconditioning Spain S.A. Dec. 2004 Daikin Airconditioning France S.A.S. Jan. 2005 Daikin Airconditioning Central Europe Handels GmbH Feb. 2005 Daikin Airconditioning Poland Sp. zo.o Feb. 2005 Daikin Airconditioning Italy S.p.A Apr. 2005 Daikin Airconditioning Belgium N.V. Dec. 2005 Daikin Airconditioning U.K., Ltd. Jan. 2006 Daikin Chemical France S.A.S. Jun. 2006 Daikin Industries Czech Republic s.r.o. Jun. 2008 Daikin Chemical Europe GmbH Jul. 2008 Daikin Device Czech Republic s.r.o. Sep. 2008 Daikin Airconditioning Portugal S.A. Jan. 2009 Daikin Airconditioning Greece S.A. Apr. 2009 Daikin Air Conditioning South Africa Dec. 2009 Daikin Turkey A.S. Jan. 2010 J&E Hall Limited (United Kingdom) Jan. 2010 Daikin Applied Europe Jan. 2010 AAF-Limited (United Kingdom) Oct. 2010 AAF Internation sro (Slovakia) Jan. 2011 AAF-International B.V. (The Netherland) Mar. 2011 Daikin Airconditioning Netherlands B.V. Mar. 2012 AAF S.A.(Spain) May 2015 Daikin Refrigerants Europe GmbH Environment 81 North America, Latin America Date Subsidiary certified Sep. 1997 Daikin America, Inc. Jan. 2008 Cri-Tech Inc. Mar. 2008 Daikin America, Inc. (Orangeburg) Jan. 2009 American Air Filter Manufacturing Sdn Bhd Jan. 2010 Daikin Applied Americas (Faribault) Jan. 2010 Daikin Applied Americas (Owatonna) Mar. 2010 Goodman Global Group, Inc (Cooling) Mar. 2010 Goodman Global Group, Inc (Furnece) Mar. 2010 Goodman Global Group, Inc (Fayetteville) Mar. 2010 Goodman Global Group, Inc (Dayton) May 2010 Daikin Applied Americas (Dayton) Mar. 2011 AAF (Columbia) Jun. 2012 AAF International (Louisville) Jun. 2013 Daikin Applied Americas (Staunton) Environment 82 Environmental Management ENVIRONMENTAL AUDITS Environmental Audits Audit by Internal Auditors and Third-Party Institutions At Daikin, inspections by third-party institutions based on ISO 14001 are conducted and internal audits are implemented annually. Internal audits focus on conformity with standards and confirmation of legal compliance. The Daikin Group in Japan, which possesses an Environmental Management System (EMS), confirmed compliance and efficacy through an internal audit in fiscal 2017 conducted in response to the transition to ISO 14001: 2015 in the previous fiscal year. Three major non-compliance issues were revealed and have already been corrected. Inspections conducted by third-party institutions revealed no issues of noncompliance. At each Daikin production site and production subsidiary, systems are in place to minimize environmental damage in the unlikely event that accidents or disasters should occur. Also, we seek closer interactions with nearby residents' associations and conduct factory tours among other daily efforts to maintain an emergency contact system coordinated with local communities. Report from Audits (FY2017) Problems found from internal Problems found by third-party environmental audits certification institutes Major non3 0 conformance Minor non28 0 conformance Items improved 149 13 Audit by Internal Auditors and Third-Party Institutes There are currently 87 internal auditors undergoing training and skills improvement at the Daikin Group in Japan. New and experienced auditors work in pairs so as to pass on skills from one generation to the next and nine new auditors work as assistant auditors. Internal auditors also take annual training to improve their skills and ensure standards are being thoroughly met. In fiscal 2017, auditor development consisted of education pertaining to waste management and auditing exercises on the environmental initiative plan formulation process aimed at improving auditor capabilities. Environment 83 Environmental Management GREEN HEART FACTORIES AND OFFICES Green Heart Factories Certifying Environmentally Conscious Plants Based on In-House Standards Since fiscal 2005, Daikin has utilized in-house standards for evaluating and certifying environmentally conscious plants for their environmental and social performance. In fiscal 2017, we revised these standards to elevate these efforts to a higher level. In addition to the standards used up to now focused on whether environmental activities, including mechanisms for the participation of all employees and organization-wide countermeasures were deployed throughout the organization, we established criteria whereby organizations attaining 150 or more points out of a possible 200 are deemed Green Heart Factories and established a certification ranking system consisting of platinum, gold, silver and bronze categories. As of the end of fiscal 2017, 24 bases in Japan and overseas had been certified as gold (two bases), silver (10 bases) and bronze (12 bases). Green Heart Offices Green Heart Office Initiative Daikin began the Green Heart Office initiative in fiscal 2011 to improve environmental consciousness at non-production bases. In fiscal 2014 we created a Green Heart Office checklist, which includes a graph with reduce resource usage on the vertical axis, and the items awareness and contribution on the horizontal axis. In addition, we created the three ranks of Gold Class, Silver Class, and Bronze Class. This allows us to make comparative assessments among bases. We have set a target of achieving Gold Class for major non-production bases by 2020, and in fiscal 2016 all major bases achieved Bronze Class. In fiscal 2017, we will continue efforts to achieve at least Bronze Class for all bases and increase the number of bases in the Silver or Gold Class. Environment 84 Environmental Management ENVIRONMENTALLY CONSCIOUS DESIGN Environmentally Conscious Air Conditioners Commercialize Only Products that Meet 13 Assessment Criteria Besides factors like performance and ease of use, Daikin Industries, Ltd. stresses environmental performance in product development. We strive to raise this environmental performance by incorporating product assessment in the planning and design stages for new products. Product assessment consists of 13 assessment items that we strictly adhere to in developing products. We also assess global warming impact of air conditioners using the life cycle assessment (LCA) method, which allows us to determine the environmental impact at each stage of a product's life cycle. Products only make it to market after we have assessed them against their predecessor products to confirm they exert less environmental impact. Product Assessment Items 1. Weight reduction of products 2. Use of recycled materials and parts 3. Packaging 4. Reduction in environmental impact in the manufacturing process 5. Energy and resource conservation in use 6. Product life extension 7. Ease of delivery/collecting/transporting 8. Raise possibility of reuse of resources 9. Ease of disassembly and separation of materials by hand 10. Ease of shredding/classifying for recycling 11. Environmental conservation capabilities 12. Disclosure of information 13. LCA Environment 85 Environmentally Conscious Fluorochemical Products Contributing to Environmental Protection in a Range of Areas Fluorine mainly bonds with carbon atoms to become compounds that are highly stable and have useful functions such as the ability to resist heat and repel chemicals. Daikin utilizes the characteristics of fluorine to provide various products that are useful for environmental conservation. Examples include ZEFFLE infrared reflective coating, which suppresses temperature increases by its mere application and alleviates air conditioning loads, and Neoflon ETFE, which contributes to prolonging the life of solar cells. Both products contribute to customer energy saving efforts. In addition, as fluoride material contributes to higher lithium-ion battery capacity, it is used for lithium-ion battery electrolytic solution and for electrode binding and packing. Environmental Solutions Pioneered with Fluorochemical Products Fluoride Materials Reduce Environmental Impact in Various Applications With fluoride materials having superb heat and chemical resistance, we are conducting R&D into their use as material for fuel cells and for the oil and gas field. Fluoride materials are also contributing to reduced environmental impact through their use in solar and wind power systems, and in lithium-ion batteries. We will continue to expand their use in renewable energy, new energy, and energy-saving applications. Environment 86 Product Assessment Items Assessment item Assessment standard Have the weight and volume of Weight and volume reduction of products (including main raw 1-1 products, and main raw materials materials and parts) been and parts reduced? 01. Weight reduction of products Weight reduction of scarce Have fewer scarce materials been 1-2 materials used? Has less refrigerant (HFC) been 1-3 Reduction of refrigerants used? 2-1 Use of recycled plastics Have recycled plastics been used? Have parts been labelled as using 02. Use of recycled materials and 2-2 Labelling use of recycled plastics recycled plastics? parts Have reused parts been used, and 2-3 Use of recycled parts are these of standard quality? • Have weight and volume of packaging been reduced? Has Reduce weight of packaging, packaging been simplified? 3-1 simplify packaging • Is used packaging material small and separable? Can it be easily collected and transported? • Has the use of compound materials been reduced? 03. Packaging • Is it easy to separate each type of material in compound Make it possible to recycle more 3-2 materials? packaging • Have common materials been used across products? • Has packaging reuse been considered? Has recycled packaging material 3-3 Use recycled packaging materials been used? Have products been designed so Reduce amount of production 4-1 that less waste is generated 04. Reduction in environmental waste during production? impact in the manufacturing process Are product specifications such Energy efficiency in the 4-2 that less energy is consumed in production stage the production stage? Environment 87 Improve energy efficiency during Has the product been made more 5-1 use energy efficient during use? Reduce energy consumption in Has the product been made more 5-2 05. Energy and resource standby mode energy efficient in standby? conservation in use Include energy and resource Are there energy and resource 5-3 saving functions saving functions? Reduce amount of product Has the amount of consumables 5-4 consumables been reduced? Improve durability of products Are products, parts, and materials 6-1 and main parts and materials more durable than before? • Does construction make it easy for users to remove and attach? • Do parts need to be replaced Greater ease of replacement and less often than before? 6-2 maintenance of consumables • Is there more information than before regarding parts replacement posted on the main unit and in the user manual? • Have parts requiring maintenance and repair been clearly indicated? Possibility and greater ease of 6-3 • Are parts common across maintenance and repair products? 06. Product life extension • Does construction allow for easy maintenance and repair? • Are users and repair companies being provided with maintenance and repair information that will extend product life? Are the content, explanations, and illustration Tell customers how to get longer methods of the information 6-4 use out of products improved over previous information? • Can Daikin provide repair companies with breakdown diagnosis and repair measures, as well as information related to safety and other matters? Environment 88 • Have items been loaded evenly and balanced, and can collection Improve handling and safety of and transport take place safely? 7-1 products during delivery, • For heavy, bulky items, are 07. Ease of collection, and transport handles and wheels properly delivery/collecting/transporting positioned? Improve loading efficiency of Is it easy to improve loading 7-2 products during delivery, efficiency, and is there no danger collection, and transport of items falling off? Have easy-to-recycle plastics been 8-1 Raise possibility of use of plastics 08. Raise possibility of reuse of used? resources Has the overall possible recycling 8-2 Raise recycling ratio ratio of the product been raised? • Does construction make it easy to disassemble products and remove parts by hand? Easy to disassemble products and • Do products have a recycling 9-1 separate parts by hand logo that indicates greater ease of disassembly? Is information 09. Ease of disassembly and provided that makes disassembly separation of materials by hand easy? Is there less use of compound 9-2 Reduce compound materials materials that make parts and materials separation difficult? Use common materials across Have common materials been 9-3 products used across products? • Is shredding with a shredder easy? • Can products and parts fit into a shredder? 10. Ease of shredding/classifying 10-1 Make shredding easier • Has there been a check to for recycling ensure that there are no substances that may damage or dirty the equipment or the materials that will be reused? Environment 89 Do products use low global Use low global warming potential warming potential refrigerants, 11-1 refrigerants which contribute less to global warming? Has the amount of PVC been 11-2 Reduce PVC reduced? • Have safety measures been taken and has refrigerant been properly recovered so that there are no leaks of refrigerants or 11. Environmental conservation refrigerator oil during collection capabilities and transport. Protect environment during 11-3 • Are refrigerant recovery recycling and disposal stages methods stated in the documentation? • Can parts, including environmentally harmful substances, be removed using standard tools? Have users and relevant Provide information to persons at 11-4 contractors been provided with all stages of the life cycle proper information? Label product, parts, user manual, Are there energy and resource 12-1 packaging, etc. saving functions? • Do product catalogs and the website provide users with information on matters such as 12. Disclosure of information energy efficiency and resource Provide information in product efficiency functions? 12-2 catalogs and on the website • Is there documentation giving information on how to recycle and protect the environment, and information on safety during product disposal? Has a lifecycle assessment been conducted regarding the Determine the environmental environmental impact at each 13-1 impact at each lifecycle stage lifecycle stage, such as materials, production, transport, use, and final disposal? 13. LCA Does a lifecycle assessment show Consider how to reduce that the product exerts less 13-2 environmental impact during the environmental impact in terms of lifecycle CO2 emissions and global warming potential? Environment 90 Environmental Management GREEN PROCUREMENT Basic Policy Daikin Group Requests that Worldwide Suppliers Abide by Green Procurement Guidelines Daikin established its Green Procurement Guidelines in fiscal 2000 and requires suppliers from which it procures materials in Japan and overseas to abide by these guidelines to place a priority on the procurement of materials and parts used in manufacturing that reduce environmental burdens. In implementing these guidelines, we evaluate suppliers on environmental protection activities using a green procurement inspection list. This inspection list also ascertains the presence or absence of environmental management systems and chemical substances management while recording CO2 emissions. It also includes criteria such as biodiversity and water resource protection. Overview of Green Procurement Guidelines, 9th Edition Essential conditions for suppliers' management Environmental Management System (We request our suppliers to either structure environmental management system to obtain ISO14001 certification, or acquire third-party certification for their environmental management system.) Compliance Promotion of voluntary activities of improving environment energy conservation, waste reduction, and improvement of transport means. Provision of information Essential conditions for products Chemical substance management 1. Restriction on use of chemical substances 2. Cooperation to investigation of chemical substances 3. Voluntary reduction of substances ranked to reduce, and the implementation of adequate management procedures of them Packaging materials When designing work is involved, eco-friendly design must be employed. Green Procurement Guidelines (Supply Chain Management) (Page 311) Biodiversity Protecting water resources Environment 91 Targets and Achievements Implementing Improvement and Guidance at Overseas Bases, Increasing Green Procurement Rate Supplier procurement rate scores of 82 points or more on the green procurement inspection list are set as the green procurement rate, which we promote globally with the aim of 100% compliance. The Group's overall green procurement rate in fiscal 2017 was 76%. We attempt to increase the green procurement rate in each region through briefings and other events aimed at facilitating an understanding of the importance of green procurement among suppliers. We launched green procurement in South America in 2016. In Thailand, China and Europe, where green procurement has been established, we ask suppliers below a certain standard to make improvements and provide guidance to assist them. Supporting improvements in supplier environmental activities enables us to continue doing business with them. Green Procurement Rate (%) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Japan 95 94 96 91 92 China 96 97 95 96 92 Thailand 98 98 95 95 97 Other countries in Asia and Oceania 84 76 65 58 84 Europe 86 91 93 93 95 North America 38 39 38 30 30 South America 97 94 All regions 84 78 65 74 76 Value of goods procured from suppliers Green procurement rate = who meet our assessment criteria Value of all goods procured Environment 92 Compliance with Restrictions on Toxic Chemicals Establishing Standards for Managing Chemical Substances in Products The Daikin Group maintains a list based on the RoHS Directive*1 and the REACH Regulation*2 regarding chemicals contained in products. These are stated in our Green Procurement Guidelines, which we require our suppliers to abide by. *1 The RoHS Directive (Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive) is a regulation in the EU prohibiting the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. *2 The REACH Regulation on chemical substances went into effect in Europe in June 2007. REACH obligates companies manufacturing or importing at least 1 ton of chemical substances a year in the EU to register with EU authorities. REACH covers almost all chemicals on the market in the EU. Related information Management and Reduction of Chemical Substances Contained in Products (Page 160) Environment 93 Environmental Management ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTING Environmental Accounting FY2017 Environmental Accounting Figures Total environmental protection costs in FY2017 were ¥26.7 billion (investment in equipment: ¥4.4 billion; expenses: ¥22.3 billion), 93% over the previous year. For the air-conditioner business, we focused our R&D efforts on developing technologies for energy efficiency and refrigerants. Amidst the growing importance of preventing global warming, we proceeded with the development of products and technologies that reduce environmental impact. Examples are inverter technologies offering both comfort and energy efficiency, R-32 refrigerant, which reduces global warming impact to just one-third that of conventional refrigerants, and heat pump-type heating systems and water heaters, which result in CO2 emissions less than half of those from conventional combustion-type heating. Accounting Method The costs and effects of Daikin's environmental efforts were calculated based on the Environmental Accounting Guideline 2005 released by Japan's Ministry of the Environment. Costs of Environmental Conservation Expenses include labor costs but not depreciation expenses for investment in facilities. The expenses not full allocated to environmental protection were proportionally divided and totaled according to a relevant Daikin standard. Effects of Environmental Conservation Please see the relevant page for details of each item. Economic Benefits of Environmental Conservation Efforts The environmental conservation effects and economic benefits were calculated by comparing the adjusted output to the previous fiscal year. Environment 94 Breakdown of Environmental Conservation Costs (% of total) Environment 95 FY2016 and FY2017 Environmental Costs (¥ million) Cost of environmental conservation FY2016 FY2017 Category Major activities Amount of Amount of equipment Expenses equipment Expenses invested invested Cost in 1,682 5,816 2,076 5,538 business area Introduction, maintenance, and management of 1. Pollution pollution prevention facilities/equipment, expenses 857 1,765 776 1,743 prevention for measurement/analysis of air pollution control, water pollution control, vibration, and noise. 2. Global Introduction of energy efficient facilities/equipment, environmental reduction of fluorocarbon emissions in the 760 756 1,070 774 conservation production process, and recovery of fluorocarbons. 3. Resource Reduction or recycling of waste, subcontracting of 66 3,255 231 3,021 circulation waste disposal, and resource conservation activities. Recycling of used products, and recovery, recycling, Upstream/ and destruction of fluorocarbons in used products or 9 231 43 278 downstream products still in service. Running of company organization for environmental matters, environmental education, environmental Management information disclosure, and 21 1,080 19 1,065 activities establishment/maintenance of environmental management systems. Work on three major tasks for air conditioners, and Research and development of fluorochemical products with 1,747 12,591 2,218 15,074 development minimized environmental impact. Provision of personnel and monetary aid to Social environment-related organizations, and 2 256 1 261 activities environmental protection activities in local communities. Environmental Costs for purification of polluted groundwater and 0 638 0 72 damage soil. Total 3,461 20,613 4,357 22,288 Total of investment in facilities within the period 90,300 96,600 Total of investment in R&D activities within the period 53,900 62,100 Environment 96 Effects of environmental conservation FY2016 FY2017 Effects figures figures 53,489 tons14,088 Energy consumption CO2 tons-CO2 1. Effects of the resources used for business activities Reduction in water -2,710,768m3 -131,643m3 Effects corresponding consumption with costs within Reduction in business area 2. Effects against environmental impacts fluorocarbon -27 tons 575 tons and waste resulting from business emissions activities Reduction in waste -1,422 tons -2,067 tons materials Number of residential air conditioners collected 280,000 320,000 Effects associated with benefits and Effects to upstream/ Amount of units units services that are calculated and based on downstream costs fluorocarbons 175 tons 205 tons business activities recovered 133.0 tons 78.0 tons Amount of packaging material recycled (¥ million) Economic benefits of environmental conservation efforts (monetary benefits) Effects FY2016 FY2017 Profit Profit from sale of recycled waste 2,105 3,303 Reduction in energy expenses resulting from energy conservation efforts 901 -151 Reduction in expenses Reduction in waste disposal expenses resulting from resource conservation or 971 366 recycling resources Environment 97 Environment Response to Climate Change Basic Policy Air conditioners consume large amounts of electricity, and the fluorocarbons they use as refrigerants deplete the ozone layer and contribute to global warming. Particularly in the rapidly developing economies of emerging countries, growing demand for air conditioners is expected to have an increasingly severe effect on climate change. The Daikin Group is focusing on alleviating the effect that products have on climate change through the dissemination of refrigerants with low global warming impact and energy-efficient technologies, and through the provision of energy-efficient solutions that combine air conditioners, their peripherals, and the buildings in which they operate. In addition, we strive to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases during production and transportation, and we recover, recycle, and destroy fluorocarbons during all stages from production to final product disposal. Source: Contribution of Working Group III to the Fifth Assessment Report of the IPCC Environment 98 Developing and Promoting Products and Services That Increasing Air Conditioner Low Environmental Impact Reduce Environmental Efficiency Refrigerants Impact We disseminate products and We strive to develop products We strive to develop and services with low environmental that use minimal electricity by disseminate refrigerants with impact in order to contribute to conducting quantitative minimal effect on climate solving environmental and environmental assessments for change. energy problems. each product life cycle. Promoting the Use of HeatEnergy-Efficiency through Promoting the Use of Pump Type Space and Hot Fluorochemical Products Inverter Products Water Heaters and Oil Hydraulic Products We focus on the worldwide We develop space and hot water We develop products that dissemination of highly energyheaters that use highly energyconsume minimal electricity by efficient inverter air efficient heat-pump technology. using our fluorochemical conditioners. products and oil hydraulic equipment. Reducing Greenhouse Recovery, Recycle, and Gases during Production Providing Solutions Destruction of and Transportation Fluorocarbons We strive to reduce emissions of We strive to make progress in We work to recover, recycle, and energy-induced CO2 during the energy management, demand destroy refrigerants so as to production and transportation response, and energy creation. reduce their environmental stages. impact throughout the entire product life cycle. Environment 99 Related information Environment (Page 58) Environmentally Conscious Design (Page 85) Daikin's Policy on the Environmental Impact of the Refrigerant (http://www.daikin.com/csr/information/influence/) Daikin's position on the Kigali Agreement for HFC phase down (86KB) (http://www.daikin.com/csr/EN_Kigali_Agreement_Daikin_Stance_FINAL.pdf) Environment 100 Response to Climate Change DEVELOPING AND PROMOTING PRODUCTS AND SERVICES THAT REDUCE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT The Daikin Group is working in numerous areas to reduce environmental impact, such as by improving the energy efficiency and environmental performance of products and by converting to refrigerants that are safer and that have a lower global warming potential. Furthermore, by promoting environmentally conscious products and services all over the world, we will contribute to solving environmental and energy problems while providing a healthy and comfortable air environment. Contributing to Greenhouse Gas Emission Reductions through the Promotion of Environmentally Conscious Products Air conditioners, our main products, emit a particularly massive amount of CO2 when used, thus we are focusing efforts on the global promotion of energy-efficient air conditioners using inverter technologies and air conditioners using low environmental impact refrigerants. Having set a goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 60 million tons-CO2 in fiscal 2020, in fiscal 2017 we estimate that we contributed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 54 million tons-CO2. Contribution to Greenhouse Gas Emission Reductions from Daikin Air Conditioners on the Market* * Difference between emissions from all Daikin environmentally conscious products sold and emissions from noninverter products, air conditioners using conventional refrigerants, and gas-combustion space heaters and hot water heaters Values up to fiscal 2014 are for emerging countries only Reviewed by the third-party Environment 101 Environmentally Conscious Product Sales Ratio In order to mitigate the global warming impact of its air conditioners, the Daikin Group defines its environmentally conscious products as Super Green Products and Green Products, developing and spreading the use of these products. In fiscal 2017, environmentally conscious products accounted for 83% of residential air conditioner sales. Environmentally Conscious Products as Percentage of Net Sales (residential air conditioners) Name Definition Air conditioners that meet all of the following conditions. Consume at least 30% less electricity than conventional products Super Green Example: Air conditioners equipped with inverters Products Use refrigerants with at least two-thirds less global warming potential than conventional refrigerants Example: Air conditioners using HFC-32, a refrigerant with lower global warming potential Green Products Air conditioners that meet at least one of the above conditions. Related information Promoting the Use of Inverter Products (Page 114) Low Environmental Impact Refrigerants (Page 109) Environment 102 Response to Climate Change INCREASING AIR CONDITIONER EFFICIENCY As a manufacturer of air conditioners doing business globally, Daikin makes it its mission to reduce energy consumption in order to improve people's comfort and contribute to reducing global warming. To this end, we conduct quantitative environmental assessments for each product life cycle in order to develop products and services that use minimal electricity and to combine these in order to optimize the overall energy consumption of buildings. Life Cycle Assessment Focusing on Increasing Energy Efficiency and Reducing Refrigerant Impact during Product Use We assess global warming impact of air conditioners using the life cycle assessment (LCA) method, which allows us to determine the environmental impact at each stage of a product's life cycle. In the life cycle of an air conditioner, the majority of the greenhouse gas that is emitted occurs during product use stage, and refrigerants also represent a large impact. That is why we focus on reducing the impact of these two. In addition to incorporating inverter technology to reduce power consumption, we employ the HFC-32 low-global-warming refrigerant to achieve greater energy efficiency. In fiscal 2017, we reduced CO2 emissions from residential air conditioners by 22% and from commercial air conditioners by 32% compared to lifecycle CO2 emissions 10 years earlier. Sample of LCA: Comparison of CO2 Emissions over Product Lifecycle*1 *1 Based on Daikin standards for 2.8-kW class residential air conditioners and 14-kW class commercial air conditioners. *2 The seasonal power consumption is calculated in accordance with the standard of the Japanese Industrial Standards (JIS) for residential air conditioners and the Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industries Association for commercial air conditioners. *3 Refrigerant impact is calculated by obtaining the global warming potential per unit of weight, while factoring in the average leakage rate during the product use, disposal, and recycling stages. Environment 103 Improving Energy Efficiency of Air Conditioners Improving Annual Performance Factor (APF)*1 and Integrated Part Load Value (IPLV)*2 In the life cycle of an air conditioner, from design and manufacture to use and disposal, the majority of the CO2 that is emitted occurs during product use. That is why when we revised our voluntary environmental standards, we tightened our criteria for energy efficiency in the product use stage in order to improve the energy efficiency of products. *1 Annual performance factor (APF): The APF represents heating and cooling capacity per kWh over one year of use of an air conditioner under specific conditions. The higher the APF, the greater an air conditioner's energy efficiency. *2 Integrated part load value (IPLV): The IPLV is an energy efficiency indicator obtained by calculating the weighted average of cooling COPs at four different capacities of machine operation. It corresponds to the APF of a packaged air conditioner. In reality, air conditioners often operate at partial capacity. The higher the IPLV, the greater the actual energy efficiency of a product. Electricity Consumption and Energy Consumption Efficiency (residential air conditioners)*1 *1 Calculated for Daikin 2.8-kW class air conditioners. Under JIS conditions. *2 For products with prescribed measurements *3 Measures were based on the JIS C 9612:2005 standard up to fiscal 2012; from fiscal 2013 they are based on JIS C 9612: 2013. Electricity Consumption and Energy Consumption Efficiency (commercial air conditioners)* * Calculated for Daikin 14.0-kW class air conditioners. Under conditions of the Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industry Association, and the Japanese Industrial Standards (JIS). Environment 104 Developing Energy-Efficient Products Launched machi Multi, multi-split type air conditioners for stores and offices enabling energy saving in small buildings. In urban areas where small buildings are densely packed in together it is difficult to find space for installing conventional outdoor multi-split type air conditioners for commercial buildings. In many cases, several small outdoor units are installed. As a result, many outdoor units line buildings and building walls, making maintenance work difficult. The machi Multi, launched in April 2017, reduces the space needed for installation up to approximately 58% compared to conventional multi-split type air conditioners for commercial buildings due to its smaller size for an outdoor unit. Even in urban areas with many small buildings, multi-split type air conditioners for commercial buildings can be operated individually enabling energy savings. Sales Launch of cocotas Multi-Cassette-Type Air Conditioners Ideal for Small Spaces Daikin newly developed the cocotas multi-cassette-type air conditioner for smaller spaces such as washrooms, kitchens and other non-living spaces for which conventional small capacity 2.2 kW air conditioners had been too powerful to be practical. With a 0.8 kW cooling capacity and a 1.0 kW heating capacity, this is the industry's smallest size air conditioner, ideal for spaces equivalent to the size of 2–3 tatami mats. In addition to the combination of Daikin's proprietary inverter control and low-speed, high-efficiency swing pressure unit, the adoption of a new motorized valve able to control low flow rate refrigerant that limits capacity to as low as 0.2 kW enables finely-tuned operation and comfortable temperature control. This unit is equipped with modulated operation in response to the need to leave air conditioning on when no one is in the room, such as washrooms, which experience frequent in and out traffic in the mornings, and hallways outside bedrooms at nighttime. Modulated target temperature operation maintains temperature differences between living spaces and non-living spaces within a range that does not place a burden on the human body while keeping energy costs low, eliminating extreme temperature differences in the home and contributing to energy savings. Environment 105 Products for Detached Homes Added to DESICA Series Requiring no water drainage or supply pipes, DESICA instead uses outside air to control humidity, either humidifying or dehumidifying. Equipped with the Hybrid DESICA Element, which contains both highly efficient water absorption material and a heat exchanger, it consumes just one-sixth the energy of conventional humidity controlling devices (according to Daikin tests). For this, In June 2011 Daikin received the Invention Award from the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry at the National Commendation for Invention, sponsored by the Japan Institute of Invention and Innovation. In autumn 2012, Daikin Industries, Ltd. released the DESICA HOME AIR for detached homes, which controls humidity and ventilation throughout the entire house. Just one unit offers round-the-clock, year-round comfort control for all rooms in homes with floor space of between 120 m2 and 200 m2. Like the commercial DESICA, this product gives humidifying and dehumidifying without the need for water drainage or supply pipes. Because it is floor standing, maintenance such as replacement and cleaning of the high-performance filter is easy. With its ability to provide high-quality air and energy efficiency, the DESICA HOME AIR has already proved a hit in many homes. DESICA HOME AIR Customers achieve the best balance of temperature and humidity by choosing a product and combination of parts from the extensive lineup. Environment 106 Related information DESICA HOME AIR (available in Japanese only) (http://www.daikinaircon.com/catalog/kanki/desica_home/) Environment 107 HEXAGON Force Air-Cooled Heat-Pump Modular Chiller Awarded the Chairman Prize of Energy Conservation Center, Japan (ECCJ) in the 2017 Energy Conservation Grand Prize Air conditioning heat source equipment energy consumption differs significantly between times when loads are heavy, such as midsummer and midwinter, and lighter load operations accounting for approximately 90% of the year. To conserve energy, efficient operation is important regardless of whether the load is heavy or light. HEXAGON Force achieves operational efficiency throughout the year due to a high-efficiency scroll compressor that efficiently pressurizes refrigerant to control energy and a proprietary F-shaped heat exchanger configuration. Further, the use of IoT-compatible cloud services enables more detailed energy management. This results in the realization of more efficient air conditioner operation and longer life, contributing to lower air conditioner lifecycle costs for large facilities that are on the rise mainly in the Tokyo metropolitan area. Business Model Promoting Energy Conservation through Replacement of Installed Equipment Heat Source Awarded the Chairman Prize of Energy Conservation Center, Japan (ECCJ) in the 2017 Energy Conservation Grand Prize The VRV Q Series for replacement use is a product equipped with the latest energy saving technologies that replaces outdoor units while leaving indoor units, refrigerant pipes and wiring as is. By eliminating the required expenses and indoor construction work that had been an issue when replacing heat-pump commercial air-conditioning equipment multi-split type air-conditioning systems for buildings and ECOCUTE heat-pump water heaters, the time required for construction work is shortened and approximately 25% less energy is consumed. This removes the burden from users and has gained a strong reputation as a new replacement business achieving energy saving easily using existing equipment. Environment 108 Response to Climate Change LOW ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REFRIGERANTS Low Environmental Impact Refrigerants Working Toward Practical Application of Diversity of Next-Generation Refrigerants The refrigerant conveys the heat between the indoor unit and the outdoor unit of air conditioners. Although HFC, currently the most widely used refrigerant in developed countries, has zero ozone depletion potential, it contributes to global warming if released into the atmosphere. The Daikin Group aims to achieve practical use of next-generation refrigerants that contribute less to global warming than conventional refrigerants. In conducting research aimed at eventually launching products using such refrigerants, we focus not only on their direct effect on global warming but also on their effects throughout the lifecycle, including energy efficiency during air conditioner use. We make decisions based on all contributing factors: besides the environmental impact of the refrigerant itself, we look at safety factors such as flammability and toxicity, the cost and availability of the refrigerant, and the cost of producing air conditioners that use the refrigerant. Daikin's View: Evaluation Index of Refrigerant Selection (common for all application) Environment 109 Choosing the Best Balanced Refrigerant for Each Application to Mitigate Environmental Impact Different characteristics are required of refrigerants, depending on whether they are used in, for example, residential or commercial air conditioners, water and space heaters, or refrigeration equipment. That is why we have spent years conducting research that will enable the selection of refrigerant that is ideal for each application. We have so far conducted research on next-generation refrigerants such as natural refrigerants and HFC refrigerants, and have considered their application in products. Using the knowledge we have built up, we are providing information worldwide at events such as international conferences, academic conferences, and exhibitions, as well as through research paper presentations, on the global warming impact of refrigerants and measures against it. Example of Daikin's Choice of Refrigerants Note: Other refrigerants not listed above are also applied in products outside of Daikin's portfolio, some examples include hydrocarbons (R-600a, R-290, etc.) for home-use refrigerators and window air conditioners or HFO refrigerants for mobile air conditioners. Protecting the Ozone Layer Focusing on Converting to Alternative Refrigerants and Recovering Fluorocarbons HCFCs used to be the most commonly used refrigerant, but in the 1980s experts suspected it was depleting the ozone layer, so under the Montreal Protocol developed nations agreed to phase out its production in developed countries by 2020. Daikin's chemicals business has for years worked to mitigate ozone layer destruction by developing alternative refrigerants that do not deplete the ozone layer. In 1991 we began the first mass-production in Japan of HFC, a refrigerant with zero ozone depletion potential, and in 1995, under our air conditioner business we developed and began selling air conditioners that use HFC as the refrigerant. Environment 110 Daikin's Action on Refrigerant and Goals Kigali Amendment In October 2016, at the 28th Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol, members voted to phase down the CO2 equivalent total of HFCs, which, despite not harming the ozone layer, have a high GWP. With this, HFCs, which were covered by the Paris Agreement adopted at the 21st Session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP21) but were not part of the Montreal Protocol, thus became part of the Montreal Protocol, due to the success of efforts to completely eliminate HCFCs. This decision is called the Kigali Amendment, after the Kigali, the capital city of Rwanda, where the conference was held. The Amendment had exceeded the threshold for ratification by at least 20 countries at the end of 2017, thus it will go into effect on January 1, 2019. A major point of the Kigali Amendment is that it is not meant to phase out HFCs but rather phase down the production and consumption of HFCs based on their GWP value. The amount of HFC will not be restricted but rather phased down in terms of total GWP of HFC (weight of HFC in Kg x GWP value). By using lower GWP HFCs, it is possible to maintain or increase the use amount of HFC itself while reducing the overall global warming impact. In enacting the Kigali Amendment, the plan provides developed countries with a common phase-down schedule. The Amendment divides developing countries into two groups. Those groups are provided with different phase-down schedules. Upon the introduction of new refrigerants, the Amendment requires an increase in efficiency of air conditioners in addition to a phasing down of HFCs in terms of total GWP. Environment 111 Daikin is pursuing the following measures in response to the Kigali Amendment. 1. Daikin welcomes the Kigali Agreement for an HFC phase down in terms of CO2 equivalent under the Montreal Protocol. 2. The main tenet of Daikin's policy is diversity of refrigerants. And there is no ideal one-size-fitsall refrigerant solution for all applications, because many criteria need to be assessed, such as the ODP and GWP value of the refrigerant and safety, energy consumption, availability, affordability, resource efficiency, recyclability, recoverability and total global warming impact of the equipment. 3. Daikin has identified R-32 as a very beneficial refrigerant for single and multi-split type air conditioners and heat pumps based upon the above criteria. Daikin believes that the transition to R32 will help to meet both the HFC phase down schedule and the HCFC phase out schedule. Daikin is now in the process of further study to identify a suitable refrigerant for other applications. 4. To mitigate future global climate change, it is important to take a Sooner the Better approach. Early implementation is a key to the further reduction of future impact. As soon as the most balanced and feasible solution for an application is found, Daikin will commercialize and disseminate the technology to contribute to the efforts to mitigate global climate change. 5. Also, while taking a Sooner the Better approach, as a refrigerant manufacturer, Daikin will continue to seek the optimal refrigerant for every type of application for further mitigation of global climate change. Related information Key Activities of Fiscal 2015: Environment—Creating a New Market that Contributes to the Mitigation of Global Warming (https://www.daikin.com/csr/feature2015/01.html) Key Activities of Fiscal 2014: Dissemination of Refrigerants with Low Global Warming Impact (https://www.daikin.com/csr/feature2014/01.html) Recovery, Recycle and Destruction of Fluorocarbons (Page 135) Mitigate the Global Warming Impact Promoting the Use of R-32, a Refrigerant with Lower Global Warming Potential In November 2012, Daikin became the first company in the world to launch residential air conditioners using R-32 (HFC) for the Japanese market; R-32 has just one-third the global warming potential of conventional R-410A (HFC) refrigerant. In March 2013, we released a residential air conditioner using R32 in India. We are in the process of releasing these R-32 air conditioners in other countries and using R32 for commercial air conditioners and water heaters as well. To disseminate R-32 air conditioning, cooling and heat pump equipment globally, in September 2011 Daikin began offering companies worldwide 93 patents for developing and commercializing such products using R-32 single component refrigerant. Environment 112 In addition, Daikin provides technical support in emerging countries by cooperating with governments and international organizations throughout the world and provides information and technical support through international conferences, academic conferences, and papers on the impact and countermeasures in relation to refrigerants and global warming. For example, in India, Thailand, and Malaysia, seminars were held for government officials and air-conditioning industry groups to promote understanding of R-32, and we conducted training for local air-conditioning installation and service technicians on the appropriate handling of R-32. In Mexico, Daikin was commissioned by the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) to handle private-sector technology promotion projects in an expanded range of activities, including the distribution of air conditioners with R-32 refrigerant and initiatives to create energy-efficient markets. Daikin has sold more than 12 million R-32 air conditioners in 53 countries. It is estimated that, including the products of other companies, the worldwide R-32 air conditioner market exceeds 43 million units. (As of March 2017) Countries where Daikin R-32 air conditioners are sold (as of December 2017) Japan, Taiwan, the Philippines, Indonesia, Vietnam, Thailand, Malaysia, Australia, India, Singapore, New Zealand, 28 countries in Residential Air Conditioner Europe, the Ukraine, Russia, Norway, Montenegro, Albania, Turkey, UAE, Saudi Arabia, Oman, Sri Lanka, United States, Canada, Mexico and Panama Commercial Air Conditioner Japan, India, some European countries Water Heaters (certain models) Japan Related information Key Activities of Fiscal 2015: Environment—Creating a New Market that Contributes to the Mitigation of Global Warming (https://www.daikin.com/csr/feature2015/01.html) Key Activities of Fiscal 2014: Dissemination of Refrigerants with Low Global Warming Impact (https://www.daikin.com/csr/feature2014/01.html) Dialogue with Governments and Industry Groups (Page 319) Environment 113 Response to Climate Change PROMOTING THE USE OF INVERTER PRODUCTS To reduce global warming worldwide, it is crucial to spread the use of highly energy efficient products, such as those using inverters, to all countries. The Daikin Group is developing affordable air conditioners for Southeast Asian countries, where market penetration is still low. We are also working to support the creation of a mechanism to assess the energy performance of inverter models in Southeast Asia, Latin America, the Middle East and other areas. Inverter Technology Can Reduce Power Consumption by Approx. 58% The Daikin Group aims to spread the use of highly energy-efficient inverter air conditioners so that consumers use less energy during air conditioner operation and thus emit less CO2. Inverters are frequency conversion devices that control electrical voltage, current, and frequency. Inverters precisely control the compressor motor, the heart of an air conditioner. Furthermore, with modified conventional motors and heat exchangers, inverter air conditioners use approximately 58% less energy than non-inverter models. Comparison of energy consumption (Non-inverter air conditioner 100%) Related information Inverters (https://www.daikin.com/about/why_daikin/benefits/inverter/) Environment 114 Promoting the Use of Inverter Products Spreading the Use of Inverter Products Worldwide The Daikin Group aims to spread the use of energy-efficient inverter products so that consumers use less energy during air conditioner operation and thus emit less CO2. Because inverter products are more expensive than non-inverter products, they have been slow to achieve market penetration in Southeast Asia. However, in fiscal 2014, we developed an inverter air conditioner at an affordable price especially for the Asian air conditioner market. Such products are gradually achieving greater market penetration due to factors including stricter energy efficiency standards and rising energy awareness among the general public stemming from rising electricity prices in Southeast Asia. To help promote the spread of inverter products, we are in the process of creating mechanisms to evaluate their energy-efficiency performance. In the past, the most common index for evaluating an air conditioner's energy-efficiency performance was COP (coefficient of performance), under which the amount of energy consumed was calculated at a fixed efficiency without adjusting for air temperature changes. However, COP cannot be used to properly evaluate the performance of inverter products, which operate at an optimal level depending on the changes in ambient temperature. Therefore, Japan's air conditioner industry has led calls for a switch to using APF (annual performance factor), and since 2013 APF has been used in ISO standards. In emerging countries, where APF is starting to come into use, Daikin is working with the Japanese government and industry groups to get APF adopted in Latin America, the Middle East and other areas as the industry standard and to create energy labelling systems as part of support for creating evaluation standards. Environment 115 Inverter Products as Percentage of All Residential Air Conditioners Worldwide Note: Residential air conditioners: Ductless air conditioners other than window and portable type products. Only in North America does the category include duct-type air conditioners for residential use. Source: Compiled by Daikin based on data from the Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industries Association Related information Key Activities of Fiscal 2015: Environment—Creating a New Market that Contributes to the Mitigation of Global Warming (https://www.daikin.com/csr/feature2015/01.html) Dialogue with Government and Industry Groups (Page 319) Environment 116 Response to Climate Change PROMOTING THE USE OF HEAT-PUMP TYPE SPACE AND HOT WATER HEATERS In recent years, growing environmental awareness has led to the spread of highly energy-efficient space and hot water heaters. In Europe in particular, which has a relatively cold climate, space and water heaters account for more than 80% of household energy consumption, thus there is an ongoing shift from conventional combustion-heat source equipment to heat-pump heating that emits less CO2. Daikin is engaged in the development and promotion of hot water heaters and space heaters using highly energy-efficient heat pump technology while striving o increase comfort and reduce CO2 emissions. Heat-Pump Technology Less than 2/3 of the CO2 Emissions Compared to Burning Fossil Fuels In the heat-pump method used in air conditioners and other products, thermal energy stored in the air or water is extracted and transferred to perform cooling and heating. Compared to carrying out space and water heating using methods in which fossil fuels such as gas, oil, and coal are directly burned, heat-pump systems emit less than half of the CO2. The Heat Pump Mechanism Related information Heat Pumps (http://www.daikin.com/about/why_daikin/benefits/heatpump/) Environment 117 Promoting the Use of Heat-Pump Type Space and Hot Water Heaters Bringing More CO2-Reducing Heat-Pump Type and Gas Combustion Type Space and Hot Water Heaters to the European Market Daikin is engaged in the development and promotion of hot water heaters and space heaters using energy-efficient heat-pump technology. The EU has set a target of having renewable energy such as wind and solar power account for 20% of the energy mix by 2020. In January 2009, heat pumps were recognized in the EU as technology that captures renewable energy and heat-pump heaters are being recommended as part of this target. In 2006, Daikin began selling a heat-pump type hot water heaters and heating system in Europe. We have since been expanding the product lineup and we have one of the leading shares in the market. In addition, we are developing hybrid products combining heat pumps and boilers for extremely cold regions in an effort to increase comfort and reduce CO2 emissions. In addition, in fiscal 2014 we began focusing on the development of highly energy-efficient gas combustion space heaters and moving to energy-efficient models that meet user needs. We have been working to spread the use of energy-efficient models through a policy that consists of switching from space heaters with a large environmental impact heat-pump type, switching medium-range products to the Hybrid Altherma, which automatically changes between heat pump mode or gas combustion mode, whichever is more efficient, and switching models with a small environmental impact to energy-efficient gas-combustion type. In 2018, we are developing a small-capacity hybrid 4 kW space heater and heat-pump water heaters and space heaters that utilize geothermal energy intended for use by major home builders, local municipalities, public power companies and other entities. Our Asahikawa Laboratory in Asahikawa, Hokkaido, which we established in December 2013, has led efforts to develop new heating and hot-water systems that will offer comfort and energy efficiency for the world's extremely cold regions. We will expand the product lineup for the European heat market, and we will carry out meticulous marketing efforts as we make our heat-pump and gas-combustion-type products more energy efficient and thus contribute to reducing CO2 emissions. Environment 118 Daikin Altherma Hybrid Heat Pump In Europe, we sell the Altherma Hybrid Heat Pump, which automatically switches from heat pump to gas combustion mode when outside temperature drops significantly, thus providing the most efficient and economical heating possible. This product offers a more-than 35% reduction in CO2 emissions compared to gas combustion-type products. Promoting Residential Water Heaters and Floor Heaters in Japan In Japan, water heaters account for 25% of all residential electricity consumption, thus there is a need to switch over to systems with minimal environmental impact to control global warming. Daikin's heat-pump technology is incorporated into ECOCUTE heat-pump water heaters and Hot EcoFloor heat-pump hot-water floor heaters. The latest ECOCUTE model reduces annual energy consumption approximately 23% by improving heat transfer performance with a highly efficient water heat exchanger that facilitates agitation in the water pipe shape and an air heat exchanger with a uniquely shaped waffle guide fin. In this way, new products incorporating the latest technologies have greatly improved energy saving performance compared to past products, but if energy savings can be improved even in existing equipment, energy consumption can be reduced substantially throughout the entire market with the commercialization of replacement heat source units. In recognition of high energy savings and the lower introduction costs and shorter construction time compared to system replacement, Daikin received the Chairman Prize of Energy Conservation Center, Japan (ECCJ) in the Energy Conservation Grand Prize for fiscal 2017. Environment 119 Promoting Highly Energy-efficient Products Including the MEGA-Q Large-Scale Heat-Pump Hot Water System in the Japanese Commercial Market In Japan, we are developing space and hot water heaters for the commercial market as well using highly energy efficient heat-pump technology. In November 2012, we began selling a new model of the commercial heat-pump water heating system (MEGA-Q) for large-scale facilities such as hotels and hospitals, which we first introduced in April 2009. Compared to combustion-type water heaters, this new model releases about 62% fewer CO2 emissions and reduces running cost by about 68%. Facilities like hospitals and golf courses require changing volumes of hot water daily, and Daikin meets this challenge with a hybrid hot water supply system that provides hot water during base periods with MEGA-Q and that switches to boiler operation during peak periods. In addition to commercial applications such as these, in the near future we will come out with products for processes in factories that must respond to environmental requirements. Comparison of Annual CO2 Emissions: MEGA-Q Large-Scale Commercial Heat-Pump Water Heating System versus Combustion-Type Boiler Related information Key Activities of Fiscal 2017: Customer Satisfaction—Create a Mechanism That Brings Peace of Mind by Promoting Adoption of Low-EnvironmentalImpact Heat-Pump Heating (Page 400) Commercial heat-pump hot water heaters (available in Japanese only) (http://ec.daikinaircon.com/ecatalog/DKCB028/?ID=airconitiran) Danzen Heat heat-pump space heaters (available in Japanese only) (http://ec.daikinaircon.com/ecatalog/DKCB032/?ID=airconitiran) Environment 120 Response to Climate Change ENERGY-EFFICIENCY THROUGH FLUOROCHEMICAL PRODUCTS AND OIL HYDRAULIC PRODUCTS Fluorochemical Products An Easy to Install Air Conditioner : ZEFFLE Infrared Reflective Coating Eases Air Conditioning Burden Daikin developed ZEFFLE infrared reflective coating, a fluororesin-based paint that reflects the sun's infrared rays off building roofs. Compared to conventional paints, ZEFFLE reduces building roof surface temperature by as much as 15-20°C, thus keeping inside temperature down. It also reduces power consumption by approximately 15% to make a major contribution to saving energy in the summer. ZEFFLE could almost be called a easy-to-install air conditioner. Used in combination with an energyefficient air conditioner, ZEFFLE can help reduce electricity consumption. Besides the roof and outer walls of a building, ZEFFLE is effective in blocking heat and preventing weathering in other ways. For example, by applying it to water storage tanks such as those holding drinking water, it prevents the temperature from rising, thus maintaining sanitation. On water and ice storage tanks, it maintains the cooling effect and saves energy. It is being used increasingly on the top deck of marine vessels to keep cargo space from heating up, and to prevent deterioration due to salt water and ultraviolet rays. Stores sell building construction materials such as exterior panels and aluminum sashes, as well as construction materials from manufacturers such as heat-blocking paint. ZEFFLE is being sold in a growing number of countries and regions, including China, Europe, and the Middle-East. The Changshu Plant of Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd. installed facilities for the manufacture of the raw material resin and mass-production began in May 2013. Features of ZEFFLE Infrared Reflective Coating Environment 121 Example of Use of ZEFFLE Infrared Reflective Coating Ship Oil tank On this ship, ZEFFLE helps prevent salt corrosion, keep ZEFFLE applied to this tank prevents temperature rise and temperatures down, and maintain the appearance thus stops the contents from vaporizing Fluorine Characteristics Help Solar Cells Last Longer Making the most of fluoropolymers' chemical resistance, heat resistance, and weather resistance, Daikin provides materials that contribute to the spread of solar cells. For example, the fluororesin material ZEFFLE is used in the back sheet of solar cells to prevent the infiltration of infrared rays and moisture, both of which harm the interior of solar cells. Thinner than conventional fluoropolymer film while offering the same weather-proofing and durability, ZEFFLE is being increasingly used on solar panels. The fluororesin (ETFE)* used for the surface protection film on solar cells has high light transmittance and lasts for more than 20 years under the sunlight. It is lighter than the glass film conventionally used for surface protection, and it is used in flexible solar cells that bring solar energy to a wider range of applications. We are also improving light-harvesting ability by modifying the film surface and making use of the high-dielectric properties of fluoropolymers as we conduct research and development into products that help miniaturize the film condensers used in power conditioners and other such equipment. * ETFE: A fluoropolymer with superb chemical resistance and insulation qualities. It is used as coating for items such as electrical wires. Daikin Launched New R-407H, Refrigerant with 62% Lower Global Warming Potential Daikin developed and launched new R-407H refrigerant for freezers and refrigerators, which has an approximately 62% lower global warming potential (GWP) than R-404A, the refrigerant commonly used today in freezers and refrigerators. R-407H is already being adopted, mainly in European markets. Environment 122 Oil Hydraulic Equipment Energy-Efficient Hybrid Hydraulic Super Unit Energy Savings and Lower CO2 Emissions in Factories Daikin also leads the industry in making energy-efficient hydraulic units for factory production lines. The energy-efficient hybrid hydraulic Super Unit employs the same motor inverter technology that is used in Daikin's energy-efficient air conditioners. The Super Unit determines the load on the machine, depending on whether it is in standby, operation, or pressure holding mode, and electronically controls the pump at the necessary RPM. The result is energy savings of more than 50% in pressure holding mode (compared to Daikin piston pumps). For use on presses, vulcanizers, casting machines, and a wide range of other industrial equipment, it contributes to dramatic energy savings and lower CO2 emissions. We introduced new models and expanded the lineup in 2014. Because the Super Unit is not subject to electric motor high-efficiency restrictions enacted in April 2015, more and more customers have been looking at the Super Unit as a way to achieve greater energy efficiency. In 2017, we launched two for 37 kW models compatible with large machines that consume large amounts of power. The Super Unit is widely used on industrial equipment around the world and has been highly rated for its superior precision and energy efficiency. Electricity Consumption of Super Unit and Conventional Hydraulic Unit EcoRich Energy-efficient Hydraulic Unit Helps Reduce Energy Consumption EcoRich was developed in 1999 and was the world's first product to combine hydraulics technology and air conditioner motor inverter technology. It achieved approximately 50% lower energy consumption compared to Daikin's piston pump. In 2016, this product underwent a model change with the incorporation of high-efficiency IPM motor. Among its many features were a 30% decrease in energy consumption over the previous model and a 5°C reduction in oil temperature rise. Environment 123 9 Series Oil Cooling Unit Product Lineup Expanded to Meet Extensive Range of Needs In machine tools, Daikin's 9 Series Oil Cooling Unit makes possible detailed temperature control of the lubricating and cooling oil, which has a major effect on the precision of the work. Daikin's 9 Series Oil Cooling Unit allows temperature adjustment to ±0.1°C. In addition, with inverter control and the most advanced compressor, it offers 45% greater energy efficiency than conventional on/off controllers. It was also one of the first oil cooling units for industrial machinery to be certified for the EU's RoHS Directive*. In September 2014, we added to the lineup an immersion type large-capacity series (5HP) and a largecapacity series (2-3HP) for industrial machinery chillers, allowing us to meet a wider range of customer needs than ever. * RoHS Directive: The RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) Directive is an EU directive that restricts the use of certain hazardous materials in the manufacture of various types of electronic and electrical equipment in order to reduce harmful impacts on human health and the environment. Immersion type products 9 Series Oil Cooling Unit Environment 124 Response to Climate Change REDUCING GREENHOUSE GASES DURING PRODUCTION AND TRANSPORTATION Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Target Reached: 70% Reduction Compared to Fiscal 2005 The Daikin Group emits two kinds of greenhouse gases during production processes: CO2 from energy use, and fluorocarbons. Of these, there are four kinds of fluorocarbons released during Daikin's production processes: HFC and PFC, which are covered by the Kyoto Protocol, and CFC and HCFC, which are not. We have set reduction targets for each of these fluorocarbons. At Daikin America, Inc., to reduce PFC emissions, we are attempting to improve the accuracy of emissions measurements, find leaks and promote countermeasures. Starting in fiscal 2016, we revised the calculation method, which includes companies that joined the Daikin Group after 2010. With an eye to reducing fiscal 2025 CO2 emissions by 75% against fiscal 2005, we have set a target of reducing fiscal 2020 CO2 emissions by 70% against fiscal 2005. Daikin America Inc. is moving ahead with replacing and recovering fluorocarbons and in fiscal 2017 it had greenhouse gas emissions of 1.35 million t-CO2 (down 70% over fiscal 2005). Greenhouse Gas Emissions (during production) Note: The scope of calculations and the calculation method were revised in formulating the Environmental Action Plan 2020. The results for the past five years of the old scope of calculations and the calculation method are here . (http://www.daikin.com/csr/report/data/data_before2015.pdf) Greenhouse Gases A major cause of global warming, greenhouse gases designated at the 1997 3rd Session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Kyoto are CO2, methane, N2O, and three fluorocarbon alternatives (HFC, PFC, and SF-6). Environment 125 Reducing Energy-Induced CO2 CO2 Emissions per Production Unit Dropped by 8% Against Fiscal 2005 Since fiscal 2016, we have been stepping up energy-efficiency efforts with the target of achieving a fiscal 2020 reduction in CO2 emissions per production unit of 5% against the standard value (average for fiscal 2013 to 2015). In fiscal 2017, CO2 emissions per production unit dropped 8% against the standard value. In fiscal 2017, the Air Conditioning Manufacturing Division of the Sakai Plant continued the introduction of a mobile app for viewing energy usage in the factory. A Global Environmental Meeting was held at Daikin Industries Czech Republic s.r.o. and data measurement exercises were held to visualize energy usage in an attempt to increase employee's awareness at Daikin sites around the world. We also received certification for the ISO 50001 international standard for energy management at our Shiga Plant in Japan, and at Daikin Europe N.V. and Daikin Industries Czech Republic s.r.o. Total Energy-Induced CO2 Emissions, CO2 Emissions per Unit of Production Note: The scope of calculations and the calculation method were revised in formulating the Environmental Action Plan 2020. The results for the past five years of the old scope of calculations and the calculation method are here . (http://www.daikin.com/csr/report/data/data_before2015.pdf) CO2 emissions per production output The amount of CO2 emitted by the amount of production. The lower this figure, the less CO2 a company emits per unit of production and thus the more efficiently that company can make products. Environment 126 Reducing CO2 Emissions during Transportation CO2 Emissions Reduced by 2% Over Fiscal 2016 Daikin Industries, Ltd. set a goal of decreasing CO2 emissions (per sales) from transportation by 5% in fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2016 by switching from trucks to trains and ferries. We also increased the use of direct shipping from overseas production sites to Japan to ensure the shortest possible transportation route. In fiscal 2017, amid an ongoing shortage of drivers, shipment volumes fluctuated dramatically making it difficult to secure vehicles leading to a revision in the flow of distribution to home electronics retailers. Advanced supplies to mass retailers based on production, sales and other inventory information enabled us to eliminate transportation and respond quickly to customer demands. During the peak shipping season, we supported batch shipments and substantially reduced burdens on drivers, enabling us to achieve fiscal 2017 targets three months ahead of schedule. Also, the modal shift conversion rate in fiscal 2017 was 26%, the same as in the previous year. CO2 Emissions per Sales from Transportation (Japan) Reducing Other Environmental Impact during Transportation In fiscal 2017 we resolved the problems of a shortage of drivers by reducing the truck waiting times and loading times and thus the amount of work hours. At manufacturing bases in Japan, we have replaced gasoline-powered forklifts for logistics with electric models. All vehicles driving at distribution bases turn off their engines when not moving to reduce exhaust fumes. We are also having our transport partners turn off their engines. We are engaged in reducing CO2 emissions through improved transportation efficiency and decreased packaging volume, and reducing electricity consumption through shorter working hours. To improve work effectiveness both in Japan and overseas, we continuously revise the warehouse layout to boost work efficiency and thus shorten the time on each task. Environment 127 Using Renewable Energy Using More Solar, Wind, and Hydro Power The Daikin Group is working to expand the use of renewable energy such as solar, wind, and hydro power. An example is in Europe, where governments using EU regulations on renewable energy like solar, wind, and hydro, are aiming to have renewable energy account for 20% of the energy mix by 2020. Daikin Europe N.V. has since fiscal 2007 been switching its factory and office power to hydro, and today 100% of the approximately 13 million kWh is covered by hydropower. This has eliminated the CO2 previously emitted from purchased electricity, and so the company has reduced the previous 5,000 tonsCO2 per year, or a total of approximately 1,660 tons-CO2. In fiscal 2015, we installed tracking solar panels at the TIC, which helped the solar power system generate 330,000kwh a year, which translates to CO2 emission reductions of approximately 127 t-CO2. We are also moving forward with the installation of large-scale solar panels in Thailand and India to further promote the use of renewable energy. Solar power generation system has panels that move to track the sun's position Environment 128 Responding to Climate Change PROVIDING SOLUTIONS Population and economic growth in emerging countries is spurring urbanization worldwide, and energy demand in cities is expected to continue increasing. These cities will require air conditioning to realize comfortable living spaces and deal with the effects of increasing temperatures. Driven by proprietary inverter and refrigerant technologies, Daikin's air conditioners help control environmental impact, and not just through individual air conditioners but also via building-wide energy solutions. Through optimal management and demand response measures that combine air conditioning, peripheral equipment, buildings, and renewable energy, we are contributing to solving energy problems brought on by urbanization. In addition, through the creation of cyclical systems and new energy sources, we are also contributing to the creation of sustainable cities. Optimal Energy Management for Buildings Helping Realize Net Zero Energy Buildings (ZEBs) Daikin is providing building-wide energy solutions that use the company's technologies to solve energy problems. One way we are doing this is through net zero energy buildings (ZEBs). A ZEB is a building that achieves dramatic energy savings (at least 50% greater than standards) while maintaining a comfortable air environment. There are three categories: ZEB, Nearly ZEB, and ZEB Ready depending on the energy efficiency rate. In 2015, we completed construction on our Technology and Innovation Center (TIC), where we are carrying out ZEB demonstration testing in this newly-built large facility. In 2017 at the Daikin Industries, Ltd. building in Fukuoka (Fukuoka Building), we achieved ZEB Ready* status for a smalland mediumsized renovated buildingby pooling our experience and knowledge. Normally, ZEB requires improving the performance of a building's outer layer, using passive energy, incorporating high-efficiency equipment such as air conditioners, ventilation, lighting, and elevators, and using advanced control. However, the Fukuoka Building achieved ZEB Ready status by incorporating high-efficiency air conditioning and ventilation, selecting appropriate air conditioning capacity by analyzing existing air conditioners, controlling LED lighting, and improving performance on a portion of the building's outer layer (with double-pane windows). Since fiscal 2013, Daikin Industries, Ltd. has been selected as a diagnosis organization for projects such as the Ministry of the Environment's Model Project for Effective Renovation Toward Promoting Green Buildings. For customers who use our Air Conditioning Network Service System for remote monitoring of air conditioners, we use operational data as a basis for improving their air conditioning operation and providing energy-efficient services. As of fiscal 2017, we had provided energy-efficiency diagnostic services for a cumulative total of 403 projects, resulting in savings for customers of approximately 33,500,000 kWh per year, and a cumulative total of 67,800,000 kWh so far. Environment 129 In addition, in October 2017 we registered as a ZEB planner in order to accelerate our ZEB planning business. We will leverage the success we have had so far to provide solutions that increase the number of ZEB buildings—not just in the Daikin Group but throughout society as a whole. * ZEB Ready: A building that consumes at least 50% less energy compared to normal building energy standards. Daikin's ZEB Efforts Recognized with Director-General's Prize, Agency for Natural Resources and Energy, 2017 Grand Prize for Excellence in Energy Efficiency and Conservation Using Daikin's TIC as a ZEB verification model, we teamed up with an architectural firm to jointly design an environmentally conscious building and air conditioning facilities that reduced overall building energy consumption by 90%. The effort involved installing highly efficient lighting and air conditioning, natural energy sources such as solar and geothermal, and the use of natural ventilation and outside air cooling wherever possible. The parties developed a system that predicts how much electricity air conditioning will consume and grasps the difference in the actual and desired figures for factors such as indoor environment and electricity consumption. The system uses this information to quickly adjust the indoor environment and electricity consumption to desired levels. Our goal is to use multi-split type air conditioners and other products that are relatively easy to design in order to achieve versatility and thus more widespread use of ZEB in buildings. Energy Consumption at TIC Environment 130 Green Building Certification Daikin Bases Worldwide Certified as Energy-Efficient Buildings Daikin has been busy working toward green building certification at its worldwide bases with facilities whose design, construction, and operation are in harmony with the environment and society. In July 2016, the Technology and Innovation Center earned LEED® Platinum certification. It has also earned the highest certification (S class) in CASBEE (Comprehensive Assessment System for Built Environment Efficiency), a highly recognized system in Japan for the comprehensive assessment of the environmental performance of buildings, districts, and cities. CASBEE was created by the Institute for Building Environment and Energy Conservation (IBEC). In October 2017, we were selected in the AHSRAE Honors and Awards (sponsored by the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and AirConditioning Engineers, ASHRAE) for developing a revolutionary, highly energy-efficient system and for reducing environmental impact and providing a comfortable indoor environment that matches Japan's climate needs. In fiscal 2017, as in fiscal 2016, Daikin Australia Pty., Ltd.'s head office buildings received a rating of 5 stars in NABERS (National Australian Built Environment Rating System) ratings. In addition, 19 buildings that have Daikin products such as VRV multi-split type air conditioners and systems installed earned LEED® Platinum certification, showing that we are contributing to the worldwide certification of green buildings. Certificate of LEED® Platinum certification for the Technology and Innovation Center CASBEE building assessment Certificate of NABERS certification certification (for the Technology and (Daikin Australia Pty. Ltd.) Innovation Center of Daikin Industries, Ltd.) Environment 131 The Applied Development Center of Daikin Applied Americas Inc. in Minnesota earned LEED® Gold certification City-Wide Optimal Energy Management Energy Efficiency throughout Entire Cities Between fiscal 2014 and 2016, along with Hitachi, Ltd. and Mizuho Bank, Ltd., we participated in the Smart Communities Project in Greater Manchester, UK, implemented by Japan's New Energy Development Organization (NEDO). Under this project, heating systems in 500 homes were converted from combustion-type boilers and electric heaters to heat-pump models to reduce energy consumption. We also conducted a demonstration project for a potential business model using automated demand response technology*, in which the electricity usage at multiple residences is aggregated, operation is automatically adjusted based on the demand situation, and excess electricity is generated. We are also participating in a verification project of automated demand response technology in Lisbon, Portugal that makes use of the advantages of inverters. In the project period from November 2016 to December 2019, the New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization (NEDO) is installing VRV multi-split air conditioners equipped with this technology in several buildings including the city hall. The aim is to use data such as energy usage and weather to build a system that will achieve optimal control of the balance between renewable energy and the amount of electricity purchased. * Automated demand response technology: Daikin’s technology which automatically adjusts power consumption of airconditioning systems Environment 132 Creating New Energy Aiming to Disseminate Renewable Energy Daikin is making use of the energy-efficiency technologies, built up through products and services, for energy-creation technologies in order to spread the use of renewable energy. Daikin Industries, Ltd. developed a compact, low-cost pipeline-type micro-hydroelectric power generation system on which it has been conducting demonstration testing. In 2013, this demonstration testing was adopted under a project, Low Carbon Technology, Research, Development and Demonstration Program, under Japan's Ministry of the Environment (MOE). Micro-hydroelectric power generation refers to small-scale hydropower generating 100 kW or less. Micro-hydroelectric power is characterized by the fact it can make efficient use of the potential energy from water flow, such as in cyclical water treatment facilities such as waterworks, factory water pipes, factories, and pools, or can even use water that maintains minimal flow in rivers during times of drought. Hydroelectric power can be a stable power source because it generates high annual amounts of electricity, and has a higher utilization rate than sources such as solar and wind power. However, microhydroelectric power has not enjoyed widespread use: it has a high cost considering the amount of electricity it generates—100 kW or less—and the large amount of space it requires for installation limits the locations where it can be used. Daikin has developed a compact micro-hydroelectric power generation system that packages a water wheel, generator, and controller by making use of the technologies it has built up in developing energy-efficient air conditioning and hydraulic machinery. This product gives micro-hydroelectric power generation that is highly efficient, low cost, and compact. In fiscal 2014 and 2015, we conducted demonstration testing in Nanto City, Toyama Prefecture, and Soma City, Fukushima Prefecture, which resulted in us achieving practical product application. In May 2016, we began a joint effort with Kobe City to evaluate long-term performance and operational costs, with the aim of using previously untapped sources of hydropower to reduce CO2 emissions. Also under the above-mentioned MOE project, an ultra-compact, ultra-low-cost, small-capacity microhydroelectric power generation system developed by Daikin Industries, Ltd. was adopted and the target is to develop a 5.5-kW system during for a three-year period from fiscal 2016 to 2018. We believe that the development of a small-capacity product increases the number of possible installation locations for hydroelectric power systems, particularly among small-sized waterworks-related companies, and can contribute to reducing CO2 emissions. Including installations set for fiscal 2017 in the cities of Kobe and Nagaoka, there are six Daikin microhydropower plants operating in Japan. Our goal is to be generating 84,000 MWh annually, enough to power 28,000 average homes*, from these plants by 2020. Environment 133 * Based on homes with annual electricity consumption of 3,000 kWh Related information DK-Power, Ltd. (http://www.dk-power.co.jp/) Environment 134 Response to Climate Change RECOVERY, RECYCLE AND DESTRUCTION OF FLUOROCARBONS Recovery, Recycle and Destruction of Fluorocarbons from Air Conditioners Reducing Impact throughout the Entire Life Cycle The fluorocarbons used as refrigerants in air conditioners have a global warming impact that is several hundred to several thousand times greater than that of CO2. The Daikin Group is the only comprehensive air conditioner manufacturer developing everything from refrigerant to air conditioners and engaging in the recovery, recycle and destruction of refrigerants. In addition to disseminating low-global-warming-impact refrigerants worldwide, we strictly manage refrigerants during the production, after-sales, and other stages, and we recover, destroy, and recycle refrigerants at the end of air conditioner life so that we can reduce environmental impact throughout the entire life cycle. At all worldwide production bases, we recover and destroy refrigerants placed in air conditioners during testing and other processes. In Japan, with the enforcement of the Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons, we are supporting customers in carrying out inspection, repair, and maintenance of their commercial air conditioners, including non-Daikin products. We also constantly improve the skills of installation staff to ensure the work is done properly and that no refrigerant leaks during product use. Efforts to Prevent Environmental Burden from Fluorocarbon Emissions Environment 135 Recovery and Destruction of Refrigerants Efforts during Production Fluorocarbon Recovery Equipment Ensures Proper Destruction of Refrigerants (Chemicals Division) The fluorocarbons emitted in the Chemicals Division are raw materials and by-products in the production of fluorochemical products. To prevent such emissions, we have been installing recovery equipment on production lines and properly destroying the fluorocarbon gases recovered. We also take the fluorite generated during the destruction process and use it as raw material for the production of fluorochemical products. In fiscal 2015, we expanded destruction facilities at the Yodogawa Plant. In addition, we strove to limit the amount of emissions of HFC-23, a by-product of production processes with an extremely high global warming potential. Overseas, even in countries with no fluorocarbon emission restrictions, Daikin plants voluntarily recover gas and destroy it either in house or through a contracted destruction facility. In fiscal 2015, Daikin America, Inc. proceeded with introducing substitutes for Perfluorohexane and stepped up recovery of FC-c318, thus dramatically reducing emissions. We will continue to switch to fluorocarbon substitutes in our efforts to reduce environmental impact. Environment 136 Ensuring No Leaks When Filling Air Conditioners with Refrigerant (Air Conditioning Manufacturing Division) During the air conditioner manufacturing process at our worldwide production bases we do everything possible to ensure no refrigerants (HFC, HCFC) leak during filling. These measures include the following: We inspect all pipes for leakage before refrigerant filling. If operation inspections show that a product must be fixed, we do so after recovering all the refrigerant from it. We take every precaution possible during refrigerant filling to ensure there are no leaks. We are converting to low global warming potential refrigerants. All this and other related work is done by certified technicians according to maintenance manual procedures. Technicians also undergo training every year based on the manual. In fiscal 2017, the refrigerant emissions ratio was 0.2% at Daikin in Japan and 0.5% overseas. In addition, by converting to low global warming potential refrigerants, we are reducing CO2-equivalent emissions. For the gas used in the inspection process, we have converted to helium, which does not deplete the ozone layer and is not a greenhouse gas. Recovering refrigerant Environment 137 Inspecting for Refrigerant Leaks in the Air Conditioner Manufacturing Process Daikin Industries, Ltd. carries out three inspections for refrigerant leaks during the production process for residential and commercial air conditioners. This gives customers highly reliable products and prevents refrigerant emissions due to product defects. 1. Air-tightness and pressure 2. Gas leak inspection 3. Pre-delivery inspection resistance inspection After ensuring there are no leaks, When the product is completed and Before we insert refrigerant, we refrigerant is sealed inside and a packed, a refrigerant detector is pump air at an extremely high refrigerant detector is used to once again used to ensure no pressure of 4.2 MPa to check for inspect all brazed parts. refrigerant has leaked. leaks at the welded sections, pipes, and other parts refrigerant passes through. Visual Representations of Refrigerants in Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Equipment The refrigerants used in refrigeration and air conditioning equipment are colorless, odorless, and tasteless gases that, although not harmful to humans, must be prevented from leaking into the atmosphere since these refrigerants have a great impact on global warming. In 2009, the Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industry Association announced a policy of displaying the effects of global warming caused by these refrigerants: a ‘visualization' of their movement. Since that time, the Daikin Group in Japan has placed stickers on its refrigeration and air conditioning equipment for the Japanese market that show that fluorocarbons are being monitored. In accordance with the Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons went into effect from 2015, these ‘visualization' stickers have shown the global warming impact of the refrigerant used in order to encourage the recovery of fluorocarbons. These same stickers are placed on products made overseas for the Japanese market. We are improving the placement of stickers and designing products so that stickers are highly visible to end-users and installers and so that we can improve the recovery rate. Fluorocarbon ‘visualization' sticker (for indoor unit) Environment 138 Efforts during Installation, Use and Repair Daikin Begins Certification System for Refrigerant Pipe Installation Technicians The development of technicians able to properly install refrigerant pipes is essential for the prevention of faulty pipe installation, one of the causes of refrigerant leaks during use. Since April 2011, Daikin has implemented a certification system for refrigerant pipe technicians. We also became the first manufacturer to establish an in-house system for certifying that refrigerant pipe installers have outstanding knowledge, techniques, skills, and ethics in this area. As of the end of fiscal 2017, a cumulative total of 1,226 people at retailers and installers had been certified. Refrigerant pipe installation training Helping Customers Prevent Refrigerant Leakage The Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons went into effect in April 2015 in Japan with the aim of strengthening the prevention of fluorocarbon leaks that cause global warming. Accordingly, this law obligates commercial air conditioner users and owners to conduct strict management of refrigerants to ensure they do not leak during product usage. In response, since October 2015 we have offered the free smartphone app Daikin Fluorocarbon Tool (Dfct) that can identify and list equipment subject to this law just by photographing the equipment. It also provides notifications for periodic inspections and a simple checklist menu for all equipment. In response to customer feedback, we upgraded the app with everyday functions in fiscal 2017, launching the use of Excel for the batch entry of equipment data for customers who want to manage multiple units as well as a map function able to display lists of equipment and properties on a map. Dfct is also used throughout Daikin to thoroughly manage targeted equipment located inside the Company. Environment 139 Repair Only After Thorough Recovery of Refrigerant During the parts replacement that takes place during maintenance of air conditioners, refrigerant can leak out into the atmosphere. To prevent this, the Daikin Group in Japan has recovery equipment at service outlets across Japan that carry out such repair work, and this equipment is used to recover refrigerant before any repair work begins. In fiscal 2017, Daikin Industries, Ltd. recovered 204.8 tons of refrigerants. Types of Fluorocarbons Recovered during Maintenance (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) Related information Read about Daikin's free smartphone web application, Dfct (Defacto), which allows customers to easily inspect for possible refrigerant leakage (available in Japanese only) (https://dfct.daikinaircon.com/) Efforts during Disposal Installing Refrigerant Recovery Equipment, Training Personnel in Refrigerant Recovery In the Daikin Group, refrigerant recovery equipment is deployed to sales company service divisions in each country. Regardless of differences in the laws and regulations of each country, all technicians conduct refrigerant recovery work with a strong awareness of environmental measures. In accordance with fluorocarbon regulations in Europe, especially in countries like France and Italy, Daikin provides training to employees and dealers as a certification course for the acquisition of national certification in gas welding and fluorocarbon handling. In Asia and Oceania, refrigerant recovery training is conducted within instructors development training, which was held three times in fiscal 2017 with a total of 19 national instructors deployed to sales companies in each country. In some countries, refrigerant recovery trainings were also conducted for service cooperation stores that requested them. Environment 140 Refrigerant Recovery Network System In Japan, we are thorough in our recovery of fluorocarbons (refrigerants) from commercial refrigeration and air conditioning equipment. We have created a network system for the integrated management of all information from recovery to destruction of refrigerants, including the amount of refrigerant recovered and the amount destroyed by contractors. By entering the type and quantity of equipment for each case of refrigerant recovery and the amount of refrigerant recovered, we accurately ascertain refrigerant recovery rates and thoroughly manage compliance with the Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons. Companies responsible for charging, recovering, recycling and destroying refrigerants add up the total amounts they charged, recovered, recycled and destroyed, which they are required to report annually to prefectural governments in Japan. As this system also assists with generating these reports, it contributes to these companies working more efficiently. In addition, even overseas in European and North American countries with strict regulations, we have established recovery systems similar to that used in Japan to manage the process from recovery to destruction. In other regions, we also comply with regulations in each country and take appropriate measures from the perspective of environmental protection. Further, Daikin destruction equipment is used in Japan and Thailand to thoroughly destroy fluorocarbons. Fluorocarbon Recovery Network System Environment 141 Training Technicians for Refrigerant Recovery and Installation The recovery of refrigerants requires special knowledge and skills, and Daikin Industries, Ltd. provides these through training for the sales, technical, installation, and service staff who will be recovering refrigerants. After one of these training programs, the technician training course, participants take a final test and if they pass are registered as refrigerant recovery technicians by the Refrigerants Recycling Promotion and Technology Center. In fiscal 2017, 2,183 people, mostly from retailers and installers, passed the test. Of all those registered as refrigerant recovery technicians in Japan, 71% took the Daikin technician training course. The Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons went into effect in 2015, and in response we must conduct strict management of refrigerants to ensure they do not leak during product usage. Persons conducting equipment inspections and refrigerant filling work are also obligated to acquire new certifications. In response, Daikin has been holding workshops for people who have acquired certification as first and second grade refrigerant fluorocarbons handling technicians. We have also held seminars on the Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons for employees of buildings and large stores using Daikin products, and contracted maintenance outlets. In fiscal 2017, workshops that we held for people who have acquired certification as first and second grade refrigerant fluorocarbons handling technicians were attended by 450 people (first grade) and 1,842 people (second grade) throughout Japan. Overseas, in April 2018, we began implementation of the R-32 air conditioner installation and refrigerant recovery technology workshops at the Singapore training base in order to disseminate R-32 refrigerant. Daikin provides the Singapore training base with information from training in Japan for use in these workshops. Environment 142 Taking Calls 24 Hours a Day, 365 Days a Year for Recovery and Destruction (Fluorocarbon Recovery and Destruction Business) We take requests from retailers and other businesses for the proper recovery and destruction of refrigerants. The Daikin Contact Center receives calls all day, every day. Recovered refrigerants are taken to our Yodogawa Plant, Kashima Plant, or one of the contracted destruction facilities around Japan where they are properly destroyed or handed over to recyclers authorized under the Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons In fiscal 2017, the total amount of refrigerants destroyed in the recovery and destruction business by the Daikin Group in Japan was 397 tons. Fluorocarbon destruction facilities (Yodogawa Plant) Amount Destroyed in Fluorocarbon Recovery and Destruction (At Time of Repair and at Time of Disposal) Note: Amount destroyed at Yodogawa Plant, Kashima Plant, or one of the contracted destruction facilities around Japan. Note: Figures until fiscal 2013 are for Daikin Industries, Ltd. only, and figures from fiscal 2014 are for the Daikin Group in Japan. Environment 143 Supporting the Recovery, Recycle and Destruction of Refrigerants in Developing Countries In developing countries, Daikin cooperates with the Japanese government, national governments and other agencies to conduct foundational research aimed at creating refrigerant recovery, recycle and destruction schemes among other support for the recovery, recycle and destruction of fluorocarbons. As in fiscal 2016, in fiscal 2017 Daikin was entrusted by the Ministry of the Environment to engage in research projects for the purpose of supporting developing countries, and in cooperation with the United Nations Environment Programme in Sri Lanka, we worked on promoting energy-saving air conditioners created refrigerant recovery, recycle and destruction schemes. Based on survey results obtained over a two-year period, we compiled policy recommendations that were proposed to the government of Sri Lanka. We explained the details of this policy during a local briefing attended by more than 70 people involved in government, academia and industry. Local briefing Related information Dialogue with Government and Industry Groups (Page 319) Environment 144 Environment Effective Use of Resources Basic Policy Air conditioners utilize metal and a wide range of other resources. Daikin makes effective use of resources in product design and production processes and contributes to the realization of circular economy. Daikin designs products to be small and lightweight to conserve resources and uses materials common in all products in consideration of recyclability. In production processes, we not only promote the recycling of waste generated, but also strive to eliminate the amount of waste that occurs. Further, we regard water shortages as a social issue posing an operational risk, thus we are enhancing our management of water used in production processes and strive to conserve water resources. Effective Use of Resources Home Appliance Recycling Waste Reduction in Products Results Under the 3R & Repair initiative, Daikin strives to recycle 100% of In accordance with the Act for Daikin strives to use resources in its waste and reduce the amount Recycling of Specified Kinds of products as effectively as of waste generated. Home Appliances, Daikin reports possible. the results of used residential air conditioner recycling efforts. Environment 145 Water Resource Reduction Daikin works to reduce the amount of water used in production processes, identify water risks and take the appropriate countermeasures. Related information Environmentally Conscious Design (Page 85) Green Procurement (Page 91) Environment 146 Effective Use of Resources EFFECTIVE USE OF RESOURCES IN PRODUCTS Daikin Circular Economy Initiatives To cope with resource shortages caused by increasing populations, the circular economy is a concept that aims to generate profits using resource waste and discarded materials involving drastic changes to socio-economics at the level of design and business models to enable a linear system of circulation at various levels from production to disposal. Daikin engages in the circular economy through product and packaging material resource conservation, product designs that are easily recyclable and the promotion of reuse and recycling. 3R & Repair Stressing Effective Use of Resources in Design Daikin Industries, Ltd. strives to use resources as effectively as possible by carrying out the 3Rs-reducing, reusing, and recycling-along with repairing under its 3R & Repair initiative. This initiative plays a key role in our product design and development. Based on product assessment, we design and develop products that are smaller and lighter, have fewer numbers of parts and screws, and that use materials and construction that make them easy to maintain, separate, and recycle. 3R & Repair: Approach Reduce Make products smaller and lighter, Use recycled materials Reuse Use parts from end-of-life products Design products that are easy to separate and recycle Use plastics that are easy to recycle Development Recycle Indicate the materials used Construct products that are easy to disassemble After use Recycle end-of-life products Development Design products that are easy to maintain Repair After disposal Have a repair support system that contributes to long-lasting products Environment 147 3R & Repair: Effective Use of Resources Related information Environmentally Conscious Design (Page 85) Recycling Designing Products for Easy Disassembly Product design stresses 3R & Repair based on product assessment. Since 1997, we have designed products so that their construction makes them easy to disassemble. In fiscal 2017, Daikin developed an all-aluminum micro channel heat exchanger for the VRV X and VRV A multi-split type air conditioners. (Sales launched in July 2018) Environment 148 Reducing Maker Smaller and Lighter Products that are Still Energy Efficient Making products smaller and lighter means they will use fewer resources. When making air conditioners, for each product we set weight reduction targets for both the entire product and its components. However, it is technically difficult to achieve this without sacrificing energy efficiency. If making it smaller and lighter means that it consumes more energy, then the product's environmental performance throughout the entire lifecycle has not yet been improved. When Daikin Industries, Ltd. develops new products, we establish weight reduction targets for each product on the condition that the annual performance factor (APF) does not decrease. The cocotas multi-cassette-type air conditioner for small spaces uses an air circulation technology combining a new downsizing turbo fan and a U-shaped heat exchanger that reduces size and weight, achieving an approximately 68% reduction in surface installation area compared to conventional residential cassette air conditioners installed in the ceiling. Product Packaging Weight Reduced by 1% Since Fiscal 2016 We set a target of reducing the amount of packaging for air conditioning products by 1% in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016. Replacing corrugated cardboard packaging material with polystyrene foam, we are making efforts from the viewpoint of thinner packaging and reducing the number of parts and amount of cardboard used. In fiscal 2017, we achieved this goal by reducing the amount of cardboard and replacing heavy paper tubes with regular cardboard. Going forward, in consideration of strength, we will work with the development division to reduce the amount of packaging materials used. At overseas Group companies, we are reducing the amount of reinforcement materials and simplifying the bottom trays used in packaging for outdoor air conditioning units. Furthermore, we are also collaborating with packaging materials manufacturers to eliminate the plywood used as reinforcement for commercial indoor air conditioner units and reduce the amount of packaging material used by effectively utilizing the cushioning properties of styrofoam. Amount of Packaging per Product (wood, cardboard, styrofoam, etc.) (With fiscal 2010 value set at 100) Environment 149 17% Reduction in Square EcoCute Tank Packaging Wins Good Packaging Category Award (Electronics/Device Packaging Category) and WorldStar Award Daikin reduced packaging materials for the square Eco-Cute tank by 15%, realizing packaging that is easy to fold, maintains its perpendicular shape and increases assembly work efficiency. This packaging material won the Good Packaging Category Award (Electronics/Device Packaging Category) at the Japan Packaging Contest held by the Japan Packaging Institute and the WorldStar Contest 2018 held by the World Packaging Organisation (WPO). Reusing Repair and Reusing Parts that have Already Been Replaced At Daikin, we try to use resources efficiently. We take parts that have already been replaced and that contain multiple components, such as printed circuit boards, and we repair any malfunctions or replace the worn-out components. These parts (the printed circuit board, for example) are then tested for quality by ensuring that they are functioning properly and, with the customer's permission, are used as replacement parts when performing repair on a product. Environment 150 Repair Reinforcing the Global Repair System Making products that last longer means that fewer resources are used. To this end, Daikin is strengthening its repair system by establishing service outlets around the world to take customer repair requests and questions and enquiries regarding products. In Japan, the Daikin Contact Center is open 24 hours a day, every day of the year to take inquiries. We will continue to strive for even greater customer satisfaction by improving the technical expertise and etiquette of our service engineers through an engineer certification system. To ensure that customers phoning with repair requests get prompt responses, we have a database of past repair cases, practical know-how, and rules of thumb that Contact Center staff can access immediately. By asking for necessary information and providing appropriate instructions to customers over the phone, we avoid unnecessary service calls, thus improving work efficiency and boosting customer satisfaction. As Daikin products are sold in an increasing number of countries, we are working to strengthen our service network in each country. By introducing service management systems, we are making workflow more efficient and providing more high-quality and transparent service in every phase of customer interaction including through our service engineers and our partner companies. Recycling Residential Air Conditioners Daikin Achieves Recycling Ratio of 90%, Well above Obligations under Home Appliance Recycling Law Japan's Home Appliance Recycling Law obligates manufacturers to recycle at least 80% of the material from their own air conditioners as well as recover and then reuse or destroy refrigerants. In fiscal 2017, we recovered about 320,000 products totaling 13,000 tons. The recycling ratio was 90% and the amount of fluorocarbons recovered was 399,000 t-CO2. Environment 151 Recycling of Residential Air Conditioners in FY2017 (Japan) Related information Home Appliance Recycling Results (Progress in carrying out recycling, etc. of specified home appliances) (Page 154) Environment 152 Effective Use of Resources WASTE REDUCTION Reducing Emissions Up until fiscal 2010, Daikin strove to recycle 100% of the waste generated during production processes. Starting in fiscal 2011, we switched our focus from recycling waste generated to reducing the amount of waste generated in the first place and worked to reduce total emissions (recycled materials and waste including hazardous waste). We have set a target of reducing fiscal 2020 emissions by 5% against the standard value (average for fiscal 2013 to 2015), and to this end we are working to decrease the amount of waste generated through efforts such as reducing the amount of packaging material for parts and other items and the utilization of reusable boxes. In fiscal 2017, we achieved a 7% reduction in emissions per production unit against the standard value. Emissions/Emissions per Unit of Production Note: Because the scope of calculations and the calculation method were revised in formulating the Environmental Action Plan 2020, the past fiscal year values were retroactively corrected. The results for the past five years of the old scope of calculations and the calculation method are here . (http://www.daikin.com/csr/report/data/data_before2015.pdf) Related information Search by ESG Data (Page 443) Environment 153 Effective Use of Resources HOME APPLIANCE RECYCLING RESULTS (PROGRESS IN CARRYING OUT RECYCLING, ETC. OF SPECIFIED HOME APPLIANCES) Daikin's Progress in Recycling Home Appliances in Fiscal 2017 Total amount of home appliances recycled in one year (April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018) based on Japan's Home Appliance Recycling Law Progress in recycling used home appliances Residential air conditioners Number of appliances received at specified dropoff sites (Units: 1,000) 316 Number of appliances recycled, etc. (Units: 1,000) 315 Amount recycled, etc. by weight (ton) 12,999 Amount recycled by weight (ton) 11,767 Recycling rate (%) 90 Note1: The number of appliances recycled, etc. and the amount recycled, etc. by weight are the total number of used appliances and the total weight processed by the necessary methods in order to carry out recycling, etc. in fiscal 2017. Note2: All values are rounded off to the decimal point. Note3: The number of appliances received at designated dropoff sites and number of appliances recycled, etc. do not include items for which the manufacturers that should process those items could not be determined due to problems such as incorrectly filled out manifests. Environment 154 Progress in recycling parts and materials, etc. Relevant parts processed into a state in which they can be transferred as parts or materials to the user for a fee or free of charge. Residential air conditioners Iron (ton) 4,191 Copper (ton) 831 Aluminum (ton) 532 Mixture of non-ferrous and iron composite materials (ton) 4,304 Fluorocarbons (ton) 98 Other valuable materials (ton) 1,809 Total weight (ton) 11,767 Note1: Other valuable materials means plastic, etc. Note2: All values are rounded off to the decimal point. Amount of fluorocarbons recovered and recycled, reused, or destroyed Recovered weight of fluorocarbons used as refrigerants (kg) 205,326 Shipped weight of fluorocarbons used as refrigerants (kg) 201,568 Weight of recycled and reused fluorocarbons used as refrigerants (kg) 172,343 Weight of destroyed fluorocarbons used as refrigerants (kg) 28,791 Note: All values are rounded off to the decimal point. Environment 155 Effective Use of Resources WATER RESOURCE REDUCTION Basic Policy As water shortages become an increasingly serious social problem, Daikin, which develops business globally, strives to protect water resources through the enhanced management of water used at our manufacturing bases throughout the world. We strive to reduce the amount of water consumed, which we define as the difference between water intake and wastewater, by reducing water intake by improving manufacturing processes and purifying and recycling used water once used, as well as purifying used water and returning it to water resources. In terms of purification, we operate under voluntary standards that are stricter than what is required by law. Risks and Opportunities Related to Water Resources Daikin recognizes that water shortages carry the risk of affecting factory operations. We utilize tools to evaluate water stress conditions (indicated by the degree of tightness between water supply and demand) in the areas where our factories operate throughout the world to identify manufacturing bases operating in highly water-stressed regions. Further, we view the reduction of water used as an opportunity to reduce production costs, and by taking measures to reduce water risks, we are working to avoid water risks and reduce production costs. Chemicals business manufacturing bases that require the use of large amounts of water are located in large river basins such as the Yangtze River in China and the Tennessee River in the United States, where water resources are easily secured. Also, in consideration of the impact of water shortages on the provision of materials from suppliers, we evaluate water stress conditions at major suppliers and establish items related to water resources within our Green Procurement Guidelines that all suppliers are requested to follow to promote water resource conservation throughout the supply chain. Water Intake Reduction 8% Reduction in Water Intake Per Unit of Production At Daikin, we strive to reduce water intake by ascertaining the volume of water intake at manufacturing bases and reusing wastewater to the full extent possible. We established the goal of reducing water consumption per unit of production by 5% in fiscal 2020 compared to a baseline comprising the average water intake between fiscal 2013–2015. In fiscal 2017, we reduced total water intake per unit of production throughout the Group by 8% compared to baseline through the use of wastewater recycling equipment, rainwater utilization and improved cleaning processes. In addition, we established and strictly managed voluntary standards for wastewater quality that are stricter than what is required by law. Environment 156 Water Intake per Unit of Production Water Intake and Wastewater Trends Response to Water Risks and Opportunities Operation Surveys in Water-stressed Regions Water risk has become a pressing issue in recent years. Since fiscal 2014, Daikin has utilized the World Resources Institute (WRI) water risk map (Aqueduct) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Global Water Tool to conduct surveys in water-stressed regions, confirming that operations are taking place in two water-stressed regions: India and China. We have implemented countermeasures including the addition of rainwater pits and formulated a business continuity plan (BCP) assuming scenarios in which operations are hindered due to water shortages. Lowering Costs through Water Intake Reductions We reduced water intake volumes by reusing water used for cleaning processes after purifying it with reverse osmosis membranes and activated carbon. For example, at Daikin Compressor Industries, Ltd. in Thailand, these efforts have resulted in an approximately 80 million m3 (10% overall) reduction in the amount of water used. And at Daikin Europe N.V., changing cleaning solutions to simplify the cleaning process reduced water usage, leading to water resource conservation and lower production costs. Environment 157 Environment Management and Reduction of Chemical Substances Basic Policy Daikin makes efforts to reduce the use and emission of chemical substances, prevent pollution caused by products and prevent pollution from plant operations. Regarding chemical substances used in products, as indicated by laws and regulations, we request that materials suppliers thoroughly prevent the inclusion of prohibited chemical substances from entering our products. We manage and reduce emissions of chemical substances handled in the manufacturing process,. We also monitor voluntary standards for hazardous substance emissions in the air and water. Management and Management and Reduction of Chemical Reduction of Chemical Compliance with J-Moss Substances Contained in Substances during Products Production We abide by laws and We report which of the six We strive to reduce the amount regulations in managing substances covered by J-Moss of chemical substances used in chemical substances contained in (the marking of presence of the production. our products. specific chemical substances for electrical and electronic equipment) are contained in our products. Environment 158 Preventing Pollution We strive to prevent pollution from plant operations by controlling atmospheric and water quality contamination. Related information Environmentally Conscious Design (Page 85) Green Procurement (Page 91) Environment 159 Management and Reduction of Chemical Substances MANAGEMENT AND REDUCTION OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES CONTAINED IN PRODUCTS Compliance with Restrictions on Hazardous Chemicals Daikin Green Procurement Guidelines (9th edition) Include RoHS 2 Restricted Substances in Specified Chemical Substances The Daikin Group has a list of designated control substances that are restricted under the RoHS Directive*1, the REACH Regulation*2, and other laws. These are stated in our Green Procurement Guidelines and we work to prevent the presence of these chemicals in our products. In the ninth edition of our Green Procurement Guidelines, published in January 2017, we added RoHS 2 restricted substances*3 as prohibited substances to our list of specified chemical substances. *1 The RoHS Directive (Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive) is a regulation in the EU prohibiting the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. *2 The REACH Regulation on chemical substances went into effect in Europe in June 2007. REACH obligates companies manufacturing or importing at least 1 ton of chemical substances a year in the EU to register with EU authorities. REACH covers almost all chemicals on the market in the EU. *3 From July 2019, four phthalate substances will be banned in the EU. Environment 160 Chemical Substance Management Guidelines (for products) Control Substance name levels Cadmium and cadmium compounds Chromium VI compounds Lead and lead compounds Mercury and mercury compounds Bis (Tributyl tin oxide (TBTO)) Tributyl tins (TBTs) compounds *1 Triphenyl tins (TPTs) compounds *1 Dibutyltin compounds (DBTs) *1 Dioctyltin compounds (DOTs) *1 Polybrominated biphenyls (PBBs) Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) Deca-Bromodiphenylether (Deca-BDE) Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) Polychlorinated terphenyls (PCTs) Polychloronated napthalenes (C1=>3) Short chain chlorinated paraffins Perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOSs) *2 Prohibited F gas (HFC, PFC, SF6) *3 Asbestos Azocolourants and azodyes which form certain aromatic amines *4 Ozone depleting substances (other than HCFCs) *5 Radioactive substances Phenol,2-(2H-benzotriazol-2-yl)-4,6-bis(1,1-dimethylethyl) Dimethly fumarate (DMF) *6 HBCD (Hecabromocyclododecane) *7 PFOA (Perfuluorooctane acid) *8 Bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) *9 Butyl benzyl phthalate (BBP) *9 Dibutyl phthalate (DBP) *9 Diisobutyl phthalate (DIBP) *9 (BNST) Benzenamine, N-phenyl-, reaction products with styrene and 2,4,4-trimethylpentene *10 Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) *11 Substances covered by biocide regulations *12 Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) *13 Reduced Ozone depleting substances (only HCFCs) Beryllium oxide (BeO) Perchlorates Nickel and nickel compounds *14 Managed Brominated flame retardants (other than PBBs, PBDEs, or HBCD) Formaldehyde EU REACH Regulation (SVHC: substances of very high concern) group (Prohibited materials specified by this guideline are excluded) *15 Environment 161 *1 The use of TBTs and TPTs is prohibited in the EU. Tin concentration must be 0.1% or less. The use of DBTs is prohibited in the EU. Tin concentration must by 0.1% or less. The use of DOTs is prohibited in the EU. However, only Commodities that touch the skin and Two-component normal temperature cured sealing material will be prohibited. Tin concentration must by 0.1% or less. *2 Under the POPs Agreement of May 2009, PFOS was added to Appendix B (prohibited substances). In October 2009, PFOSs were added to the list of class I specific chemical substances under revisions to Japan's Law Concerning the Evaluation of Chemical Substances. Prohibited as of April 2010 under Japan's Law Concerning the Evaluation of Chemical Substances (except for applications in semiconductors, etching, and business photographic film). *3 The use of F gas (HFC, PFC, etc.) is prohibited in one-component foams (banned in the EU starting on July 4, 2008.) However, the use of F gas (HFC, PFC, etc.) is permitted for refrigerants. *4 Limited to applications in azo dyes and pigments which constitute the specific amines defined by the German Consumer Goods Ordinance and which come into contact with the human body for long hours (example: out surface of remote controllers). *5 The use of HCFC for the production of foams shall be prohibited, and the use as refrigerants for Japan and EU models shall also be prohibited. *6 Under a Commission Decision in March 2009 (2009/251/EC), products containing DMF are banned as of May 2009. DMF is used as an anti-fungal agent and in items such as packaging and leather products. *7 Under the POPs agreement of May 2013, HBCD was added to Appendix A (prohibited substances). Since November 26, 2014, the Daikin Group has not used HBCD. *8 Since June 1, 2014 (June 1, 2016 for certain applications) in Norway, it has been illegal to manufacture, import, and export consumer products containing specific PFOA. *9 Under EU directive (EU) 2015/863 (March 31, 2015), four phthalate esters were added to the list of restricted substances. This goes into effect in the EU on July 22, 2019, but the Daikin Group will begin phasing these out in January 2019 in manufacturing covered by regulations. *10 As of March 14, 2015, the manufacture, use, sale, distribution, and import of BNST and products containing BNST are prohibited under the Canadian Environmental Protection Act. *11 Rubber or plastic components that come into direct as well as prolonged or short-term repetitive contact with the human skin or the oral cavity shall not contain more than 1 mg/kg (0.0001 % by weight of this component) of any of the PAHs. *12 As of March 2, 2017 in the EU, it is illegal to use non-approved biocidal active substances. *13 PVC substitutes are being reduced. *14 In cases in which the nickel comes into contact with the human body for long hours. *15 All SVHC (substances of very high concern) added in future shall be managed. Postscripts do not need to be added in future. Environment 162 Reducing Transpiration of Chemical Air Pollutants through Using Fluorochemical Products In the Automotive Industry, Fluoride Materials Contribute to Reduced Leakage of VOCs In the automotive industry, the movement is toward stricter regulations to prevent the leaking of airpolluting volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from gasoline and other substances. NEOFLON CPT is a material for automobile fuel tubes and hoses that prevents permeation and leakage of VOCs in the hot engine surroundings. It reduces permeation to just one-fifth of Daikin's previous product, NEOFLON ETFE. And NEOFLON CPT adheres to polyamide resins and general purpose rubbers used to make conventional fuel hoses, meaning it can be used for laminated tubes. The DACS VOC processing device is a system that purifies air by breaking down, condensing, and oxidizing harmful substances in exhaust gases, such as VOCs and foul odors. It condenses and recovers highly pure organic solvents at a low cost, thus realizing purification of an entire air environment. In China and other emerging countries where automobile production is on the rise, fluoride materials are replacing general-purpose materials to comply with stricter environmental regulations. Sales of highly functional fluorine materials such as NEOFLON CPT are rising every year in developed countries, where environmental regulations are increasing in scope and severity. Going forward, Daikin aims to respond to the growing demand that will be created by these trends. Automobile Fuel Hose Made of Fluororesin Related information NEOFLON CPT (https://www.daikin.com/chm/products/resin/resin_06.html) Environment 163 Management and Reduction of Chemical Substances COMPLIANCE WITH J-MOSS Management and Reduction of Chemical Substances Compliance with J-Moss We release information on the presence in our products of the six substances covered by J-Moss (the marking for presence of the specific chemical substances for electrical and electronic equipment). Daikin room air conditioners are covered by J-Moss. Since 2001, Daikin has been determining and controlling chemical substances contained in products and we have stopped using substances specified under J-Moss. As a result, all models of our air conditioners (produced since July 2006) contain none of the substances exceeding the amounts under the standards. We will continue to actively provide information about our environmentally conscious products so that we can offer customers a peace of mind when making purchases. J-Moss Also known as JIS C 0950, J-Moss is an abbreviation of The marking for presence of the specific chemical substances for electrical and electronic equipment. J-Moss requires the labelling of electrical and electronic products containing six substances: lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, and two specified bromide fire retardants (polybrominated biphenyls (PBB) and polybrominated biphenyl ether (PBDE)). There are seven types of products covered: (1) personal computers, (2) unit air conditioners, (3) TVs, (4) electric refrigerators, (5) electric washing machines, (6) microwave ovens, and (7) clothes dryers. Daikin Products The substances contained in Daikin room air conditioners are shown on the table below. Note that the room air conditioners shipped in Japan starting in 2007 bear the Japan's Green Mark eco-label. Green Mark eco-label Environment 164 Substances Contained in Room Air Conditioners Product type: Room air conditioner (indoor unit/outdoor units) Model: All models produced since in July 2006* Chemical substance code Class Pb Hg Cd Cr(Ⅵ) PBB PBDE Manufactured parts ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ Refrigerant system parts N/A ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ Electrical/electronic parts N/A ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ Compressor N/A ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ Refrigerant ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ Accessories ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ JIS C 0950:2008 Note 1: A ◯ symbol means that the substance contained does not exceed the allowable amount under the standard. Note 2: N/A means the substance is not applicable for labeling. * Models designated below. Indoor unit: Wall mount, embedded ceiling cassette (single flow, double flow), embedded wall, built-in amenity, floor standing Exterior unit: For the following: Pair type, System Pack, Multi-Split System, Wide Select Multi, Equipped with Hot Water Floor Heating function Environment 165 OVERVIEW OF J-MOSS Under Japan's Law for the Promotion of Effective Utilization of Resources, relevant equipment must meet J-Moss standards. J-Moss (JIS C 0950) The marking for presence of the specific chemical substances for electrical and electronic equipment Gist of the Standards Indicating on labelling which of the specified chemical substances are contained in electrical and electronic equipment is meant to achieve the following: Management of chemical substances will be improved in all stages of the supply chain and life cycle. End consumers can easily understand the substances contained. It will lead to more effective use of resources and less impact on the environment. Spread the use of electrical and electronic equipment in which substances are properly controlled. Products Covered (1) Personal computers, (2) Unit air conditioners, (3) TVs, (4) Electric refrigerators, (5) Electric washing machines, (6) Microwave ovens, (7) Clothes dryers Specified chemical substances Chemical substance Code Standard for % by weight Lead Pb 0.1 Mercury Hg 0.1 Cadmium Cd 0.01 Hexavalent chromium Cr(Ⅵ) 0.1 Polybrominated biphenyls PBB 0.1 Polybrominated biphenyl ether PBDE 0.1 Environment 166 Content Labelling If the content of the specified chemical substance exceeds the standard values, its content must be indicated on the product itself, the packaging, and on catalogs and other documentation. This information must also be put on the company's Web site. The content of some of the chemical substances does not need to be indicated on the labelling, and other chemical substances do not need to be indicated on labelling if they are below the standard value. However, these must still be shown on the company's Web site. Label indicating substances contained in product Green Mark Labelling Electrical and electronic equipment whose content of the specified chemical substances does not exceed the standard values may bear Japan's Green Mark eco-label on the conditions stated in the Guidelines for Using the Green Mark for Specified Chemical Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment*. Green Mark * The Guidelines are recognized by the following groups. Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA) Japan Electrical Manufacturers' Association (JEMA) Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industry Association (JRAIA) Environment 167 Management and Reduction of Chemical Substances MANAGEMENT AND REDUCTION OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES DURING PRODUCTION Management of Chemical Substances Daikin bases around the world take voluntary action to reduce the amounts of various chemical substances, such as PRTR substances and VOCs. From fiscal 2016, we are working toward a target of reducing emissions per unit of production (total of PRTR substances and VOCs) in fiscal 2020 by 5% against the standard value (average for fiscal 2013-2015). In fiscal 2017, our Chemicals Division strove to reduce emissions of the raw material methylene chloride and our Air Conditioning Manufacturing Division strove to reduce emissions of volatile processing oil, resulting in a 5% reduction against the standard value. Chemical Emissions / per Unit of Production (total of PRTR substances and VOCs) Note: Because the scope of calculations and the calculation method were revised in formulating the Environmental Action Plan 2020, the past fiscal year values were retroactively corrected. The results for the past five years of the old scope of calculations and the calculation method are here . (http://www.daikin.com/csr/report/data/data_before2015.pdf) PRTR Law (Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) Law) Enacted in Japan in 1999, the PRTR Law is a legal framework in Japan for the calculation and publicizing of the amounts of certain hazardous chemical substances that are emitted or transferred as waste into the environment (air, water, and soil) or into public sewage systems. Other countries have similar regulations. The PRTR Law was revised in 2009. Environment 168 Compilation of PRTR Substances in FY2017 (PRTR substances of which at least 1 ton was handled) Amount transported Amount emitted(tons) (tons) Substance name Public Air Soil Waste Sewage waterways Chlorodifluoromethane; HCFC-22 57.35 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Dichloromethane; methylene dichloride 19.61 0.00 0.00 2.90 0.00 1-chloro-1,1-difluoroethane; HCFC-142b 11.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Toluene 3.12 0.06 0.00 0.48 0.00 2-chloro-1,1,1,2-tetrafluoroethane; HCFC1.60 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 124 Phenol 0.73 0.00 0.00 0.75 0.00 Chloroform 0.62 0.00 0.00 5.90 0.00 Xylene 0.61 0.00 0.00 0.04 0.00 Formaldehyde 0.38 0.62 0.00 0.27 0.00 Ethylbenzene 0.33 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 N-hexane 0.25 0.00 0.00 0.73 0.00 Hydrogen fluoride and its water-soluble 0.24 0.00 0.00 41.01 0.00 salts Poly(oxyethylene)alkyl ether(alkyl C=12-15) 0.04 0.01 0.00 49.00 0.63 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene 0.03 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 N,N-dimethylformamide 0.03 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.00 Poly (oxyethylene) = octylphenyl ether 0.02 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.00 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene 0.02 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 N,N-dimethylformamide 0.01 0.00 0.00 7.30 0.00 Dichloropentafluoropropane; HCFC-225 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Methylnaphthalene 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Poly (oxyethylene) = nonylphenyl ether 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Acetonitrile 0.00 0.00 0.00 2.80 0.04 Nickel 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Environment 169 Boron compounds 0.00 0.44 0.00 0.58 0.00 Ethylene glycol monoethyl ether 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Ferric chloride 0.00 0.00 0.00 10.33 0.00 Antimony and its compounds 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.85 0.00 Methylenebis(4,1-phenylene)diisocyanate 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.08 0.00 Tritolyl phosphate 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.04 0.00 Molybdenum and its compounds 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.03 0.00 Nickel compound 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.02 0.00 chromium and chromium(III) compounds 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.00 Allyl alcohol 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Manganese and manganese compounds 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Water-soluble salts of peroxodisulfuric 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 acid 2-aminoethanol 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01 Tetrachloromethane 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Styrene 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Elimination of PFOA Emissions Total Elimination of the Manufacture and Use of PFOA by Developing Substitutes Perfluorooctanoic Acid (PFOA) is a man-made chemical substance that has been conventionally used as a polymerization aid for fluororesins. It does not readily degrade in nature and is thus a substance of concern for the environment and human safety. At the end of 2015, as part of its efforts toward sustainable management of chemical substances, Daikin Industries, Ltd. ceased manufacturing and using PFOA and similar compounds, as well as products made from these. Environment 170 Management and Reduction of Chemical Substances PREVENTING POLLUTION Preventing Pollution Minimizing Environmental Damage in Case of Accident or Disaster Daikin has systems in place that allow it to minimize environmental damage if there should be an accident or calamity at Daikin production sites around the world. Our Disaster Prevention Manual details how to deal with emergencies like chemical and oil leaks and spills. The manual is the basis for regular emergency drills. In fiscal 2017 at the Yodogawa Plant, we teamed up with the fire department and police in conducting two chemical disaster response drills that simulated a fire at night and included the use of a drone. We also conducted an evacuation drill that simulated a large earthquake and tsunami. At the Kashima Plant, a total of 110 employees took part in fire drills and in semiannual drills to prevent the spread of pollution from hazardous substances and protect workers from harm. At the Sakai Plant during June Environmental Month, hands-on training was held in how to deal with oil leaks. At the Shiga Plant, drills were held for plant employees and employees of Daikin contractors. Hands-on training in dealing with oil leaks (Sakai Plant) Disaster drill (Kashima Plant) Environment 171 Monitoring Environmental Standards Strict Management at Manufacturing Bases Exceeds Legal Requirements Daikin controls air and water pollution using voluntary standards that are stricter than national environmental standards and local government by-laws. We regularly measure our various environmental impacts and work to either prevent or decrease them. Monitored environmental data for Daikin Industries, Ltd.'s four manufacturing bases is on the Daikin Web site. Related information Report by business site (https://www.daikin.com/csr/report/site_data/) Measures for Soil and Groundwater Pollution Dealing with Soil Pollution at the Yodogawa Plant At the Yodogawa Plant, it was discovered that the site's groundwater contained concentrations of chloroethylene that exceeded environmental standards. Chloroethylene is a breakdown product of tetrachloroethylene and trichloroethylene and a substance newly added to the list of designated chemical substances in April 2016. This was reported to the Osaka Prefectural authorities, and we continued to pump up groundwater to prevent pollution from spreading beyond the boundaries of the site. Groundwater Cleanup Continues at the Kashima Plant In 2000, the concentration of organic chlorine-based compounds in groundwater at the Kashima Plant was found to exceed environmental standards. Ongoing groundwater cleanup managed to reduce pollution concentrations in the groundwater; however, concentrations still exceeded standards in one area. Cleanup will therefore continue to remedy this situation. Environment 172 Storage and Treatment of PCBs Implementing Strict Management and Disposal of Equipment Containing PCBs Daikin abides by national laws in properly managing equipment containing PCBs (polychlorinated biphenyls). We have been disposing of waste with high PCB concentrations based on PCB disposal plans of the Japan Environmental Storage & Safety Corporation (JESCO), and we were one of the first companies to register with JESCO. Waste with low PCB concentrations is being disposed of based on a Daikin disposal plan. Disposal and Treatment of Equipment Containing PCBs Items disposed of Storage and disposal plan Plants FY2017 FY2018 and on Shiga Plant 1 low-PCB-concentration transformer 126 ballasts 72 liters of insulating oil, 1 condenser, cloths for 7 ballasts, 200 ml of insulating Sakai Plant wiping condenser oil oil Yodogawa 6 transformers, 1 condenser, 5 448 ballasts Plant switches Environment 173 Environment Protecting Biodiversity Basic Policy Our society is built upon the many blessings that nature gives us. The source of these blessings is biodiversity. Daikin's business has a major effect on biodiversity through its contribution to global warming. That's why we strive to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in all of our business activities. We also work to protect biodiversity through environmental contribution activities. Through our focus on protecting and nurturing forests, nature's air conditioners, we continuously strive to maintain balance in the world's ecosystems so that we can help bring back the abundance of the natural world. Protecting Biodiversity The Daikin Group works to maintain balance in the world's valuable nature and ecosystems so that we can help bring back the abundance of the natural world. Related information Forests for the Air Project (https://www.daikin.com/csr/forests/) Environment 174 Protecting Biodiversity PROTECTING BIODIVERSITY Basic Policy of Protecting Biodiversity Protect and Rejuvenate the Gifts of Nature Human society is made possible thanks to the many blessings of biodiversity. For example, our rich forests provide us with oxygen through photosynthesis, they act as natural air conditioners by giving off water vapor that keeps atmospheric temperature from rising, and they act as air purifiers by removing pollutants from the atmosphere. As a company whose job is to provide comfortable air environments, Daikin considers forests to be the Earth's air conditioners. That's why we do all we can to protect biodiversity, both through our business and through environmental contribution activities. The biggest impact, in the Daikin Group's business activities, on biodiversity is the emission of greenhouse gases. We therefore strive to minimize greenhouse gas emissions in all stages of our business: development and design, production, and sales. As for our environmental contribution activities, we focus on protecting and fostering the natural riches of forests, which we call ‘nature's air conditioners.' In the countries and regions in which we do business, we work with governments, residents groups, NGOs, and NPOs in efforts including the protection and rejuvenation of nature and the creation of new forests on our premises. We offer support to the employees who are conducting these activities, and we strive to provide information and education to the general public. The ideas stated here form our Basic Philosophy on Protecting Biodiversity, which we established in September 2010. Environment 175 Basic Policy of Protecting Biodiversity We act for the sake of abundant greenery and fresh air. Thinking Behind Our Basic Philosophy (established September 2010) Our society is built upon the many blessing that nature gives us. The source of these blessings is biodiversity. The loss of this biodiversity would hurt our water, food, and other aspects of our life. Daikin's business also has a major effect on biodiversity through our contribution to global warming. To contribute to a sustainable society, we strive to reduce our contribution to global warming throughout our business activities, and to maintain balance in ecosystems so that we can help bring back the abundance of the natural world. Main Efforts In Business Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions throughout Our Business Activities Reduce greenhouse gas emissions throughout our entire business activities, including product development and production, transportation, sales, service, and the supply chain. Outside of Business Protection and Rejuvenation of the Blessings of Nature 1. In the countries and regions in which we do business, we work with governments, residents groups, NGOs, and NPOs in efforts including the protection and rejuvenation of nature. 2. We create new forests on our premises. 3. We support employees in their volunteer work. 4. We provide the public with information and education. Environment 176 Initiatives around the World Forests for the Air Project Helps Preserve Irreplaceable Resources—The World’s Valuable Forests In 2014, Daikin launched its Forests for the Air project aimed at preserving valuable forests in seven locations around the world. The goal for the project's 10-year period is to conserve forests covering some 11 million hectares and in the process contribute to reducing 7 million tons of CO2 emissions. In each of the seven locations, Daikin leverages global partnerships in not just planting trees but in helping local residents secure a livelihood that reduces their dependence on cutting down the trees of the forest. Through forest preservation, the project aims to solve social problems such as poverty and thus contribute to the achievement of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Related information Forests for the Air project (https://www.daikin.com/csr/forests/) Efforts at Bases Daikin Ales Aoya Training Center Works to Protect and Rejuvenate Natural Forests on Coastal Dunes and Beaches Daikin Ales Aoya in Tottori Prefecture, Japan is a center for the training of employees who will be active on the world stage. The facility is located at Idegahama, a beach known for its 'whistling sand'. The area is home to a typical coastal vegetation ecosystem: starting from the beach, one can see annual grass give way to perennial grass, and short trees gradually give way to taller trees. However, this coastal vegetation has been rapidly disappearing in the last decade or two. When Daikin Industries, Ltd. built this facility here, it began to not just protect these rare beaches and dunes, but also bring back the nature that had been lost so that this coastal ecosystem could once again return to its natural state. We began by surveying the region's vegetation to get a detailed understanding of the geography. Based on this, we made a proposal to plant vegetation. After implementation, we had advice from experts in the monitoring and fostering of the vegetation. Daikin Ales Aoya also acts as a multi-purpose training facility where employees can raise their environmental awareness through courses such as seedling-planting during new employee training. We also provide opportunities for local residents to utilize Daikin Ales Aoya. In July 2016, it was used by Tottori University as a testing ground for a garden management practicum in which students conducted field work in protecting coastal vegetation and planting trees in coastal areas. Environment 177 Outside Honors for Daikin Ales Aoya Selected for inclusion in the list of 100 top companies contributing to biodiversity, October 2010 sponsored by the Organization for Landscape and Urban Green Architecture Given Excellent Stage 2 ranking (equivalent to the middle of a 5-stage assessment December 2011 system) under the Social and Environmental Green Evaluation System (SEGES) of the Organization for Landscape and Urban Green Infrastructure Given the Green Society Contribution Award and the Green Cities Award Fiscal 2013 Encouragement Prize from the Organization for Landscape and Urban Green Infrastructure Given Excellent Stage 3 ranking (equivalent to second highest level of a 5-stage assessment system) under the Social and Environmental Green Evaluation System December 2014 (SEGES) of the Organization for Landscape and Urban Green Infrastructure. This is one level higher than it earned under SEGES in 2011 Bird's-eye view of Daikin Ales Aoya Monitoring vegetation To restore coastal forests, a fence was constructed to protect the seedlings from salt air and sand Certificate for the Green Cities Award Encouragement Prize Certificate showing that Daikin is Mark of certification for the SEGES one of 100 top companies (Social and Environmental Green contributing to biodiversity Evaluation System) Environment 178 Species on the endangered lists of Tottori Prefecture and the national government Beachwort Siberian sea rosemary Scutellaria strigillosa Heteropappus hispidus These species are effective at resisting invasive species and are important to protecting beach vegetation Shiga Plant Rejuvenates a Community Forest for Coexistence Between People and Nature The Shiga Plant of Daikin Industries, Ltd. began work to rejuvenate a community forest on its premises in fiscal 2012. The project area was named the Daikin Shiga Forest and it was decided to use fireflies as a way to assess the effectiveness of the rejuvenation efforts. As a result, the number of flora and fauna living in the Daikin Shiga Forest increased from 398 to 517 species compared to 2012, advancing diversity in the environment. In fiscal 2016, we began creating a virtuous circle that would contribute to making the Daikin Shiga Forest a place for environmental education; for example, we take Daikin employee family members and local elementary school students on nature walks in the forest. Nature Forest at Yodogawa Plant At the Yodogawa Plant, in conjunction with the opening of the Technology and Innovation Center (TIC) in November 2015, we created an approximately 4,000m2 green belt stretching from Yodogawa Plant main gate to the west gate. The forest, known as the TIC Forest, has evergreens in all directions, a large clearing affording a view of the sky, flowers and trees that change with the seasons, and a path along a babbling brook. The TIC Forest is a space that relaxes and stimulates the senses of R&D staff, while the wild birds and insects that fly in from the neighboring Yodogawa River contribute to the rich biodiversity. Under the motto From the TIC Forest to the Yodogawa Plant Forest, flora grown from seed in this forest are transplanted from inside the facility to other areas where they are currently being cultivated by employees. In recognition of our efforts aimed at enhancing employee environmental awareness and achieving comparative harmony with the TIC exterior, in November 2017 Daikin won the Osaka Governor's Award, the highest honor bestowed in the Landscape Design category at the 7th Annual Midori no Machizukuri Awards. We will maintain efforts to grow seedlings currently being cultivated, continue planning and holding Yodogawa Plant nature walks and photo contests and instill an awareness of biodiversity preservation in our employees. Environment 179 Forest at the TIC Photo contest winner Babbling brook and autumn colors Employees plant seedlings Chinese windmill Falcon 7th Annual Midori no Machizukuri Awards certificate Environment 180 Projects in Surrounding Neighborhoods Rejuvenating Community Forests in Osaka Prefecture Daikin strives to protect forests near its bases. One of these efforts is an agreement between Daikin, Osaka Prefecture, Takatsuki City, and forest owners to protect a community forest area. The agreement was signed at a ceremony in May 2012 at the Osaka Prefectural office. Under the agreement, the prefectural government uses the Adopt a Forest system to mediate companies' purchases from private land owners so that forest land is preserved. This agreement covers the Harashiroyama forest in Takatsuki City, which traditionally was used to harvest bamboo, and to obtain wood for firewood and making charcoal. In recent years though, there are not enough people to manage it and so it has fallen into disrepair due to problems that include overgrowth of bamboo. To return the bamboo forests back to productivity, Daikin is working with local residents to thin out the woods and rejuvenate this local forest. Daikin employees can also go to Harashiroyama anytime they wish to work up a sweat and contribute to the rejuvenation of community forests. In fiscal 2017, a cumulative total of 63 employees and their family members volunteered. The Harashiroyama forest project completed its five-year agreement period in March 2017. Because of the success of this activity, the contract was renewed and work continues on caring for the bamboo forest. To expand the scope of this activity, in March 2016 an agreement was reached under the Adopt a Forest system in Izuhara in Ibaraki City, Osaka Prefecture as a way to protect community forests other than just bamboo forests. With the goal of creating an abundant ecosystem in an abandoned coppice forest, activities will continue until March 2020. In fiscal 2017, a total of 27 employees and their families participated in volunteer activities, removing bamboo trees growing in the coppice forest in May and September. Forest preservation activity in Izuhara Izuhara Adopt a Forest signing ceremony Environment 181 Ongoing Efforts at Overseas Bases Including Tree-Planting and Biodiversity Protection To protect the natural environment adjacent to Daikin's worldwide production and sales bases, we conduct activities such as tree-planting, protection of nearby oceans and rivers, and protection of biodiversity. Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. Daikin Compressor Industries, Ltd. At a tree-planting event held near the factory, employees, Mangrove forest preservation activities contribute to the their families and local residents totaling 400 people preservation of biodiversity by protecting the planted 2,500 trees. Over the past ten years, a total of environment creatures live and grow in while preserving 11,822 trees have been planted. the livelihood of fishermen engaged in traditional fishing practices. Related information Protecting the Environment (Page 327) Report by Business Site (https://www.daikin.com/csr/report/site_data/) Environment 182 Environment HISTORY OF ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIVITIES History of Environmental Activities Air Condtioning Divisions Daikin Group Chemicals Division (Japan) (Japan) Environmental Pollution Control System established Environmental Pollution Control 1970s Committee established Environmental Pollution Control Regulations enacted Environmental Month started Daikin Group Environmental Control Committee established Daikin Group Environmental 1980s Management Regulations enacted Began dealing with fluorocarbon problem Began HFC mass1991 production Director responsible for 1992 environmental protection and Global Environment Dept.established Actions Principles on Environmental 1993 Protection enacted Environmental Action Plan enacted Began building environmental 1994 management system Released chiller using HFC refrigerant 1995 Environmental audits launched Ceased production of CFC Started air conditioner forums Acquired ISO 14001 certification in all 1996 Daikin Industries, Ltd. production bases in Japan Began working toward ISO 14001 1997 certification in overseas production bases Environment 183 Released Super Inverter 60 ultra-energy-efficient commercial air conditioner 1998 First Environmental Report published Released HFC multipurpose air conditioner for buildings, HFC residential air conditioners Environmental accounting Established fluorocarbon 1999 introduced, Environmental Meetings destruction facilities launched Released Super Inverter 2000 Start of green procurement ZEAS ultra-energy-efficient HFC air conditioner Environmental Action Plan 2005 enacted Achieved zero waste emissions in Daikin Industries, Ltd. production bases in Japan (machinery divisions) 2001 Regional Environmental Meetings launched Environmental meetings started in each of four regions (Europe, North America, China, and Asia/Oceania) Began fluorocarbon recovery and destruction Basic Environmental Policy of the business 2002 Daikin Group enacted Completed Conversion to HFC refrigerant for all major products (in Japan) Aquired integrated ISO 14001 2003 certification in Daikin Group in Japan Achieved zero waste emissions in all 2004 Daikin Industries, Ltd. production bases in Japan Released Daikin Altherma Environmental Action Plan 2010 air-to-water heat-pump 2006 enacted space and hot water heater in Europe Held air conditioner forums 2007 in Europe and the U.S. Environment 184 Started Re: AIRCON Project for reforestation in Indonesia Formulated the latter half of the Released world’s first VRV Fusion 10 strategic management plan, system (mult-split type air 2008 which stresses proactive contribution conditioner for building) to solving environmental problems, as using CO2 refrigerant well as business expansion Held air conditioner forums worldwide (Europe, U.S., Japan) Held air conditioner forums 2009 in China The Daikin Group worldwide achieved Held air conditioner forums 2010 its targets for greenhouse gas in Asia/Oceania emissions by a wide margin Formulated Environmental Action Plan 2015 2011 Started environmental protection activities in Shiretoko Released Urusara 7 residential air conditioner, 2012 world's first air conditioner to use the new R-32 refrigerant Released FIVE STAR ZEAS, world's first commercial air 2013 conditioner to use new refrigerant R-32 Released cooling-only variable speed (inverter) air 2014 Started Forests for the Air project conditioners for emerging countries Daikin offers companies worldwide free access to its 93 patents on the manufacture and sale of R-32 air 2015 conditioners Daikin's Policy and Comprehensive Actions on the Environmental Impact of Refrigerants published Environment 185 Environment ENDORSEMENT AS AN ECO FIRST COMPANY Daikin Industries, Ltd. First Company in Air Conditioner Industry to be Endorsed as an Eco First Company by Ministry of the Environment On November 11, 2008, Daikin Industries, Ltd. was presented with official certification for the Eco First Program established by Japan's Ministry of the Environment in April 2008. The award recognized Daikin's Eco First Commitment of environmental protection targets. Daikin is now the first company in its industry to earn the right to use the Eco First symbol. Under the Eco First Program, companies make a commitment to the Ministry of the Environment to carry out voluntary environmental protection activities aimed at meeting the targets of the Kyoto Protocol. As the world's only developer and manufacturer of both air conditioners and their refrigerants, the Daikin Group makes it a top priority to reduce global warming. Using our strengths in energy-efficient technologies, we strive to mitigate our impact on climate change. Under our Eco First Commitment, which we revised in March 2012 and October 2017, the Daikin Group is striving to achieve both environmental sustainability and corporate growth by making the most of environmental technologies such as inverters and heat pumps to drive our business. The Eco First symbol Environment 186 Daikin Group's Eco First Commitment 1. By developing and disseminating products that contribute to mitigating global warming, we aim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in fiscal 2020 by 60 million tons-CO2. We will disseminate energy-efficient products, such as low-energy-consuming inverter models, worldwide. In worldwide markets, we will introduce air conditioners that use low-global-warmingpotential refrigerants such as HFC-32, which has two-thirds less global warming potential than conventional refrigerants. By promoting the recovery and destruction of refrigerants, we will minimize refrigerant leakage in all stages from production to final product disposal. We will develop and disseminate heat pump space heaters and hot water heaters, which are much more energy efficient than gas-combustion products, by adapting to local conditions. By introducing our energy-efficient solutions businesses, such as air conditioner remote monitoring systems, to worldwide markets, we will contribute to greater energy efficiency in entire buildings and towns. 2. To minimize the environmental impact of our production activities, in fiscal 2020 we aim to reduce the Daikin Group’s emissions of greenhouse gases (CO2, HFCs, PFCs) by 70% over fiscal 2005 (a reduction of 3.5 million tons-CO2). Even as we increase the number of our production bases and our production volume, we will reduce the Daikin Group’s total greenhouse gas emissions through numerous measures; for example, eliminate wasted energy by making energy usage more transparent, and thoroughly recover fluorocarbons in production processes. We will reduce emissions through strict management of waste, water usage, and chemical substances. 3. We aim to work together with stakeholders to protect biodiversity. We will also expand the Green Heart circle, considering the Earth and taking care of the natural environment. Through Daikin’s “Forests for the Air” project, which is being undertaken at seven locations around the world, during the 10-year period from 2014 to 2024, we will conserve forests covering some 11 million hectares and in the process contribute to reducing CO2 emissions by 7 million tons-CO2. Employees are the main drivers in initiatives at our worldwide bases to certify factories and offices under our Green Heart system. Daikin employees boost their environmental awareness by minimizing environmental impact through energy efficiency and other measures, creating and preserving biodiversity at their companies, and teaming up with local citizens in carrying out environmental and social contribution activities. By holding free-of-charge environmental education classes for elementary schools, we provide an opportunity for youngsters to learn how to build a sustainable society. Related information Environment (Page 58) Environment 187 Sustainability Report 2 018 －Web version－ New Value Creation Daikin's Goal for Value Creation …………… 191 Start-Up Arises from Collaborative Management Structure ………………………… 194 innovation ………………………………………… 198 Value Creation through Collaborative Innovation ………………………………………… 200 New Value Creation 188 CSR for Value Provision New Value Creation Policy Sharing Dreams and Ambitions Inside and Outside Daikin to Realize a Healthy, Comfortable Lifestyle through Air CSR Target 2020 Air-conditioners bring innovation to work and everyday life in hot regions, contributing to higher quality of life and economic growth. Daikin fuses core technologies accumulated through air conditioning using IoT and AI with advanced technological open innovation to provide new value that makes humans and indoor spaces healthy and comfortable by pursuing the unlimited possibilities of air. Fiscal 2017 Achievements Measures the amount invested in value creation and the number of new technologies created. R&D Expenditure ¥ 62.1 billion Number of patent applications (FY 2016) (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) Patent applications in Japan: 780 Patent applications overseas: 352 New Value Creation 189 Daikin's Goal for Value Start-Up Arises from Management Structure Creation Collaborative Innovation Making people and indoor Daikin R&D Centers such as the Introducing initiatives from spaces healthy and comfortable Technology Innovation Center collaborative innovation to to provide new value and are located throughout the commercialization contribute to the Sustainable world. Development Goals (SDGs) Value creation through collaborative innovation We cooperate with industry groups and other companies, and work in industry-academia tie-ups with the aim of creating new value. Related information Key Activities of Fiscal 2017: New Value Creation—Reducing Fatigue and Realizing Pleasant Air Environments through Open Innovation (Page 396) Stakeholder Engagement (Page 313) TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION CENTER (https://www.daikin.com/about/corporate/tic/) New Value Creation 190 New Value Creation DAIKIN'S GOAL FOR VALUE CREATION Our modern world is undergoing constant change that is bringing about problems like poverty, inequality, and climate change. To mount a global effort toward solving these problems, in September 2015 the United Nations adopted Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and established the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The Daikin Group aims to contribute to the realization of the SDGs by identifying three themes: environment, cities, and people. Our aim is to use our world-class technologies to reduce environmental impact while at the same time providing new value in the form of a healthy, comfortable way of living. Value Creation for the Earth Helping mitigate climate change by reducing environmental impact through business activities With global warming causing increasingly frequent occurrences of abnormal weather, the effects are being felt not just as changes in the natural environment but also as the spread of infectious diseases and other threats to human health. The rise in atmospheric temperature, economic advancement, and population growth around the world are fueling a constantly increasing demand for air conditioners. However, there are fears that large amounts of electricity consumption and refrigerant leakage will accelerate global warming. As a global air conditioner manufacturer, the Daikin Group is working to decrease greenhouse gas emissions through the dissemination of inverter air conditioners and low-global-warming-potential refrigerants. In addition, we are utilizing our fluorochemical technologies and developing and providing new materials that contribute to the use and spread of renewable energy. New Value Creation 191 Value Creation for Cities Contributing to the creation of sustainable cities by solving energy-related issues arising from urbanization Economic and population growth in emerging countries are causing rapid urbanization. The number of mega-cities with populations exceeding 1 million is on the rise, and these cities will require increasing amounts of energy. And with rising atmospheric temperatures, they will also require air conditioners to provide residents with comfortable living environments. Meanwhile, in the industrialized countries, where populations continue to drop, workers increasingly require comfortable spaces where they can do their jobs easily and productively. The Daikin Group provides air conditioners that create environments to meet the needs of people in both emerging and industrialized countries. Furthermore, we are working on realizing zero-energy buildings, which use renewable energy sources in order to effectively achieve zero net energy consumption, and utilizing ICT technologies, which promote energy efficiency through comfortable air conditioner operation throughout an entire town. The goal is to realize livable cities that achieve comfort and energy efficiency through city-wide air conditioner control. Value Creation for People Contributing to healthy and comfortable lifestyles by expanding the possibilities of air With economic development come rapid industrialization, exploding population growth in cities, and ballooning traffic volume — all of which contribute to more hazardous chemicals in the atmosphere that are detrimental to human health, as well as to spiraling healthcare costs. The Daikin Group believes that an effective way to reduce air pollution is to place filters on factories and other facilities that give off emissions containing hazardous chemicals. We also strive for pleasant indoor environments by making products that remove not only air pollutants but also odors. New Value Creation 192 Sustainable Development Goals: SDGs 1. No poverty 2. Zero hunger 3. Good health and well4. Quality education End poverty in all its End hunger, achieve being Ensure inclusive and forms everywhere food security and Ensure healthy lives and equitable quality improved nutrition and promote well-being for education and promote promote sustainable all at all age lifelong learning agriculture opportunities for all 5. Gender equality 6. Clean water and 7. Affordable and clean 8. Decent work and Achieve gender equality sanitation energy economic growth and empower all women Ensure availability and Ensure access to Promote sustained, and girls sustainable management affordable, reliable, inclusive and sustainable of water and sanitation sustainable and modern economic growth, full for all energy for all and productive employment and decent work for all 9. Industry, innovation 10. Reduced inequalities 11. Sustainable cities and 12. Responsible and infrastructure Reduce inequality within communities consumption and Build resilient and among countries Make cities and human production infrastructure, promote settlements inclusive, Ensure sustainable inclusive and sustainable safe, resilient and consumption and industrialization and sustainable production patterns foster innovation 13. Climate action 14. Life below water 15. Life on land 16. Peace, justice and Take urgent action to Conserve and sustainably Protect, restore and strong institutions combat climate change use the oceans, seas and promote sustainable use Promote peaceful and and its impacts marine resources for of terrestrial ecosystems, inclusive societies for sustainable development sustainably manage sustainable development, forests, combat provide access to justice desertification, and halt for all and build and reverse land effective, accountable degradation and halt and inclusive institutions biodiversity loss at all levels 17. Partnerships for the goals Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development New Value Creation 193 New Value Creation MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE In order to meet diverse customer needs and create new value that contributes to society, it is important that Daikin first build up its technological superiority by leading further advanced technologies: inverters, heat pumps, and fluorochemicals. It is also important to combine state-of-the-art technologies from around the world—such as information-communication, sensors, materials, processing, medicine, and healthcare—with Daikin technologies to come out with products and services that provide new value to customers. Today's world of unprecedented and rapid technological change requires the creation of new value, which is only possible through collaborative innovation that fuses a wide range of knowledge and technologies and takes us beyond current boundaries. To this end, Daikin established the Technology and Innovation Center in November 2015 with the aim of promoting collaboration with external partners in order to contribute to society through the creation of new value. We also have R&D bases at 14 sites around the world at which we develop products in order to promptly and accurately respond to the needs of regional customers. Worldwide R&D Bases New Value Creation 194 Technology Development Base: Technology and Innovation Center Collaborative innovation with internal and external partners to create new value In November 2015, Daikin established the Technology and Innovation Center (TIC). As a core base of technological development, the TIC brings together approximately 700 technicians in a range of fields. Amassing the strength of Daikin Group technicians, and strengthening cooperation and ties among companies, universities, and research institutes possessing unique technologies in differing industries and fields, the TIC is aimed at combining the strengths of people, information, and technologies from inside and outside Daikin in order to come up with innovation through collaboration. To maximize this collaboration between Daikin and its partners, the TIC has gathering rooms, which can be used for anything from technician meetings to exchange unbridled opinions, to gatherings of opinion leaders from universities and industries around the world to use as they wish in spreading their ideas. These rooms have been used extensively: Eiichi Negishi, winner of the Nobel Prize in Chemistry and Distinguished Professor at Purdue University, has used them to provide technological guidance; and they act as satellite offices of industry-academia collaboration projects between Daikin and Kyoto University, Osaka University, and other universities. Technology and Innovation Center (TIC) Related information TIC (https://www.daikin.com/about/corporate/tic/) New Value Creation 195 Boosting Development Functions around the World Responding to the needs that arise from differing cultures and values in countries and regions of the world Daikin has over 90 production bases around the world and does business in over 150 countries, and more than 75% of its sales come from outside Japan. To create the new value demanded by customers and their societies, we must develop products that match the cultures and values of each worldwide region. Daikin has R&D centers around the world, including in China, Europe, and North America, where efforts are made to create new value that matches various regional needs. In today's era of lightning-fast change, conventional core technologies no longer meet the world's diverse needs. That's why in May 2017 we have established the Daikin Open Innovation Lab Silicon Valley (DSV) as a sub-office of the TIC, a place where we come up with distinctly new products through the fusion of state-of-the-art technologies in artificial intelligence (AI) and the Internet of Things (IoT). At the DSV in North America, a society of rapid technological change, we are striving to both absorb current state-of-the-art technologies and strengthen IoT and AI technologies. On December 5, 2017, we opened the Daikin Information Technology University in the TIC with the goal of fostering human resources who develop technologies and new businesses utilizing AI. The aim is to create new innovation through basic research in areas such as AI and IoT, create new systems for things like smart factories, and carry out collaborative projects that foster human resources. Spurring the Creation of Intellectual Property Two Systems Stimulate Creation of Intellectual Property Daikin Industries, Ltd. has two systems for stimulating employees' motivation to invent and for spurring the creation of intellectual property. The first is the Compensation System for Employee Inventions, a system in which Daikin pays employees for inventions created on the job that result in patent applications as well as successful uses of the patent. In fiscal 2017, in addition to compensation for patent applications, Daikin compensated employees for 629 successful uses of the patent. The second is the Incentive System for Valuable Patents, which gives employees incentive bonuses for valuable patents. In fiscal 2016, we awarded incentive bonuses to the creators of 70 patents. While these systems are aimed at stepping up Daikin's intellectual creativity, they also represent an effort to promptly tackle pressing issues, such as increasing the quality and quantity of patents in competitive fields, and increasing the number of patents in our key technological fields, in particular in emerging countries. In fiscal 2017, we applied for 780 patents in Japan and 352 patents overseas. New Value Creation 196 In fiscal 2017, in the air conditioning divisions, the number of patent applications increased; this covered everything from development of new products that we intend to release, to near-future products that make use of AI and IoT technologies. In the Chemicals Division, we stepped up patent applications with the goal of growing sustainably in existing products areas and capturing a dominant market share in new product areas. We will also continue to conduct thorough advance patent surveys so that we can deal with problem patents early on and thus ensure that we eliminate patents that could hinder our development. We will also step up patent efforts worldwide. Awarding incentive bonuses to inventor group representatives Number of Patent Applications (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) New Value Creation 197 New Value Creation START-UP ARISES FROM COLLABORATIVE INNOVATION From Collaborative Innovation to Market The new value that arises from collaborative innovation won't benefit people around the world unless it comes in the form of an available product. Products must be made into business models that benefit a company, its customers, and society; otherwise, it's just an empty proposition. In the field of energy, in 2017 Daikin established a new company that makes micro-hydroelectric power generation systems. This company, DK-Power, Ltd., is the first start-up to come out of the Technology and Innovation Center (TIC); the first case of an R&D theme at TIC leading all the way to market participation. DK-Power, Ltd. Local production and local consumption of energy: helping solve environmental problems There has been increasing focus on micro-hydroelectric power, which taps energy from the water flow of rivers, water supply and sewage systems, and other waterways. Although they provide only a fraction of the power of conventional large-scale power plants, they can be set up in a large number of locations where there is a water canal or other flow of water—not just in the mountains but in many other places close to towns and cities. These water wheels of the future can be used almost anywhere. However, this method of power generation has not spread significantly, due to the high cost per amount of power generated and the large size of the equipment. Daikin has utilized its technologies in air conditioning and hydraulic machinery to develop a compact, low-cost micro-hydroelectric power generation system, equipped with vertical inline pump reverse turbine, for water channels. Through technology for making electricity from waterflow using the motor inverter technologies that Daikin has built up, it is now possible to create natural energy instead of discharging CO2 in the power generation process. The small energy created by micro-hydroelectric power generation systems is also green energy. In 2013, Daikin's micro-hydroelectric power generation system was adopted under the Low Carbon Technology, Research, Development and Demonstration Program of Japan's Ministry of the Environment (MOE). It underwent demonstration testing over a three-year period in Nanto City, Toyama Prefecture, and Soma City, Fukushima Prefecture, which resulted in practical product application. New Value Creation 198 In June 2017, we established DK-Power, Ltd., a subsidiary whose business is generating power through micro-hydroelectric power generation systems. The company installs these systems on waterworks facilities owned by local governments, and manages, operates, and sells the electricity that is generated. We will collaborate with numerous partners—such as municipal waterworks contractors, regional construction companies, and energy transmission and distribution contractors—as we pursue the business of generating and providing renewable energy. By using micro-hydroelectric power generation systems and the clean energy they provide, cities, towns, and neighborhoods in Japan and around the world get independently produced and sustainable electricity and thus contribute to a sustainable society. Business Model Based on Use of DK-Power's Micro-hydroelectric Power Generation Systems Micro-hydroelectric Power Generation System Related information DK-Power, Ltd. (http://www.dk-power.co.jp/) New Value Creation 199 New Value Creation VALUE CREATION THROUGH COLLABORATIVE INNOVATION With problems such as climate change and air pollution increasing on a global scale, Daikin is aiming to reduce environmental burden while providing new value that brings health and comfort to people and spaces. To this end, we are advancing the state of our core technologies of inverters, heat pumps, and fluorochemicals, and stepping up joint research with companies, organizations, and other external parties in order to come up with innovations that contribute to solving society's problems. Open Innovation through Collaboration with Other Companies Establishing a Collaborative Platform Utilizing Data on Air and Space Daikin has established a collaborative platform called CRESNECT under which it works with a number of partner companies to utilize data gathered from air conditioners in order to come up with new value and services encompassing air and space. Using data that can be gathered from air conditioners, Daikin and the partner companies study how to improve office productivity and maintain worker health and come up with new value and services. Daikin and Three Other Companies Launch Cross-Industry Mite Allergy Countermeasures Society Daikin, Sangetsu Corporation, Shionogi & Co., Ltd., and Teijin Frontier Co., Ltd. launched the Mite Allergy Countermeasures Society, a symposium with the goal of raising awareness of perennial allergic rhinitis and educating people about how to combat it. In 2004, as part of creating an indoor air environment that is healthy and comfortable, we developed our own Streamer technology to decompose allergens such as mites, fungi, and pollen, and suppress bacteria and viruses. While looking into possible further uses of Streamer technology and leveraging the knowledge and knowhow of companies across different industries, the Mite Allergy Countermeasures Society is striving to provide society with a comfortable and healthy lifestyle through the joint creation of new value in air and space. New Value Creation 200 Daikin and Hitachi Begin Collaboration to Create Next-Generation Production Model Using IoT Daikin and Hitachi, Ltd. embarked on a collaborative project to create the next-generation production model using IoT to support skills transfer from expert workers as of October 2017. The two companies are proceeding with a joint demonstration of the viability of a new production model. Combining Daikin's brazing process, which is part of the manufacturing of air conditioners, and Hitachi's advanced image analysis technology, the solution core of the company's Lumada IoT platform, the demonstration project will digitalize the skills of expert workers and trainees so that these can be compared and analyzed in verifying a production model. The goal is to move this system to full-scale production, encompass other production processes in the system, and expand it for application at production bases around the world and in our servicing activities. Illustration of Brazing Training Support System Teaming Up with NEC Corporation in Utilizing AI and IoT to Create Air and Space that Boosts Intellectual Productivity In October 2016, Daikin Industries, Ltd. and NEC Corporation began joint research utilizing AI and IoT aimed at realizing air and space that raises people's intellectual productivity. By fusing Daikin Industries, Ltd.'s technologies related to air conditioning and its knowledge in biometrics with NEC's AI and IoT technologies in facial recognition and crowd behavior analysis, the parties aim to be able to create comfortable, focused spaces that are not just determined by factors such as climate and room environment, but that are geared to respond to the physical and mental feelings of the people in that space. Daikin Industries, Ltd. and NEC Corporation have so far conducted research in areas such as precise control of air conditioning and lighting and measurement of comfort level. However, more analysis needs to be done since there is still much to be learned regarding the cause-effect relationship between people and the air and space around them. As the base of research for this joint effort, the TIC is carrying out demonstration testing in office environments. In fiscal 2017, we built an environment for conducting tests on human subjects and identified effective temperature stimulation for raising intellectual productivity. To further perfect the ideal conditions, we are conducting field testing. New Value Creation 201 Illustration of air and space improving intellectual productivity in an office Open Innovation through Industry-Academia Collaboration DK Innovation Program with Kyoto University June 2013, Daikin Industries, Ltd. and Kyoto University concluded a comprehensive collaboration agreement with the goal of creating and researching new themes focusing on social values toward future-oriented solutions in the fields of air quality, environment, and energy. Under this program, researchers from not just the field of science but from the arts as well have come up with the concept of ‘Good Air' through unique science-arts collaborations such as the 100 Person World Café. The program is working toward concrete activities that apply this concept. Prototype of air conditioner that brings people together: blending sensual stimulation and design Areas are divided by level of temperature, images, and lighting to provide either relaxing or stimulating environments. New Value Creation 202 Future Joint Research Laboratories Established with Nara Institute of Science and Technology In October 2012, Daikin Industries, Ltd. and the Nara Institute of Science and Technology (NAIST) established the Future Joint Research Laboratories. In conventional agreements between industry and academia, the corporation generally names the project content and the university carries out the necessary project research. But this collaboration between Daikin and NAIST begins with a quest for pressing social issues, followed by discussions on how to solve them and then the start of research toward this goal. Daikin and NAIST are currently proceeding with research on two themes: ‘clean innovations' in pursuit of high-level anti-fouling, and ‘air and IoT' aimed at applying research results to existing businesses as soon as possible. The collaboration is also continuing to identify future research themes. Collaboration with Kansai University In November 2012, Daikin signed an agreement with Kansai University to collaborate fully on ways to contribute to communities in education, research, and human resource development. Through this collaboration, we are offering free lectures on fluorine and helping accelerate joint research. In September 2016, we established a base in the Organization for Research and Development of Innovative Science and Technology of Kansai University in order to accelerate joint research with the university's science and technology departments in areas such as battery materials. We will continue to seek ways to create new value, not just in the sciences but in the arts as well. Daikin Collaboration Research Institute at Osaka University In 2006, Daikin Industries, Ltd. launched the Daikin (Fluorine Chemistry) Joint Research Chair at Osaka University, under which our fluorochemical technologies and the university's advance research capabilities are combined in order to come up with innovative fundamental technologies. In 2016, a 10-year collaboration called the Daikin Collaboration Research Institute, which covers air conditioning related technologies, was launched and is conducting R&D in new materials, new processes, and processing technologies. This facility will continue acquiring and advancing core technologies in chemistry and air conditioning by expanding its organization to include areas such as machinery, construction, information, and medicine. Tie-up with Tsinghua University In 2003, the Tsinghua University-Daikin R&D Center was established at Tsinghua University in Beijing, one of China's top universities. Since then, Daikin and the university have worked together to jointly develop air conditioner technologies. In fiscal 2016, the parties began collaborating in the chemical field as well. The center will expand into environmental fields such as air and water quality and energy, as it carries out research with top-level scientists aimed at solving environmental problems. New Value Creation 203 Daikin Industries Ltd. and RIKEN Start Wellness Life Collaboration Program In October 2016, Daikin Industries Ltd. teamed up with RIKEN, Japan's only comprehensive research institution dedicated to the natural sciences, to launch the RIKEN-DAIKIN Wellness Life Collaboration Program. Under the theme of comfortable, healthy spaces, the program aims to provide society with new value. In June 2017, the partners established the Riken BDR-Daikin Collaboration Center for joint research into creating spaces that prevent fatigue. In November 2017, test facilities were established at Riken's Integrated Innovation Building (IIB) in Kobe for clinical research investigating how differing levels of temperature and humidity affect levels of fatigue. Data on the differing levels of fatigue that men and women experience in air environments was presented in May 2018 at a meeting of the Japanese Society of Fatigue Science. We are also making use of Riken's knowledge in areas other than air environments to come up with challenges in creating new value for our customers. Related information Key Activities of Fiscal 2017: New Value Creation (Page 396) Cooperation with Influential Figures and Industry Groups World Sleep Conference Studies How Air Can Improve Sleep In March 2016, Daikin Industries, Ltd., Showa Nishikawa, Lion Corporation, and Renaissance Inc. jointly established the World Sleep Conference, a project to improve people's health through better sleeping. By March 2017, three companies—Wacoal Corp., Philips Lighting Holding B.V, and Ricoh Japan Corp.— had joined. With the organization now including companies dealing in clothing, lighting, and offices— all crucial elements in sleep—members are creating and sharing new ideas related to improving health through better sleeping. At the fiscal 2017 meeting of the World Sleep Conference, attendees shared both interesting and useful information that raises awareness of the importance of sleep and contributes to the discovery of latent needs regarding sleeping. We also conducted a two-day overnight event on the theme of how to establish the conditions for a good sleep. Participants experienced the daily routines that ensure a sound sleep and thus learned firsthand about good sleep cycles. It is well known that sleep affects people not only physically but mentally as well. Poor sleep is said to lead to problems like depression and insomnia, which result in lack of concentration and poor productivity. Sleep disorders have emerged as a cause of some of today's social problems. Against this background, Daikin Industries, Ltd. recognized the strong connection between sleep and warm environments. Utilizing the Sleep and Metabolism Laboratory at the TIC, which simulates a round-theclock living environment, we are coming out with new products and services that improve the quality of sleep through the power of air. New Value Creation 204 Participation in the World Green Building Council Worldwide Daikin Industries, Ltd. strives to contribute to lower power consumption through energy-efficient air conditioners and buildings. In order to achieve even more environmentally conscious buildings through the provision of products and services, we have joined green building organizations around the world and our bases and sales regions are helping form regulations that will make it easier to provide products and services that help realize green buildings and ZEBs*. * ZEB: A zero-energy building is one that effectively consumes zero energy thanks to the energy efficiency of the building and equipment, as well as the use of renewable energy sources on-site to power the building. New Value Creation 205 Sustainability Report 2 018 －Web version－ Customer Satisfaction Product Quality and Safety ………………………… 209 Protecting Customer Information ………………… 226 Customer Satisfaction………………………………… 216 Customer Satisfaction 206 CSR for Value Provision Customer Satisfaction Policy Providing Peace of Mind and Reliability through a Focus on Customer Orientation, Experience, Performance, and Advanced Technologies CSR Targets 2020 Developing business in more than 150 countries throughout the world, Daikin provides customers with the highest degree of satisfaction by ensuring a high level of quality through efforts to provide products and services meeting local needs. We regularly listen to customer feedback from around the world and utilize this feedback in product development in a continued pursuit of customer satisfaction throughout the product lifecycle. Fiscal 2017 Achievements With fiscal 2015 as the base year, we measured how much we improved after-sales service customer satisfaction. Customer Satisfaction (over fiscal 2015) Japan: China: Singapore: Italy: 1.11 1.01 1.03 1.00 Customer Satisfaction 207 Protecting Customer Product Quality and Safety Customer Satisfaction Information We believe that it is a We listen to customers' opinions We manage and use personal manufacturer's mission to and requests so that we can information about customers in provide society with safe, highanticipate their needs and bring an appropriate manner. quality products and services. them greater satisfaction. Related information Key Activities of Fiscal 2017: Customer Satisfaction—Create a Mechanism That Brings Peace of Mind by Promoting Adoption of Low-EnvironmentalImpact Heat-Pump Heating (Page 400) Customer Satisfaction 208 Customer Satisfaction PRODUCT QUALITY AND SAFETY Quality Policy Providing Safe, High-Quality Products and Services With this in mind, Daikin strives to stay ahead of customer needs by providing high-quality products and services based on its corporate policies of Absolute Credibility, Enterprising Management, and Harmonious Personal Relations. With a quality management system in place, we ensure that our products are of the highest levels of safety and quality in all processes: from design and manufacture to sales and after-sales service. Quality Policy in the Divisions Air conditioning divisions: Provide high-quality products through relentless improvement activities. Service divisions: Achieve the highest level of service quality (in speed, accuracy, and politeness). Chemicals divisions: Provide quality that sells and that satisfies customers' demands. Product Quality Management Structure Thorough Management in Development, Procurement, and Production All major manufacturing bases in Daikin are ISO 9001-compliant and have quality assurance systems conforming to this international standard. Company divisions maintain high levels of product quality and ensure proper management of each department, such as development, parts procurement, and production. We are also improving quality at our contract manufacturers. Customer Satisfaction 209 Quality Control System Quality Assurance Process Customer Satisfaction 210 Improving Quality Only Those Products That Pass Our Strict Design Review for Product Safety Are Manufactured The air conditioning divisions have reformed their development process with a stricter, more segmented design review* under which the personnel in charge of the development divisions inspect the proposed products for conformity to Daikin standards using the four criteria of an individual design review (DR): product quality, monotsukuri (the art of manufacturing), cost-effectiveness, and compliance. The same design review is conducted at Daikin's overseas bases. In the Chemicals Division, we have been conducting reviews based on a four-level management system consisting of development theme verification, technology establishment, business-viability establishment, and mass-productivity. As key review standards, in addition to the four criteria of product quality, monotsukuri (the art of manufacturing), cost-effectiveness, and compliance, we focus on safety and environmental consciousness. In fiscal 2015, because we cannot get evaluations from customers and the industry with regards to criteria in the stage of business-viability establishment, we increased the number of inspections we do to strengthen design review functionality. * Design review: In a process involving the entire Daikin organization, products under development are assessed for quality of design and all other processes leading up to product realization. Only those that pass each stage can move forward. Development Process Raises Quality (Air Conditioning Divisions) Customer Satisfaction 211 Example of Quality Improvement in Development: Forced Fire Test Conducted in Combustion Test Room During the development stage, actual products are used to ensure that even if an accident occurs due to a faulty product the problem does not spread beyond the product itself. Forced fire test conducted in a combustion test room Example of Quality Improvement in Development: Global Product Structural Audit Every two years, Daikin holds a meeting of the Global Product Structural Audit. With participation by quality control managers from production bases, the goal is to share know-how and bring together those working on the front lines of quality so as to ensure that Daikin's product structural auditing is conducted at the highest possible level worldwide. In fiscal 2016, the meeting focused on reviewing the number of defects inherent in products, the use of tools and equipment, and improving auditing of factors such as work safety. At a Global Structural Audit Society activity Customer Satisfaction 212 Tracking Customer Information and Product Information We have two global systems for gathering information—on customers and products—from markets around the world. The information is used to solve problems at each base and thus create better products. System for Sharing Information to Solve Problems Establishing Protocol for Promptly Handling Product Accidents Daikin products are designed based on quality standards and design standards that ensure that, even if users err in operating the machinery or use it beyond recommended limits, there is no danger for the users; and even if there is a product accident, the danger to the user is minimized. In case of a product accident, we have systems in place that allow us to quickly relay the necessary information and handle the problem, and minimize the impact on the product users and the general public. We also place top priority on detecting product problems before they lead to a major accident. When the cause of a minor accident is discovered, we determine whether this could also cause a major accident and we reflect this into the development of future products. In fiscal 2017, there were no cases of product recall. Related information Important Announcements (available in Japanese only) (http://www.daikin.co.jp/taisetsu/) Working Closely with Suppliers Refer to Raising Product Quality and Ensuring Safety Together with Suppliers (Working Closely with Suppliers) (Page 306) Customer Satisfaction 213 Policy on Product Safety Product Safety Voluntary Action Guidelines The Daikin Group (hereinafter, the Group ) believes that its most important management task is to provide products that satisfy customers from the standpoint of our customer when designing and making products that have a high level of safety and quality. To this end, we have formulated the following basic policies on product safety in efforts to provide ever-greater levels of safety and quality in products. 1. Legal Compliance The Group shall observe the Consumer Product Safety Act and other product-related laws and safety standards. 2. Ensuring Product Safety The Group shall establish a quality management system and execute measures to maintain product safety in all processes extending from product design to production, sales, and after sales service. And the Group shall display appropriate, easy-to-understand instructions and warnings on products and in instruction manuals to ensure the safe use of our products by our customers. 3. Collecting and Providing Product Accident Information The Group shall actively collect information from our customers concerning accidents involving Daikin products and quickly report this information to our executive management while providing customers with suitable information. 4. Immediate and Appropriate Response to Product Accidents In the unlikely event of a safety problem occurring in the use our product, our first and primary concern shall be for the safety of our customers, and we shall take immediate actions to minimize and prevent the occurrence of a serious accident. Actions to be taken immediately shall include repairing or replacing the product in question, publicizing the problem through the appropriate media, and submitting a statutory report on the problem to the relevant authorities. All relevant people outside the company, including sales company personnel, will be informed of the situation. 5. Product Safety Promotion The Group shall establish a quality assurance system that it uses to ensure product safety and quality. We shall ascertain information related to the safety and quality in the marketplace and provide accurate feedback to personnel within our company in order to reflect it into future product design and manufacture. 6. Education, Training, and Monitoring The Group shall constantly make every effort to promote the safety and quality of our product through widespread education and training within the company in laws and regulations on product safety. We also shall regularly monitor work to ensure product safety is being achieved. (Formulated in June 2007) Customer Satisfaction 214 Global Product Safety Standards We have formulated our Global Product Safety Standards to ensure products are designed for the utmost safety by having standards common to all Daikin worldwide bases. The goal is to make sure that products can be operated safely and that damage is limited to the absolute minimum in case of a product accident—whether the customer is using the product correctly or incorrectly. These safety standards set common rules for the global Daikin Group regarding things like fire, electrical shock, and explosion, and stipulate two layers of safety in the design: design that will prevent accidents from occurring, and design that will minimize damage should an accident occur. Efforts to Ensure Safety Clear and Concise Product Use Instructions The Consumer Product Safety Act obligates companies to design products for safety and provide consumers with information and warnings so that household product accidents can be avoided. Based on the failsafe* philosophy, Daikin's system of checks ensures that customer safety is the top priority in design and that design review (DR) leads to safe products. Our website also provides consumers with information including the model number and production year of products already on the market. In April 2009, the Ministerial Ordinance of technical standards for the Electrical Appliance and Material Safety Law went into effect. We abide by this ordinance by placing labels on our residential air conditioners and ventilation fans (which are covered by this law) that state the duration of product use. * Failsafe: Checks and measures are in place to ensure safety in case of a breakdown of mechanisms or systems. User Manuals Available Online In Japan, about one-third of the product accidents are the result of improper product operation. We therefore strive to provide customers with accurate, easy-to-understand operating instructions so that they can use our products safely. The air conditioning divisions conduct product labeling in compliance with industry guidelines, such as the Guidelines for Labeling Household Products for Safe Use (5th edition, revised October 2015), published by the Association for Electric Home Appliances, and the Revisions Labeling Procedures (March 2010), published by the Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industry Association. When we make product user manuals, we make sure they are readable, easy to understand, and easily searchable. This ensures that customers can use products with peace of mind. We work with our design, quality control, service, and sales departments to improve areas of customer confusion in order to make manuals with which customers can get the answers they need quickly. For the installation product user manual of commercial air conditioners developed in fiscal 2014, we changed the page size from A1 to A4 to make the text easier to read. For wired remote controllers launched in April 2017, users can easily download the manual from our website by smartphone or computer. Customer Satisfaction 215 Customer Satisfaction CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Basic Policy Daikin measures the degree to which customers are satisfied with after-sales services and utilizes this information to improve customer satisfaction. We are engaged in enhancing service engineer technical capabilities and improving the level of support for customers under a basic policy aimed at the ultimate in quality service through speed, accuracy, and good manners in the Service Division responsible for maintenance and other services. The Daikin group philosophy states that our mission is to identify and realize our customers' future needs and dreams, even those that they themselves may not yet be aware of. By providing high quality products, materials, and service, as well as proactively proposing new products, we want to not only improve convenience and comfort for customers, but also increase the level of customer satisfaction. Increasing Satisfaction with Services Building a Worldwide Customer Service System At Daikin, the Daikin Contact Center is open 24 hours a day, every day of the year to take repair requests and offer technical advice on air conditioners to customers around Japan. Having established Contact Centers overseas, we are building up our after-sales service system so that customers can get the service they need according to the situation in their particular country or region based on Daikin's slogan of speed, accuracy, and good manners. In fiscal 2017, we opened a dedicated B2C Contact Center in the UK to strengthen the heating business. Going forward we will establish Call Centers, provide technical information on the Internet and conduct training to enhance the quality of support. Contact Center UK Contact Center China Customer Satisfaction 216 Understanding Service Satisfaction At Daikin, we attempt to understand the degree of service satisfaction using the degree to which customer satisfaction with after-sales service has improved compared to fiscal 2015 as a benchmark. Customer Satisfaction* 2015 2016 2017 Japan 1.00 1.07 1.11 China 1.00 1.00 1.01 Singapore 1.00 1.03 1.03 Italy 1.00 1.01 1.00 * Degree of satisfaction with fiscal 2015 (1.00) as the base year. In Japan, we conduct surveys after service has been completed to assess customer support with aim of improving customer service within air conditioning after-sales services. In fiscal 2017, services rendered during the summer busy season (June–August) received an overall customer satisfaction score of 4.49 out of a total 5.0 points, the highest score to date compared to 1.11 in fiscal 2015. We believe this result reﬂects our education and training in such areas as enhancing technical capabilities and improving our response to customers as well as priority measures including speed from reception to completion and repairs completed in one visit. Overall Satisfaction Note: Results of responses online as well as on postcard-sized surveys that are sent to a random sampling of customers one or two weeks after they receive servicing. Weighted average on a scale of 5. Customer Satisfaction 217 Establishing Systematic Knowledge and Skills Education Necessary for Improving Service Quality Service engineers' individual technical expertise is crucial to providing quality service. In addition to basic training on air conditioning service quality for service engineers, we conduct a variety of training for each management level and job description and provide education necessary for acquiring certification. In Japan, we hold workshops and giving technical assessment tests to all service engineers. Our rule is that service engineers must be certified with a minimum level of skill before they can do repair work alone. To further improve their abilities, we hold high-level training for chief engineers. So far, a cumulative total of 1,600 people have passed the certification test for chief engineers. We are striving to provide training and education that raises skill levels and produces service engineers who carry out precise, appropriate work on the job, thus providing customers with what they demand in terms of techniques and skills. Overseas, we also introduced service engineer certification systems and educational programs among other efforts to promote systematic regional unification, launching programs in China in 2016 and in ASEAN and Oceania in 2017. Further, we have plans to introduce these programs in Europe in 2018. We dispatch service experts from Japan to each country to conduct brazing instruction, diagnose failures and provide technical guidance on repairs for key personnel to improve service quality. We provide a foundation and support enabling key personnel to continue developing these efforts in their own country. In fiscal 2017, six service experts from Japan were dispatched to Hong Kong, Malaysia, the Philippines, Indonesia and France to conduct 10 training sessions over 30 days to 50 service engineers. Case Study: Service Olympics After holding the first Service Olympics in 2016 at which 28 service engineers from overseas companies in 20 countries were selected to compete, in 2017 the first skills contests where participants competed on repair technology and customer support service quality were held in China, Asian countries and France. Further, in 2018 we are planning skills contests in Italy and at major European sales companies as well as regional competitions in the ASEAN and Oceania regions. Going forward, we will provide an environment in which employees and engineers in each country and region are able to improve through competition. Case Study: Service University and Service Awards For service engineers in Japan, in the three-year-long Service University training program, just like in university, participants can choose the courses right for their job. They also have regular tests to ensure they are retaining what they have learned. Also, at service bases across Japan, teams are created that compete against each other in the annual Service Awards tournament. There, teams are quantitatively judged and awarded for their level of service in areas such as speed, accuracy, and good manners. This makes for a fun and rewarding way for service bases to raise our ability to offer customer satisfaction. Customer Satisfaction 218 Developing Educational Programs to Improve Installation Quality Quality of installation work is also an important aspect of customer satisfaction when using air conditioning. Daikin Industries, Ltd., has six training centers around Japan where we hold a variety of courses so that distributors can learn design, installation, and service techniques. We develop training programs to improve the installation and service skills of Daikin engineers as well as dealers. With the goal of offering customers service that is practical and easy to understand, and offering this service in a pleasant manner, the centers use the latest simulation machinery, videos, and other instructional tools to provide training that simulates actual working conditions and situations. To foster technicians at dealers in extremely cold climate regions, where demand is growing rapidly, we opened up Daikin Training Center Tohoku and Daikin Training Center Sapporo, where we hold hands-on training in areas such as air conditioner installation and servicing. The training includes specialized courses geared to the particular desires of participants from the dealers and repair outlets. There are systematic step-up training to improve trainees' levels, solution training that helps dealers meet their diversifying needs, solution seminars aimed at improving customer satisfaction, and certification/preparatory classes. There are a total of 51 courses. There are five environment-related solution training courses that deepen participants' understanding of the importance of environmental protection. Trainees in these courses receive eco-booklets, which contain general knowledge on global warming and ozone layer destruction, handling fluorocarbons, and steps to mitigating global warming. These issues are expanded on in the courses. Another way in which we strive to raise customer satisfaction and ensure safety among Daikin workers is to continue to offer more and improved training; for example, seminars for new employees at group companies in Japan and skills training for dealers of overseas group companies. Skills training for distributors eco-booklet Customer Satisfaction 219 Understanding and Reflecting Customer Needs Stepping Up Worldwide Marketing Research With the Daikin Group rapidly accelerating business expansion around the world, it is important that we raise customer satisfaction by accurately and promptly grasping customer needs in each world region and reflecting these in our products. To this end, we are switching from an air conditioner development system centered in Japan to a decentralized one in which regional bases conduct product development and research, and we are stepping up our worldwide market research. Since opening R&D centers in China and Europe, we have been gradually stepping up development functions at bases in Asia, Oceania, and North America. In China, we have been developing products to meet customer needs and lifestyles; for example, air conditioners that filter PM2.5, a major problem in China, indoor units especially for kitchens that filter strong oily smoke, and indoor units for bathrooms with improved dehumidifying and drying functions. In North America, we established an R&D Center and in fiscal 2018, we plan to open the Daikin Open Innovation Lab Silicon Valley. In addition to creating product differentiation combining the technologies (inverters, multi-units, refrigerants, etc.) comprising Daikin's strengths to air conditioning products unique to North America, we are planning to promote new value utilizing advanced AI and IoT technologies in North America. Utilization of Daikin Solutions Plaza Daikin aims to propose optimal solutions that make customer lifestyles more comfortable. To anticipate future customer desires amid increasingly diverse lifestyles, we believe it is essential that product designers and engineers deepen communications with customers to get a direct sense of their needs. At our Solutions Plaza facilities located in Tokyo, Osaka, Shanghai, New York and throughout the world, we consult with customers while they are browsing actual products and energy management systems. Daikin Solutions Plaza Fuha Osaka Customer Satisfaction 220 Customer Inquiries Used in Improving Products and Developing New Ones Requests, complaints, and other information obtained by the Contact Centers is recorded in a database. Information regarding the opinions and requests that sales representatives obtain from customers is shared among the Quality Division and relevant departments, who investigate causes and establish countermeasures to improve products and after-sales services. Specifically, in fiscal 2017, we focused efforts on promptly sharing information, including market reactions after new products went on sale, to sales and product development divisions, which was then utilized in creating the next products aimed at making customers happy. Number of Inquiries to the Contact Center (Japan) Number of Inquiries to the Contact Center (China) Survey Results Go Toward Improving Products and Services Each division conducts customer surveys to enhance customer satisfaction. In order to determine customer needs and levels of satisfaction, we gather opinions on products on the Daikin website. We also gather information by questioning customers visiting volume retail outlets, and by having Daikin air purifier users be product monitors. For residential air conditioners, we use a research company to regularly conduct awareness surveys among purchasers to research trends in brand image and changes in awareness. We utilize customer opinions in the development of new products. Customer Satisfaction 221 Gathering Customer Feedback for Use in Product Development Products Reflecting Customer Feedback: risora In fiscal 2017, in response to requests for stylish air conditioners from customers who want to remodel their home to become more fashionable but don't know what to about the air conditioner, we developed risora residential air conditioner offering designs that pursue harmony with interior design and offer the latest features. With a body only 185mm thick, this model pursues comfort of space and is equipped with the latest features, including vertical airflow, ceiling airflow and premium dehumidification, features culminated in the Urusara 7 energy-efficient air conditioner. The risora residential air conditioner design and functionality have gained a strong reputation in Japan and overseas, winning the fiscal 2017 Good Design Award and the international design award iF Design Award 2018. Products Reflecting Customer Feedback: cocotas The cocotas multi-cassette-type air conditioner for small spaces that went on sale in fiscal 2017 is for small spaces such as washrooms, kitchens and study rooms that have no air conditioning, a product born from customer comments (dissatisfaction) about having to put up with heat or cold in the past. This is an air conditioner for small spaces in response to customer feedback including I lose my appetite when frying food in the hot kitchen and I get sweaty when using the hair dryer in the bathroom after getting out of a hot bath. The cocotas was selected for the Good Design Best 100 in the Good Design Awards. Even after sales, we enhance after-marketing with feedback from dealers and contractors on product usage and are anticipating future needs by looking at recent housing information. Products Reflecting Customer Feedback: Intuitive Remote Control Units that Are Easy for Seniors and Foreign Visitors in Japan to Operate Commercial air conditioners used in offices, shops and hotels are advancing with a variety of features that consider comfort, energy-saving and convenience. At the same time, remote controls are becoming more complicated, making them difficult to understand by seniors and foreign visitors to Japan, two groups that have been on the rise in recent years, resulting in an inability to use the air conditioner in the way they expect. The intuitive remote control used for the FIVE STAR ZEAS series of air conditioners for stores and offices released in April 2017 have a limited number of buttons and the LCD display can be changed to make operation easier for the user. In addition, the display languages include Japanese, English, and for the first time, Chinese, as well as pictograms for those who speak other languages. In addition to the FIVE STAR ZEAS series, the remote controls can be used with multi-split type air conditioners for commercial buildings, realizing intuitive remote control operation easy for anyone to understand in a wider range of settings. Customer Satisfaction 222 Universal Design in Product Development Developing Products that Anyone Can Use Easily The Daikin Group incorporates universal design (UD) into product development to enable even the elderly and physically disabled to operate products with ease. Daikin Industries, Ltd. constantly strives to ensure that UD takes into account the needs of users by developing products with the realization that UD and monotsukuri are one and the same. Example of Universal Design Guidelines for Universal Design of Smartphone Software In December 2012, Daikin Industries, Ltd. began providing an application, Daikin Smart APP, that allows users to control air conditioning using a smartphone. The application allows control not just from within the room; users can also easily check air conditioner operation, turn it on or off, and switch modes from an outside location. We also created universal design guidelines to ensure applications were easy and stress-free for anyone to use. Through a usability test, we sought the optimal button size and layout for preventing operation errors. In April 2014, we made available for download the Daikin Home Controller APP, which allows control of air conditioners, the Eco-Cute (a gas water heater), floor heating, and other home appliances from a smartphone or mobile information terminal. Applications allow operation of multiple products from a smartphone Related information Daikin Smart APP, Daikin Home Controller APP (available in Japanese only) (http://www.daikinaircon.com/app/) Customer Satisfaction 223 Chemicals Division Initiatives The Chemicals Division has identified improvement of quality, stable supply, cost, and response to needs (development of new products) as the main points to increase customer satisfaction, and aims to gain greater trust and satisfaction from customers by continually assessing information regarding the level of customer satisfaction and making improvements accordingly. Product Study Sessions and Various Exchange Gatherings While the fluorochemical products produced by the Chemicals Division are highly advanced and highly functional materials, molding/processing them can sometimes require specialized methods. Not only do representatives of the Technical Service Department visit our customers to explain about our products, but we also conduct customer-oriented training seminars, titled the Fluorine Classroom, to explain about the special properties of fluorine materials, and we hold product study sessions to guide them on the molding/processing methods using the facilities and equipment available to the company. In fiscal 2017, we held four Fluorine Classroom sessions covering plastics, rubber, and paint. In addition, we have vastly increased the amount of product information on our website in efforts to share more about the features and safety of our products. Inquiries from customers via our website are handled by sales representatives, who share the details of these inquiries with Daikin divisions related to technical service, research and development, quality assurance, and environment and safety. Sharing Broad Knowledge About Product Features and Their Target Fields, Etc. The sales representatives of the Chemicals Division need to listen to researchers and product developers, who are Daikin customers, about the product functions they seek and offer them the ideal products for their needs. In order to optimize product functions in accordance with the circumstances of these customers, it is essential to have diverse knowledge of such things as processing methods, amount of additives, and temperatures. For this purpose, once a month the Chemicals Division holds meetings that integrate business, research, and manufacturing, sales performance announcement meetings, and training sessions. The goal is to share not only business information, but also knowledge regarding products, related laws and patent information. By giving concrete examples of product applications and use, as well as relaying customer needs, these meetings aid in the development of new products and applications. They also give sales staff a deeper understanding of product features so that they can provide customers with new solutions. In fiscal 2017, meetings were held on topics including the acquisition of patent information, chemical substance regulations (PFOA, REACH), quality assurance systems and overseas trade operations. The Division also makes use of the Fluorine Classroom customer education program as an opportunity for personnel to educate themselves and deepen their knowledge. The Chemicals Division will continue to train personnel so that they acquire a deep knowledge on the use fluorine in various business situations. Customer Satisfaction 224 Related information Fluorochemicals website (available in Japanese only) (http://www.daikin.co.jp/chm/) Customer Satisfaction 225 Customer Satisfaction PROTECTING CUSTOMER INFORMATION Protecting Customer Information Personal Information Managers and Thorough Employee Education To properly protect the range of customer information entrusted to us, Daikin has a Personal Information Protection Policy, as well as various in-house rules for information protection. For example, in the Daikin Group in Japan, personal information managers and others in each division follow these in-house rules in leading employees in the strict protection of personal information. Since 2005, we have striven to strengthen information management through annual conferences of personal information managers, who make every effort to reduce risk related to confidential information and personal information. Particularly in divisions that handle repair information data on customers on a daily basis, we do everything possible to keep this information secure. To continually monitor and improve on our information security system, employees conduct their own self assessments, the legal department conducts legal audits, and the Internal Auditing Department conducts audits. In May 2017, the revised Act on the Protection of Personal Information of Japan went into effect, and in response we revised in-house rules and procedures and had all employees of the Daikin Group in Japan take e-learning on personal information protection. Related information Information Security (Page 287) PRIVACY POLICY (https://www.daikin.com/privacy/) Customer Satisfaction 226 Sustainability Report 2 018 －Web version－ Human Resources Fostering Human Resources………………………… 230 Work-Life Balance …………………………………… 254 Workplace Diversity ………………………………… 237 Employee Evaluation and Treatment …………… 261 Occupational Safety and Health…………………… 245 Labor Management Relations ……………………… 263 Human Resources 227 CSR for Value Provision Human Resources Policy Respecting Individual Personalities and Values, and Maximizing the Potential of Each Employee CSR Targets 2020 For Daikin to realize sustainable growth, human resources are the most critical component of these endeavors. Through initiatives focused on human resource development, ensuring diversity and occupational safety and health, we aim to create an organization able to grow alongside society that enables all employees to work actively with purpose and maximize their skills. Fiscal 2017 Achievements In terms of human resource development, we measure the degree to which employees have grown in terms of manufacturing leadership abilities. In terms of diversity, we track the appointment of local nationals as presidents at overseas bases. In terms of occupational safety and health, we analyze the safety of operations at manufacturing bases. Ratio of excellent or advanced skilled engineers in manufacturing 1 3.4 in employees (Daikin Industries, Ltd. Only) Percentage of overseas bases where local nationals are presidents 46 % (Overseas bases) Frequency rate (shows frequency of occurrence of labor accidents) 1.33 Human Resources 228 Occupational Safety and Fostering Human Resources Workplace Diversity Health Based on the belief that people We strive for greater With the goal of achieving a grow through work experience, organizational strength by zero accident workplace, we the Daikin Group develops having a diverse range of place top priority on ensuring a employee capabilities through employees—all genders, ages, safe, healthy working on-the-job training (OJT) and nationalities, races, and levels of environment where employees other efforts. occupational experience— can work in peace of mind. working to mutually understand one another's distinct values. Employee Evaluation and Labor Management Work-Life Balance Treatment Relations We have a range of work The Daikin Group offers Because we believe that systems that allow employees to fairness of opportunity and cooperative labor management work flexibly and have flexible reward : a workplace where relations are the foundation of schedules. employees are rewarded for company management, we place putting their motivation to work the utmost emphasis on equality and taking every opportunity for of labor and management as success. well as mutual trust between both sides. Related information Key Activities of Fiscal 2017: Human Resources—Human Resource Development in the U.S.— Growing with Local Communities (Page 404) Human Resources 229 Human Resources FOSTERING HUMAN RESOURCES Basic Policy Daikin believes that practicing the principle of Our Group Philosophy and People-Centered Management is essential to the growth of the group. Our philosophy states that the cumulative growth of all group members, regardless of nationality or company, serves as the foundation for the group's development. Based on the belief that people grow through work experience, the Daikin Group develops employee capabilities through training opportunities that include on-the-job training (OJT)*1 in which each person is given the job most suitable to using unique talent and fostering individual growth. To provide our workforce with as many improvement opportunities as possible, we supplement OJT with off-the-job training (Off JT)*2, such as the Daikin Leadership Development Program for executives who will work on the front line of our business, and overseas base practical training for fostering young, globally minded employees. We also provide opportunities for independent learning through language training and correspondence courses. Since fiscal 2015, we have been operating the Global Daikin Leadership Development Program to foster local nationals who work in group management or who are managers at Daikin's overseas bases. The program is divided into two sections: for those who are currently managers, and for those who are manager candidates. This training program teaches participants things like Daikin's corporate culture and the group's unique management philosophy. *1 OJT: Employees learn and acquire the general knowledge, technical knowledge, skills, and commitment required of their positions while performing their jobs. *2 Off-JT: Employees study outside of their current workplaces in order to acquire the knowledge and skills needed for their jobs. Human Resources 230 Education Measures Raising up Personnel through Work Experience to Take the World Stage With the Group's business spreading worldwide, it is crucial that we train people to be leaders with the management skills to guide employees with a diverse range of values in a common direction. To this end, in May 2008, we established the Daikin Ales Aoya Global Training Center in Tottori Prefecture, Japan. With the goal of fostering the leaders of our worldwide bases, this center hosted skill trainers workshops for Daikin Group employees, group training for new employees, the Daikin Leadership Development Program, which fosters the next generation of Daikin executives, and overseas base practical training for fostering young, globally minded employees. In fiscal 2017, more than 13,500 employees made use of the training center. Besides Daikin employees, the training center has many repeat visits by Daikin customer employees, and over the past three years it has operated at a high operational capacity of 80-90%. Because Daikin believed that its current training facilities were not sufficient to meet group-wide needs to boost human resource capabilities, in June 2014 a seminar house was added to Daikin's recreational facilities in Tateshina, Nagano Prefecture. This facility is made use of in every possible way. In its idyllic setting amidst the abundant nature of Tateshina and far from the hectic big city, it hosts participants who are able to concentrate for extended periods on discussions, brushing up their abilities to make strategy proposals, conduct problem-solving, brain storm thoughts and ideas, and generate concrete plans. It is also used for lobbying activities and exchanges with other companies, and as a place to invite top sales people or important customers. We will continue to boost human resources and facilitate mutual communications between the headquarters and branch offices, such as by boosting global recruitment, increasing the number of inter-regional and international deployments, and creating competitive assessment and reward systems. Daikin Ales Aoya Global Training Center The Daikin recreational facility in Tateshina, Nagano Prefecture Human Resources 231 Education System New Employee Training The goal of new employee training is to foster business people capable of frankly expressing their own opinions and communicating with people with differing opinions. Trainees learn what it takes to be a company employee, and about the past, present, and future direction of the Daikin Group. There are also five days of English-language training as part of efforts to help new employees become global citizens and understand other cultures. Every year, new employees spend five nights and six days at the Daikin Ales Aoya global training center in Tottori Prefecture, Japan. In 2017, we held the 45th session of this training camp over a three-week period for more than 340 employees consisting of periodically hired persons and all career-track hires. Also taking part were more than 120 persons including Chairman Noriyuki Inoue, President and CEO Masanori Togawa, nine officers, and experienced employees, who acted as training leaders and secretariat staff. The goal of the session is to have employees learn through hands-on, participatory training in which they hold discussions and practice concepts focusing on Daikin's People-Centered Management and how to become an ideal employee. Overseas Base Practical Training To ensure we have internationally minded employees who can lead our global business in future, we send young employees (ages from mid-20s to late 30s) to work at overseas bases for between one year and two years. Unlike other Daikin employees working overseas, these people take on practical work projects as they cooperate with local dealers, suppliers, business partners, and universities, striving to think outside the box, take on new challenges, and improve their abilities to communicate within foreign cultures. In fiscal 2017, 29 employees took part in this training. Since the program started in fiscal 1999, a total of 258 employees have participated. Human Resources 232 Global Training Program for Overseas Personnel Since fiscal 2015, we have held the Global Training Program in Japan to train young employees from Daikin overseas bases. Training at Daikin Industries, Ltd., participants deepen their understanding in areas such as Daikin technologies, quality, and production technologies, so that they can lead Daikin's worldwide efforts at their respective overseas bases. In fiscal 2017, six overseas employees started their training at the TIC and in our development, production technology, procurement, quality control, and finance and accounting divisions. Study Trips in Japan Daikin sends young employees in Japan to universities in order to improve their technological skills, acquire MBAs, widen their perspective, and build human resource networks. As of fiscal 2017, there were six Daikin employees studying at university: one at the International University of Japan, and five at Toyota Technological Institute of Japan. Daikin Leadership Development Program, Global Daikin Leadership Development Program Daikin fosters the next generation of leaders through the Daikin Leadership Development Program, which trains Daikin Industries, Ltd.'s executives, and the Global Daikin Leadership Development Program, which is for local nationals who are managers at Daikin's overseas bases. Centered on Our Group Philosophy and our People-Centered Management, the program turns out executives who can lead and manage their company for the common good of the entire Daikin Group. In fiscal 2013, we opened the Daikin Leadership Development Program up to other employees besides managers to step up the training of next-generation leaders. In fiscal 2015 we opened the Global Daikin Leadership Development Program, and in 2017 we increased the number of annual sessions from one to two in order to accelerate the training of Daikin's global group leaders. In fiscal 2017, the cumulative number of participants has reached 229 in the Daikin Leadership Development Program and 145 in the Global Daikin Leadership Development Program (including those at the former Daikin Business School). The Global Daikin Leadership Development Program Human Resources 233 Fostering Monotsukuri Human Resources Focus on Excellent Skilled Engineers Conveying Techniques to Overseas Bases and the Training of Advanced Skilled Engineers Daikin fosters human resources capable of passing on the skils that are the foundation of our monotsukuri. Daikin has set a goal of having 1 in 4 employees working in production worldwide be an excellent skilled engineer or an advanced skilled engineer, both of whom possess advanced skills and knowledge and leadership abilities. At Daikin in Japan in fiscal 2017, this rate was 1 in 3.4. As our business expands globally, we are stepping up our worldwide training. Daikin Industries, Ltd. introduced a system to pass on advanced skills to young workers. This system ensures that we give the next generation of technical leaders the advanced skills that form the foundation of manufacturing. In the air conditioning divisions, workers with advanced skills are designated as Takumi after demonstrating their mastery in the areas of brazing, lathing, sheet metal working, arc welding, die making, and tooling. The Chemicals Division has had a system to designate Experts, who pass their advanced skills on to others. These Takumi and Experts teach their skills at Daikin bases worldwide, thus fostering future engineers and technical leaders. Manufacturing operations In April 2010, we established a new trainer system to foster future Takumi and Experts and thus make up for a shortage of their numbers. In fiscal 2017 in the Chemicals Division, we added chemical operation trainers. These Takumi, Experts, and Trainers go on to become instructors who teach selected employees in periodic skills training held at production bases around the world. In fiscal 2015, for the first time, an employee of a Daikin overseas base earned the designation of Takumi. As of the end of fiscal 2017, there were 22 Takumi and 101 Trainers (30 in Japan, 71 at overseas bases) in the air conditioning divisions, and eight Experts in the Chemicals Division. By 2020, Daikin plans to increase the number of Trainers to 161. This will raise the skills level at overseas bases and allow Daikin to respond to base expansion resulting from the construction of new plants and the acquisition of other companies. Human Resources 234 Skills Competitions and Skills Training Boost Level of Production Workers The biannual Global Skills Competition for Daikin's worldwide production bases aims to boost the skills of employees in manufacturing. In addition to practical skills such as assembly and disassembly, participants take written tests that confirm their knowledge about dealing appropriately with workplace accidents. In fiscal 2016, 147 participants from 26 bases in 10 countries competed in a range of skills events. In years when there are no skills competition held, we hold skills training sessions for future leaders. At these sessions, Takumi, Experts, and Trainers are the instructors, teaching employees selected from production bases around the world the Daikin way of training people and making products. At the fiscal 2017 training sessions, there were 15 employees from production bases in Japan and seven from overseas. As fiscal 2017 skills training in the Chemicals Division, a skills trainer workshop was held, with three participants from Japan, one from Daikin America, Inc., and one from Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd. Skills workshops are also held at overseas group companies and among companies in certain world regions. Participants at each Daikin base share information such as how well skills are being passed down, problems, and goals, as part of the overall effort in the Daikin Group to foster human resources possessing a high level of skills. Opening ceremony (player oath) Human Resources 235 Fostering Human Resources in the AI Field Daikin Information Technology University Daikin Information Technology University responds to the dramatic changes occurring in the industrial and social structures by aggressively fostering AI and IoT human resources possessing specialized knowledge and the power to think and act, and who have the power to get people around them involved. Using instructors invited from educational institutions such as Osaka University and leadingedge research organs, Daikin Information Technology University offers education covering everything from the fundamentals to applied sciences. The first class of Daikin employees enrolled at the university comprised 43 selected persons from various divisions, with classes commencing in December. The nine-month curriculum has an AI technologies development course and a system development course. About 100 new employees will be selected to attend, and over a period of just over two years they will be educated to become innovative human resources who will drive the fields of AI and IoT using Daikin technologies as their base. In addition, starting in February 2018, we established the Daikin Information Science Research Unit (DiCHiLD) within the Institute for Open and Transdisciplinary Research Initiatives, Osaka University (OTRI). Twenty-one engineers from Daikin's TIC are stationed at the Di-CHiLD, where they conduct theme-based R&D jointly with Osaka University professors and research staff. Fostering Young Engineers and Technicians Experienced Workers Pass On Techniques and Skills Since 1994, Daikin Industries, Ltd. has worked to boost the level of its manufacturing by having a Kaizen Team of experienced workers lead training for young employees in the production division. During the four-to-six-month training, each young employee is led by two or three experienced workers. Participants get practical work in the main aims of the particular session, taking classroom lectures in subjects like electrical circuitry, as well as applied learning in sheet metal working, arc welding, and circuitry. The system began with training for mid-level employees but now focuses on passing on skills and techniques to young employees. Apart from the passing on of techniques and skills, this training is aimed at giving the young employees a rare opportunity to interact with veterans and thus raise their awareness about the value of carrying on Daikin's tradition of skill. This training has been particularly helpful in raising productivity in the Air Conditioner Manufacturing Division as participants can use what they have learned immediately on the job. As of fiscal 2017, a cumulative total of 160 employees at the Sakai Plant and 114 employees at the Shiga Plant have taken this training. Human Resources 236 Human Resources WORKPLACE DIVERSITY Basic Policy The Daikin Group believes it is our people who make us competitive. A company can only grow stronger by having a diverse range of employees working within an organization that is conducive to mutual understanding of one another's distinct values and that allows everyone to shoot for a lofty goal. Our Group Conduct Guidelines state that while respecting diverse values and approaches to work, we shall mutually accept our respective differences, act in harmony, gather the abilities we possess, and strive to be a Group in which each member expresses his or her ambitions and then takes bold actions with great passion and perseverance to realize those ambitions. Group Conduct Guidelines 10. Respect for Human Rights and Diversity We shall respect the human rights of each and every employee and shall not engage in conduct that discriminates on the basis of nationality, race, ethnicity, religion, color of skin, age, gender, sexual orientation, or disability. Diversity in individual values is enthusiastically accepted, and we shall work to make the unique talents and abilities of each and every person the driving force of the organization. Based on this philosophy, we strive for diverse management in which we make the most of the talents of all people, regardless of their nationalities, ages, genders, sexual orientation, gender identity, or level of able-bodiedness. The Daikin Group's employee make-up is becoming increasingly diverse, with a greater number of nonJapanese and women in our ranks. Since introducing our rehiring system in 1991, we have been making greater use of Daikin's experienced retirees. Human Resources 237 Employee Composition (Data for Daikin Industries, Ltd.)* 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Number of 6,810 1,084 6,839 1,151 6,844 1,189 6,896 1,232 7,002 1,286 employees Average range of 16.4 10.3 16.6 10.3 16.7 10.5 16.9 10.8 17.3 11.3 services (years) Average age 41.6 34.6 41.5 34.5 41.3 33.8 41.0 34.1 42.2 35.1 Number of 951 22 957 29 984 36 1,013 47 1,030 53 managers Number of board 47 1 46 1 48 1 49 1 48 1 members Number of foreign 38 20 47 29 52 21 48 25 52 28 nationals * Includes employees on loan Maximizing the Talents of Women Accelerating Efforts to Maximize the Talents of Women in Japan Daikin Industries, Ltd. has striven to maximize the talents of female employees to create identical working conditions for both men and women in order to reach our goal of using the talents of all employees to the fullest. To greater maximize the talents of women at bases and in divisions, we hold hearings with leaders in charge of this in each division as part of efforts to tackle issues throughout Daikin Industries, Ltd. By the end of fiscal 2020, our goal is to have at least one female officer and 100 female managers (10% of all managers; rate as of end of fiscal 2017 was 4.9%, or a total of 53 comprising 8 department managers and 45 section managers). We are carrying out numerous efforts to this end: measures aimed at speeding up training for future female managers, awareness training for male managers and female employees, and support for workers making an early return to work from childcare leave so that maternity leave and childcare leave do not inhibit an employee's career advancement. At overseas companies, we are increasing the numbers of females who are base heads and directors (including current personnel). Human Resources 238 In fiscal 2017, as part of diversity efforts we are carrying out jointly with the Osaka University and the National Institutes of Biomedical Innovation, Health and Nutrition, we conducted joint research by female research leaders, and under the cross appointment system we dispatched a female researcher from the TIC to work as an assistant professor. For our efforts to foster female employees and help women achieve a work-life balance, in August 2016, Japan's Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (MHLW) awarded Daikin the highest level of certification (L-boshi certification), which is given to companies that show excellence in promoting the talents of women in the workplace. In March 2018, we were also granted Nadeshiko Brand designation by METI and the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) as a company that is exceptional in promoting women's success in the workplace. This was the fifth time, and the fourth consecutive year. Nadeshiko Brand L-boshi Seminars for Education of Female Engineers On June 19, 2017, as part of seminars to educate female engineers, we held the Female Engineers Networking Forum (for the second time), a joint event with the Kansai Electric Power Co., Inc., Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Ltd., Kobe Steel, Ltd., and NTT Docomo, Inc. On November 27, 2017, we held the third edition of this forum jointly with the Kansai Electric Power Co., Inc., Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Ltd., Kobe Steel, Ltd., Daiwa House Industry Co., Ltd., and Ezaki Glico Co., Ltd. Lectures by Female Instructors Lectures led by female instructors were held twice: the Lecture on Rethinking Women's Working Styles on July 7, 2017 (speaker: Hiroko Kawamoto, Executive Vice President, ANA Strategic Research Institute Co., Ltd.); and Steps to a Borderless Career on October 20, 2017 (speaker: Kakuko Yoshida, United Nations Environment Programme). Human Resources 239 Hiring Women Increasing Percentage of Female Employees As of the end of March 2018, women accounted for 15.5% of all employees of Daikin Industries, Ltd. Starting in fiscal 2013, we began our policy of hiring more women for technical and skills positions. As a result, women periodically hired accounted for more than 30% of all new employees hired for the fourth consecutive year. In fiscal 2015, we began collaborating with universities to hold lectures, round-table discussions, and internships that would help prepare women for careers, and we stepped up efforts to hire more women. Our goal is to take on 100 women a year through our periodic hiring and have women account for 17% of all employees, which exceeds the 15.5% average (fiscal 2013) for the manufacturing industry. In fiscal 2017, we launched the Women in Engineering Recruiter Team to help female engineers at all universities find employment. There were 131 women newly hired in April 2018, 30% of all those hired. Number of People Periodically Hired and Women as Percentage of Total (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) Human Resources 240 Re-employment of Retired Employees Re-employing More than 100 Veteran Workers Each Year In 2001, Daikin Industries, Ltd. became one of the first companies in Japan to introduce a reemployment system. Retirees wishing to continue working at Daikin following retirement can use their skill and knowledge in a flexible employment system that allows them to work reduced hours and on call. Since introducing this system, over 100 have been re-employed each year. In fiscal 2017, there were 457 retirees working under this system at Daikin. Seventeen of these re-employed veterans have been assigned to overseas posts so that they can impart their superior skills and know-how to our bases in other countries. We are working to raise motivation among these re-employed veterans by giving bonuses to those demonstrating outstanding contribution to company performance. All group companies in Japan have also had this re-employment system since fiscal 2006, when Japan put into effect the Revised Law Concerning Stabilization of Employment of Older Persons. Those applying for this system may work until they are 65, with their working hours and pay scale decided on by labor and management. The contribution of these experienced workers is becoming more important with Japan's declining birthrate and aging population. We plan to place these workers in positions that are best for them by considering their requests and expertise and by having them consult with their superiors. Number of Re-employed Workers and Rate of Re-employment (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) Human Resources 241 History of Daikin's Re-employment System 1979 Retirement age extended from 55 to 60. 1991 Introduction of re-employment system for employees up to 63. 2001 Age raised from 63 to 65. 2004 Senior Skill Specialist contract employee system introduced. 2005 Experience worker revitalization project started. 2006 System introduced at Daikin Group companies in Japan. Employment of People with Disabilities Hiring More People with Disabilities across the Entire Group Based on the belief that the cumulative growth of all individuals leads to the Daikin Group's development, we have faith in people's unlimited abilities, whether they are able bodied or disabled, and we strive to maximize their talents in becoming a corporate group in which employees can continue to work with enthusiasm and pride. In 1993, based on the Act on Employment Promotion etc. of Persons with Disabilities, Daikin Industries, Ltd. established Daikin Sunrise Settsu Co., Ltd. (DSS), a cooperative venture with the Osaka Prefecture and Settsu City governments. The company began with 16 employees with disabilities. In June 2018, a new DSS business premises was completed. The goal is to increase the number of employees with disabilities from the current 143 to 210 by 2023. DSS strives to provide these people with an environment conducive to working so that they have the opportunity to make the most of their talents. We also strive to hire persons with disabilities not just at DSS but at Daikin Industries, Ltd. and Daikin Group companies. In April 2018, Daikin Industries, Ltd. hired seven new employees with disabilities. As of the end of fiscal 2017, 2.28% of workers in the Daikin Group are disabled, a percentage above the legal requirement. Human Resources 242 Daikin Sunrise Settsu (Japan) New business premises of Daikin Sunrise Settsu Number of People with Disabilities Employed and Employment Rate (Group companies in Japan) *1 Legally, one severely disabled person employed is counted as two people with disabilities. *2 Disabled persons employment rate = number of people with disabilities employed / number of people employed. Daikin Overseas Bases Hire Disabled Workers Daikin Air-conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. has been doing all it can to hire people with disabilities and it currently has 58 disabled employees. In April 2014, the company was recognized by the government as an occupational training base for people with disabilities. In November 2016, Shanghai Open University and Shanghai Educational TV Station jointly hosted an international conference at which employees of Daikin Air-conditioning (Shanghai) performed a dance to Flame of Youth. The performance was well received. In December 2017, employees took part in the Shanghai regional disabled persons skills competition of the 2017 China national skills competition, where they came in second place in embroidery, nails, and artisan weaving. These are just a few examples of how disabled employees at Daikin in China are taking the initiative to make their mark in society. Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. has 25 disabled employees, and Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd. has 16 disabled employees. Human Resources 243 Promoting More Foreign Nationals Promoting Local Employees to Managerial Positions at Overseas Bases, and to Officer Positions at Daikin Industries, Ltd. As Daikin's business globalizes, we are trying to globalize our management as well by promoting more employees at overseas bases to managerial positions at their bases. We have the Global Daikin Leadership Development Program for locally hired managers at worldwide bases in order to give them the capabilities to run Daikin subsidiaries in their own countries. As of the end of fiscal 2017, local nationals accounted for about 46% of the presidents at overseas Daikin bases and about 48% of the directors. In addition, outstanding personnel hired at overseas bases are being chosen and trained for positions as officers at Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Group head office). (2 officers as of end of fiscal 2017.) Aggressively Hiring Non-Japanese Nationals As Daikin's business becomes increasingly globalized, Daikin Industries, Ltd. is aggressively hiring university graduates from countries such as India and China. As of December 2017, there were 86 foreign nationals from 14 different countries working at the head office, an indication of Daikin efforts to include a diverse range of nationalities in its ranks. Diversity Education for Employees Daikin Industries, Ltd. has a variety of training for Japanese employees who will be working at overseas bases so that they are able to respect the values of local employees and communicate with them properly. The goal of this training is to help the appointees adapt as smoothly as possible to their new country by boosting their knowledge of things like its current affairs, people's thinking and values, and the main considerations when doing business there, as well as by deepening their understanding of Our Group Philosophy, which is the unifying force for all group employees. Some of the appointees will take language training if necessary. In fiscal 2017, 98 employees took part in this training. Human Resources 244 Human Resources OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH Basic Policy The Daikin Group Conduct Guidelines state that we are constantly aware of and taking action on the safe operation of our factories. To achieve this, we constantly strive to create a zero accident workplace where Daikin employees and subcontract employees work safely, both for their own sake and to instill a feeling of safety in the minds of residents around our factories. Group Conduct Guidelines 9. Ensuring the Safety of Operations We shall take all possible precautions for safe operations and act with a mindset of Safety First to ensure the safety of the workplace and further gain the trust of people in the regions we serve. Occupational Safety and Health Management Structure Officer in Charge of Safety Leads Safety and Accident-Prevention Efforts Daikin aims to maintain zero accident workplaces at all global production facilities. An Officer in Charge of Safety is appointed to drive these efforts and comprehensively promote the safe operation of production facilities throughout the Group. In Japan, Occupational Safety and Health Committees are established at each manufacturing facility to devise annual safety policies, formulate occupational safety and health plans and implement the PDCA cycle. Overseas, employees responsible for safety are appointed at each production base and tasked with promoting safety and accident prevention measures. Annual safety meetings are held in each region in an attempt to improve the level of safety measures. To improve the level of safety throughout the entire Group, joint safety and security meetings led by the Officer in Charge of Safety are held twice a year to share know-how. Also, divisions responsible for safety monitor the status of accidents within the Group on a monthly basis and provide guidance on prevention measures as necessary. Human Resources 245 Occupational Safety and Health Promotion Structure Targets and Achievements Aiming for Zero Accident Workplaces at All Production Facilities Aiming for zero accident workplaces, Daikin utilizes a rate showing the frequency of occupational accidents as an indicator of operational safety. The frequency rate of occupational accidents for the entire Daikin Group in fiscal 2017 was 1.33, an improvement of 0.17 points over the previous fiscal year. Human Resources 246 Frequency Rate*1 (Including group companies in Japan and overseas) *1 This shows the frequency of work-related calamities, expressed in number of casualties for every 1,000,000 working hours. Frequency rate = Number of calamities by industrial injuries / Total actual working hours × 1,000,000 *2 No data was released for the U.S. in fiscal 2017. (As of end of June 2018) Calculated based on information from U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (October 2017). Frequency Rate* (Daikin Industries, Ltd. ) * This shows the frequency of work-related calamities, expressed in number of casualties for every 1,000,000 working hours. Frequency rate = Number of calamities by industrial injuries / Total actual working hours × 1,000,000 Human Resources 247 Severity Rate* (Daikin Industries, Ltd. ) * This shows the severity of the calamity, expressed in man-days lost per 1,000 hours worked. Severity rate = Total number of working days lost / Total actual working hours × 1,000 Occupational Safety and Health Management System 73 Bases Certified for OHSAS 18001 and Other Standards Daikin has production bases around the world and we ensure safe plant operation and worker safety through the creation of occupational safety and health management systems (OHSAS) at each base, as well as certification for international standards such as OHSAS 18001. Under this system, we use risk assessment to reduce and manage the risk of health and safety problems, and we ensure that we are continuously in compliance with laws and regulations. Education and safety patrols are conducted with the aim of achieving zero accident workplaces. As of the end of fiscal 2017, 66 air conditioning manufacturing bases and seven chemical manufacturing bases had acquired certification related to OHSAS 18001 and other occupational safety and health management systems. Human Resources 248 Number of Bases with Occupational Safety and Health Management System Certifications Air Conditioning Chemicals Total Japan 3 1 4 China 18 2 20 Asia/Oceania 10 0 10 Europe 9 3 12 The Americas 26 1 27 Total 66 7 73 Employee Education and Training Hands-On Training Raises Safety Awareness at Daikin Worldwide An important focus in recent years has been hands-on training that simulates situations where certain actions or situations could invite danger. Using specially made devices and machines, employees take part in hands-on training in which they experience what it is like to be caught in or trapped by machinery in the equipment manufacturing industry, where such accidents are common; and where they see firsthand the danger of fire and pressure caused by chemical reactions common in the chemicals manufacturing industry. Combined with theoretical learning in the classroom, the hands-on training makes for an effective program. At the Yodogawa Plant, emergency shut-down simulation training was held in which participants could experience what it would be like if the plant had to halt operations in a crisis. Making use of behavioral data on past malfunctions or abnormalities, and the knowledge of experts, a virtual emergency shutdown was implemented so that participants could take part in drills to figure out what measures would need to be taken. We also aim for zero workplace accidents at overseas bases through efforts such as safety education and safety patrols. For example, at O.Y.L. Manufacturing Company Sdn. Bhd. in fiscal 2014, 1,329 employees took part in training in which models and other methods were used to experience possible crises arising on the job. Related information Business Partners Contribute to Plant Safety (Working Closely with Suppliers) (Page 309) Human Resources 249 Employee Health Management Supporting Employee Health through Checkups and Counseling Daikin Industries, Ltd. strives to maintain employees' health by providing all employees with semiannual health checkups, as well as semi-annual special checkups for those engaged in specialized work, as required by health and safety laws. In fiscal 2017, 99% of employees underwent checkups. Employees who are found to have problems are put under the direct guidance of the company health clinic and are given thorough guidance in necessary measures to take. Employees working excessive hours are checked by an industrial physician, and if the employee needs special attention, he or she and his or her superior will receive guidance from the physician. Daikin plants have numerous ways in which they help employees maintain their health. For example, health seminars are conducted at the Yodogawa Plant for all employees. A seminar on the theme of practicing mindfulness as a means of coping with stress was conducted as an opportunity to heighten awareness regarding mental and physical health and reexamine lifestyle habits. Instruction on lifestyle habits and coping with stress incorporated lectures and activities leading to changes in consciousness and behaviors. Further, Daikin held an AJTA contest (776 participants) to provide employees with an opportunity to exercise. An annual health festival is also held to promote employee health and encourage communication with employee families. A total of 1,477 people attended in fiscal 2017. The Sakai Plant holds annual sporting events on its grounds with the goal of promoting employee health and getting employees communicating. More than 900 employees and their families took part in a 2017 carnival on the theme of mental and physical well-being. The Shiga Plant continued to steadily improve in terms of the rate of employee findings compared to fiscal 2016. Daikin promotes exercise and healthy meals with the objective of improving lifestyle diseases related to blood pressure, blood sugar and lipids so that employees can reach retirement age in a healthy condition. All employees walk during breaktime and learn about nutrition, with each workplace engaging in independent initiatives, the results of which are tabulated and posted on the intranet in the Shiga Plant with the effect of leading to improved findings. The physical fitness of all employees is measured so that employees can understand their own level of physical fitness. To avoid future negative outcomes indicated by these results, seminars are conducted by sports science lecturers as an opportunity to develop exercise habits. Furthermore, to encourage smoking abstinence, employees are only able to smoke at designated times. Every autumn, a sports festival is held as a healthy event in which employees and their families participate. Conducted in conjunction with the health insurance union, this event is an opportunity for employees to make up for their lack of exercise and deepen communication in the workplace and with their families. Human Resources 250 Percentage of Employees Taking Periodic Health Checkups (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) Percentage of Employees Requiring Health Guidance and Attention (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) Mental Health Awareness of Individuals and Organizations Dealing with Mental Health Issues and Provision of Specialist Care Daikin Industries, Ltd. strives to maintain the physical and mental health of employees. Based on guidelines from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, four types of mental healthcare measures, such as self-care and care by dedicated outside staff, are planned and implemented at all bases depending on the needs of each base. For example, industrial physicians provide mental health checkups to employees who are transferred and to newly hired employees after three months, as well as to employees whose questionnaires have showed they are facing problems. There are also mental health lectures. In fiscal 2016, we began conducting stress checkups at all Daikin bases. Persons judged to have a high risk of stress met with industrial physicians so that their problems could be discovered early and solved through numerous approaches such as self-care and work environment improvement. Human Resources 251 At the Sakai Plant, an industrial counselor provided counseling to 173 employees as part of self-care education for employees in their 20s and 30s. Self-care education conducted by a mental healthcare professional was provided six times to a total of 175 employees in their late 30s and early 40s. Further, line care education was provided 10 times in the form of groupwork based on case studies in which participants learned how to recognize and deal with stress. At the Yodogawa Plant, mental care handbooks (stress check and stress management methods updated each year) were published and line care mental health education (lectures and case studies) was conducted for all employees as part of self-care activities. At the Shiga Plant, resilience training was conducted for young employees in their third year of employment with the aim of improving their mental toughness, management training was provided to managers and employees in leadership positions as part of line care, and anger management training was conducted for all employees as part of self-care. Within stress checks, categories related to desired workplace improvements were established and initiatives are being promoted that aim to improve the environment of all workplaces. At Daikin bases in countries like the U.S., Thailand, and Australia, there are mental health counselors and help lines to ensure that employees enjoy a pleasant workplace. Shortening Working Hours Eliminating Long Working Hours by Obligating Employees to Leave at Closing Time and Boosting Work Efficiency Daikin Industries, Ltd. strives to eliminate long working hours through measures such as obligating employees to leave the office at closing time once a week and prohibiting employees from coming to work on their days off (unless absolutely necessary and approved by the department head). In this way, we are making a concerted effort to improve both work rule compliance and work efficiency. Yearly plans are made for each employee's duties and working hours, and to ensure that work and personnel management are in line with the plans, checklists are filled out to manage daily work. Furthermore, by implementing a planned 5-day paid work leave system and establishing 3 days of general paid leave, we aim to promote respect for work-life balance and a more vibrant work environment. Human Resources 252 Percentage of Employees Taking All Paid Leave (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) Average Hours of Overtime per Employee (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) Measures to reduce working hours 1. Daily management of operations Self-checks and mutual-checks using checklists. 2. Raising awareness and changing company culture Managers lead the way by not working on days off or late at night. Change from calculating working hours by month to calculating by week in order to more quickly adjust work plans and work load. Workplaces voluntarily establish their own rules regarding working for especially long hours. 3. The 5 Rules Ensure that employees leave work at closing time once a week. Nobody works on days off. Do not allow employees to work excess hours. Do not make employees do unpaid overtime. Late night work is prohibited. Each department sets its own maximum permitted work time. 4. Clarify management of operations Implement a work attendance system. 5. Set goals to improve productivity and work efficiency in each division Human Resources 253 Human Resources WORK-LIFE BALANCE Basic Policy Daikin Industries, Ltd. stresses a work life balance for employees. We have a range of systems and measures that allow us to make use of a diverse range of human resources. The company has established an action plan that is already underway for helping employees with children continue both work and home duties with peace of mind. We have been certified as a company complying with the Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. We have been particularly active in urging male employees to take advantage of our systems for both childcare leave and childcare support. Daikin Awarded Highest Rating in Nikkei Smart Work Survey Daikin Industries, Ltd. received the highest rating, 5 stars, in the Nikkei Smart Work Survey conducted by Nikkei, Inc., which selects companies with leading-edge practices in reforming work styles to improve worker productivity. The Nikkei Group defines smart work management as a management strategy for making optimal use of human resources by introducing diverse and flexible work styles, encouraging innovation, and creating a virtuous cycle of continuously developing new markets, thereby maximizing the productivity and other parameters of the organization. The Nikkei Smart Work Management Survey assesses and scores companies in three areas of corporate competence—human resources, innovation, and market strategy—plus a fourth, management fundamentals. Daikin Industries, Ltd. received the highest possible rating, 5 stars (deviation value of at least 70), receiving the highest evaluation of S++ in each category. Only 13 companies in the survey received 5 stars, and Daikin Industries, Ltd. was the only company to get S++ in all survey categories. Human Resources 254 Helping Employees Match Work Schedule with Lifestyle Employing Flexible Work Systems such as Flex Time and Discretionary Work System To allow this diverse range of employees to work under flexible conditions and working hours, we use the flex time system. We also have a discretionary work system that can be taken advantage of by not just the R&D department but also by employees in other company departments conducting duties such as planning, proposals, and surveys related to company operations. Thanks to these efforts to give employees flexible working conditions and working hours, Daikin had an employee turnover of just 3.8% (including mandatory retirement age employees) in fiscal 2017: this is far below the average of 15.0% for all industries in Japan (according to a 2015 survey by Japan's Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare). Number of Employees Leaving, Employee Turnover (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) Support for Childcare While Working Creating a Workplace Where Employees Can Balance Their Jobs and Childcare Daikin Industries, Ltd. strives to create an environment where employees can continue their jobs even after having children. In fiscal 2013, we began offering the full support of outside specialists to employees searching for nursery schools for their children. Besides providing information on nursery schools and how to go about finding a suitable one, this service offers advice and counseling for everyone from pregnant mothers to those ready to put their children in a nursery school. This service is used by employees taking childcare leave. In April 2014, we implemented our fourth action plan based on the Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. Under this action plan, we introduced more flexible work options for employees making an early return from childcare leave, improved the childcare support cafeteria plan* and gave employees more choices under this plan, and for employees making an early return to the workplace increased the amount of subsidies from the company, to a maximum of 600,000 yen, to pay for childcare services. Human Resources 255 In January 2016, Daikin introduced a work-at-home system to give employees the chance to work at home yet still continue to take on the challenges of their jobs. This system provides three choices: fulltime employees can work up to once a week at home; employees returning to the workplace less than six months after starting childcare leave can work up to four times a week at home; and employees can have more freedom in choosing when and where they work. This system was established to help workers making an early return to work from childcare leave. It is used in the case when employees must return to pressing work and it has taken firm root among employees. We will continue to help employees achieve an ideal balance of work and childcare while also using their talents to the fullest. * Childcare support cafeteria plan: A system under which Daikin provides subsidies for childcare service fees incurred by employees with children whose spouse is also working. Fees may be daycare fees incurred when the employee is working overtime or on a business trip, or hospital bills when the child is sick. Daycare Entrance and Childcare Leave Support Seminars In June 2017 and February 2018, Daikin held seminars to support employees needing help getting their children into daycare centers and taking childcare leave. There have been problems with Daikin employees not realizing how hard it is to find daycare for their children, and not having enough information on how to find daycare. This has made it difficult for employees to make a swift return to work and to get their children into the daycare center of choice, leading to longer childcare leave. In response, Daikin has supplemented its existing consultation service (which includes distributing textbooks and giving explanations over the phone) for employees looking for daycare centers with these seminars. The aim of the seminars is to give attendees an opportunity to think about what working style they will adopt after returning to work from leave by alleviating their concerns about finding daycare and taking childcare leave. The seminars gave examples of Daikin's work-life balance support systems and skills improvement hints for returning to work, including case studies of these at Daikin. 257 Male Employees Take Childcare Leave Daikin Industries, Ltd. encourages male employees to take extended leave for childcare and aims to create a work environment in which male employees feel comfortable taking childcare leave. We are revising company systems to stay ahead of revisions to relevant Japanese laws; for example, we lifted restrictions on childcare leave for men with at-home spouses, and male employees are allowed to take childcare leave twice as compared to only once previously. Starting in December 2016, we stepped up efforts to publicize this system, distributing information about childcare leave to male employees whose wives have recently given birth, and these employees' bosses. We are also publicizing it in email newsletters and on the Daikin intranet. Human Resources 256 Starting in fiscal 2017, we stepped up information provision by confirming who has taken childcare leave and having the HR division send email reminders once every three months to employees who have not taken leave. This serves as a follow-up to ensure that as many men as possible are planning and taking childcare leave. As a result of these efforts, 208 men (77.3% of eligible employees) took childcare leave in fiscal 2017. We will continue to help men play a greater role in childcare by building an environment where both men and women can balance work and childcare while also using their talents to the fullest. Number of Employees Taking Childcare Leave (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) Daikin Industries, Ltd. achieved the targets of its first action plan based on the Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. For this, the company was certified by the Osaka Labour Bureau (Ministry of Health, Labour, and Welfare). Symbol Showing Certification as a Company Supporting Employees Childcare Efforts Human Resources 257 Fourth Action Plan based on the Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation 1. Plan duration: Five years, from April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2019 2. Content Target 1: Implement measures to help employees make a smooth return to the workplace following childcare leave and to help them play an active role at work. Measures •From April 2014: Announce revisions to the childcare cafeteria plan system and encourage employees to use this system. •Until end of March 2016: Introduce measures to maintain and improve skills during childcare leave. •Until end of March 2017: Thoroughly establish the nursery school assistance service and implement improvements that will lead to its effective enforcement. Target 2: Look into introduction of the system for allowing employees to work a few days a week at home, a new way of working aimed at employees who want to a work-life balance. Measures •From April 2014: Conduct trial. •From July 2014: Verify results of trial, fix problems, and look into making it into a new work system. Target 3: Create a workplace culture and atmosphere in which employees can achieve a work-life balance while at the same time taking on new challenges, growing, and building a career. Measures •From April 2014: Have ongoing management training for bosses (of employees seeking a work-life balance). •From July 2014: Have ongoing seminars on returning to the workplace for employees returning to work from childcare leave and their bosses, and continuously improve the content of these seminars. •Until March 2016: Hold exchange events with other companies and seminars at which participants think about balancing work and childcare and building a career. Human Resources 258 Support Systems for the Balance of Work and Family 1992 Introduction of childcare leave system and shortened working hours for parents. First action plan based on the Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next 2005 Generation. Achievement of goals of first action plan. 2007 Creation of second action plan. Introduction of childcare cafeteria plan. Reassessment of childcare leave and family care leave in accordance with the revised Child 2010 Care and Family Care Leave Act. Achievement of goals of second action plan. 2012 Creation of third action plan (implementation period: April 2012 to March 2014). Revision of childcare cafeteria plan. 2013 Introduction of nursery school assistance service. Creation of fourth action plan (April 2014 –March 2019). Revisions to childcare cafeteria plan. 2014 Introduced flexible working conditions and subsidies for childcare service fees to help workers making early return to work from childcare leave. Trial system for allowing employees to work up to once a week at home. 2016 Introduction of work-at-home system. Human Resources 259 Support for Family Care Family Care Leave and Shortened Working Hours Under our family care leave system, employees can take leave up to a maximum of 365 days, which can be taken continuously or broken up into numerous leave blocks. Under this system, we have also increased from once to three times the number of leave blocks that can be taken for each time that member's condition becomes such as to require care. With our system for adjustment of working hours for family care (under which employees can opt to work a staggered or flexible work schedule, or a shorter six-hours-per-day schedule), for each family member who requires care, employees can break their use of this system into two or more times over a period of three years starting from initial use of this system. (This is in addition to days taken under the family care leave system.) And under our short family care leave, employees can now take leave in units of half a day. Number Taking Family Care Leave (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) Other Employee Benefit Systems (some are abridged) Pension Defined contribution pension The employee gets three days of paid leave between the Seniors' leaves system month the employee turns 55 and retirement age. Paid leave Participation in Japan Overseas Cooperation Employees may be allowed to take time off work for this. Volunteers Human Resources 260 Human Resources EMPLOYEE EVALUATION AND TREATMENT Basic Policy Daikin offers fairness of opportunity and reward : a workplace where employees are rewarded for putting their motivation to work and taking every opportunity for success. Employee Evaluation and Treatment Pursuing Fairness of Opportunity and Reward In fiscal 2001, we eliminated standardized wage scales based on age and seniority, along with uniform pay raises. Instead, we switched to a compensation system that rewards performance, not age or seniority. Our performance evaluation focuses on how well employees improve their abilities. This evaluation also looks at job results in three categories called achievements, challenging spirit, and growth. To ensure even greater fairness of evaluation, managers evaluate their staff only after consulting with other managers. Employees are also evaluated based on their level of contribution to company successes and to the organization as a whole. In 2002, this compensation system was extended to include Daikin Group companies in Japan. In fiscal 2011, we began formulating unified worldwide guidelines that cover our philosophy of performance-based pay and detail how job results should be reflected in pay. This will give the entire Group a fair, credible compensation system. Human Resources 261 Job Placement and Transfer Creating Opportunities to Understand Employee Circumstances Whenever possible, Daikin Industries, Ltd. asks new employees where they want to work and if possible assigns them to the departments and sections of their choice. If new employees cannot be placed in the department or section of their desire due to personal aptitude and company needs, we do all we can to gain their understanding. Every year, employees fill out their own record of work, which includes a column for free comments about health, family, and job positions desired. When we consider transferring an employee, we look at these comments and talk to them in efforts to ensure, whenever possible, that their job desires and spirit of challenge is reflected in the posts they are assigned to. For employees who wish to work overseas, we have established a practical training system to support employees in foreign positions. We will continue to build rewarding workplaces for our employees by matching their dreams and goals with those of Daikin. Human Resources 262 Human Resources LABOR MANAGEMENT RELATIONS Basic Policy Daikin Industries, Ltd. believes that cooperative labor management relations are the foundation of company management. We therefore place the utmost emphasis on equality of labor and management, as well as mutual trust between both sides. Our stance has, and always will be, to face the truth in solving all problems, and to speak frankly and draw clear lines between what is and what is not possible. Except for managers and some contract employees, 86.5% at Daikin Industries, Ltd. is a union member. The company holds frank discussions with the labor union. As soon as business plans are clarified, management holds a meeting where it explains these plans to the labor union. In fiscal 2017, there were 18 such meetings held at the head office. Participants discussed topics including boosting efforts to improve the quality of work. Meetings were held at branches as needed. Employee working conditions and status are matters discussed between labor and management, with results of these discussions promptly reported to employees of the various divisions. Respecting the Rights of Workers Specification in Work Regulations and Agreements and Publicizing of Respect for Workers Rights At Daikin Industries, Ltd., we believe that the company should respect its employees as individuals and strive to improve their welfare, and that employees should fulfill their duties as workers. The principle of respect for the rights of the worker is specified in work regulations and labor agreements. To ensure understanding of workers' rights, we give a thorough explanation of the work regulations and labor agreement to new employees when they join the company, and the labor union also conducts similar education of employees. Human Resources 263 Dialogue with Employees Hearings for Employees to Improve Working Conditions Daikin Industries, Ltd. has about 10 hearings a year with at least 3% of its employees (approximately 240 employees). Salary negotiations are held between labor and management with consideration for factors including company performance, operational issues, world trends, and the work of the labor union. Interviewing each employee based on these factors results in that person receiving a salary that both sides agree is fair under the circumstances. Besides salary, employees are also given hearings when there are matters to report from the company, such as new fiscal year policies, budget and performance reports, and a message from the president at bonus time. Other ways that we hold dialogue with employees include meetings between managers and their workers during announcement of annual targets and employee evaluations. Listening to frank employee opinions ensures that we can continuously improve labor-management relations. Human Resources 264 Sustainability Report 2 018 －Web version－ Corporate Governance Corporate Governance ……………………………… 268 Prohibiting Bribes ……………………………………… 285 Risk Management ……………………………………… 274 Information Security ………………………………… 287 Compliance……………………………………………… 279 Respect for Intellectual Property Rights ………… 289 Free Competition and Fair Business Dealings 284 Corporate Governance 265 Fundamental CSR Corporate Governance Policy Accelerate decision-making and operational execution in response to management tasks and the changing management environment, and raise the level of management transparency and soundness to raise corporate value Corporate Governance Management Risk Management (http://www.daikin.com/about/ corporate/directors/) Through an integrated Names and biographies of the We quickly and accurately get management system for fast Daikin Industries, Ltd.'s Board of the big picture regarding risk, decision-making and execution, Directors. and we strive to reduce it by we improve our operational conducting cross-organizational speed and ensure sound, risk management. transparent management. Corporate Governance 266 Free Competition and Fair Compliance Prohibiting Bribes Business Dealings We confirm the status of The Daikin group strives for fair We do our utmost to ensure that compliance with the Group business practices through business entertainment and giftConduct of Guidelines and measures for complying with giving related to business are ensure thorough legal laws. conducted within the laws and compliance. customs of each country and region. Respect for Intellectual Information Security Property Rights We have built an information Intellectual property is a valuable management system with company asset. We carry out specific in-house protocols in proper and fair exercise of rights efforts to ensure complete in response to violation of our control over information intellectual property as well as security. respect other companies' intellectual property. Corporate Governance 267 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Basic Policy Further Boosting Corporate Value Daikin believes that the role of corporate governance is to accelerate decision making and operational execution work in anticipation of and in response to changes in management tasks and the management environment while concurrently promoting consistently high levels of management transparency and soundness, thereby increasing the Group's corporate value. The Group will continue to raise corporate value by ensuing the increasing sophistication of speedy management and still-higher levels of transparency and soundness. We will achieve this by constantly reviewing and implementing optimal corporate governance and by spreading best practices throughout the entire Daikin Group. Corporate Governance Structure Management and Operational Execution Systems Rather than adopt a U.S.-style committee system that completely separates decision making and work supervision from operational execution, Daikin Industries, Ltd. has adopted an integrated management system that provides more advanced management. We believe that this system is effective in speeding up decision making and execution based on the Daikin Group's characteristics. In an integrated management system, directors quickly make strategic decisions and conduct sound and appropriate supervision and guidance, thus achieving management responsibility through cooperation across all management and at the same time achieving work execution responsibility through prompt action. Directors make decision, execute operations, and provide supervision and guidance in an integrated manner, thus executing their own decisions and taking responsibility for seeing these through. We appoint numerous external officers, who monitor the execution of operations from an independent perspective and offer appropriate supervision and advice during decision making, in the process taking responsibility for supporting our integrated management from the standpoint of transparency and soundness. To improve actual execution of operations, Daikin Industries, Ltd. has introduced an Executive Officer System, whose members are appointed by the Board of Directors. The goal of this system is to accelerate the speed of execution based on autonomous judgments and decisions in units handling each region, division, and function. Directors are selected with an emphasis on having a diverse range of personnel representing people of varying genders, nationalities, and experience. This helps us globalize, expand our scope of business, and achieve diversity in management. With the guidepost of ensuring that our external, female, and non-Japanese national directors are independent of Daikin, represent a diverse group, and allow transparency, as of the end of June 2018, we have 10 directors (including one woman and two nonJapanese nationals). These directors oversee prompt and strategic decision making and sound supervision and guidance throughout the entire Group. Corporate Governance 268 Daikin Industries, Ltd. appoints three external directors with no vested interest in our company. We ensure these external directors have abundant experience and deep insight and can, therefore, offer a sophisticated perspective on a broad range of issues as they participate in decision making and supervise management. Our main selection criterion therefore is directors of listed companies with a wealth of business experience. We also ensure that our external directors have an average tenure of 7 years and 2 months and do not hold more than five positions (including their position with Daikin Industries, Ltd.). To ensure that the external directors can effectively contribute to Daikin Industries, Ltd.'s corporate governance system, the employees in the Management Planning Office are assigned to provide the external directors with early notice of Board of Directors meetings. In addition, in the case that an external director is not able to attend a Board of Directors meeting, the assistants provide the external director with related materials and subsequently provide the external director with an explanation of the proceedings of the meeting and provide other assistance. Audit System Daikin Industries, Ltd. employs an Audit & Supervisory Board and seeks to nominate two or more outside members to its Audit & Supervisory Board. The principal nomination criteria for external Audit & Supervisory Board members are the same as those for external directors and include independence from the Company in terms of not having a relationship of interest with the Company. As of June 2018, Daikin Industries, Ltd.'s four Audit & Supervisory Board members include two external Audit & Supervisory Board members. The external Audit & Supervisory Board members attend meetings of the Board of Directors as well as other important meetings and receive reports. In addition, they are able to express diverse opinions. To ensure effective audit functions, the Audit & Supervisory Board receives reports on important issues related to management and performance when necessary and also investigates relevant units, confirms approval of documents, and regularly exchanges opinions with representative directors, executive officers, and the independent auditors. To ensure the effectiveness of Audit & Supervisory Board members, there is the Office of Audit & Supervisory Board members and support staff for assisting Audit & Supervisory Board members in their duties. Staff of the Office of Audit & Supervisory Board members carry out their duties under the orders of corporate auditors. Audit & Supervisory Board members' decisions on employee transfers and evaluations take into account the opinions of the Audit & Supervisory Board. Corporate Governance 269 Organizational Structure Supports Speedy Management Implementation We are striving to ensure prompt decision-making by having a smaller number of directors and having them take part in practical debate on issues. Three organs—the Board of Directors Meeting, the Group Steering Meeting, and the Executive Officers Meeting—are the main management bodies and as a rule each is convened once a month. The Board of Directors is the Group-wide decision-making body for items stipulated in laws, regulations, and articles of incorporation. It also provides sound, appropriate supervision and guidance in the execution of operations. The board periodically conducts self assessments with regards to its effectiveness. Each director is interviewed individually as a way to confirm his or her effectiveness. In fiscal 2017, the Board of Directors Meeting was convened 16 times, with external directors attending on average 83% of the meetings and external Audit & Supervisory Board members attending on average 84% of the meetings. The highest deliberation organ for the Group's management system is the Group Steering Meeting, which strives to constantly speed up the pace at which the Daikin Group decides on future direction and solves issues related to important management policy and strategies. The Group Steering Meeting was convened 9 times in fiscal 2017. In addition, with the introduction of the Executive Officer System, we have established the Executive Officers Meeting, a platform to promote speedy implementation and thorough deliberation regarding Important management tasks related to operational execution. To ensure that the interests of stakeholders other than shareholders are respected and protected, the Board of Directors oversees the Internal Control Committee, the Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee, the Information Disclosure Committee, and the CSR Committee. Corporate Governance Structure (as of end of June 2018) Corporate Governance 270 Corporate Officer Remuneration, Etc. To ensure the transparent management of its corporate officer personnel and remuneration processes, Daikin Industries, Ltd. has established the HRM Advisory Committee and the Compensation Advisory Committee. These committees engage in discussions and deliberations regarding issues including corporate officer nomination criteria, corporate officer candidates, and remuneration. As of the end of June 2018, the HRM Advisory Committee and the Compensation Advisory Committee consist of five members, including three external directors, one in-house director, and one executive officer, with the committee chair being chosen from the external directors. The remuneration of directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members is determined so as to fall within the aggregate remuneration ceiling based on a report by the HRM Advisory Committee and the Compensation Advisory Committee. The directors' remuneration is determined by a resolution of the Board of Directors while the corporate auditors' remuneration is determined by a resolution of the Audit & Supervisory Board. Daikin Industries, Ltd.'s corporate officer remuneration system is designed to accord with the Group's management policy and respond to shareholders' expectations by increasing corporate officers' motivation to promote a sustained increase in Group performance over the medium to long term and thereby contributing to a rise in the Group's corporate value. Directors' remuneration includes fixed compensation, performance-linked compensation that reflects the Group's short-term performance (net sales and operating income) and each director's job responsibilities, and stock options that reflect the Group's mediumto long-term performance. The performance-linked compensation of Daikin directors is given a somewhat higher ratio of linkage with performance than average to ensure that the incentive effect of that compensation is sufficient. The CEO is eligible to receive a performance-linked compensation for a maximum of one year. The remuneration of external directors and corporate auditors includes fixed compensation only. Compensation levels are determined based on consideration of Daikin's performance and remuneration levels compared to those of other leading manufacturing companies in Japan after analyzing and comparing data from an outside specialized institution on the remuneration of corporate officers active in just under 300 Japanese companies listed on the First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. In fiscal 2017, the CEO's annual compensation was 250 million yen and the median employee compensation was 7.4 million yen. The CEO-to-employee pay ratio was thus 35-to-1. Corporate Governance 271 Corporate Officer Remuneration (Fiscal 2017) Total of different types of Total compensation (millions of yen) Persons Category compensation Base Stock paid (Million yen) Bonus compensation options Director (Excluding external directors) 1,250 746 133 370 8 Audit & Supervisory Board member (Excluding 64 64 2 external Audit & Supervisory Board members) External corporate officers 76 76 5 Corporate Officers with Compensation Over 100 Million Yen (Fiscal 2017) Total of different types of Total compensation (millions of yen) Name compensation Category Company (Million yen) Base Stock Bonus compensation options Noriyuki Inoue 410 Director Daikin Industries, Ltd. 263 29 116 Masanori Togawa 273 Director Daikin Industries, Ltd. 166 29 76 Director Daikin Industries, Ltd. 99 14 45 Ken Tayano 170 Daikin (China) President Investment Co., Ltd. 11 (Consolidated subsidiary) Director Daikin Industries, Ltd. 8 14 36 Masatsugu Minaka 132 Daikin Europe N.V. Director 72 (Consolidated subsidiary) Jiro Tomita 147 Director Daikin Industries, Ltd. 92 14 40 Takashi Matsuzaki 109 Director Daikin Industries, Ltd. 66 11 32 Accounting Auditor Compensation (Fiscal 2016) Auditing expenses 243 million yen Corporate Governance 272 Group-Wide Governance To ensure governance throughout the entire Group, including companies acquired by Daikin, the Group Management Meeting aims for action based on unified opinion throughout the Group. It does this by sharing important Group policies and basic strategies, as well as providing support for problem-solving in Group companies. The Group Auditors Meeting, made up of auditors from the main Group companies, works to strengthen auditing and control functions throughout the Group and ensure that these functions are working to the fullest. To further raise corporate governance and Group management as a multinational company, Daikin has put a Chief Global Group Officer position in place. Under this position, the Group strives to further improve cohesiveness across global operations. Related information Corporate Governance Report (updated on June 28, 2018) (467KB) (https://www.daikin.com/csr/management/pdf/Corporate_Governance_Report_2018.pdf) Management (About Daikin) (https://www.daikin.com/about/corporate/directors/index.html) Disclosure Policy (Investor Relations) (https://www.daikin.com/investor/management/disclosure/index.html) Corporate Governance 273 Corporate Governance RISK MANAGEMENT Basic Policy and Management System With the Daikin Group expanding rapidly around the globe, we have introduced company-wide, crossorganizational risk management in order to quickly get an overall picture of risks from a global point of view and reduce the risks. With our president as the highest ranking person in Daikin's risk management structure, we carry out risk management in the following three areas. 1. Strategic risk Risk related to strategic decision-making in the management of Daikin (Division in charge: Corporate Planning Department) 2. Internal control risk in financial reports Risk related to the reliability of financial reports (Division in charge: Finance and Accounting Division) 3. Operational risk Management and operational risk related to internal and external causes (Division in charge: Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee) Strategic risk is deliberated on by management members through platforms such as the Group Steering Meeting and the Executive Officers Meeting. As for risk related to the reliability of financial reports and operational risk, the Internal Control Committee, headed by the president, inspects these to ensure that they are being properly managed within the Group's risk management and overall internal control structure. Related information Risks and Opportunities (Page 72) Principal Risks Associated with the Daikin Group's Operations The following are possible risks affecting the Daikin Group's financial situation, business performance, and other areas. Please note that forward-looking statements made here are based on knowledge current as of the end of March 2018. Corporate Governance 274 Business-related and Other Risks (1) Sudden changes in politico-economic conditions or supply-demand relationships in principal markets The Daikin Group conducts activities such as development, manufacturing, sales, and procurement worldwide. In the regions and markets in which we operate, group performance can be affected by external factors such as politico-economic changes and the introduction of stricter environmental regulations, and by business environment matters such as intensifying competition with other companies and increased material prices. The Daikin Group has acquired other companies, such as Goodman Global Group, Inc. (acquired in fiscal 2012), and overseas dealers, and it has made investments and outlays in establishing facilities such as production bases. Although these have been carried out with the goal of expanding our production and sales network and increasing earnings of the Daikin Group, how well these moves progress affects our business performance. (2) Changes in demand for air conditioners due to cold summer weather and other unusual weather patterns Air-conditioning and refrigeration operations accounted for 89.6% of the Daikin Group's consolidated net sales in fiscal 2014. Therefore, the Group strives to accurately monitor weather information and weather-related demand trends in the world's principal markets. It also employs flexible manufacturing methods and marketing policies designed to minimize the impact of those demand trends on its performance. However, depending on the magnitude of demand changes resulting from cold summer weather or other unusual weather patterns, there is a possibility that the Group's performance could be impacted. (3) Large fluctuations in currency exchange rates Overseas sales accounted for 76.3% of the Daikin Group's consolidated net sales in fiscal 2017. The acceleration of global business development going forward is expected to further elevate this overseas sales ratio. Consolidated financial statements are prepared by translating local currencydenominated items, including sales, expenses, and assets, for Group operations in each global region, into Japanese yen. Accordingly, depending on currency exchange rates at the time of the currency translation, there may be an impact on yen translation values even when there has been no change in local currency-denominated figures. In addition, because some of the Group transactions in raw materials and component procurement and in the sale of goods and services are foreign currency-denominated, there is a possibility that changes in currency exchange rates could impact manufacturing costs and sales performance. To avoid such currency exchange rate-related risks, the Group undertakes short-term risk hedging via forward exchange contracts and similar instruments. Daikin also undertakes mediumto long-term measures to continuously adjust procurement and manufacturing operations and optimize them for changing currency exchange-rate trends, and to balance imports and exports in each currency. Through this, the Group works to realize a business structure that is not greatly impacted by changes in currency exchange rates. However, currency exchange rate-related risks cannot be completely avoided. Corporate Governance 275 (4) Major product quality claims The Daikin Group conducts the highest level of quality control on all products it manufactures, no matter what country they are manufactured in. In new product development, we strive to constantly improve quality, cost, and development speed by revamping all processes—starting in the predevelopment stages—in a cooperative effort synchronizing the four facets of design, manufacturing technology, purchasing, and suppliers. Although the Group has liability insurance in case a product claim arises, there is still the possibility that major product quality claims could impact Group performance. (5) Major problems in manufacturing The Daikin Group takes every possible measure to prevent problems at its worldwide manufacturing bases, and it constantly works to improve its safety inspections and security measures, especially in the chemicals business. In preparation for potential manufacturing problems, the Group has insurance covering things like damage to equipment and lost profits. However, there is the possibility that major manufacturing problems could impact Group performance. (6) Major changes in the market prices of securities Securities of the Daikin Group are held mainly for the purpose of mutually expanding business with and strengthening relationships between Daikin and its business partners. However, factors such as fluctuations in the stock market and bankruptcy of business partners could possibly impact Daikin Group performance. (7) Impairment of long-lived assets The Daikin Group records a variety of tangible and intangible assets, including assets for business purposes and goodwill arising from the acquisition of another company. It may be necessary to book impairment losses on these assets; for example, due to a decline in business performance or in the market value of the assets, they may not generate the expected cash flow. Such impairment losses could impact Daikin Group performance. (8) Natural disasters Natural disasters such as earthquakes, typhoons, and floods can affect Daikin Group manufacturing, sales, and distribution bases, leading to a possible impact on Group performance. Operational Risks The directors and executive officers in charge of a duty have the authority and responsibility to create a Group-wide, cross-organizational system that covers the entire sphere of that duty; for example, in terms of product liability and quality, safety, production and sales activities, and disasters. To deal with risk across the entire company, officers in charge of compliance and corporate ethics, through the legal department, identify major risks based on risk management principles, and these are deliberated by the Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee in order to formulate measures to deal with risk. Corporate Governance 276 Major Operational Risks in Fiscal 2017 Earthquakes Product liability and quality Intellectual property Control of information leaks Overseas crisis management Others All divisions and major group companies around the world carry out annual risk assessments to determine the most important risks. Based on this, companies propose and implement countermeasures to reduce risk. They also make reports on the progress of these measures and present and share them via the Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee. Operational Risk Management Corporate Governance 277 Preparing for Other Major Risks Revamping Earthquake Risk Measures and Stepping Up Safety Measures Daikin has made earthquake risk measures one of its key company-wide themes and we are formulating measures via task-specific teams. Based on estimates made by the Central Disaster Management Council of Japan's Cabinet Office (such as estimated maximum magnitude and maximum tsunami height), we have made and are implementing proposals in areas including reinforcement of earthquake resistance at our plants and flooding measures at our chemical plant, as well as evacuation drills to prepare for flooding. We are also creating a business continuity plan (BCP), identifying risks, and making and implementing proposals to, for example, prevent production equipment from toppling and ensure stable procurement of parts and materials. Group companies are all proceeding with their own BCPs. Measures to Deal with Information Leak Daikin has made preventing information leaks one of its key company-wide themes. IT-related divisions and compliance-related divisions cooperate closely, and personal information managers and IT security managers in each division lead efforts to minimize the risk of information leaks. Recently, there has been a rash of targeted attack emails. In response, the Group has stepped up efforts, including supplementing employee training with actual practice in dealing with such targeted attack emails. In line with the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry's Guidelines for the Management of Trade Secrets, we are strengthening efforts, such as by inspecting how well our measures to prevent information leaks are working. Corporate Governance 278 Corporate Governance COMPLIANCE Basic Policy The Group Conduct Guidelines set forth the basic premises to observe as a basic framework for corporate ethics compliance for all group companies as well as each and every one of their executives and employees in the worldwide expansion of Daikin. We strive for compliance by committing to thorough compliance measures under our CSR Action Plan 2020, a medium-term plan that follows our key CSR themes. Related information Group Conduct Guidelines (CSR Philosophy) (Page 34) Management System The Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee is the organ for leading group-wide corporate ethics activities. It is headed by the officer in charge of compliance and corporate ethics and made up of general managers and presidents of major group companies in Japan. At meetings held twice a year, the committee focuses on solving key issues and reports on efforts by overseas group companies to tackle compliance issues. Our Group Conduct Guidelines stipulate the appropriate behavior of our directors and employees, and compliance and risk management leaders (CRLs) are appointed in each division and major worldwide group company to ensure thorough compliance. By regularly confirming the state of compliance and risk management efforts, sharing information, and making the Group Conduct Guidelines second nature to everyone, we aim to cultivate a corporate culture and improve a system in which all employees ensure that they and their colleagues are always in compliance. Corporate Governance 279 Compliance System Compliance Efforts Ensuring Constant Compliance with Conduct Guidelines through Self Assessments, a Daikin Initiative Once a year, we use our unique self assessment system to check that we are following the Group Conduct Guidelines. Using self assessments, employees check their own actions based on the Group Conduct Guidelines. Based on these self assessment results, they create a to-do list of issues and appropriate solutions in their workplace. They also present and share these issues and solutions via the Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee. In addition, the legal department conducts legal audits in divisions and group companies, while the Internal Auditing Department confirms legal compliance through audits. Corporate Governance 280 Formulating Common Worldwide Rules and Sharing Them with Overseas Group Companies Daikin has formulated common worldwide rules that it shares with overseas group companies so that all Daikin bases around the world can carry out compliance and risk management. Each overseas group company has created a compliance and risk management system for its own region based on these common worldwide rules. Each of these systems has compliance committees and Corporate Ethics Handbooks, and they conduct regular self assessments and risk management checks. In addition, members of the legal department of Daikin Industries, Ltd. regularly visit overseas group companies and join compliance committee meetings in efforts to confirm the state of compliance and risk management and to share information. In April 2018, we held the global legal and compliance meeting, which was attended by legal and compliance representatives from each worldwide region. Participants shared a range of information such as progress with their respective compliance efforts and recent trends in legal systems. These and other efforts enable Daikin Industries, Ltd. and its overseas companies to share and implement each other's best practices. Participants share their compliance efforts at a meeting in China Handbook for Corporate Ethics Uses Concrete Examples to Familiarize Employees with Group Conduct Guidelines Our Group Conduct Guidelines stipulate the appropriate behavior of our directors and employees. To help them act in accordance with these guidelines, we have also created the Handbook for Corporate Ethics, which uses concrete examples to help all employees attain a thorough understanding of compliance. For example, Daikin Industries, Ltd. gives employees, along with this handbook, compliance cards that they must carry with them at all times so that they can be sure they are following rules and always be aware of the importance of compliance. In the area of legal compliance, compliance and risk management leaders (CRLs) in each division head efforts to gather the latest legal information and check to see if laws are reflected in company rules and manuals. There are also daily triple checks to ensure everyone is following laws and company rules and manuals. Corporate Governance 281 Handbook for Corporate Ethics Related information Ensuring Legal Compliance in the Entire Supply Chain (Working Closely with Suppliers) (Page 305) Education Focus on Educating Employees Toward Thorough Compliance We strive to make every employee constantly aware of compliance through a special emphasis on educational activities. We constantly improve these through better compliance education tools and improved ways to relay the importance of compliance. For example, employees who are studying look at case studies related to legal matters in specific areas, such as sales, production, and procurement. Education is also divided by employee category, with courses for directors, new employees, newly appointed managers, CRLs, and other kinds of employees. Moreover, to raise employees' compliance awareness, training is supplemented by sessions with individual division heads and managers, who repeatedly remind workplace employees about the importance of compliance from their own experience. Since fiscal 2012, Daikin's Compliance Caravan made up of representatives from the legal department, various Daikin divisions, and group companies has been touring branches around Japan to explain the assumed risks and key points of compliance. This training includes active dialogue on case studies relevant to Daikin business. At Daikin Industries, Ltd., every two months employees receive an email newsletter called Daikin Compliance News, which uses familiar case studies to raise employee awareness of the importance of compliance. In addition, whenever there is an important revision to a relevant law or regulation, all employees take e-learning on the matter. Corporate Governance 282 Major Legal Violations in Daikin in Fiscal 2017 The Daikin Group makes it a rule to publicly announce all instances of major legal violations related to business operations. There were no cases of business-related major legal violations in fiscal 2017 at Daikin. Help-Line Help-Line for Corporate Ethics Offers Counseling and Gathers Opinions both Inside and Outside Daikin Industries, Ltd. Daikin Industries, Ltd. has a Help-Line for Corporate Ethics both inside and outside the company, where employees can give opinions or receive consultation on all corporate ethics matters. Through the helpline, all advice sought and opinions expressed are kept strictly confidential, and reported matters are dealt with promptly and appropriately. No retribution is taken against either those persons reporting problems and seeking advice, or those persons helping investigate the reported matters. The legal department investigates all queries and opinions to the Help-Line, and works with related company divisions to decide on measures to prevent the reoccurrence of problems. This makes for the smooth creation of measures and the solution of problems. To ensure that the help-line is well publicized, the help-line's contact information is provided on the compliance card that all employees carry with them at all times. In fiscal 2017, we set up an external help-line at a law firm. Employees were informed of this through, for example, posters in workplaces. Corporate Governance 283 Corporate Governance FREE COMPETITION AND FAIR BUSINESS DEALINGS Basic Policy Ensuring thorough legal compliance and conducting fair business practices Based on our Group Conduct Guidelines, which state that we conduct free competition and fair business dealings, Daikin conducts fair business practices. Group Conduct Guidelines 2. Free Competition and Fair Trading We shall observe all applicable laws and regulations relating to fair competition and fair trade of each country and region, including antimonopoly laws. Furthermore, we shall conduct fair sales and procurement activities based on proper corporate ethics and in accordance with sound business practices and social norms. Daikin Industries, Ltd. strives to always comply with laws on antimonopoly, misleading representations, and subcontracting.For example, annual training plans are made based on the needs of each division. As necessary, we assign experts such as lawyers and employees in the legal department as instructors for these division-based training courses. In this way, communication with each division ensures the most effective training. At the same time, self assessments include checks that relevant laws are being obeyed. Related information Education (Compliance) (Page 282) Compliance Effort (Compliance) (Page 280) Philosophy on Suppliers (Page 300) Corporate Governance 284 Corporate Governance PROHIBITING BRIBES Basic Policy Daikin's Group Conduct Guidelines state that we practice moderation in entertainment and gift exchanges. We strictly implement our corporate ethics and risk management system, which covers matters such as prohibiting bribes. Group Conduct Guidelines 13. Practicing Moderation in Entertainment and Gift Exchanges We shall exercise moderation and perform within the acceptable range of social norms and obey the laws and regulations of each country and region in regards to entertainment, the exchange of presents, and invitations relating to the development of our global business. In particular, we shall not entertain, provide gifts of monetary value to, or extend invitations to public officials in Japan or abroad that violate the applicable laws and regulations in each respective country and region. Thoroughly Implementing Compliance Guidelines for Preventing Bribery of Public Officials, Etc. In fiscal 2014, with the approval of our board of directors, we created our Compliance Guidelines for Preventing Bribery of Public Officials, Etc., which give detailed directives related to entertaining, giftgiving, and invitations for government officials. Every year, we confirm compliance with our Group Conduct Guidelines by conducting inspections through our unique self assessment system. Any compliance problems found are shared by reporting them to the Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee. Corporate Governance 285 Educational Activities Daikin holds company-wide training so that employees obey rules on sound and transparent relations with government offices, are compliant with the Political Funds Control Law and the Public Offices Election Act, and conduct moderate entertainment and gift-giving with suppliers. To ensure that employees are familiar with every aspect of guidelines, since fiscal 2014 we have held briefings for each division and group company around the world and provided e-learning for all employees of Daikin Industries, Ltd. Monitoring Since formulating the Compliance Guidelines for Preventing Bribery of Public Officials, Etc., we have carried out audits in divisions and group companies that do business in countries and regions where corruption is prevalent to ensure that bribes are not occurring. Guideline-related issues discovered during the audits are dealt with by creating solutions in collaboration with relevant divisions and group ｓ. In addition, issues and successful countermeasures are shared via the Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee and global legal and compliance meetings attended by compliance and risk management leaders in each worldwide region. Related information Compliance Effort (Compliance) (Page 280) Help-Line System Daikin Industries, Ltd. has a Help-Line for Corporate Ethics, through which employees can give opinions or receive consultation on all corporate ethics matters, including bribe-related issues. Related information Help-Line (Compliance) (Page 283) Corporate Governance 286 Corporate Governance INFORMATION SECURITY Basic Policy on Information Security Proper Management and Use of All Confidential Information Including That of Other Companies Daikin's Group Conduct Guidelines state that we manage and use confidential information appropriately. Information managers in each division follow in-house protocols in thoroughly managing confidential information, be it our own or that of other companies. The system undergoes continuous improvement as employees carry out their own self assessments, the legal department carries out legal audits, and the Internal Auditing Department conducts internal audits. And with the increasingly widespread problems of companies losing information over the Internet, we are striving to raise the awareness of employee regarding managing their information; for example, we have strict company policy regarding employees' use of social media. In October 2018, Daikin formulated its Information Security Basic Policy, the goal of which is to clarify our basic philosophy and action on information security and get all of Daikin working as one to manage and protect information. Group Conduct Guidelines 5. Proper Management and Utilization of Information We shall properly manage and effectively utilize the confidential information of our company, the confidential information obtained from other companies, and the personal information of our customers and employees and shall not obtain any information through improper means. We shall thoroughly execute IT security management for our computer systems and the dataresources saved on them. Corporate Governance 287 Information Security Basic Policy The Daikin Group recognizes that one of our most important management issues is to deliver safe and highly reliable products and services and protect our information assets as well as customers' information assets in our possession from various types of threats by addressing information security risks which increase on a daily basis. To deal with these issues, we establish the Group basic information security policy and unite as the Daikin Group to further reinforce information security. 1. Our Group complies with rules and regulations, national guidelines, and other social standards in connection with information security. 2. Our Group establishes and complies with internal rules related to information security based on the basic information security policies. 3. Our Group implements appropriate security measures from personnel, organizational, and technological perspectives to protect and manage information. 4. Our Group provides continuous education and awareness programs for information security to all employees. 5. Our Group properly collects information and quickly reports to top management in the event that a security problem occurs on information assets. In addition, we rapidly investigate the cause and strive to minimize the damage and prevent recurrence. 6. Our Group inspects the information security management system and its initiatives and continuously reviews and improves them. Personal Information See Protecting Customer Information (Customer Satisfaction) (Page 226) Response to Personal Data Regulations for EU Citizens See Response to Personal Data Regulations for EU Citizens (Respect for Human Rights) (Page 296) Corporate Governance 288 Corporate Governance RESPECT FOR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS Basic Policy Acquire Intellectual Property Rights While Respecting That of Other Companies as Well Daikin understands that intellectual property rights constitute a valuable company asset. We thus strive to both protect these rights and use them effectively. Our Group Conduct Guidelines state that we will respect other companies' intellectual property rights and ensure that our inventions do not infringe on these rights. Group Conduct Guidelines 4. Respect and Protection of Intellectual Property Rights Recognizing that intellectual property rights are important company assets, we shall strive to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights and effectively utilize them. Furthermore, we shall respect and make every effort not to infringe upon the intellectual property rights of other companies. Based on the Group Conduct Guidelines, we formulated more detailed points in our Compliance Action Guidelines, which state that we will acquire patents and avoid infringement by having the person in charge of R&D at Daikin be the person responsible for a patent and having the researcher/developer understand that he/she is the sole developer of the product or invention. In new product and new technology development, part of the design review process involves verifying that these products and technologies do not infringe on existing patents. In collaborations with other companies, we distinguish between open technologies and confidential technologies, and confidential technologies are designated as such and kept out of reach. Corporate Governance 289 System for Protection of Intellectual Property Intellectual Property Manager in Research Department To actively support researchers/developers, the legal department assigns an intellectual property manager in each division. The intellectual property managers keep in contact with each other, and manage the variety of intellectual property matters that come up daily (filing/acquisition of rights, reduction of risk of infringement upon and infringement by other companies, etc.). They also educate employees at various levels on intellectual property and reward Daikin patent awardees. And to ensure strategic implementation of intellectual property activities, they form patent networks with researchers/developers and strengthen global intellectual property survey functions. Moreover, with the globalization of our R&D bases, we are appointing intellectual property managers at each of these bases. We will continue to strive to better manage our intellectual property rights by acquiring and using a greater number of patents and higher quality patents. Strengthening the Intellectual Property Rights System in Line with Globalization of Business and R&D Bases We are also strengthening our intellectual property rights systems at our overseas R&D bases. At Daikin Industries, Ltd. and at overseas group R&D bases, starting with those of our Group companies in China, we are striving to obtain various intellectual property rights. We also continue to offer classroom and elearning, and on-the-job training for intellectual property managers and developers at overseas R&D bases. China has overtaken the U.S. as the country with the most patent applications. It also has more intellectual property court cases than the U.S. Against this background, Daikin is actively acquiring intellectual property rights in China, and is stepping up applications for patents, utility models, devices, and trademarks. In emerging countries like India and Brazil, and in emerging countries in southeast Asia, we are stepping up device applications as a way to effectively prevent product copying and boost patent applications. In fiscal 2017, we came up with a five-year plan to strengthen intellectual property rights at R&D bases and give them more autonomy over intellectual property duties. We hold global intellectual property conferences, where participants share and discuss their respective efforts and common issues, and intellectual property managers strengthen ties. In fiscal 2018, we plan to have overseas R&D bases gain more autonomy over intellectual property rights functions and step up group-wide governance of intellectual property. Corporate Governance 290 Encouraging Employees to Create Intellectual Property Refer to Spurring the Creation of Intellectual Property (Management Structure) (Page 196) Scientific Technology Transfer Worldwide Free Access to Patents for Equipment Using Next-Generation Refrigerant Daikin Industries, Ltd. has been offering free access to a cumulative total of 93 basic patents necessary for companies to develop and commercialize air conditioners that use HFC-32 refrigerant. The company has been doing this in emerging countries since September 2011 and worldwide including industrialized countries since September 2015. The aim is to promote the use of HFC-32 worldwide. Related information Low Environmental Impact Refrigerants (Page 109) Press release: Daikin Offers Worldwide Free Access to Patents for Equipment Using NextGeneration Refrigerant (131KB) (http://www.daikin.com/csr/pdf/press_20150910.pdf) Key Activities of Fiscal 2015: Environment — Creating a New Market that Contributes to the Mitigation of Global Warming (http://www.daikin.com/csr/feature2015/01.html) Key Activities of Fiscal 2014: Environment — Disseminating Refrigerants with Low Global Warming Impact (http://www.daikin.com/csr/feature2014/01.html) Corporate Governance 291 Sustainability Report 2 018 －Web version－ Respect for Human Rights Respect for Human Rights …………………………… 294 Respect for Human Rights 292 Fundamental CSR Respect for Human Rights Policy Based on the laws and regulations of each country and region, we respect basic human rights in accordance with international norms Respect for Human Rights In countries and regions where we conduct business activities, we respect the human rights of all our stakeholders. Related information Participation in the Global Compact (Page 55) Group Conduct Guidelines (CSR Philosophy) (Page 34) Respect for Human Rights 293 Respect for Human Rights RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS Basic Policy Advocating Human Rights in Our Group Conduct Guidelines in Order to Promote Respect for Individuals Human rights are enshrined in our Group Conduct Guidelines, which detail how Daikin Group officers and employees should act. Based on the laws of countries and regions around the world, we respect basic human rights by understanding and abiding by various international norms related to human rights, such as the International Bill of Human Rights and the Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights. In addition, the Daikin Group takes part in the United Nations Global Compact for aligning operations to universally accepted principles on issues such as human rights and labor standards. Group Conduct Guidelines 10. Respect for Human Rights and Diversity and Observance of Labor Laws We shall respect the human rights of each and every employee and shall not engage in conduct that discriminates on the basis of nationality, race, ethnicity, religion, color of skin, age, gender, sexual orientation, or disability. Diversity in individual values is enthusiastically accepted, and we shall work to make the unique talents and abilities of each and every person the driving force of the organization. We shall also observe both the letter and spirit of all labor laws and regulations of each country and region, and under no circumstances shall we sanction the labor of underage employees, minors who do not meet the minimum legal age requirements (child labor), or labor performed under compulsion or against a person's will (forced labor). Related information Participation in the Global Compact (Page 55) Managing Human Rights Matters and Assessing Impact Identifying and Reducing Human Rights Risks Daikin identifies human rights issues in its business, assesses risk throughout the value chain, and lists risks that should be prioritized. In our operational risk management system, we identify human rights risks and reduce the chance of these occurring by creating countermeasures. Respect for Human Rights 294 Our CSR Action Plan 2020 stipulates respect for human rights. The quantitative index of respect for human rights is the execution rate of self assessments. Since respect for human rights is one of the criteria of the self assessments, they confirm how well Daikin is respecting the rights of individuals. The results of self assessments, as well as issues that come up and proposals for their solution, are reported to the Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee, thus ensuring this information is shared throughout the Daikin Group. Human Rights Risks in the Daikin Group Value Chain and Relation to Major Stakeholders Types of Related human rights Details of risks stakeholders risks Employees Eroding safety or health due to work accidents or poor working environment Suppliers Occupational Employees Suppliers safety and Noise, vibration, fires, etc. at bases Community health members Employees Child labor, forced labor Suppliers Harm to customers' life and health because of faulty products or services Customers Products and services Wrongful use or abuse—unforeseen by the company—of products or Customers technologies Customers Lack of concern for people because of their gender, or because they are Employees Discrimination members of indigenous groups, ethnic monitories, LGBT, immigrant laborers, Suppliers etc. (inappropriate language, advertising expressions, etc.) Community members Employees Suppliers Air and water pollution, misuse of natural resources Community Communities members Community Procurement of conflict minerals associated with inhumane acts members Procurement of conflict minerals mined under inhumane conditions Suppliers Customers Leakage of personal information Suppliers Employees Societies and government Customers Suppliers Violation of human rights-related laws Community members Employees Respect for Human Rights 295 Related information Philosophy on Suppliers (Page 300) Dealing with Human Rights Risks Respecting Human Rights in the Supply Chain Formulated in April 2017, Daikin's Supply Chain CSR Promotion Guidelines stipulate mechanisms and rules for protecting human rights; for example, a system for monitoring human rights and the prohibition of child labor and forced labor. Our suppliers are urged to abide by these guidelines. In the air conditioning divisions, we confirm that the worldwide bases of our major suppliers are not violating human rights in any way based on these guidelines. In our Chemicals Division, every year in April as part of ongoing assessments, we have suppliers fill out questionnaires to diagnose their own compliance and that of their external providers. These questionnaires contain items on human rights and thus tell us what suppliers are doing in this respect. In addition, we take part in the subcommittee on supply chains of the Global Compact Network Japan, the local body of the UN Global Compact. The subcommittee is made up of UN Global Compact member companies and organizations. In fiscal 2107, we strove to step up our human rights-related efforts by, for example, meeting with NGOs and NPOs to learn what other companies are doing with regards to human rights issues and to hear from experts on the subject. Response to Personal Data Regulations for EU Citizens Daikin has its own Group guidelines for the protection of personal information that it strictly enforces. These guidelines are the basis for promotion systems and rule systems of each Daikin Group company. In addition, we have formulated rules regarding the handling of personal data in the EU. These rules cover the requirements under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a regulation on the personal data of EU citizens. The Daikin rules cover protection measures for when personal data is taken out of the EU, the recording and control of how personal data is handled, and measures to ensure safe management of personal information. Every employee in the Daikin Group is familiarized with these rules. Briefing at a group company Respect for Human Rights 296 Related information Philosophy on Suppliers (Page 300) Human Rights Education Raising Human Rights Awareness through Periodic Education Sessions and Assessments Daikin strives to raise awareness of human rights among officers and employees through periodic education sessions and assessments. Through annual self assessments to confirm how well the Group Conduct Guidelines are being followed, employees assess themselves and thus contribute to their improved understanding of the guidelines. Human rights education for each level of employees helps them improve their human rights awareness. For example, at Daikin Industries, Ltd. training is held every year for all officers, new employees including those at affiliates, and newly appointed managers. To prevent harassment through improved employee awareness, efforts include training for career-path employees and educational posters around the company. In fiscal 2017, training was held for compliance and risk management leaders (CRLs) to deepen their understanding of diversity management. Respect for Human Rights 297 Sustainability Report 2 018 －Web version－ Supply Chain Management Philosophy on Suppliers……………………………… 300 Green Procurement Guidelines …………………… 311 Working Closely with Suppliers …………………… 305 Supply Chain Management 298 Fundamental CSR Supply Chain Management Policy Fulfill our social responsibility through environmental impact reduction, quality assurance, and occupational safety and health throughout the entire supply chain Working Closely with Green Procurement Philosophy on Suppliers Suppliers Guidelines We make efforts to engage in We make efforts to collaborate Based on our Green Procurement fair transactions with suppliers with suppliers to enhance Guidelines, we cooperate with and promote CSR initiatives product quality while supporting suppliers in conducting green throughout the supply chain. technological capability purchasing. improvements and safety countermeasures. Related information Green Procurement (Page 91) Supply Chain Management 299 Supply Chain Management PHILOSOPHY ON SUPPLIERS Basic Policy Dealings Based on Our Purchasing Policy Daikin formulated a Purchasing Policy in 1992 that is the basis for fair dealings with suppliers. Purchasing Philosophy and Purchasing Policy Purchasing Philosophy: Respect Independence and Cooperation and Competition Purchasing Policy: Fair relations based on an open-door policy Provide open, equal, and fair opportunities for all companies, regardless of their locality, size, and sales results. Mutual growth through mutual trust Create open conditions for business dealings and respect free competition. Look for good partners In procuring from overseas, look for companies to share common profit and offer society useful products. Observe laws, and maintain confidentiality Observe laws on business dealings and respect the spirit of these laws. Management System Giving All Suppliers an Equal Opportunity through an Open Door Policy Daikin has an open door policy on choosing suppliers in which we welcome bids from any company, regardless of nationality, size, or years in business. In our air conditioning divisions, information on product specs, desired quality and cost, and delivery times is posted on our website in order to achieve equality of opportunity. All companies satisfying our criteria become eligible to do business with us. In our Chemicals Division as well, we do business with any supplier meeting our criteria for specifications, quality, price, and delivery time. Supply Chain Management 300 CSR Procurement Formulation of Supply Chain CSR Promotion Guidelines Daikin's CSR Action Plan 2020, which is a medium-term plan taking up key CSR themes, proclaims that we will conduct socially responsible procurement as we tackle issues like the environment, human rights, and labor throughout the supply chain. In April 2017, Daikin formulated its Supply Chain CSR Promotion Guidelines. These guidelines aim to further CSR at suppliers and other partners through stable and ongoing growth. In addition to standard requirements such as proper management and abidance with laws and regulations, the guidelines urge suppliers to strive to be better in every aspect of CSR, such as improving performance in the environment, quality, labor safety, and human rights, and abstaining from dealing with companies in war-torn regions. Our air conditioner cooperative meeting is aimed at sharing information among suppliers and promoting exchange with other industries. At the fiscal 2017 meeting, we explained our CSR Promotion Guidelines and urged the 34 suppliers in attendance to comply with these. As part of ongoing assessments of our suppliers conducted every April in our Chemicals Division, we have them fill out questionnaires to diagnose their own compliance and that of their external providers. These questionnaires contain items related to CSR so that we can follow their progress in this area. Supply Chain CSR Promotion Guidelines 1. Policy regarding social responsibility in business practices Have written rules to inform employees of their social responsibilities and ensure they strictly fulfill such social responsibilities in areas such as business policy and code of conduct in business practices. 2. Provision of safe, high-quality products and services Always strive to ensure safety and quality of products for end users. If problems regarding safety arise, take action promptly and appropriately. 3. Free competition and fair trading Conduct company business activities in a fair manner by being compliant with laws and regulations related to free competition and fair trading, including antitrust laws in each country and region. 4. Compliance with trade-related laws and regulations Comply with trade-related laws and regulations of each country and region, and under no circumstances get involved in dealings that risk endangering world peace and safety and the maintenance of world order. 5. Respect and protection of intellectual property rights Respect the intellectual property rights of other companies and ensure not to infringe upon them. 6. Proper management and utilization of information Properly manage and efficiently utilize confidential information and personal information of your own and other companies, and always ensure that such information is obtained under lawful means. Supply Chain Management 301 7. Prohibition of insider trading To maintain trust as company, do not take a part in the buying and selling of stockshares with the aid of non-disclosed information obtained from your own or other companies (insider trading). 8. Timely and proper disclosure of corporate information When Daikin, based on appropriate reasons and situations, requests that you disclose information on your company, respond earnestly and in a timely manner, and strive for earnest two-way communication with Daikin. 9. Preservation of the global environment Comply with environment-related laws and regulations in each country and region, and implement activities to sustain and improve the global environment in all areas of business, including development, production, sales, logistics, and services. 10. Guarantee of safe operations Besides ensuring safety in the workplace, obtain the trust of stakeholders in the community by always putting safety first and by making every effort to ensure safe operations. 11. Respect for human rights and diversity, and compliance with labor-related laws Respect the human rights of each and every individual; do not in any way discriminate against people based on their nationality, race, ethnicity, religion, skin color, age, gender, birth, or disability; and respect people's diverse values and approaches to work. In addition, observe both the letter and spirit of all labor laws and regulations of each country and region, and under no circumstances sanction the labor of underage employees, minors who do not meet the minimum legal age requirements (child labor), or labor performed under compulsion or against a person’s will (forced labor). 12. Protection of Company Assets We shall properly manage the tangible and intangible assets of our company to protect and utilize effectively these assets. 13. Proper handling of accounting procedures Perform accounting procedures lawfully and properly according to accounting standards and tax laws, and strive for a high level of internal control. 14. Moderation in entertainment and gift exchanges Exercise moderation and perform within the acceptable range of social norms and obey the laws and regulations of each country and region in regards to entertainment and the exchange of gifts related to business activities. 15. Firm stance toward anti-social behavior Take a firm stance against anti-social forces or organizations that threaten the safety and order of citizens and society. 16. Compliance with industry laws and regulations Accurately comprehend and observe all business laws and regulations applicable to your company's business activities. 17. Proper grasp of industry risks and implementation of business continuity plans Conduct appropriate risk management in your company's business activities, and have a business continuity plan (BCP) in place. * BCP: Business Continuity Plan Green Procurement Ensures Thorough Chemicals Management Refer to Green Procurement (Environmental Management) (Page 91) Supply Chain Management 302 Dealings Based on Our Basic Policy Regarding Conflict Minerals Under 11. Respect for human rights and diversity, and compliance with labor-related laws of the Supply Chain CSR Promotion Guidelines, the Daikin Group does not use conflict minerals, which are mined under inhumane conditions in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or surrounding countries. In July 2013, we established our Basic Policy Regarding Conflict Minerals. In our air conditioning divisions, in fiscal 2016 we started an online registration system for results of conflict mineral surveys based on the latest Conflict Mineral Survey EICC Sheet*. This strengthens our system for surveying the procurement sources of conflict minerals. * Conflict Mineral Survey EICC Sheet: A standardized tool for surveying the source of conflict minerals; based on the Electronic Industry Code of Conduct, which stipulates standards covering areas such as labor and environment in the electronics industry supply chain. Basic Policy Regarding Conflict Minerals To ensure that Daikin does not inadvertently provide assistance to inhuman acts of armed groups in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and surrounding countries, we are taking active measures to uphold appropriate mineral procurement by raising transparency of the supply chain in cooperation with our global business partners. Regular Assessment of Suppliers to Review Business Relationship Before starting business dealings in Daikin, we ensure potential partners understand our Purchasing Policy, and we assess them on consistent standards. After business dealings begin, we conduct assessments based on ISO 9001 and then review the business relationship accordingly. In the air conditioning divisions, before we start transactions with new suppliers, we use the Supplier Assessment Standard Sheet to judge companies based on their administration, quality, price, delivery, and environmental measures. Suppliers continue to be assessed every year based on our Assessment System for Continuation of Business. Companies that do not meet our assessment standards are required to make improvement plans that we assist them in implementing. In the Chemicals Division, we assess new and existing suppliers based on ISO 9001 from the perspective of five criteria: management control, safety control, quality control, environmental control, and production control. In fiscal 2017, such assessments resulted in Daikin bringing on four new suppliers. We strive to fairly assess suppliers from multiple perspectives, having numerous Daikin representatives negotiate with them and making regular visits to their companies. Awards System for Suppliers Daikin Industries, Ltd. recognizes the ongoing contribution suppliers make through annual awards: the CEO Award, the COO Award, and the Special Award. Every fiscal year in each division, the supplier demonstrating the most outstanding contribution to development, production, quality, price, delivery, environment, and globalization receives the Special Award. From among the Special Award winners, all Daikin divisions get together to choose exemplary contribution and present the COO (chief operating officer) Award and the CEO (chief executive officer) Award. In addition, every 10 years, suppliers who achieve a certain average level of sales volume over five years and are poised to continue this level are rewarded for their years of service with the LongTerm Suppliers Award. Supply Chain Management 303 Risk Management in the Supply Chain Risk Management in the Supply Chain Risks in the supply chain include supply problems due to earthquakes and other natural disasters, bankruptcy due to suppliers' financial troubles, supply problems due to the breaking of laws and accidents, and stoppage of the international flow of goods due to political or economic problems in certain countries. We have created an in-house system for making quick decisions on suppliers affected by risk, and we update our databases as needed in order to improve our ability to deal with problems when they arise. Through our Global Supplier Conference, we work to adjust order volume, streamline costs, and ensure stable procurement in dealings with our 28 overseas supplier companies. Participating in Initiatives Participation in the UN Global Compact Since October 2008, Daikin Industries, Ltd. has been an official member of the UN Global Compact, an initiative of the United Nations. It is also a member of the local body Global Compact Network Japan. We take part in the subcommittee on supply chains, a subcommittee comprising representatives of member companies and organizations. Subcommittee members meet to discuss and exchange information on CSR efforts in the supply chain, and to collaborate and cooperate in order to advance these efforts and thus strengthen supply chain management. Related information Participation in the Global Compact (Page 55) Supply Chain Management 304 Supply Chain Management WORKING CLOSELY WITH SUPPLIERS Ensuring Legal Compliance in the Entire Supply Chain Doing Everything Possible to Help Suppliers Achieve Compliance Daikin strives to achieve legal compliance throughout the supply chain by doing everything possible to help suppliers abide by laws. In the air conditioning divisions, we raise supplier awareness through written requests for legal compliance and meetings four times a year at which we introduce case studies. When renewing agreements with suppliers, those that fail to meet our standards are asked to write up plans for improvement, which we follow up on. We are looking into conducting such follow-ups throughout the year, not just once a year, so that we can help suppliers raise their standards. We also provide information on compliance with environment-related laws on a special website for suppliers. In the Chemicals Division, we carry out unscheduled audits. During on-going assessments, we also have suppliers fill out questionnaires to diagnose their own compliance and that of their external providers. So that we can judge their progress, these sheets contain check items related to eliminating excessive and unfair labor, and the respect of human rights at supplier companies. Ensuring Compliance with the Subcontract Act There are several thousand Daikin suppliers and subcontractors covered by the Subcontract Act. Our Subcontract Act Compliance Guidelines ensure that all Daikin divisions are in compliance with the Act in respect to matters such as prompt payment. We constantly strive to raise awareness among employees in relevant divisions of the importance of compliance through both in-house and third-party seminars. Comprehensive compliance inspections ensure that appropriate payment methods are being followed. We also constantly check the financial situation of subcontractor suppliers and production outsource suppliers and, if necessary, implement assistance measures such as relaxation of payment methods. Helping Suppliers Build Environmental Management Systems Daikin Industries, Ltd. requires that its suppliers abide by the Green Procurement Guidelines and that they establish and operate their own environmental management systems. Amidst increasingly strict chemical control laws, in January 2017 we published a revised edition (9th edition) of our Green Procurement Guidelines, which adds banned chemical substances (BNST and PHAs) to the list of designated chemical substances. We require suppliers to have an environmentand quality-based supply chain under which they strictly execute environmental management systems they have established themselves. Using a green procurement survey, Daikin Industries, Ltd. determines the effectiveness of suppliers' environmental management systems. In fiscal 2017, we added an item about water resources protection to the survey in order to gather information on the amounts of water that suppliers use and dispose of. Supply Chain Management 305 In fiscal 2016, as a new part of our CSR procurement efforts, we again surveyed suppliers on their use of conflict minerals (the four minerals of gold, tantalum, tin, and tungsten, which are mined in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and surrounding countries and are used by rebel groups to purchase weapons). In fiscal 2017 as well, we used the latest conflict minerals guide to conduct a survey designating the latest conflict mineral mines. Related information Green Procurement (Page 91) Green Procurement Guidelines (Page 311) Raising Product Quality and Ensuring Safety Together with Suppliers Suppliers Take Part in Quality Improvement Conferences, Receive Quality Guidance In our air conditioning divisions, we hold supplier briefings to enlist the help of suppliers in improving quality and achieving zero defects. We also hold the monthly Supplier Quality Conference as a focus on quality for specific Daikin suppliers. If a supplier delivers defective parts, we assess and analyze the quality of the parts we purchase and, in serious cases, request that suppliers report on improvement efforts at quality improvement announcement meetings and quality improvement proposal meetings. We also conduct a range of other activities in support of quality improvement at our suppliers; for example, we visit suppliers' factories to offer assistance, we dispatch our Takumi, who have been certified as outstanding engineers in Daikin Industries, Ltd., and we encourage suppliers to take part in Daikin skills competitions. Our annual technical exchange meetings provide an opportunity to share information with suppliers. At the fiscal 2017 meeting, representatives from 60 companies touched on 102 topics. In our Chemicals Division, we hold an annual quality forum for sharing Daikin quality policies and giving suppliers a chance to report on their quality improvement activities. We also conduct quality audits at suppliers to ensure they are conducting measures to maintain and improve quality. And we hold technical exchange meetings, where Daikin and engineers at our suppliers work to jointly solve quality issues. Besides conducting periodic quality surveys at the production sites of suppliers to our worldwide bases, we hold meetings where we engage in dialogue with suppliers on ways to improve their quality. We will continue to strengthen communication with suppliers to ensure our products are of the highest quality. Supply Chain Management 306 Quality improvement announcement meeting Helping Suppliers Improve Quality Air Conditioning Divisions Daikin Industries, Ltd.'s policy and progress are explained and legal Supplier meetings compliance is stressed through model examples. (4 times/year, 128 companies took part in fiscal 2017) Supplier Quality Parts we purchased are inspected each month for defects and quality Conference improvement measures carried out. (Each month) Quality improvement Suppliers with quality problems must report on improvement measures. announcement (In fiscal 2017, five quality improvement announcement meetings were meetings, quality held for a total of 20 companies and 215 quality improvement proposal improvement proposal meetings were held for 35 companies.) meetings Auditing institution conducts regular external audit, and internal audit Quality audits are conducted jointly in the Air Conditioning Manufacturing Division and at suppliers. (Audits were conducted at 117 companies in fiscal 2017.) Visits to suppliers Managers visit suppliers. Chemicals Division Introduction of Daikin Industries, Ltd.'s quality policy, defect rate and quality cost of Quality Forum purchased goods, quality differences among companies, and activities aimed at improving quality. (Once a year; 69 companies took part in fiscal 2017.) Suppliers who provided defective products underwent audits based on ISO 9001. Quality audits (Conducted at 9 companies in fiscal 2017.) Supply Chain Management 307 Aiming for Zero Defects through ZD Activities at Bases Worldwide Since fiscal 2007, the air conditioning divisions have been working with suppliers taking part in the Supplier Quality Conference in an initiative called ZD (zero defect) activities. The goal is to achieve zero defects through 3S (visual checks), preventative measures (look for potential problems in production processes), and prevention of reoccurring problems (through regular maintenance). In fiscal 2017, one ZD announcement meeting was held and 32 individual announcement meetings for 20 companies were held. These meetings contributed to preventing the occurrence of defects when new parts are introduced or when suppliers alter their production processes. ZD Activities with Suppliers Quality Control Training in Thailand In fiscal 2017, Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. hosted a training session, where representatives of 170 suppliers could acquire the knowledge and techniques necessary to improve quality. Also in fiscal 2017, executive management members visited suppliers to conduct quality patrols to inspect progress in quality improvement efforts. Quality control training session for suppliers Supply Chain Management 308 Business Partners Contribute to Plant Safety Providing Business Partners Working in Daikin Plants with Safety Information and Conducting On-Site Patrols Daikin Industries, Ltd. asks for business partners' cooperation in making plants safer. There are many employees of business partners working in Daikin plants. Safety patrols of the plants are conducted to help keep these people safe. We hold bi-monthly plant safety liaison meetings and weekly meetings for managers of human resource dispatch companies, all part of our efforts to provide awareness and information on safety in the plants. With so many vehicles entering and exiting plants, safe driving is crucial. That's why we hold regular driving safety seminars for delivery vehicle drivers to teach them traffic rules and promote safe driving. In the Chemicals Division, where the majority of the plants are staffed by partner companies, major safety inspection and maintenance work is conducted once a year. We have numerous measures to ensure the safety of all workers; for example, we hold safety workshops for subcontractor employees, installation practice sessions, and other advance preparation, and we provide workers with information on chemical substance toxicity with SDS (safety data sheets). In fiscal 2016, we began distributing a pocket-sized Safety Booklet with the goal of preventing accidents and calamities. This guide is aimed at helping workers who are unfamiliar with rules and their jobs confirm things they are not sure of immediately and on the spot. Also in fiscal 2017, the Chemicals Division held safety workshops in June with participation by approximately 360 drivers and truck delivery managers. Related information Occupational Safety and Health (Page 245) Supply Chain Management 309 Building a Relationship of Growth Communication is Key to Building Understanding and Trust Daikin takes every possible opportunity to communicate with suppliers and promote mutual understanding and trust. In the air conditioning divisions, the head and officers of the Global Procurement Division, and executives regularly visit suppliers, where they lead briefings, goodwill gatherings, and awards ceremonies as part of communication enhancement efforts. In April 2014, we re-started our air conditioner cooperative. The aim of this association is to provide the impetus for innovation leading to new and better manufacturing; for example, counter the weakening of Japan's manufacturing amidst intensifying globalization by helping make Japanese suppliers more internationally competitive and by boosting our ability to quickly respond to sudden changes such as exchange rates and market conditions. Through this association we hold information exchange gatherings four times a year, where we promote information sharing among suppliers, as well as debate among those in different sectors, so that we can build among them a relationship of mutual benefit and growth. In fiscal 2017, we focused on subcommittees in the air conditioner cooperative. Divided into the three categories of safety, delivery improvement, and rental assets, subcommittee meetings benefitted all participants by bringing together suppliers to share information and opinions on common concerns. In the Chemicals Division, besides the ongoing Quality Forum meetings, purchasing managers keep in close contact with suppliers to gather and exchange information in areas such as technology, quality, and prices. Any problems that come up are solved through extraordinary or emergency support requests to relevant divisions. Quality Forum sponsored by the Chemicals Division Supply Chain Management 310 Supply Chain Management GREEN PROCUREMENT GUIDELINES Green Procurement Guidelines Helping Suppliers be Legally Compliant Daikin established the Green Procurement Guidelines, and it has been promoting environmental management throughout the entire supply chain in order to provide more environmentally responsible products. In January 2017, we published a revised ninth edition of the Green Procurement Guidelines. At our major manufacturing bases in Japan, China, and Southeast Asia, we help suppliers abide by the Green Procurement Guidelines and inspect products from our suppliers to determine the chemical substances they contain. To help suppliers comply with laws and regulations, we hold the Supplier Cooperative, through which we share information on environmentally related laws and how the Daikin Group abides by these. This information is released on our website. Overview of the Green Procurement Guidelines (PDF file) Guidelines PDF Data (356KB)(Jan.2017 revised) (http://www.daikin.com/csr/supplier/guidelines.pdf) Green Procurement Inspection List PDF Data (390KB)(Jan.2017 revised) (http://www.daikin.com/csr/supplier/inspection.pdf) Supply Chain Management 311 Sustainability Report 2 018 －Web version－ Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement …………………………… 314 Dialogue with Government and Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors ……… 316 Industry Groups ……………………………………… 319 Stakeholder Engagement 312 Fundamental CSR Stakeholder Engagement Policy Engage in dialogue with all members of society and reflect outside opinions in our business, and continuously examine our actions to ensure that we meet society's demands and expectations Dialogue with Dialogue with Shareholders Stakeholder Engagement Governments and Industry and Investors Groups The Daikin Group uses every The Daikin Group takes To alleviate and solve society's means possible to gather the increasing responsibility to problems, the Daikin Group opinions of stakeholders and release information on its actively pursues dialogue with reflect them in our management, business situation promptly and concerned parties, offering all with a focus on engaging our properly. We are particularly proposals and calling for action. stakeholders. diligent about being transparent with our shareholders and investors. Stakeholder Engagement 313 Stakeholder Engagement STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Basic Policy So that we can continue to contribute to society, the Daikin Group uses every means possible to gather the opinions of stakeholders, report these to company officers, and reflect them in our management, all with a focus on stakeholder engagement*. The Daikin Group's main stakeholders are the customers to whom we provide the Group's products and services, those directly affected by our business including shareholders, investors, employees, and business partners, as well as members of local communities, who are affected by our business activities. Moreover, the national and local governments of the countries where we do business, and those countries' industry groups, are connected to our efforts to improve environmental performance and disseminate environmental technologies. But no single group of stakeholders has priority over another; they are all important to the Daikin Group. * Stakeholder engagement The process of being actively involved with one or more stakeholders through dialogue or other means, with the aim of achieving a mutually acceptable outcome, in the course of a corporation's integration of its social responsibility into day to day practice. (From the Keidanren's Charter of Corporate Behavior) Stakeholder Engagement 314 Stakeholder Engagement Efforts Main dialogue methods and Main dialogue Stakeholders opportunities representatives at Daikin Daily sales activities Contact Center Showrooms Sales divisions Customer (Page 207) Dialogue during repair visits Service Division “Thank You” sales events and product explanations at distributors Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders General Affairs Department Shareholders and investors Briefings for investors Corporate Communication (Page 316) Annual Report, business reports Division Information for investors on Website Daily procurement activities Supplier briefings Procurement business partners Supplier Quality Conferences Procurement Division (Page 299) Quality improvement announcement meetings Quality audits Interviews based on employee selfassessments Human Resources Division Labor-management council meetings, Employees (Page 228) Corporate Planning labor union council meetings Department Group Management Meeting Global managers’ meetings Informing local community of emergency disaster drills Companies Factory tours for local citizens Communities (Page 324) workplaces Involvement with local groups and CSR Division events Providing environmental education NPOs, NGOs (Page 319) Dialogue with NPOs and NGOs CSR Division Dialogue with government representatives in each country Companies National and local governments, Dialogue with UN representatives workplaces industry, academia (Page 319) Participation in industry activities PR divisions Research in joint industry–academia CSR Division initiatives Research Department Air Conditioner Forums Stakeholder Engagement 315 Stakeholder Engagement DIALOGUE WITH SHAREHOLDERS AND INVESTORS Basic Policy Daikin Industries, Ltd. places the utmost importance on its responsibility of providing stakeholders with timely, proper information disclosure. In particular, we believe it is our duty to raise management transparency by disclosing information to shareholders and investors in every possible way. To this end, we have a Disclosure Policy that stipulates standards and methods for information disclosure. In accordance with our Disclosure Policy and the Tokyo Stock Exchange's standards for timely information disclosure, we use our website, news organizations, and the TD-NET online system provided by the Tokyo Stock Exchange to disclose information on recalls, the occurrence of loss on valuation of securities, and decisions such as the establishment of sales companies. In addition, for product, technical, and other information that we decide must be made public, we do so after consultation between the relevant company divisions. Related information Disclosure Policy (http://www.daikin.com/investor/management/disclosure/index.html) Disclosing Information in a Fair and Timely Manner Maximizing Information Disclosure through Briefings and Our Website Daikin Industries, Ltd. conducts a range of IR activities aimed at improving understanding in areas like our company's current state and management philosophy for shareholders and investors. For analysts and institutional investors, we hold interim and end-of-year financial performance briefings, and conference calls every first and third financial quarter. In addition, we visit and hold talks with institutional investors in Japan and other countries. We speak with investors on nearly 350 occasions through business briefings, factory tours, and face-to-face meetings. We try to provide a wealth of information on the IR site of our home page and disclose information— including documents required by law such as securities reports and documents related to our business performance—in a prompt, fair, and timely manner. Our top executives also strive to relay firsthand company philosophy and direction in as many ways as possible. Stakeholder Engagement 316 The opinions from shareholders and investors are reflected in our management. Since fiscal 2010, the Tokyo Branch has had an IR manager in charge of media relations, and this has allowed us to better meet the information needs of institutional investors. We will continue to stress dialogue with all investors and do everything we can to disclose information through a range of media. End-of-year financial performance briefing for analysts and institutional investors Respect for Exercising Voting Rights Helping More Shareholders Exercise Voting Rights To ensure that shareholders have more time to consider new proposals before voting at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, we send announcements of the meeting at least a week earlier than is legally required, and we post the information on the Daikin website and on the website of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. To remedy the discrepancy in information available in Japan and other countries, we translate announcements of shareholder meetings into English and send these to overseas institutional investors, we have an English version of our website, and we post the results of shareholder voting on our website. We strive to get as many shareholders as possible to exercise their voting rights by allowing voting over the Internet: those who cannot attend meetings in person can still exercise their voting rights by personal computer or mobile phone. We have also adopted a platform for exercising voting rights, which makes it even easier for institutional investors to vote. As a result of these efforts, the percentage of voting rights exercised reached 89.5% in fiscal 2017. The number of votes cast over the Internet also increased to 1,744,888 in fiscal 2017 (1,020 shareholders). Stakeholder Engagement 317 Voting Rights Exercised Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Voting rights exercised 82.1 83.2 85.7 86.8 89.5 Votes cast over the Internet 1,337,000 1,443,620 1,495,992 1,596,419 1,744,888 Shareholders voting online 868 923 902 921 1,020 Breakdown of Shareholders (March 31, 2018) Stakeholder Engagement 318 Stakeholder Engagement DIALOGUE WITH GOVERNMENT AND INDUSTRY GROUPS Dialogue with Experts and CSR-Related Groups Worldwide Air Conditioner Forums, Konwakai, Discuss the Future of Air Conditioning Since 1995, the Daikin Group has been holding Air Conditioner Forums in Japan to exchange opinions with experts on the future of air conditioning. With the rapid globalization of our business, since fiscal 2007 these forums have spread worldwide: to Europe, China, the U.S., Asia and Oceania, and Latin America. At each Konwakai, we exchange ideas and opinions on environment and energy with local experts, and the information we gather is reflected in the development of technologies and products, and in how we pursue business. In fiscal 2017, we held Air Conditioner Forums six times in the five global regions. In April 2017, we also held our first Air Conditioner Forums in Latin America, where the theme was progress in energy-efficient and environmental technologies with the goal of creating a sustainable society. At the Air Conditioner Forums, we introduced Daikin's technologies and efforts aimed at achieving this goal, and we exchanged opinions and ideas with participants who included officials of various governments and university professors. Besides our participation so far in international conferences of groups such as the Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industry Association (JRAIA) and the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE), we took part in the International Sorption Heat Pump Conference (ISHPC 2017) in August 2017 in Tokyo, and we will take part in the 9th Asian Conference on Refrigeration and Air-conditioning (ACRA 2018) in June 2018 in Sapporo. Air Conditioner Forum in Latin America Stakeholder Engagement 319 Fiscal 2017 Air Conditioner Forums Region Main discussion topics Invited guests Total of 22 from 11 Green buildings, demand-response, indoor air quality, countries; university Asia, Oceania outlook for air conditioning business, Daikin's policy on professors, specialists, refrigerant environmental issues etc. Total of 25 from 7 Progress in energy efficiency and environmental countries; university Latin America technologies toward building a sustainable society professors, specialists, etc. Themes were ICT and future of air conditioning and construction, demand-side-centered society (DSS Cumulative total of 23 technicians who will support Industry 4.0 society of for the year; Japan automation and data exchange) university professors, Introduction to Daikin's response to BIM, and Daikin's specialists, etc. product strategy and CSR efforts Total of 28 from 11 Introduction to Daikin's efforts in environmental countries; university North America technologies and energy efficiency, situation in North professors, specialists, American air conditioning market etc. Energy performance evaluation of buildings and its Total of 20 from 16 effect on selection of air conditioners, and role and countries; university Europe significance of standardization that will expand professors, specialists, innovation in indoor air quality etc. Active Information Exchange with NPOs and NGOs We take every possible opportunity to exchange opinions with a range of environmental NPOs and NGOs. In fiscal 2017, we took part in technical information exchange events with American NGOs working on issues such as climate change and energy efficiency, including the Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC), the Alliance to Save Energy (ASE), and the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy (ACCC). The goal of such talks is to deepen and further debate on these issues in the U.S., where environmental measures have been slow in getting implemented under the Trump administration. We are looking to increase the frequency of such information exchanges as we study the direction that Daikin's environmental actions should take. Stakeholder Engagement 320 Dialogue session with an American NGO Participating in CSR-Related Groups and Collaborating with Other Companies The Daikin Group takes part whenever possible in the activities of various CSR-related groups under the auspices of, for example, the United Nations and the Japanese government. Besides discussions and information exchange with these groups on CSR philosophy and actions, we also collaborate with other private companies in order to step up our CSR activities and improve the content of our efforts. In fiscal 2017, we took part in subcommittees of the Global Compact Network Japan, a CSR research conference, and the Eco-First Promotion Conference. Related information Participation in the Global Compact (Page 55) Endorsement as an Eco First Company (Page 186) Daikin Cooperates in Formation of Environmental Policy Daikin Calls on All Concerned Parties to Participate in Selection of Next-Generation Refrigerants As it does business in countries around the world, the Daikin Group ties up and cooperates with national and local governments and industry groups to come up with proposals and to call on all parties concerned for the betterment of society. Particularly in the area of selecting and enacting the use of next-generation refrigerants, we are participating in international conferences, seminars, academic conferences, and exhibitions and working closely with representatives of industry groups, UN organs, and environmental ministries of governments, discussing regulations, standards, and refrigerant trends and efforts to phase out certain refrigerants, and providing as much information as possible to help countries choose the new refrigerants that are best for them. We plan to continue sharing information on refrigerant technology with the relevant people around the world. Stakeholder Engagement 321 Daikin Joins Projects by Japanese Government and International Organizations In fiscal 2017, Daikin again joined other companies in carrying out a basic survey that will be used to create a scheme in Sri Lanka for disseminating air conditioners using low-GWP refrigerants, as well as recovering, recycling, and destroying refrigerants. The survey is part of support for emerging countries under Japan's Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI). In fiscal 2016, under the survey covering 40 factories in 13 industrial parks in Sri Lanka, information was gathered on air conditioner electricity consumption and refrigerants, and calculations were made on potential CO2 emission reductions. In addition, hearings were held on progress in the recovery, recycling, and destruction of refrigerants that will accompany the switch to energy-efficient air conditioners. Based on information gathered, participants studied the possibilities for creating a new scheme. In fiscal 2017, low-GWP air conditioners were installed in classrooms at a vocational training school in Sri Lanka so that verification testing could be carried out under actual conditions. Students at the vocational school not only learned how to install the air conditioners but also learned how to take efficient measurements so that they could carry these out on their own. In addition, after a series of discussions with the Sri Lankan government regarding the new scheme, the parties managed to come up with a proposal that would contribute to the creation of a scheme. At an announcement event held in unison with the government of Sri Lanka, attended by more than 70 members of government, academic associations, and industry, we strove to raise awareness of the importance of disseminating energy-efficient products and recovering, recycling, and destroying refrigerants. Also at the meeting, the principal of the vocational training school, which conducted verification tests with actual air conditioners, spoke about what the school's students learned through the Daikin training about things like improved installation service and the collection and recycling of refrigerants. This talk by a local participant about the importance of this initiative, given based on firsthand experience, prompted many in attendance to voice their approval of this joint effort. The Sri Lankan government has shown a strong desire to continue with this effort, and plans are to carry out verification of the proposed scheme in the next fiscal year and beyond. In fiscal 2016, a Daikin project proposal to disseminate environmentally conscious, high-efficiency air conditioners in Mexico was chosen by the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) as a project to disseminate private enterprise technologies. This was followed by the adoption of a project in Brazil in fiscal 2017. As in Mexico, in Brazil Daikin conducted measurement testing of high-efficiency air conditioners using the R-32 refrigerant, and subsequently quantified the effects of using these products. Daikin also shared with the Brazilian government knowledge on making energy-efficiency-related policies. We will strive to build markets for energy-efficient products in Mexico and Brazil and subsequently aim to expand in the entire South American Market. Stakeholder Engagement 322 Sustainability Report 2 018 －Web version－ Communities Daikin s Philosophy of Social Contribution……… 326 Harmony with Communities Protecting the Environment ………………………… 327 ̶ Contributing to Promotion of Art and Culture 359 Supporting Education ………………………………… 331 Harmony with Communities Harmony with Communities ̶ Contributing to Promotion of Sports ………… 362 ̶ Strengthening Bonds ……………………………… 338 List of Daikin's Social Contribution Activities …… 365 Communities 323 Fundamental CSR Communities Policy Respect the culture and history of different countries and regions, and create strong bonds with communities as a good corporate citizen Daikin's Philosophy of Protecting the Environment Supporting Education Social Contribution We aim to be a company firmly The Daikin Group provides The Daikin Group contributes to rooted in the regions where we people around the world with a society through state-of-the-art do business and we strive to clean air environment, and we technologies, and we support contribute in ways that benefit contribute to solving the education of future each region. environmental problems on a generations in order to global scale. contribute to the advancement of technology and the creation of a sustainable society. Communities 324 Harmony with Communities Harmony with Communities Harmony with Communities —Contributing to —Contributing to —Strengthening Bonds Promotion of Art and Promotion of Sports Culture We provide the regions where To achieve harmony with To achieve harmony with we do business with the support communities, we contribute to communities, we contribute to they need in order to help them the promotion of the culture and the promotion of sports in each progress proactively. art of each country and region. country and region. List of Daikin's Social Contribution Activities Here is a list of all the social contribution activities undertaken by the Daikin Group around the world. Related information Report by Business Site (https://www.daikin.com/csr/report/site_data/ ) Forests for the Air Project (https://www.daikin.com/csr/forests/) Communities 325 Communities DAIKIN'S PHILOSOPHY OF SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Basic Policy Three Pillars: Protecting the Environment, Supporting Education, Living in Harmony with Communities The Daikin Group does business globally and strives to be a locally rooted company wherever it operates, with its employees taking the initiative in conducting activities that are valuable to local society. Our Group Conduct Guidelines are the basis for action that Daikin employees must take, and they clearly state our aim of being a good corporate citizen that is trusted by society. Under our Group Conduct Guidelines, based on our three pillars of protecting the environment, supporting education, and living in harmony with communities, we use our management resources to contribute to society in every way possible. 1. Protecting the Environment As a worldwide provider of pleasant air environments, we contribute to solving environmental problems on a global scale. A particular focus is on activities that ensure we pass on to future generations the forests that nurture our Earth's precious air. 2. Supporting Education By contributing state-of-the-art technologies to society, we support education for future generations and help build a society where both technological advancement and sustainability are possible. 3. Living in Harmony with Communities In conducting our business around the world, we help communities to progress proactively by providing them with the support they need in the areas of local culture, arts, sports, and disaster relief. Daikin values its partnership with communities. We strive to contribute to society by donating money and goods, volunteering in various activities, and holding community events. Social Contribution Expenses 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total (millions of yen) 1,175 1,220 1,286 1,548 1,623 Communities 326 Communities PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Basic Policy Daikin works with a range of groups, including governments, local citizens, and NGOs, to protect and rejuvenate precious natural environments around the world as well as the natural environments around Daikin's worldwide bases. Examples of Initiatives Forests for the Air Project Underway in 7 Locations Worldwide Daikin works together with international NGO Conservation International (CI) and the Shiretoko Nature Foundation in carrying out the Forests for the Air project in seven regions around the world. In Shiretoko (Japan), Indonesia, Brazil, Cambodia, India, China, and Liberia, Daikin employees, local governments, NGOs, and customers cooperate in efforts to help locals earn a livelihood while also protecting forests. The goal by 2024 is to protect forests covering some 11 million hectares and contribute to reducing 7 million tons CO2 emissions. Through forest protection, the project aims to solve social problems like poverty and contribute to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Related information Forests for the Air Project (https://www.daikin.com/csr/forests/) Key Activities of Fiscal 2014: Contributing to Environmental Protection (http://www.daikin.com/csr/feature2014/05.html ) Daikin Supports Environmental Protection on the Shiretoko Peninsula In July 2011, Daikin, the Shiretoko Nature Foundation, and the towns of Shari and Rausu signed an agreement to protect the wilderness of the Shiretoko Peninsula, a UNESCO World Natural Heritage Site. In 2016, the parties signed an agreement for the second phase of this effort as part of Daikin's Forests for the Air project, under which Daikin will provide financial support and send volunteers for a period lasting until the end of March 2024. By contributing to reforestation and education support, and by helping ensure that the human and bear populations live in harmony, we are striving to preserve the forests of Shiretoko for future generations. In fiscal 2017, 11 Daikin employees volunteered to go to Shiretoko in May to plant seedlings to contribute to reforestation. In September, 12 employees went to put up windbreak fences to protect the young trees and to create plant nurseries. Communities 327 The twelfth excursion to Shiretoko by Daikin volunteers The thirteenth excursion to Shiretoko by Daikin (May 2017) volunteers (September 2017) Wild animals in Shiretoko Brown bears Yezo deer Steller's sea eagle Trout Related information Protecting the Natural Environment of Shiretoko: People and Nature Living in Harmony (https://www.daikin.com/csr/shiretoko/) Working on Reforestation in Indonesia Since June 2008, Daikin has been working with international NGO Conservation International (CI) on a reforestation project in Gunung Gede Pangrango National Park in Java Island to rejuvenate the forest and its ecosystems. This is part of Daikin's Forests for the Air project. This national park is covered with valuable tropical forests that are home to many unique species designated as endangered. But in the last several decades, there has been rapid deforestation as social problems such as poverty have forced people to clear land for agriculture and cut down trees to support their lifestyle. Toward solving this problem, Daikin is contributing to reforestation but also offering support to secure alternate livelihoods for residents to reduce their dependence on cutting down trees. So far under this project, about 150,000 trees (local species) were planted on about 300 hectares with the help of 644 local farmers and 20 national park rangers. Communities 328 We have been supporting farming that utilizes the replanted areas (agroforestry), providing environmental education, and helping residents build a foundation for their lifestyles. We have also helped bring the natural gift of water and hydropower to households in these areas. Thanks to these efforts, residents can enjoy more convenience and sanitation, and better appreciate the importance of the forest, with the result that they are more eager to protect their natural resources. Through forest conservation activities like this, Daikin is contributing to the achievement of SDGs by helping solve social problems such as poverty. Helping create a livelihood for local Helping create a livelihood for local farmers: Preparing cucumbers grown farmers: Fresh-water fish in the planted forest to be sold in aquaculture The seedlings planted have grown the market (c) Conservation International, Photo into trees (c) Conservation International, Photo by Anton Ario (c) Conservation International, Photo by Anton Ario by Anton Ario The reforestation project in Indonesia is a joint effort between Daikin and customers who use its products The reforestation project allows Daikin customers to contribute to reforestation while they enjoy operating their air conditioners in an energy efficient way. Each time a customer in Japan pushes the Comfortable eco operation button on the remote control of Daikin's Urusara (R-Series) residential air conditioner, an illustration of a tree on the remote control's screen grows a little bigger. When the tree becomes full grown (when 10 points are accumulated), the customer's name is listed as one of the supporters at a site of a reforestation project. In fiscal 2017, 390 customers were registered as project supporters. The board shows the names of Daikin customers who support reforestation Communities 329 Related information Reforestation in Indonesia (https://www.daikin.com/csr/environment/reforestation/index.html) Daikin's forest protection initiative in Indonesia won the Aroma Environment Association of Japan Prize in the 2016 Contest for Corporate Activities on Biodiversity, which honors companies and individuals who pursue the protection and rejuvenation of biodiversity. Daikin contributes to the local environment through biodiversity preservation activities on its bases and their surrounding areas. Related information Projects in Surrounding Neighborhoods (Protecting Biodiversity) (Page 181) Efforts at Bases (Protecting Biodiversity) (Page 177) Communities 330 Communities SUPPORTING EDUCATION Policy on Contributing to Education The Daikin Group, through its local companies, supports education for youth. By donating financial aid, offering technical courses, and conducting grass-roots activities, we seek to cooperate with and gain the trust of local communities. Efforts in Japan Daikin Develops the Circle of Life Free Environmental Education Program on Biodiversity for Elementary School Children Daikin Industries, Ltd., in cooperation with NGO Conservation International (CI), our partner in reforestation activities, has developed an environmental education program called Circle of Life, to teach elementary school children about biodiversity. The program focuses on Daikin's reforestation efforts in Indonesia. The lessons keep children interested and eager as they take part in role-playing and other activities that teach them how changes in ecosystems affect their lives and how their lives in Japan are related to the world's environmental problems. The course covers four lessons in the classroom, and schools can request to have extra lessons taught by Daikin employees. Since April 2010, Daikin has been providing schools all over Japan with free teaching materials. In fiscal 2017, approximately 1,700 students from 26 schools took part in the program, and 14 of these welcomed Daikin employees to lead the lessons. In fiscal 2014, for its Circle of Life education program, Daikin received the Award for Excellence at the Career Education Awards sponsored by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan. Communities 331 A Daikin Industries, Ltd. employee leads an environmental Students role-play in a forestry issues discussion lesson at a school Related information Circle of Life Environmental Education program (available in Japanese only) (http://www.daikin.co.jp/csr/edu/) Daikin Leads Science Classes at Elementary Schools In support of the Sakai Municipal Board of Education's initiative to implement special classes on science, Daikin employees take on the role of teachers in science experiments in schools. The children conduct actual experiments in which, for example, they see how an air conditioner conveys heat and cools the air, and how an air purifier uses electricity to collect dust. In fiscal 2017, approximately 1,300 students at 13 elementary schools took part. Classroom science experiment using an air conditioner Science Classes at Junior High Schools Since fiscal 2015, we have been collaborating with Osaka Prefecture University on a program to teach experiment-based science classes at junior high schools in Sakai City, Osaka Prefecture in order to foster the next generation of scientists. With the aim of giving youngsters the opportunity to think and act with an open mind, Daikin employees take the part of instructors in leading science experiments. In fiscal 2016, we held classes at fuha:OSAKA for 22 junior high school students on the theme of how air conditioners cool the air. Communities 332 Junior high school students learn how an air purifier works Participation in Local Education Programs Following a request from the Kamisu Municipal Board of Education, the Daikin Industries, Ltd. Kashima plant has been conducting educational presentations at local elementary schools since 2010 to get children interested in science. Members of the company's Security Control Department, Chemicals Division, Kashima Production Division, and Engineering Division take the role of instructors and give upper-class students hands-on lessons. Daikin brought enough teaching materials and equipment for all students to observe and take part in experiments and thus ensure that each and every student experienced firsthand the joy of science. The program is improved each year by having students write their feelings and opinions following the classes. In fiscal 2017, while touching on the environmental contributions by Daikin Industries, Ltd. and the features of products made by the Chemicals Division, nine experiments involving surface tension were conducted, including a Daikin water repellent agent used to scoop up super balls and a cloth that does not get dirty, among other experiences enabling students to learn about Daikin products and the fun of science. Daikin employees (from the Kashima Plant) lead an elementary school class Communities 333 Factory Tours for Elementary and Junior High School Students We open our plants to the community by conducting tours for the local community association and elementary and junior high school children. In fiscal 2017, the Yodogawa Plant held factory tours for 117 students of two nearby elementary schools. The students observed the Eco-Cute storage tank line and tried their hand at attaching O-rings. In addition, an exhibition introducing Daikin technologies through easily understandable displays, including experiments in chemistry (fluoropolymer repellent) and air conditioning (cooling mechanism), was held at the Technology Innovation Center (TIC), which opened in November 2015. In response to visitors who expressed an interest in exploring the TIC Forest at the entrance of the building, a forest walk and observation tour was conducted. At the Shiga Plant, tours were conducted for 137 students from an elementary and junior high school in Kusatsu City. In addition to observing the residential air conditioner manufacturing process, elementary school students searched for flora and fauna endemic to the region in the Shiga Forest located inside the plant and learned about the environment by experiencing the temperature differences between forest and grassland. The plant also welcomed visits from six other schools, including a technical college and an overseas university. A factory tour at the Yodogawa Plant Experience our technology at TIC Knowledge Forest Communities 334 Hands-On Events Foster Interest in Technology Events such as science experiments for junior high school students and air conditioner disassembly for elementary school students were held. Through hands-on activities such as taking apart air conditioners to see how heat pumps work, participants understand the importance of the environment and what Daikin is doing to protect it. In fiscal 2017, fuha:TOKYO hosted a cumulative total of 240 people at its events while fuha:OSAKA welcomed 700. Hands-on event at fuha:TOKYO Related information See the following for more about fuha, Daikin's hands-on showrooms. (http://www.daikin.co.jp/fuha/) Supporting Japanese Students Studying Overseas Daikin Industries, Ltd. sponsors a program, run by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, to send Japanese high school and university students overseas. By providing this program through scholarships and other means, Daikin Industries, Ltd. is contributing to more opportunities for young Japanese to see the world and grow into global citizens who respect a wide range of values. Communities 335 Efforts Overseas Training Technical School Students in Emerging Countries We offer scholarships and take in interns as part of efforts to provide technical school students in emerging countries with better employment opportunities. We also have tours of our worldwide factories to raise interest in technology among local students. Further, Daikin donates air-conditioners to technical schools used for instruction in technical training and supports the development of engineers essential for the spread of air conditioning. Factory tour for high school students (Daikin America, Tour for university students to learn about quality control Inc.) (Daikin Air-Conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.) Factory tour for university students (Daikin Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.) Communities 336 Supporting Construction of Day-Care Centers and Schools Daikin Europe N.V. supported the construction of a day-care center in Gambia where 181 children attend. Daikin Airconditioning India Pvt. Ltd. provided support for four public schools in the form of repairs to walls and doors, the installation of potable water facilities, washrooms, and fans, and the provision of desks and chairs. Daikin Airconditioning India Pvt. Ltd. supported the installation of this school washroom Related information List of Support for Education (List of Daikin's Social Contribution Activities) (Page 371) Report by Business Site (https://www.daikin.com/csr/report/site_data/) Communities 337 Communities HARMONY WITH COMMUNITIES— STRENGTHENING BONDS Philosophy We want to be a good corporate citizen by being keen to the problems of the communities we operate in and conducting activities that lead to solutions. Employees at regional Daikin bases have planned ways to interact with local communities. Employees will continue to be front and center by listening to the needs of the community: this will make Daikin a known and trusted member of local society. Building Trust with Communities Responding Sincerely to Opinions from Local Communities Each company site has an office or representative assigned to promote communication with local communities. Assigned personnel hold regular meetings with local community representatives and take other measures to proactively promote company-community interactions and receive any community complaints. And with the aim of being a plant open to the community, each Daikin company site welcomes community associations and citizens for factory tours. Designees at each company site look into complaints and suggestions from local community members and, if necessary, discuss them to the relevant departments of the Headquarters, and then make a sincere effort to respond. Communities 338 Correspondence between Company Sites and Local Community Members Site Type of Correspondence Group meeting with local community association (once yearly) Community interactions via municipal government, police, fire departments, Sakai Plant and labor standards office Participation in the Sakai City environmental executive committee Visits to companies in industrial park (once yearly) Information exchanges with major local companies (twice yearly) Visits to local businesses and neighboring community association boards (about twice yearly) Shiga Plant Interactions with relevant public offices and affiliated organizations (attendance at general meetings and board meetings with the municipal office, police, fire departments, and other related departments) (when necessary; about four times yearly) Local community association board factory tour and group meeting (once yearly) Exchange with local community association (4 times a year) Group meetings to discuss association activities and various topics with Yodogawa Plant municipal government, police, fire departments, and labor standards office, etc. Providing human resources and other assistance for various local community activities Administrative board factory tour Kashima Plant Attendance at cordial gatherings meetings Attendance at regional meetings of the Japan Responsible Care Council Meetings and talks with municipal government and nearby neighborhood Soka Station associations Participation in fire department, police, and industry associations A Safe Plant Open to the Community The Daikin Group does all it can to make its plants safe so that nearby residents can live in peace of mind. When there is noise or vibration from operations of a plant, we set up a number that residents can call so that we can quickly deal with any complaints. Besides group meetings with community associations to discuss topics like safety and disaster prevention, Daikin plant employees take part in local disaster prevention drills as part of their efforts to work with the community in making Daikin facilities safe. Communities 339 Disaster Preparedness and Disaster Prevention Drills at All Sites The Daikin Group has measures in place at all sites should there ever be a natural disaster. Besides providing its factories as evacuation shelters in the event of a disaster, Daikin companies have supplies of food, water, and emergency equipment. In August 2012, Japan's Central Disaster Management Council announced the damage estimated in case of the possible future major earthquake along the Nankai trough. In case of such an earthquake, all relevant Daikin bases are ready to use their experience from the Great East Japan Earthquake of March 2011, and they have revised measures based on the predictions of the Central Disaster Management Council. Daikin sites hold disaster prevention drills every year, which are analyzed afterwards to study ways to improve disaster prevention measures. Daikin bases in Japan have introduced an employee safety confirmation system for determining and whereabouts and safety of employees when disaster strikes. Related information Safety and Disaster Prevention at Plants (Page 344) Interactions with Local Communities (Japan) Deepening Interactions with Local Communities Daikin realizes the importance of interacting with local residents as a member of the community. In 1973, Daikin Industries, Ltd. became one of the first companies to create a Local Community Section within its organization, through which it has been deepening interactions with local communities. Instead of this Local Community Section, today each company plant makes efforts to interact directly with local communities. Daikin's goal is to be a good corporate citizen that creates closeness among all people and works with communities in order to abundant lives and lifestyles. We will continue to value our relationship with nearby citizens and strive to be a company known and loved for its contributions to society. Also as part of efforts to be a trusted and valuable member of society, we hold factory tours, summer festivals, and other events to promote communication and understanding between Daikin and communities. Communities 340 Daikin Bon dance festival Deepening Community Relations around the World at Summer Bon Dance Festivals The Daikin-sponsored traditional Bon dance festival is a major event attracting large crowds of locals every summer. The Bon dance festival began in 1971 as a social gathering for young employees of our Yodogawa Plant, and later expanded into a program open to the community and eventually grew to encompass the entire area. The event has evolved into one of Japan's largest corporate-sponsored Bon dances and has been reported in media around the world as a successful example of interactions between companies and the community. In fiscal 2017, Bon dance festivals at Daikin plants in Japan welcomed over 40,000 visitors. At the Sakai Plant , young employees and local elementary school students put on a joint taiko drum performance. In support of victims of the April 2016 earthquake in Kumamoto, Japan, food stands sold representative dishes of Kumamoto and Oita and a portion of the proceeds were donated. There were also stands selling goods of Kumamoto and Oita companies hurt by the disaster, as well as donation boxes set up. Led by the 40-member Bon dance executive committee, approximately 900 employees took part in making this event a success. In addition, Daikin bases in China, the U.S., and other countries also held Bon dance festivals. The Bon dance at Daikin America, Inc. welcomed 20,000 locals Communities 341 Conducting Neighborhood Cleanup and Tree-planting Activities Employees at the Daikin plants in Yodogawa, Shiga, Sakai, and Kashima regularly pick up litter and pull up weeds in the surrounding areas. At the Yodogawa Plant, regular cleanups were held and total participation came to 1,297 employees (cumulative total) for 2017. Daikin employees also took part in a cleanup of waterways bordering on the Yodogawa Plant. In response to concerns voiced by the local community, such as fears of damage from last year's torrential rains and the lack of cleanup participants due to the aging of the local population, the Yodogawa Plant expanded the cleanups from once to twice a year, in spring and autumn from fiscal 2015. The 71 people who took part in spring waterway cleanup activities included division and section managers, union members, dormitory residents, and partner company employees. (The autumn waterway cleanup was cancelled due to inclement weather) Once a month at the Sakai Plant, employees take turns joining a Sakai City beautification program to pick up litter and create an esthetically pleasing local environment. At the Kanaoka Plant, employees plant vegetation and clean up around the plant; and at the Rinkai Factory, employees pick up litter around the factory and along the median of the road. About 50 employees take part in each activity. At the Shiga Plant in fiscal 2015, a cumulative total of 1,500 employees took part in three cleanups of the surrounding area aimed at totally eliminating litter. At the Kashima Plant, a cumulative total of 240 employees took part in monthly cleanups around the perimeter of the plant, as well as an annual weeding effort. In December 2015, the Tokyo Office signed an agreement for an adopt-a-forest program with the local government of Minato Ward in Tokyo and since January 2016 has been conducting monthly cleanup activities around the Konan entrance of JR Shinagawa Station. A cumulative total of 300 employees took part in cleanups between January and December 2017. Yodogawa Plant employees pick up litter Tokyo Office employees conduct a cleanup Communities 342 Interactions with Local Communities (Overseas) Contributing to Communities Around the World Daikin meets local needs by interacting with and contributing to each of the communities it is located in. Daikin bases overseas also provide locals with factory tours whenever possible in order to gain citizens' understanding and be a company truly rooted in the community. Employees at Daikin's worldwide bases take part in cleanups of surrounding areas and scenic spots. McQuay China (Suzhou) Daikin Applied Europe S.p.A. Daikin Airconditioning Italy S.p.A. Others Employees held a Christmas party at a facility for the disabled, where they presented the children with gifts and led games. Source: Federazione Nazionale Brigate di Solidarieta Attiva Daikin provided relief funds to areas affected by an earthquake in central Italy, as well as relief supplies such as air conditioners for evacuation shelters. Related information List of Activities for Local Citizens (List of Daikin's Social Contribution Activities) (Page 380) Report by Business Site (https://www.daikin.com/csr/report/site_data/) Communities 343 Safety and Disaster Prevention at Plants Support for Firefighting Site Activity Overview, results The plants formed an in-house firefighting Sakai Plant Formation of in-house firefighting unit division, and in each division a firefighting unit was formed. Thirteen employees from the Yodogawa Plant joined the special firefighting team of Settsu City, which is the first of its kind in Japan. Since January 2010, in the case of a large fire in the Settsu area, the Yodogawa Plant firefighters drive their fire engine to the scene and help under the guidance of the Settsu City Fire Department. Yodogawa Plant firefighters took part in Settsu City's New Year's firefighting parade in January 2018. Joined the special firefighting team of Settsu City Yodogawa Plant The plants formed an in-house firefighting division, and in each division a firefighting Formation of in-house firefighting unit unit was formed. Shiga Plant Collaboration with the Konan Fire The General Manager of the Quality Control Department Department attends the 16th Annual Fire Survey Case Study Seminar as a panelist Communities 344 Site Activity Overview, results An organization was set up with separate units to handle firefighting, guidance, rescue, and information provision in case of Kashima Plant Formation of in-house firefighting unit a fire. The firefighting units keep the fire in check until the local fire department arrives. Each division formed its own in-house firefighting unit. At site disaster drills (April and Soka Station Formation of in-house firefighting unit November each year), the unit conducts evacuation and firefighting drills with the fire department. Members in all divisions of Tsukuba site formed their own in-house firefighting Tsukuba Training Center Formation of in-house firefighting unit units. Once a year they hold evacuation and firefighting practice jointly with the local fire department. Units formed in the Head Office and Esaka Head Office Formation of in-house firefighting unit site. Periodic firefighting drills held. A firefighting unit was formed in each division. Once a year, these units take part Tokyo Office Formation of in-house firefighting unit in various drills sponsored by the JR Shinagawa East Building, and they conduct evacuation and firefighting drills. Communities 345 Communication with Neighboring Companies and Residents Site Activity Overview, results The Sakai Plant is a member of an association of 17 companies in the Sakai and Senboku Sakai Plant Cooperation with neighboring companies waterfront areas for disaster prevention. The association has an emergency communication network and meets regularly for various drills. There are 110 employees living nearby who are registered. When necessary, a team is Yodogawa Plant An emergency rescue team was formed gathered by rounding up employees either from their homes or workplace. Daikin helps the local government to rescue disaster victims. Formation of a rescue support system for The plant is provided for use as an local disaster victims emergency shelter for nearby residents Shiga Plant (for example, the field is opened up to the public). The Shiga Plant will dispatch industrial Support of fire prevention in case of disaster physicians and its in-house fire-fighting unit, and offer the plant as an evacuation shelter. To administrate local matters, Daikin joins Kashima Plant Communication with neighboring companies with local companies to be the contact point for local government and citizens. In 2000, Soka Station, Soka City, and five neighboring communities signed an agreement to cooperate in preparing for natural disasters. These three groups have agreed to work together regularly on plans to implement Agreement signed for regional disaster after major earthquakes occur. cooperation An expert panel of the Central Disaster Soka Station Management Council of the Cabinet Office recognized the Soka Station as an outstanding example of a corporation acting as a bridge between local citizens and local government in supporting disaster relief. Under the disaster agreement, firefighting drills are held with neighboring town Regional joint disaster training associations. In May 2016, 627 employees took part. Communities 346 Site Activity Overview, results The center is a member of an association of companies in the local industrial park, Tsukuba Training Center Cooperation with neighboring companies which shares information on topics like environmental promotion, fire prevention, and blood donation activities. Participated in the tenant association of the JR Shinagawa East Building (July), and joined as an observer in firefighting drills Tokyo Office Cooperation with neighboring companies of the building's restaurants (March). This helped confirm the firefighting system of the building. Communities 347 Contributing to Local Safety Site Activity Overview, results Daikin worked with the Kinki Regional Police Bureau in a safety patrol campaign. Took part in the Sonezaki traffic safety Head Office Support for local safety activities association and the Sonezaki crime prevention association, interacting with local businesses and cooperating in safety promotion. Daikin took part in the North Sakai Police Support for local safety activities Crime Prevention Committee and the North/West Sakai Traffic Safety Association. The Sakai Plant is registered as a place Children's protection shelter Sakai Plant children can take sanctuary from threats. Took part in disaster prevention drills sponsored by an association of companies in Disaster training the Sakai and Senboku waterfront areas for disaster prevention. Control damage, confirm people's safety (evacuation), hold earthquake training, hold Joint disaster training held (with participation disaster training (3 times a year) of local fire and police departments) Installed breathing apparatus, held fire hydrant usage competition (once a year). Participated in disaster training held by Osaka Prefecture and Settsu City (once a year). Took part in disaster training of Ajifu Elementary School district in Settsu City. Participation in local safety activities Took part in nighttime patrols. Yodogawa Plant Took part in nationwide awareness activities for fire prevention (in spring and autumn). Took part in nationwide traffic safety campaign. Held driving safety seminars for suppliers (stressed on-site road safety; twice a year). Held safety seminars Invited police officer to give employees driving safety seminar (once a year) The Yodogawa Plant is registered as a place Children's protection shelter children can take sanctuary from threats. Communities 348 Site Activity Overview, results Disaster training was held once a year for the plant grounds and employee dormitory; fire hydrant usage competition held (July); plant disaster training held (June, November); evacuation training for earthquakes held. Disaster training This year, at the request of the Konan Fire Department, disaster prevention managers from neighboring companies were invited to fire prevention training for disaster management managers held at the Shiga Plant. The Shiga Plant took part in a disaster Participation in the Fire Prevention Shiga Plant prevention training convention in unison with Association the fire department. In-house firefighting unit takes part in a training convention The Konan district in-house firefighting division took part in a disaster training convention. Daikin employees earned the following honors in the convention: Held disaster training (twice a year), joined Disaster training fire hydrant usage competition (once a year), held public relations training (once a year) Joint disaster training was held with the fire department as part of cooperation among companies in the industrial park (once a year). Participation in local safety events As part of cooperation among companies, once-a-year training was held with firefighters, labor board personnel, and police Kashima Plant officers as instructors. The goal was to raise safety and disaster awareness. Participation in disaster training events with the fire department, labor board, and police department. Police officers were invited to be instructors at a traffic safety training conference (once a Safe driving course held year) to help drivers improve their road manners. Communities 349 Site Activity Overview, results The Soka Plant took part in a rules-of-theContest to prevent accidents and abide by road contest held annually by the Police rules of the road Soka Station Department. Holds disaster training with five Regional joint disaster training neighborhood associations. (May each year) Participation in meeting of Tokyo The Tokyo Office took part in scheduled Metropolitan Police Department to prevent meetings and training sessions organized crime. Tokyo Office Joined in disaster training sponsored by the Participation in local disaster training fire and disaster prevention association of the JR Shinagawa East Building. Communities 350 Use Equipment during Disasters, and Secure Supplies for Emergencies Site Activity Overview, results Secured emergency supplies such as water, Secure supplies for emergencies food, and fire prevention equipment. Sakai Plant Daikin is registered as a corporate supporter of firefighting activities. (In times of Lend equipment to disaster relief emergency, Daikin lends equipment like forklifts to communities.) The plant makes effective use of site Use of equipment during disasters, and equipment (fire engines, firefighting secure supplies for residents for emergencies equipment; sends employees as well). Sufficient supplies have been set aside for all local residents in case of a major earthquake. Emergency materials and equipment are Yodogawa Plant placed in all major buildings. At a meeting during a factory tour, participants confirm that there are enough emergency supplies stored Emergency supplies are stocked (emergency Shiga Plant Secure supplies for emergencies food, drinking water, flashlights, portable toilets, blankets, etc.). Stored emergency supplies (gas masks, flashlights, megaphones) and emergency necessities to last employees 3 days (food, water, portable toilets, blankets, etc.). Expanded emergency materials to be prepared for logistics accidents. Secure emergency equipment and food Kashima Plant Stored water, food, firefighting Secure supplies for emergencies equipment, etc. Soka Station Joint regional disaster training held Exhibit and disaster drills were held with the surrounding community. Communities 351 Site Activity Overview, results Stored three days worth of food, drink, and Secure supplies for employees who cannot emergency supplies (flashlights, blankets, Tsukuba Training Center return home during a disaster gas burners, portable toilets, etc.) for employees and training participants. Purchased and stored emergency supplies for the Head Office and Esaka Building. Secure supplies for emergencies During fire drills, confirmed how to use these supplies (particularly rescue-related Head Office supplies). Health and Safety Committee and Human Place AEDs at Head Office, Esaka, Fukuoka, Resources oversee the placement of AEDs Nagoya, and Hiroshima in all bases under Head Office jurisdiction. Emergency supplies are stocked (helmets, gloves, towels, stretchers, etc.); these are inspected regularly. According to a new Tokyo by-law regarding measures for people in Tokyo who cannot return home in a Secure emergency supplies, ensure presence disaster (enacted in April 2013), extra of registered AED personnel purchases were made of emergency supplies (emergency food and drinking water), and enough was stored to last Tokyo Office 3 days for 400 people. At the same time, for employees who absolutely must be sent home on foot due to family situations, supplies that these employees might need while walking home were stored (about 60 persons' worth). The local fire department was invited to give a workshop on life-saving techniques (once a year). AEDs were installed in June 2014. Communities 352 Earthquake Measures Site Activity Overview, results Established code of conduct for tsunami disaster response, and secured emergency supplies. All buildings on-site have been inspected for earthquake resistance. Reinforcement Measures against tidal wave and tsunami work is proceeding as planned. Earthquake reinforcement and evacuation Evacuation training drills were held. training drills Conducted periodic drills in preparation for earthquake and tsunami (measures Sakai Plant for initial response, evacuation, and for cases of late-night disaster and cut-off lifelines, early fire response, rescue). Basic earthquake measures policy: Save people above all, ensure safety ■ Measures for an earthquake with a seismic intensity of 6: Reinforcement work completed on main buildings under current earthquakeresistance standard (fiscal 2009). Revise earthquake scale assumptions and conduct ■ Measures for 2-meter tsunami: Measures for Yodogawa Plant Earthquake reinforcement loss of infrastructure such as power. Infrastructure loss measures Evacuation and emergency measures 1. Complete emergency measures before tsunami arrives (within 2 hours), ensure the chemical plant is safe, and evacuate employees to a high, safe place. 2. Use secured emergency power, close up dangerous chemicals to render them harmless, and safely shut down plant (turn off, cool down, close). Communities 353 Site Activity Overview, results Disaster drills (3 times a year) Evacuation drills held at all locations (evacuation shelters in high places) Ensure unified evacuation time and safety confirmation within 2 hours. Verify that disaster materials and equipment are usable and can be accessed quickly. Verify measures for night shift. Emergency stoppage of equipment and machinery, drills for measures. Measures to prevent equipment and machinery from falling over Revise earthquake scale assumptions and Formulate unified standards (guidelines) conduct (implement at all bases). Yodogawa Plant Earthquake reinforcement Infrastructure loss measures Execute measures in each division Evacuation and emergency measures (completed in fiscal 2014). Create hazard map (danger sources, evacuation) Revise evacuation routes, evacuation shelters, sources of danger. Revise all evacuation routes and evacuation shelters for the site. Emergency measures manual Secure communication protocol Installed satellite phones (for communication among work sites) Use walkie-talkies (one for each division, one for division headquarters) Earthquake reinforcement completed (cafeteria, No. 1 plant, No. 2 plant, product warehouse, parts warehouse, jig and tool plant). Evacuation training drills were also held Earthquake reinforcement and evacuation Shiga Plant (Disaster drills once, fire drills once). training drills Installed walky-talkies for use in disasters (21 in plant, 1 at company housing building). Installed satellite phones (for communication among work sites) Communities 354 Site Activity Overview, results Established one new tsunami evacuation shelter in a high location to use in case of a large tsunami warning, and held evacuation drills using this shelter. Kashima Plant Tsunami measures Revised disaster drills at bases (based on past earthquake experience, changed evacuation routes etc.). Held Revision of disaster drills at bases specialized earthquake evacuation Revision of product storage rules drills (April, November). Soka Station Measures to prevent falling over of Revised product storage rules based on fixtures past earthquake experience. Took measures to prevent falling over of fixtures and other equipment in offices. Took measures to prevent equipment from falling over. Tsukuba Training Center Earthquake reinforcement and disaster drills Carried out comprehensive disaster drills in preparation for large-scale earthquake (a seismic intensity of 6) Currently in the process of furthering earthquake risk measures (measures for transfer of building functions in case of earthquake, tsunami measures, and risk management measures) based on the Head Office Improve earthquake risk measures policies of the Legal Affairs, Compliance, and Intellectual Property Center. Measures to prevent equipment and machinery from falling over. Communities 355 Site Activity Overview, results Measures were taken to prevent cabinets, furniture and fixtures, and equipment with casters (MFPs, laser printers, shredders, etc.) from falling over or moving in an earthquake. In 2017, measures to prevent movement of individual side shelving were implemented, and the fixing of all castorequipped products in offices was completed (photo). Joined in disaster training sponsored by Earthquake reinforcement, evacuation drills, the fire and disaster prevention Tokyo Office measures for employees who cannot return association of the JR Shinagawa East home Building (September). Held drills in using satellite telephones (September). In case of a disaster occurring at night or on a holiday, appointed emergency staff to be dispatched to confirm the extent of damage at the JR Shinagawa East Building prior to setting up a disaster task force. Established guidelines outlining initial response in case of earthquake. The guidelines state that, as a rule, employees should wait inside the Shinagawa East Building if an earthquake occurs during working hours. Written rules were made regarding what Daikin managers should do to confirm safety of employees in a disaster. Communities 356 Typhoon Measures Site Activity Overview, results A meeting was held to examine measures to take in case of a typhoon. Preventative Kashima Plant Meeting on typhoon measures measures were drawn up for safe operation or stoppage of machinery. Safety Confirmation System Introduction Site Activity Overview, results Built a confirmation system that uses safety confirmation and broadcast services. Sakai Plant Safety confirmation system Hold response drills once a year. A system was established that can confirm the safety of employees approximately 20 minutes after a disaster occurs. Yodogawa Plant Safety confirmation system Emergency materials and equipment for searching and restoration are placed in all major buildings. Established a system for confirming employee safety following a disaster. Shiga Plant Safety confirmation system Drills held in replying to this system (once every fiscal quarter); drills held since December 2013. Established a system for confirming the safety of employees after a disaster occurs. Kashima Plant Safety confirmation system Drills held in replying to this system (once a year). Drills held in replying to this system (twice Soka Station Safety confirmation system a year). Drills held in replying to this system (once a Tsukuba Training Center Safety confirmation system year); also checked ability to respond to this system at all times. Drills held in replying to this system (once a Head Office Safety confirmation system year). Communities 357 Site Activity Overview, results Held communication drills to confirm a system for contacting employees to ensure they are safe following a disaster (twice a year). Also checked on those employees who did not respond when contacted during implementation of the safety confirmation system. In case of a disaster occurring on a holiday or Tokyo Office Safety confirmation system at night, as a means of immediate contact with regular employees of the Tokyo Office and with managers sent to handle the situation at the Tokyo Office, and as a means of communication between members of the Tokyo Office Occupational Safety and Health Committee, established a system using a broadcast function for safety confirmation. Drills are held in replying using the broadcast function (twice a year). Communities 358 Communities HARMONY WITH COMMUNITIES— CONTRIBUTING TO PROMOTION OF ART AND CULTURE Basic Policy Established to promote art and culture, the Daikin Foundation for Contemporary Arts supports a wide range of activities including exhibitions by the National Museum of Art, lectures, academic research, and publications. Overseas as well, we support local culture through the sponsorship of music festivals and other events. Examples of Initiatives The Daikin Foundation for Contemporary Arts The world's outstanding artistic and cultural works transcend national borders. Daikin Industries, Ltd. is committed to bringing the joy of these works, and the creativity they inspire, to a wider audience. This desire has compelled Daikin to focus on promoting art and music. In March 1996, Daikin Industries, Ltd. established the Daikin Foundation for Contemporary Arts to mark the company's 70th anniversary on October 25, 1994. In the foundation's first year, Daikin Industries, Ltd. donated ¥200 million for the basic fund, followed by another ¥200 million after three years. With another donation of ¥100 million in 2004, Daikin's 80th anniversary, total founding so far amounts to ¥500 million. The foundation supports a wide range of projects designed to teach art appreciation, such as exhibitions at the National Museum of Art, Osaka (NMAO), lectures, publications, surveys, and research. In April 2013, the foundation became a public interest incorporated foundation. In March 2016, the foundation celebrated its 20th anniversary. To mark this occasion, Daikin is stepping up foundationsponsored activities with the aim of energizing the culture and arts of Osaka, the birthplace of Daikin Industries, Ltd. Communities 359 The National Museum of Art, Osaka The National Museum of Art, Osaka Related information NMAO (http://www.nmao.go.jp/en/) Daikin Supports the Kansai Philharmonic Orchestra Daikin Industries, Ltd. supports the Osaka-based Kansai Philharmonic Orchestra. Formed in 1970, it became a specified nonprofit corporation in 2003. The orchestra is an integral member of local society, giving community concerts at its practice hall and hiring as many local musicians as possible. Since 2004, Daikin Chairman of board Noriyuki Inoue has been a director on the orchestra's committee, and Daikin Industries, Ltd. has sponsored concerts by the orchestra in Nara, Kyoto, Hyogo, and Daikin's home base of Osaka. Kansai Philharmonic Orchestra Related information Kansai Philharmonic Orchestra website (available in Japanese only) (http://kansaiphil.jp/) Communities 360 Efforts Overseas Daikin Industries Czech Republic s.r.o. supports Pilsen Philharmonic Orchestra. Daikin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. has held an annual concert since 2007 with the aim of promoting arts and culture. Concert in China Related information List of Support for Promotion of Arts and Culture (List of Daikin's Social Contribution Activities) (Page 377) Report by Business Site (https://www.daikin.com/csr/report/site_data/) Communities 361 Communities HARMONY WITH COMMUNITIES— CONTRIBUTING TO PROMOTION OF SPORTS Basic Policy To promote sports, Daikin sponsors local sports teams and sporting competitions. Examples of Initiatives Daikin Orchid Ladies Golf Tournament For almost 30 years, Daikin Industries, Ltd. has been sponsoring the Daikin Orchid Ladies Golf Tournament, the opening event of the Japan Ladies' Pro Golf Tour (hereinafter, Daikin Orchid ). The Daikin Orchid Ladies Golf Tournament was inaugurated in 1988 as the opening round of the Japan Ladies' Pro Golf Tour. The slogan Ever Onward with Okinawa, indicates our desire to join with Okinawa in boldly addressing the challenges of the future and work closely with local communities through interactions between business leaders in Okinawa and the rest of Japan. Min-Young Lee was the winner of the tournament's 31st edition Related information Daikin Orchid (available in Japanese only) (http://www.daikin.co.jp/orchid/) Communities 362 Local Amateur Golfers Invited to Participate in Daikin Orchid Ladies Golf Tournament The Daikin Orchid Ladies Amateur Golf Championship (hereinafter, the amateur tournament ) is held as part of Daikin Orchid based on a desire to contribute even just a little to the development and revitalization of the Okinawa golf world. The amateur tournament qualifies amateur lady golfers from Okinawa, with a total of 4,000 players participating so far. From this competition, players such as Ai Miyazato, Shinobu Moromizato (pro golfer affiliated with Daikin Industries, Ltd.) and Mamiko Higa have become professional golfers. Bridging Okinawa and the Mainland The pro and amateur tournaments and the pre-tournament festival enable representatives of local and mainland businesses to interact in an informal setting and gain a better understanding of each other's perspectives. This has led to the emergence of the Okinawa Konwakai, an organization created to consider future development in Okinawa. The association, whose members include the presidents of major corporations and other experienced business personalities, organizes a variety of vibrant activities that include forums and presentations on how to promote and develop Okinawa. Discussions at the Okinawa Konwakai gave rise to a commerce conference held in Okinawa in 2014. By making Okinawa a hub of international distribution, it can contribute to new foreign sales channels for specialty products from all over Japan. Local Volunteers Contribute to a Successful Tournament Local volunteers from the city of Nanjo can be counted on to provide their invaluable time and labor to help run the tournament. The volunteer program was launched in 1997, and in fiscal 2017, a cumulative total of 655 volunteers took part in making the event a success. In appreciation of their efforts, Daikin donates books to the local Tamashiro Junior High School every year. The Orchid Bounty Foundation Supports the Culture and Sports of Okinawa All competitors provide their assistance by raising money. These funds, augmented by donations from the sponsors, are used to aid the development of Okinawa prefecture, the tournament venue. Specifically, funding is provided to public organizations and individuals promoting artistic, cultural, sporting, and educational activities. In 2018, Orchid Bounty donated ¥6.4 million to a total of 11 organizations and individuals, bringing the total contributions since 1995 to ¥142.6 million. The Orchid Bounty donation ceremony Communities 363 Local Junior High School Students Invited to Watch Tournament Every year, many of the students from the local Tamashiro Junior High School are invited to watch the tournament. This gives the students a valuable opportunity to learn about and experience the joy of golf. In fiscal 2017, about 145 grade seven students were invited. Not only do the students get to see the women's pro golfers battle it out on the course, they also get a comprehensive look behind the scenes of the tournament as they observe the work of groups like the greens-keepers, mass media, and tournament organizers. Efforts Overseas Daikin Also Supports Sports Overseas For example, Daikin Industries Czech Republic s.r.o. supports the Pilsen hockey team through efforts including aiding in the publishing of team-related books, and buying game tickets to distribute to employees. It also sponsored the 7th Pilsen Half Marathon. Daikin Industries Czech Republic s.r.o. supports the publishing of books on the Pilsen hockey team Related information List of Support for Promotion of Sports (List of Daikin's Social Contribution Activities) (Page 379) Report by Business Site (https://www.daikin.com/csr/report/site_data/) Communities 364 Communities LIST OF DAIKIN'S SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION ACTIVITIES List of Support for Environmental Protection Base Recipient of support, details of support Forests for the Air project Forest protection in Indonesia. (C) Conservation International /Photo by Anton Ario Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Japan) Reforestation volunteer activities in Shiretoko Rejuvenating a forest in Harashiroyama, Takatsuki City, Osaka Prefecture. Rejuvenating a forest in Izuhara, Ibaraki City, Osaka Prefecture. Employees and their families took part in a beach cleanup in Ostende, Belgium, near company plant. Daikin Europe N.V. Communities 365 Base Recipient of support, details of support Contributed to forest protection by purchasing office paper from a company doing tree-planting. Developing a biotope onsite at the plant. Participating in the Clean Advantage CCS project that converts fuel purchased into CO2 and invests in projects to reduce CO2 emissions from automobiles. Daikin Industries Czech Republic s.r.o. Conducting environmental education (including waste separation) for kindergartners. Onsite cleanup activities during Earth Day. Daikin Device Czech Republic s.r.o. The Clean Air Ambassador Project aims to educate children on environmental protection. Daikin Turkey A.S. Held environmental problems seminar. Called for participation in WWF Earth Hour (energy saving). Communities 366 Base Recipient of support, details of support Daikin Airconditioning France Recovered used paper for recycling, which contributed to earnings. S.A.S. Recycled commercial products and parts, which contributed to earnings. Daikin Airconditioning Germany Proactively donated to research project aimed at decarbonizing the German GmbH economy. Conducted tree-planting inside industrial park. Daikin Air-conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Cleanup activities around plant. Daikin Air-conditioning (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Tree-planting activities at a local school. Daikin Device (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Communities 367 Base Recipient of support, details of support Community cleanup activities. Providing environmental education to elementary school students. Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd. Participating in tree-planting activities. Tree-planting activities. McQuay Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration (Wuhan) Co. Ltd. On national Tree-Planting Day, all employees planted vegetation on the company premises. 90 employees held a cleanup activity on Wutong Mountain in Shenzhen. Shenzhen McQuay Air Conditioning Co., Ltd. Cleanup activities at Nanmenshan, Pinghu Ecological Garden. Communities 368 Base Recipient of support, details of support To raise awareness of environmental protection, employees held a cleanup in nearby mountains. McQuay China (Suzhou) Participating in tree-planting and cleanup activities at Forest Research Institute Daikin Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia (FRIM). Planting 2,500 trees in a community forest. Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. Cleaning up the Bangsaen coast along with government agency employees and Burapha University students. Conducted tree-planting inside industrial park. Held mangrove rejuvenation activities. Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd. Activities at the Wat Khao Ma Phud temple. Communities 369 Base Recipient of support, details of support PT. Daikin Airconditioning Replanting pine trees destroyed by fire. Indonesia Participation in the Adopt-A-Country Mile (AACM) program (trash removal to maintain cleanliness on Harris County roadways). Goodman Global Group, Inc. Employees volunteered at a local recycling center. Daikin America, Inc. Supporting Recycle Day held by the City of Decatur. Communities 370 List of Support for Education Base Recipient of support, details of support Held Circle of Life environmental education program for elementary schools. Held science experiment classes at elementary schools. Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Japan) Took part in program with Osaka Prefecture University to foster next generation of scientists through experiment-based classes at junior high schools. Support for the Sakai Rugby School The Kanaoka Factory lends its field three times a month to the Sakai Rugby School. In fiscal 2016, about 150 elementary and junior high school rugby players took part. Factory tours to educate local elementary school students about working society Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Sakai Plant) In fiscal 2016, 251 students from three schools took tours. Kendo Training Hall for Children Classes were held three times a week, with 12 students each time. Factory tours for local elementary schools In fiscal 2017, 117 students from two schools took tours. Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Yodogawa Plant) Experience work days for local junior high school students In fiscal 2017, three second-year junior high students from Daiyon Junior High School in Settsu City took part. Communities 371 Base Recipient of support, details of support Factory tours and environmental study were offered for elementary school students in the city as part of social studies lessons on local industry and science lessons on observing nearby nature In fiscal 2017, 105 students from one school took part. Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Shiga Plant) Daikin field opened to the public Daikin opened up its field to the public to use for baseball, pitch-and-putt golf, softball, and other activities. Daikin employees give lessons at local elementary schools Starting in autumn 2010, employees led fluorochemical experiments for upper-class elementary school students. Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Kashima Plant) Facilities were open to local citizens on weekends and holidays: children and Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Soka teenagers used the field for sports, while the activities plaza was used for pitchStation) and-putt golf. Hosted internships for university students, contributed products for practical training to technical schools and made donations to schools. Daikin Europe N.V. Daikin Airconditioning Belgium Contributed products for practical training to technical schools. N.V. Daikin Industries Czech Republic Accepted internship students and donated to educational programs for children s.r.o. aged four to six years old. Communities 372 Base Recipient of support, details of support Cooperated with local communities and universities on employment. Daikin Device Czech Republic s.r.o. Accepted internship students, introduced work opportunities, contributed to local schools and presented the Daikin Award to a young researcher contributing to biodiversity conservation. Daikin Applied Europe S.p.A. Daikin Airconditioning France Accepted internship students. S.A.S. Daikin AC Spain, S.A. Supported schools and other organizations. Donated books and sports equipment to village schools. Daikin Turkey A.S. Supported high school group in robot building competition. Daikin McQuay Middle East FZE Donated six air conditions to schools. Hosted interns, provided educational support to employing universities. McQuay Air Conditioning & Refrigeration (Wuhan) Co., Ltd. Supporting elementary schools. Gave factory tours to students from across China and Japanese university students. Gave factory tours to government and social organizations. Daikin Air-Conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Established Daikin Class at local trade school. Provided scholarships to students. Donated to educational projects in the City of Shanghai. Donated school supplies to elementary school. Communities 373 Base Recipient of support, details of support Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Awarded scholarships to local schools. Ltd. Daikin Fluoro Coatings (Shanghai) Held factory tours and made monetary donation to elementary schools. Co., Ltd. Technical Vocational Education Training Program. Cooperation with vocational training conducted by the Malaysian Ministry of Education. Daikin Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Held factory tours for local university students. Donated to local universities, provided scholarships to students. Donated funds and air conditioners to elementary schools. Repaired school house and maintained roads. Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. Contributed to educational scholarships. Communities 374 Base Recipient of support, details of support Held factory tours for students. Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd. Donated to schools. Donated computers to schools. Established nine technical education centers. Daikin Airconditioning India Pvt. Ltd. Established the Japan-India Institute for Manufacturing (JIM) with the aim of developing human resources in Japanese manufacturing processes. Established a library and gymnasium at a public women's college. Daikin Australia Pty., Ltd. Hosted interns. Tied up with university to provide scholarships. Held homestay program in Japan for American high school students. Daikin America, Inc. Hosted internship students. Held factory tour for high school students. Communities 375 Base Recipient of support, details of support Conducted a homestay program in Japan for local high school students. Goodman Global Group, Inc. Sponsored an art contest. Communities 376 List of Support for Promotion of Arts and Culture Base Recipient of support, details of support National Museum of Art, Osaka Mitsubishi Ichigokan Museum Kansai Philharmonic Orchestra Kansai Nikikai Public Interest Incorporated Association Japan Opera Foundation Osaka Philharmonic Orchestra Telemann Institute Japan Support Group Tokyo Nikikai Opera Foundation New Japan Philharmonic NHK Symphony Orchestra New National Theatre, Tokyo Association for Corporate Support of the Arts Kamigata Entertainment Culture Society National Association of High School Guitar and Mandolin Music Friendship Society of National Museum of Art, Osaka Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Japan) Arts Support Kansai Takarazuka Review Supporters Osaka Nohgaku Youseikai Kouenkai Osaka Symphony Orchestra International Music Exchange Association National Museum of Ethnology Rekishi Kaido Promotional Council Paleological Association of Japan Fan Club of Mozart-Kammerorchester Japan Art Stream 2017 Dojima Yakushido Kaitokudo Ryozen Museum of History Osaka Wasso Cultural Exchange Association Maison de la culture du Japon à Paris Communities 377 Base Recipient of support, details of support Japanese Red Cross Society, Osaka Chapter Living & Design 2017 Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Japan) SHIKI THEATRE COMPANY 25th EU-Japan Fest Daikin Industries Czech Republic Sponsored international music festival Young Prague. s.r.o. Sponsored the AMEROPA international indoor music festival. Made donation to local theater. Daikin America, Inc. Lent support to a local art school. Held art contest at a local elementary school. Supported the Carnegie Art Center. Communities 378 List of Support for Promotion of Sports Base Recipient of support, details of support Daikin Orchid Ladies Golf Tournament Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Japan) Osaka Council, Scout Association of Japan Booster club of Kyoto University football team Daikin Industries Czech Republic Employees took part in the Pilsen Half Marathon. s.r.o. Made donation to the Pilsen ice hockey team. Donated to a local soccer school. Daikin Turkey A.S. Supported local billiard team activities. Supported local amateur soccer team. Daikin Airconditioning France Made monetary donation to support activities of the French national ice hockey S.A.S. team. Daikin Airconditioning Germany Sponsored the BMV Open tennis tournament. GmbH Sponsored the BTV Bayern tennis association. Donated to international men's basketball game. Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd. Daikin Australia Pty. Ltd. Supported Port City Charity Golf Day. Made donations to support construction of facilities for softball. Daikin America, Inc. Donated to a golf tournament. Communities 379 List of Activities for Local Citizens Base Recipient of support, details of support Holds annual Bon dance festival. Continued participation in Adopt a Road cleanup initiative Under Sakai City's public cleanup campaign, employees took turns cleaning up the streets once a month. The area around the plant and nearby sidewalks were cleaned. At the Kanaoka Plant, employees planted greenery nearby and cleaned up the streets, and employees of the waterfront plants picked up litter on the median dividing the main street. Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Sakai Plant) Anti-noise measures Employees patrolled the plant at night to ensure there was no disturbing noise or vibration that would disturb nearby residents. When the sound-proof wall was erected, to make the structure less imposing, a sound-proof glass wall was put up at strategic points, and trees were planted. Aesthetic measures To improve the view from the adjacent high-rise apartment building, the plant roof had its rust removed and was painted. Holds annual Bon dance festival. Cleanup Areas around the site cleaned up (once a month). Employees took part in cleanup of local waterways (twice a year). Area around main and west gates (near bus stops) was cleaned up (everyday). Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Yodogawa Plant) Aesthetic improvement of urban area Sponsored a 'tulip art' event in Settsu. Had a booth in the Settsu City environmental festival. Communities 380 Base Recipient of support, details of support Holds annual Bon dance festival Weeding and cleanup Employees removed weeds that had spread to adjoining public roads and picked up litter. Cleanup Litter was picked up around the plant (3 times a year). Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Shiga Plant) Greenery enhancement Weeding, flower planting, and care for the cherry trees was carried out. To mark the Shiga Plant's 40th anniversary, in fiscal 2010, 40 cherry trees were planted on the premises and cherry trees were donated to Kusatsu City. Holds a summer festival. Cleanup around the plant Cleanup staff were sent out (twice a month), cleanup days of plant held (once a month). Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Kashima Plant) Took part in cleanup of industrial park along with other companies The association of 24 companies in the industrial park held a cleanup twice a year. Holds annual Bon dance festival and cleanups of areas surrounding the site Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Soka (twice a year). Station) Holds blood donation drive. Sponsored a local festival. Daikin Applied Europe S.p.A. Donated to a charitable foundation. Communities 381 Base Recipient of support, details of support Supported an event in aid of cancer patients. Daikin Europe N.V. Built a new bus stop. Daikin Industries Czech Republic s.r.o. Held Family Day. Provided a local firefighting unit with necessary supplies. Donated to various charity organizations that support the disabled and others. Daikin Device Czech Republic, s.r.o. Daikin Airconditioning Belgium Engaged in various donation activities including contributions to cancer funds N.V. and barrier-free buildings. Daikin Airconditioning U.K., Ltd. Supported a range of charity activities. Daikin AC Spain, S.A. Support for charity and other groups. Invited 12 children from Protect the Children Association to Family Day. Daikin Turkey A.S. Supported various women's rights projects. Supported high school blood donation campaign. Holds annual Bon dance festival. Daikin Air-conditioning (Shanghai) Held blood donation drive. Co., Ltd. Formed a volunteer brigade. Communities 382 Base Recipient of support, details of support Blood donation activities. Daikin Device (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Visited a children's hospital and made donations. Donated daily necessities and other items to a seniors home. Supported the holding of a local cherry blossom festival. Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd. Condolence visit to local fire department. Contributed to volunteer organization. Concluded contribution agreement with charity foundation (supported families with lifestyle difficulties). Daikin Fluoro Coatings (Shanghai) Cleaned up area around the factory. Co., Ltd. Gave to charity for needy families. Communities 383 Base Recipient of support, details of support Held a blood drive Daikin Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Donated wheelchairs to children's ward and distributed bags of goodies (souvenirs). Donated air conditioners to local government. Joined blood donor clinics for the Thai Red Cross. Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. Engaged in activities raising awareness about the safety and health of monks in the surrounding area by increasing understanding. Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd. Donated to government and other organizations. Held blood donation drive. Daikin Airconditioning India Pvt. Ltd. Communities 384 Base Recipient of support, details of support Held a drive to collect toys to donate to a shelter for children taken from homes experiencing domestic violence. Daikin Australia Pty. Ltd. Supported families possessing customized houses for sick children. Supported the Australian North Cyprus Friendship Association. Supported men's cabins in Southern Brisbane. Donated to hospitals, cancer associations and community events. Daikin America, Inc. Contributed to Morgan County and non-profit charitable organizations. Held Neighbors Night. Supported non-profit organizations. Daikin Texas Technology Park Daikin PT Sponsored dolphin watching tour. Communities 385 List of Support for Disaster Victims Base Recipient of support, details of support Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Japan) Contributed to fund for Houston hurricane victims. Contributed to fund for Houston hurricane victims. Daikin Europe N.V. Daikin Airconditioning Belgium Donated proceeds from local soccer team charity tournament to fund for N.V. Houston hurricane victims Daikin Airconditioning Italy S.p.A. Contributed to fund for Houston hurricane victims. Daikin McQuay Middle East FZE Contributed to fund for Houston hurricane victims. Communities 386 Sustainability Report 2 018 －Web version－ Key Activities List of Fiscal 2017 Key Activities …………………………………………………………………………………………………… 388 Environment: Environmentally Conscious Products Come from Green Heart Factories ………………………………………… 392 New Value Creation: Reducing Fatigue and Realizing Pleasant Air Environments through Open Innovation ……………………… 396 Customer Satisfaction: Create a Mechanism That Brings Peace of Mind by Promoting Adoption of Low-Environmental-Impact Heat-Pump Heating ………………………………………………………………………… 400 Human Resources: Human Resource Development in the U.S.̶ Growing with Local Communities ……………………………… 404 Key Activities 387 Fiscal 2017 KEY ACTIVITIES Environment Environmentally Conscious Products Come from Green Heart Factories DAIKIN’S APPROACH Striving to Reduce Environmental Impact in Manufacturing as Our Business Expands Worldwide DAIKIN’S PERFORMANCE Evaluating and Certifying Production Bases' Environmental Efforts under a Globally Unified Standard Bases Boost Their Energy-Efficiency Measures through Concrete Improvement and Information Sharing NEXT CHALLENGE Achieve Sustainable Growth While Reducing the Environmental Impact of Production Activities Key Activities 388 New Value Creation Reducing Fatigue and Realizing Pleasant Air Environments through Open Innovation DAIKIN’S APPROACH Joint Research toward the Creation of the Air and Spaces Demanded by Society DAIKIN’S PERFORMANCE Approximately 120 People Take Part in Experiments to Validate Relationship between Room Environment and Fatigue NEXT CHALLENGE Reveal the Relationship between Environment and Health, and Strive for Air That Raises the Overall Quality of Life Key Activities 389 Customer Satisfaction Create a Mechanism That Brings Peace of Mind by Promoting Adoption of Low-EnvironmentalImpact HeatPump Heating DAIKIN’S APPROACH Developing a Platform Linking Three Parties: Europe's Customers, Dealers, and Daikin DAIKIN’S PERFORMANCE Eliminate Customers' Concerns and Help Dealers' Work Efficiently Dealers Satisfied with How SBM Enhances Relationships with Customers NEXT CHALLENGE Contribute to Overall Reduction of CO2 Emissions in Society while Bringing Customers and Dealers Greater Satisfaction Key Activities 390 Human Resources Human Resource Development in the U.S.— Growing with Local Communities DAIKIN’S APPROACH Daikin Group's Largest Plant Opens, Embarks on New Initiatives in Human Resource Development DAIKIN’S PERFORMANCE People-Centered Management Takes Hold in the U.S. NEXT CHALLENGE Human Resource Development in the U.S. Will Lead to Higher Quality of Human Resources Worldwide Key Activities 391 Environmentally Conscious Products Come from Green Heart Factories Society Is Increasingly Demanding That Companies Reduce Their Environmental Impact in Manufacturing and All Other Business Activities Factories and other industrial facilities Worldwide Greenhouse Gas Emissions, by account for more than 30% of the world's Economic Sectors (2010) greenhouse gas emissions. With the Paris Agreement aiming to hold the increase in global average temperature to less than 2°C above pre-industrial levels and society as a whole keen to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, manufactures must not only make their products energy efficient; they must also reduce their environmental impact in manufacturing and all other Note: Compiled by Daikin based on the Working aspects of their business. Group III Contribution to the 5th Assessment Report of the IPCC Key Activities 392 DAIKIN’S APPROACH Striving to Reduce Environmental Impact in Manufacturing as Our Business Expands Worldwide Under the Fusion 20 strategic management plan, Daikin aims to both expand business and contribute to the environment. As our business expands, the number of manufacturing bases increases each year and so does our environmental impact. Besides just developing and promoting the adoption of environmentally conscious products, we strive to decrease the environmental impact of our manufacturing activities. Based on the belief that environmentally conscious products can only come from environmentally conscious factories, the entire Daikin Group works to make this happen through efforts such as setting in-house environmental standards and holding environmental conferences. Daikin Group Net Sales and Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Production DAIKIN'S PERFORMANCE Evaluating and Certifying Production Bases' Environmental Efforts under a Globally Unified Standard In fiscal 2005, Daikin began implementing a system for certifying environmentally conscious plants using an in-house standard. We established our Green Heart Factory (GHF) standard, a unified Group standard for evaluating social contribution and other socially efforts, in addition to environmentally efforts such as reduction of energy, fluorocarbons, and water use, reduction of waste generated and chemicals used, and the use of renewable energy. Factories with high scores under this standard are certified as Green Heart Factories. Key Activities 393 Under the GHF standard, production bases conduct more transparent efforts and compete with each other to achieve high scores. The GHF standard also encourages all employees at a base to work together to achieve certification and raises their environmental awareness. In fiscal 2017, we revised the GHF standard to raise the quality of environmental activities and established four certification ranks. Under the new standard, 24 of 68 bases achieved GHF certification. Our goal is to have all production bases GHF certified by fiscal 2020. GHF Standard Certification System (revised in fiscal 2017) Bases Boost Their Energy-Efficiency Measures through Concrete Improvement and Information Sharing Daikin holds global environmental meetings in five regions (Japan, Europe, the U.S., China, and Asia/Oceania). Besides periodically confirming the state and progress of each base's environmental efforts at these regional meetings, since 2013 we have been holding a biannual Global Environmental Meeting attended by environmental managers from Daikin bases in each of the five worldwide regions. In April 2017, Daikin Industries Czech Republic s.r.o hosted the 3rd Global Environmental Meeting with attendance by 79 representatives of 27 bases. In addition to sharing improvement case studies at various bases, participants practiced analysis methods in hands-on data measurement workshops aimed at making energy usage more transparent and reducing the use of unnecessary energy. They also discussed standards for making investment decisions in the creation of measures. Furthermore, in order to continue reducing energy use at production facilities, participants confirmed things like future tasks, the development of new production methods, and environmental action promotion systems. Through these efforts, we are stepping up group-wide energy-saving measures and have set targets of reducing greenhouse gas emissions against fiscal 2005 by 70% by fiscal 2020 and by 75% by fiscal 2025. In fiscal 2017, we succeeded in achieving a 74% reduction. Key Activities 394 NEXT CHALLENGE Achieve Sustainable Growth While Reducing the Environmental Impact of Production Activities We can foresee that as Daikin's business continues to expand, production volumes around the world will increase. To counter this, we will continue to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from production activities by strengthening collaboration among our global production bases so that they can reduce Daikin's overall environmental impact while achieving sustainable growth. Environmental Meetings Allow Us to Learn from Other Bases and Step Up Activities By taking part in the Global Environmental Meeting, I understood that other bases are dealing with the same Mr. Mojmir Krejcha issues that we are. At the same time, I learned new points of Daikin Industries Czech Republic view, such as the importance of raising employee awareness s.r.o and getting them involved in environmental activities. While I am honored that our base received a Silver certification rank, we will step up future environmental action in order to be certified for an even higher rank next time. Key Activities 395 Reducing Fatigue and Realizing Pleasant Air Environments through Open Innovation Fatigue Has Become a Social Problem That Adversely Affects Human Health and Reduces Productivity Health is affected by numerous mental and physical factors, including the quality of sleep, fatigue, and stress. Among these, fatigue is one that especially requires a solution because it not only adversely affects health but also leads to losses for society in the form of lowered productivity. However, it is difficult to objectively evaluate fatigue, and it is unclear as to what the relationships are between things like the causes of fatigue and illness. Which Best Describes Your State of Fatigue? Note: Compiled by Daikin based on 2017 survey on state of fatigue of business people working in Tokyo, by Yomeishu Seizo Co., Ltd. Key Activities 396 DAIKIN’S APPROACH Joint Research toward the Creation of the Air and Spaces Demanded by Society In 2015, Daikin established the Technology and Innovation Center (TIC). Employing approximately 700 engineers, the TIC collaborates with other companies, research institutes, and universities to conduct joint research aimed at creating new value that contributes to solving issues faced by society in areas such as the environment, energy, and health. As part of open innovation spawning breakthroughs by pooling the technologies and know-how of Daikin and partners, in October 2016 we opened the RIKEN-DAIKIN Wellness Life Collaboration Program together with Riken, Japan, and began joint research under the theme of comfortable, healthy spaces. The parties will combine Daikin's air control technologies and Riken's know-how in fatigue, health, and life sciences, and under the theme of creating spaces that help people reduce fatigue, will conduct validation of how factors such as temperature and humidity relate to fatigue. The aim is to create new value for society through, for example, the development of scientifically proven products. Key Activities 397 DAIKIN'S PERFORMANCE Approximately 120 People Take Part in Experiments to Validate Relationship between Room Environment and Fatigue Despite the fact that the majority of people spend at least 90% of their time indoors, there is still much that is not known about how room conditions such as temperature and humidity affect people. That's why for the very first research topic, we chose to clarify and benchmark the effects that air environments in offices and other rooms have on people. To realize this research topic, we established test facilities at Riken's Integrated Innovation Building (IIB) in Kobe in November 2017. We gathered the test subjects from the public, and in December we began tests to clarify the relationship between room environment and level of fatigue. The test facilities have four rooms, each of which can be given its own environment by controlling precisely for temperature (in 0.1°C increments) and humidity (in 1% increments). The 120 test subjects were put in various temperature and humidity environments and given computer work requiring concentration. Data for the subjects was gathered; for example, they were measured for the state of autonomous nerves that can be estimated from the change in heart rate, and for the change in work efficiency and subjective level of fatigue. Tests so far have indicated that, regarding mental, physiological, and activity aspects, the conditions most conducive to warding off fatigue in an office environment in the winter are a temperature of 20°C and a humidity of 30% for men, and a temperature of 22°C and a humidity of 50% for women. This is the first time ever that tests have clarified the difference in how air environments affect men and women differently. These test results were presented in May 2018 at the Japan Society of Fatigue Science. (See diagram below.) Plans for future research include changes caused to the body when a person goes back and forth between two spaces with different temperatures, a cause of heat shock, and revealing how this eventually affects a person's health; and how to create ideal air environments for a person's individual characteristics and condition through a combination of factors other than temperature and humidity, such as airflow, lighting, and odors. Relation between Temperature/Humidity and Level of Physiological Fatigue (Men/Women) Key Activities 398 NEXT CHALLENGE Reveal the Relationship between Environment and Health, and Strive for Air That Raises the Overall Quality of Life Under the RIKEN-DAIKIN Wellness Life Collaboration Program, we aim to establish a fatigue index for warm environments before the end of fiscal 2018. By using this index, we want to propose and validate air environments aimed at preventing and recovering from fatigue, which will eventually lead to the development of products scientifically proven to realize low-fatigue environments. In addition, in July 2017, Daikin and Osaka University signed a 10-year comprehensive agreement for further joint research into creating air environments that improve sleep quality, an area Daikin has spent years researching. We will continue to use open innovation toward the realization of creating air and spaces that improve peoples overall quality of life. Bringing People of Future Generations Scientifically Proven Healthy and Comfortable Air The human race has always used its ingenuity to come up with air and environments that are comfortable and healthy. Dr. Yasuyoshi Watanabe One way we are doing this is through our program with Director, RIKEN BDR-DAIKIN Daikin. Toward realizing healthy, comfortable environments Collaboration Center that meet people's individual requirements, we are collaborating with Daikin by maximizing our R&D capabilities in controlling all types of daily environments and our comprehensive strength in fatigue research. Key Activities 399 Create a Mechanism That Brings Peace of Mind by Promoting Adoption of Low-EnvironmentalImpact Heat-Pump Heating The Paris Agreement Has Spurred Global Warming Countermeasures, and Society Has High Hopes for Decarbonized in Space and Water Heaters A large percentage of Europe's CO2 emissions come from heating, but it is in the midst of switching from combustion heating using gas and kerosene to heat-pump heating, which has a lower environmental impact than combustion heating thanks to the use of heat in the air. However, heat-pump heating is still a relatively unfamiliar concept in Europe. Daikin believes that it is important to create a mechanism that both customers and dealers can rely on. Change in Heat Source for Space and Water Heaters to Achieve Paris Agreement Goals Note: Compiled by Daikin based on Energy Technology Perspectives 2017, published by the International Energy Agency (IEA) According to B2DS scenario (holding the future temperature increase to less than 2°C) Key Activities 400 DAIKIN’S APPROACH Developing a Platform Linking Three Parties: Europe's Customers, Dealers, and Daikin Europe is aggressively reducing greenhouse gas emissions through government policies aimed at transitioning to a highly energy-efficient, decarbonized society. Over 80% of total household energy consumption in Europe, a relatively cold region, is for space and water heaters, and there is an ongoing shift of these products from conventional combustion-heat source equipment to heat-pump heating, which emits less CO2. That being said, heat-pump heaters still account for only a small percentage of the European heating market. Having used combustion-type heating for so many years, Europeans are still unfamiliar with heat-pump heating and have a low awareness of its heating capacity, durability, and after-sales service system. These factors make people hesitant to change how they heat their homes. To help raise awareness, in 2017 we developed a cloud-based platform that links the three parties of customers, dealers, and Daikin, with the goal of putting customers at ease about using heat-pump heating. We call this service Stand By Me (SBM) to symbolize that Daikin is always by your side to assist with heating needs. Stand By Me: Linking Customers, Dealers, and Daikin Key Activities 401 DAIKIN'S PERFORMANCE Eliminate Customers' Concerns and Help Dealers' Work Efficiently To eliminate the biggest concern about heat-pump heaters—whether they can warm a house at extremely cold times—we developed an online tool for dealers called Heat Solution Navigator, which allows them to select a heating product for customers that provides sufficient warmth for a particular region and even for the coldest times of the year. In addition to aiding product selection, Heat Solution Navigator eases the burden on dealers by, for example, simplifying calculation of energy consumption depending on where the product is installed. In Europe, great importance is placed on heating equipment after-sales service. With this in mind, Daikin links customers and dealers by having equipment registered under the SBM service. Customers are provided with an eight year extended warranty and a maintenance contract on the SBM portal site, and they can even settle accounts online. The service will soon include listings online of the available times of maintenance staff and prices they charge, and a system for customers to request when they want staff to make maintenance visits. Our goal is to have maintenance staff visit customers within eight hours of the request, another way we are providing peace of mind through this service. Furthermore, dealers who customers have a maintenance contract with can conduct this maintenance based on the customer information stored in the SBM database, thus streamlining work processes. Dealers get the ability to read repair history and order the appropriate service parts for customers, while customers get the peace of mind that comes from knowing their servicing needs will be met. Dealers Satisfied with How SBM Enhances Relationships with Customers As of May 2018, there were approximately 30,000 units of heating equipment registered under the SBM service in Europe. A survey of dealers in Spain showed high ratings for SBM in terms of reducing workload, supporting sales, and enabling long-term customer relationships, with more than 67% of respondents saying that they were either extremely satisfied and 50% saying satisfied with these aspects. Key Activities 402 NEXT CHALLENGE Contribute to Overall Reduction of CO2 Emissions in Society while Bringing Customers and Dealers Greater Satisfaction In October 2018, Daikin will offer improved after-sales service support for dealers with the addition of a remote monitoring function to SBM. This will make it possible to confirm equipment's operational state over the Internet, without having to visit the actual site, with the information gathered useful for diagnosing problems and predicting breakdowns. In addition, through a platform linking customers, Daikin, and its formidable dealer network, all three parties can benefit as products registered under SBM expand beyond heating equipment to include air conditioners as well. We will continue to promote the adoption of heat-pump heaters so that we can bring greater satisfaction to customers and dealers while helping realize a decarbonized society. Wide-Ranging Information Provision Enables Efficient Work Processes Under SBM, Daikin provides us with comprehensive information on all heating equipment installed at customer Mr. Luis José Garcia locations, such as warranty period and the maintenance and Reparaciones Técnicas del Hogar repair situations. This has dramatically streamlined our work S L (Daikin Dealer) processes. In addition, Daikin has gone out of its way to make the interface intuitive and easy to operate. Key Activities 403 Human Resource Development in the U.S.— Growing with Local Communities For a Company to Grow Sustainably, Its Employees Must Grow The U.S. is the world's largest air conditioning market and the birthplace of air conditioning. Recently, there has been increasing demands for energy-efficient and environmentally conscious air conditioners. In response, Daikin is pursuing innovation that will allow us to progress with society. To this end it is crucial that we hire high-quality human resources in all fields and foster them over the long term. Sales of Goodman Global Group, Inc. Key Activities 404 DAIKIN’S APPROACH Daikin Group's Largest Plant Opens, Embarks on New Initiatives in Human Resource Development In 2012, Daikin acquired Goodman Global Group, Inc., the company with the largest share of the North American residential air conditioner market. This marked our full-fledged entry into the U.S., the world's largest air conditioning market. Since then, we have continued to increase sales. In May 2017, we opened Daikin Texas Technology Park (DTTP), the largest production facility in the Daikin Group, in Waller, Texas, just outside Houston. Daikin invested approximately 450 million dollars in the 2-million-square-meter site, which comprises four existing Goodman factories and a distribution base. DTTP manufactures a range of products including commercial and residential air conditioners and heating equipment for the U.S. market. Besides consolidating various departments for smoother inhouse coordination, DTTP has a new R&D center that boosts our ability to develop products locally. DTTP will continue to value Goodman's corporate culture while at the same time implementing peoplecentered management, which is based on Our Group Philosophy that the cumulative growth of all Group members serves as the foundation for the Group's development. We will strive to create an environment in which each and every employee can enjoy rewarding work and use their strengths to the fullest. Birds-eye view of DTTP Key Activities 405 DAIKIN'S PERFORMANCE People-Centered Management Takes Hold in the U.S. Upon opening of DTTP, the production division established a training center, called a Dojo, where employees systematically learn technologies and skills. At the training center, all employees, including dispatch workers, are shown what skills they should acquire to advance their careers. This gives everyone an equal opportunity to prove themselves anywhere in the world in the future. As a result of efforts like this, employees have been able to plan concrete, long-term careers, set goals, and enjoy rewarding work. DTTP has also raised the skill level of its employees, as shown by the results of the fiscal 2017 Global Skills Competition*, where the company turned out some of the top finishers. Human resources growth has also led to product quality improvements in the form of a decrease in the defect rate. In order to come up with innovations by balancing business growth with environmental efforts in the U.S. market, human resource development is crucial in not just the production division but in all company divisions, including product development, marketing, sales, and after sales service. In addition to on-the-job training (OJT), we have introduced a training management system for company-wide training called Compass that gives employees opportunities to study both online and in the classroom with others. In fiscal 2017, our educational programs offered approximately 3,000 courses in areas such as leadership and IT. As we have proceeded with these efforts, people-centered management is starting to take firm root at DTTP, as shown by comments from managers, such as our entire organization is encouraging new challenges and we are building a corporate culture that values this and I now understand the importantance of raising motivation. As of the end of March 2018, DTTP had hired approximately 5,000 employees and it is striving to create an environment conducive to improving the quality of work and to promote inter-departmental coordination. DTTP is looking to increase the number of employees to 7,000 as it expands business in the U.S. * A global competition among production base employees that aims to ultimately boost skill levels of workers in manufacturing processes. Training in the Dojo Key Activities 406 NEXT CHALLENGE Human Resource Development in the U.S. Will Lead to Higher Quality of Human Resources Worldwide A company's sustainable growth is tied closely to its hiring practices and human resource development. Daikin will continue to create jobs and develop human resources in the U.S. contributing to the country and communities. We also believe that aggressively developing human resources in the U.S. will lead to a higher level of human resources and skills throughout the entire Daikin Group. By having well trained human resources create and provide the world with new products and services, we can contribute to higher quality lifestyles and achieve sustainable growth together with society. We Expect Daikin to Contribute to Regional Development as a Good Corporate Citizen Daikin has brought a breeze of fresh air to our community. I am grateful for not only the positive economic effect that Mr. Danny Marburger the company has had through job creation, but also for how Mayor, Waller, Texas it has aggressively boosted the capabilities our local human resources and given residents hopes and dreams. I look forward to continuing to strengthen our partnership with Daikin—a company indispensable to regional growth. Key Activities 407 Sustainability Report 2018 －Web version－ Sustainability Report Third-Party Veriﬁcation ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 409 Method of Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions Data ………………………………………………………………… 412 Honors for Daikin ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 416 Sustainability Report 408 Sustainability Report THIRD-PARTY VERIFICATION To ensure reliability of the content of this report, Daikin had a third-party verification conducted for data on greenhouse gas emissions, water use, waste water, waste emissions, and chemical substances emissions. Data Covered by Verification Environmental Impact Data on Business Operations in FY2017 Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, water use, waste water, waste emissions, and chemical substances emissions from business operations of four production bases in Japan of Daikin Industries, Ltd., eight production subsidiaries in Japan, and 47 production subsidiaries overseas. Category 1 (purchased goods and services), 4 (upstream transportation and distribution), 6 (business travel), and 11 (use of sold products) emissions of Scope 3 GHG emissions calculated in line with the GHG Protocol's ‘Corporate Value Chain (Scope3) Accounting and Reporting Standard.' Scope of Review Contribution to CO2 Emission Reduction through the Use of Products Contribution to CO2 emission reduction through the use of inverter air conditioners sold in emerging countries in fiscal 2017. Contribution to CO2 emission reductions through the use of air conditioners sold in industrialized countries in fiscal 2017. Contribution to greenhouse gas emission reductions through fiscal 2017 worldwide sales of air conditioners that use R-32 low global warming potential refrigerant. Sustainability Report 409 Sustainability Report 410 Sustainability Report 411 Third-Party Verification METHOD OF CALCULATING GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS DATA Greenhouse gas emissions data are calculated as follows. (1) Use of fuel at sites (Energy-induced CO2) Scope 1 The scope of calculation covers four manufacturing bases of Daikin Industries, eight manufacturing subsidiaries in Japan, and 47 manufacturing subsidiaries overseas. However, the following may not be included in calculation: newly consolidated bases, sites that are newly established and that don’t yet have a data collection system in place, and sites whose emissions are negligible. As well, for sites where data procurement is difficult, calculation is based on estimates of past data, for example. Heat generation per unit, CO2 emissions coefficient: Based on Environmental Activity Evaluation Program (Eco-Action 21) (1998, Ministry of the Environment); for natural gas in Japan, the coefficient used is based on the Act on the Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. (2) Emissions of HFC and PFC in production processes at sites Scope 1 The scope of calculation covers four manufacturing bases of Daikin Industries, eight manufacturing subsidiaries in Japan, and 47 manufacturing subsidiaries overseas. For estimates of HFC and PFC emissions, material balances and emissions coefficients are set and calculated based on methods stipulated in the Act on the Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. Global warming coefficients of HFC and PFC: Coefficients provided in the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report. (3) Non-energy-induced CO2, CH4, N2O, SF6 emissions in production processes at sites Scope 1 The scope of calculation is as follows. Four manufacturing bases of Daikin Industries (Non-energy-induced CO2, CH4, N2O, SF6). Calculations are based on emissions coefficients stipulated in the Act on the Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. Global warming coefficients: Coefficients provided in the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report. Sustainability Report 412 (4) Use of electricity and heat at sites (Energy-induced CO2) Scope 2 The scope of calculation covers four manufacturing bases of Daikin Industries, eight manufacturing subsidiaries in Japan, and 47 manufacturing subsidiaries overseas. CO2 emissions coefficients are as follows. Purchased electricity: In Japan: 0.384kg-CO2/kWh Based on Environmental Activity Evaluation Program (Eco-Action 21) (1998, Ministry of the Environment) Overseas: Based on Report on Survey of Estimates of CO2 Unit Emissions in Power Generation Fields in Countries of the World (Japan Electrical Manufacturers’ Association), or on coefficients confirmed by power companies servicing each site. Purchased heat: 0.068kg-CO2/MJ Based on Environmental Activity Evaluation Program (Eco-Action 21) (1998, Ministry of the Environment) For Kashima Plant, 0.05 kg-CO2/MJ (surveyed value by site) (5) Purchased products and services (Energy-induced CO2) Scope 3 Scope of calculation covers components and materials purchased for air conditioners, water heaters, oil hydraulic products, and fluorochemical products produced in Japan, China, Thailand, Malaysia, Belgium, the Czech Republic, and the U.S. For each, purchased amount is multiplied by CO2 emission coefficient. CO2 emission coefficient is based on CFP Program Basic Database Ver. 1.01 (data in Japan), by the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry, and the Inventory Database for Environment Analysis, by the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology, and the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry For chemicals, approximately 80% of the highest volume ones were selected, and a 100% value estimate calculation was done. (6) Transport and transmission (Upstream) (Energy-induced CO2) Scope 3 Scope of calculation covers transport, including imports, of products and parts (compressors) sold in Japan by Daikin Industries. For calculation method, transport in ton-kilometers (transport amount X transport distance) is multiplied by CO2 conversion coefficient. CO2 conversion coefficient: Within Japan: Based on Act on the Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. From overseas to Japan: Based on simple calculation tool for logistics CO2 emissions, by Policy Research Institute for Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. Sustainability Report 413 (7) Business trips (Energy-induced CO2) Scope 3 Scope of calculation covers business trips in Japan and overseas by employees of Daikin Industries and its consolidated subsidiaries in Japan. Transportation cost is multiplied by CO2 emission coefficient. Transportation cost is cost of travel minus lodging, daily allowance, and other expenses that can be excluded. In Japan: Transportation cost X emission coefficient per amount paid (Air flight: Domestic). Overseas: Transportation cost X emission coefficient per amount paid (Air flight: International). CO2 emission coefficient is based on the database of emission unit values (Ver. 2.0) of the Report on Emissions Unit Values for Calculation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions, etc., by Organizations Throughout the Supply Chain, by the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. Emission coefficient uses the most expensive air flights. (8) CO2 emissions in use of products sold in Japan (Energy-induced CO2) Scope 3 Scope of calculation covers CO2 emissions from the use of residential air purifiers, central air conditioners, residential water heaters, residential air conditioners, factory air conditioners, and air conditioners for buildings, stores, and offices sold in Japan, ASEAN, China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Australia, the EU, and the U.S. Calculation method: Annual electricity consumption X product lifecycle X electricity CO2 emission coefficient X products sold. Annual electricity consumption and others are as follows. Annual electricity consumption: Catalog values for room air conditioners, assumed conditions of actual use for other products. Product lifecycle: 10 years for room air conditioners, water heaters, and air purifiers, 13 years for other products. Electricity CO2 emission coefficient: In Japan: 0.348 kg-CO2/kWh; based on Environmental Activity Evaluation Program (Eco-Action 21) (1998, Ministry of the Environment). Overseas: Based on Report on Survey of Estimates of CO2 Unit Emissions in Power Generation Fields in Countries of the World (The Japan Electrical Manufacturers’ Association), or on “Methodology for Ecodesign of Energy-related Products (COWI, VHK).” Up to 80% of the total sales volume, in order of highest selling products, was calculated, and a 100% value estimate calculation was done. Sustainability Report 414 (9) Refrigerant leakage in use of products sold in Japan Scope 3 Scope of calculation covers refrigerant leakage during use of refrigeration and air conditioning equipment sold in Japan, ASEAN, China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Australia, the EU, and the U.S. Calculation method: Annual leakage rate X product lifecycle X global warming coefficient of refrigerant X products sold in fiscal 2014. Annual leakage rate and others are as follows. Annual leakage rate: Revisions of Emission Coefficient, Etc. During Use of Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Equipment, by Manufacturing Industries Bureau, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, March 17, 2009. Product lifecycle: 10 years for residential products, 13 years for commercial refrigeration and air conditioning equipment. Global warming coefficient of refrigerant: Coefficients provided in the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report. Up to 80% of the total sales volume, in order of highest selling products, was calculated, and a 100% value estimate calculation was done. Sustainability Report 415 Sustainability Report HONORS FOR DAIKIN Awards for 2017 Overall CSR (Including SRI) Daikin Industries, Ltd. Daikin Middle East and Africa FZE ■ Chosen for inclusion in the Morningstar Socially ■ Was awarded the Dubai Chamber CSR Label by Responsible Investment Index the Dubai Chamber of Commerce and Industry ■ Chosen for inclusion in the MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index ■ Chosen for inclusion in the MSCI Japan Daikin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. Empowering Women Index (WIN) ■ Won the Sustainable Best Practices Award from the Shanghai Daily ■ Daikin's Sustainability Report 2017 won the Review Board Special Award of Excellence in the Environmental Communication Awards. ■ Won the Best IR Award as selected by the Japan Investor Relations Association Sustainability Report 416 Environmental Honors Daikin Industries, Ltd. ■ Received a rating of A– in climate performance by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), an international NGO ■ FY 2017 Energy Conservation Grand Prize Received theDirector-General Prize of Agency for Natural Resources and Energy, for achieving a ZEB-type office using state-of-the-art air conditioning technologies and optimal management Received the Chairman Prize of Energy Conservation Center, Japan (ECCJ) for the VRV Q Series for replacement use Received the Chairman Prize of Energy Conservation Center, Japan (ECCJ) for the HEXAGON Force air-cooled heat-pump modular chiller Daikin Airconditioning India Pvt. Ltd. ■ Received the Most Energy Efficient Air Conditioners Award from the Government of India Goodman Global Group, Inc. ■ Earned LEED Gold certification for office buildings in DTTP under the LEED green building certification system Sustainability Report 417 Honors for Customer Satisfaction Daikin Industries, Ltd. ■ Daikin's risora residential air conditioner won a ■ Won an Award of Excellence in the Service and iF Design Award and a Good Design Award. Hospitality Awards sponsored by the Japan Institute of Information Technology (JIIT) ■ The cocotas multi-cassette-type air conditioner for small spaces was selected a Good Design Best 100 in the Good Design Awards. ■ For the third consecutive year, received the Directors Award in the Corporate Telephone Answering Contest sponsored by the Japan Telecom Users Association (JTUA). First company in the manufacturing industry to be selected a Gold Ranked Company Sustainability Report 418 Human Resource Honors Daikin Industries, Ltd. Daikin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. ■ Granted Nadeshiko Brand designation for the ■ Won the China Model Human Resources Hiring fifth time, and the fourth consecutive year, by Company Prize in awards sponsored by 51job, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry China's leading human resource solutions provider Daikin Compressor Industries, Ltd. ■ Received a Prime Minister's Industry Award (Safety Management category) ■ Awarded the highest level of certification (Lboshi certification) from Japan's Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare for being a company that shows excellence in promoting the talents of women in the workplace Daikin Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. ■ Won a Gold Class 1 Award from the Malaysian ■ Awarded the highest rating, 5 stars, in the Society for Occupational Safety and Health NIKKEI Smart Work survey conducted by Nikkei (MSOSH) Inc., which assesses companies based on the adoption of diverse, flexible work practices Daikin Applied (UK) ■ Awarded Gold level in the Better Health at Work Awards Sustainability Report 419 Sustainability Report 2018 －Web version－ Search for CSR Contents Search by Guidelines …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 421 Search by ESG Data …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 443 Search for CSR Contents 420 SEARCH BY GUIDELINES Fiscal 2017 report content regarding efforts toward sustainability corresponding to various guidelines is as follows. Information and indices required for each guideline is summarized and disclosed as searchable ESG Data. (Page 443) Climate-Related Financial Information Disclosure Taskforce Comparison Table This page discloses information categorized as recommended by the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Disclosure Categories Recommended and Endorsed by the Task Force on Climate-related Posted location Financial Disclosures Governance Governance related to climate-related risks and opportunities Management a) Board of Director monitoring system with regard to climate-related risks and opportunities Structure b) Management Role within the assessment and management of climate-related risks and Management opportunities Structure Strategy Actual and potential impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on business, strategy and financial planning Risks and a) Details of climate-related risks and opportunities over the short-, mediumand long-term Opportunities b) Impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on organization business, strategy and Risks and financial planning Opportunities c) Strategic resilience in light of considerations based on climate related scenarios including Environmental scenarios where temperatures rise by 2 degrees or lower Vision 2050 Risk Management Process for identifying assessing and managing climate-related risks Risks and a) Process for specifying and assessing climate-relate risks Opportunities Risks and b) Process for managing climate-relate risks Opportunities c) Specification, assessment and management process integration of climate-related risks for Risks and comprehensive risk management Opportunities Search for CSR Contents 421 Indices and Targets Indices and targets used to assess and manage climate-related risks and opportunities a) Indices used by organizations to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with Environmental strategy and risk management processes Action Plan Overview of b) Scope 1–3 greenhouse gas emissions volume and related risks Environmental Impact Environmental c) Targets and achievements for managing climate-related risks and opportunities Action Plan Search by ESG Data Search for CSR Contents 422 GRI Standard Guidelines This page indicates standard disclosure items in accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Universal Standards GC ISO 26000 Core External Disclosure Inditcator WEB Principle Subjects / Issue Assurance Organizational Profile Disclosure 102-1 Name of the a. Name of the organization. 6.3.10 organization a. A description of the organization’s Disclosure 102-2 activities. Activities, b. Primary brands, products, and brands, 6.4.3 services, including an explanation of any products, and products or services that are banned in services certain markets. Disclosure 102-3 a. Location of the organization’s Location of 6.4.4 headquarters. headquarters a. Number of countries where the Disclosure 102-4 organization operates, and the names of Location of countries where it has significant 6.4.5 operations operations and/or that are relevant to the topics covered in the report. Disclosure 102-5 Daikin Group Ownership and a. Nature of ownership and legal form. 6.8.5 Business legal form Overview a. Markets served, including: i. geographic locations where products Disclosure 102-6 and services are offered; Markets served ii. sectors served; iii. types of customers and beneficiaries. a. Scale of the organization, including: i. total number of employees; ii. total number of operations; iii. net sales (for private sector Disclosure 102-7 organizations) or net revenues (for Scale of the public sector organizations); organization iv. total capitalization (for private sector organizations) broken down in terms of debt and equity; v. quantity of products or services provided. Search for CSR Contents 423 GC ISO 26000 Core External Disclosure Inditcator WEB Principle Subjects / Issue Assurance a. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by gender. b. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by region. c. Total number of employees by employment type (full-time and parttime), by gender. Disclosure 102-8 d. Whether a significant portion of the Information on organization’s activities are performed GC Workplace employees and by workers who are not employees. If principle 6 Diversity other workers applicable, a description of the nature and scale of work performed by workers who are not employees. e. Any significant variations in the numbers reported in Disclosures 102-8-a, 102-8-b, and 102-8-c (such as seasonal variations in the tourism or agricultural industries). f. An explanation of how the data have been compiled, including any assumptions made. a. A description of the organization’s supply chain, including its main Value Chain Disclosure 102-9 elements as they relate to the and Daikin's Supply chain organization’s activities, primary brands, CSR products, and services. a. Significant changes to the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or supply chain, including: i. Changes in the location of, or changes Disclosure 102in, operations, including facility 10 openings, closings, and expansions; Significant changes to the ii. Changes in the share capital structure organization and other capital formation, and its supply maintenance, and alteration operations chain (for private sector organizations); iii. Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination. Disclosure 10211 a. Whether and how the organization Risk Precautionary applies the Precautionary Principle or Management Principle or approach. approach Search for CSR Contents 424 GC ISO 26000 Core External Disclosure Inditcator WEB Principle Subjects / Issue Assurance a. A list of externally-developed Disclosure 102economic, environmental and social Participation 12 charters, principles, or other initiatives in the Global External to which the organization subscribes, or Compact initiatives which it endorses. Disclosure 102a. A list of the main memberships of 13 industry or other associations, and Membership of national or international advocacy associations organizations. Strategy a. A statement from the most senior Disclosure 102decision-maker of the organization 14 (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior Statement from position) about the relevance of senior decisionsustainability to the organization and its maker Message from strategy for addressing sustainability. 6.2 the President Disclosure 10215 a. A description of key impacts, risks, Key impacts, and opportunities. risks, and opportunities Ethics and Integrity Disclosure 10216 Values, a. A description of the organization’s GC CSR principles, values, principles, standards, and norms principle Philosophy standards, and of behavior. 10 norms of behavior a. A description of internal and external 6.6.3 GC Disclosure 102mechanisms for: principle Compliance 17 i. seeking advice about ethical and 10 Mechanisms for lawful behavior, and organizational advice and integrity; GC concerns about ii. reporting concerns about unethical or principle Compliance ethics unlawful behavior, and organizational 10 integrity. Governance a. Governance structure of the Disclosure 102organization, including committees of 18 the highest governance body. Corporate Governance b. Committees responsible for decisionGovernance structure making on economic, environmental, and social topics. 6.2 a. Process for delegating authority for Disclosure 102economic, environmental, and social 19 topics from the highest governance Delegating body to senior executives and other authority employees. Search for CSR Contents 425 GC ISO 26000 Core External Disclosure Inditcator WEB Principle Subjects / Issue Assurance Disclosure 102a. Whether the organization has 20 appointed an executive-level position or Executive-level positions with responsibility for CSR responsibility for economic, environmental, and social Management economic, topics. environmental, b. Whether post holders report directly and social topics to the highest governance body. a. Processes for consultation between Disclosure 102stakeholders and the highest 21 governance body on economic, Consulting environmental, and social topics. stakeholders on b. If consultation is delegated, describe economic, to whom it is delegated and how the environmental, resulting feedback is provided to the and social topics highest governance body. a. Composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: i. executive or non-executive; ii. independence; Disclosure 102iii. tenure on the governance body; 22 iv. number of each individual’s other Composition of significant positions and commitments, Management the highest and the nature of the commitments; governance v. gender; body and its vi. membership of under-represented 6.2 committees social groups; vii. competencies relating to economic, environmental, and social topics; viii. stakeholder representation. a. Whether the chair of the highest Disclosure 102governance body is also an executive 23 officer in the organization. Chair of the b. If the chair is also an executive officer, Not on website. highest describe his or her function within the governance organization’s management and the body reasons for this arrangement. a. Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees. b. Criteria used for Disclosure 102nominating and selecting highest 24 governance body members, including Nominating and whether and how: Corporate selecting the i. stakeholders (including shareholders) Governance highest are involved; governance ii. diversity is considered; body iii. independence is considered; iv. expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental, and social topics are considered. Search for CSR Contents 426 GC ISO 26000 Core External Disclosure Inditcator WEB Principle Subjects / Issue Assurance a. Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. b. Whether conflicts of interest are Disclosure 102disclosed to stakeholders, including, as a 25 minimum: 6.2 Conflicts of i. Cross-board membership; interest ii. Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders; iii. Existence of controlling shareholder; iv. Related party disclosures. Disclosure 102a. Highest governance body’s and senior 26 executives’ roles in the development, Role of highest approval, and updating of the CSR governance organization’s purpose, value or mission Management body in setting statements, strategies, policies, and purpose, values, goals related to economic, and strategy environmental, and social topics. Disclosure 10227 a. Measures taken to develop and Collective enhance the highest governance body’s knowledge of collective knowledge of economic, highest environmental, and social topics. governance body a. Processes for evaluating the highest 6.2 governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental, and social topics. b. Whether such evaluation is Disclosure 102independent or not, and its frequency. 28 c. Whether such evaluation is a selfEvaluating the assessment. highest d. Actions taken in response to governance evaluation of the highest governance body’s body’s performance with respect to performance governance of economic, environmental, and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. Search for CSR Contents 427 GC ISO 26000 Core External Disclosure Inditcator WEB Principle Subjects / Issue Assurance a. Highest governance body’s role in identifying and managing economic, Disclosure 102environmental, and social topics and 29 their impacts, risks, and opportunities – Identifying and including its role in the implementation managing of due diligence processes. Risk economic, b. Whether stakeholder consultation is Management environmental, used to support the highest governance and social body’s identification and management impacts of economic, environmental, and social topics and their impacts, risks, and opportunities. Disclosure 102a. Highest governance body’s role in 30 reviewing the effectiveness of the Effectiveness of Risk organization’s risk management risk Management processes for economic, environmental, management and social topics. processes Disclosure 10231 a. Frequency of the highest governance Review of body’s review of economic, 6.2 Risk economic, environmental, and social topics and Management environmental, their impacts, risks, and opportunities. and social topics Disclosure 10232 a. The highest committee or position Highest that formally reviews and approves the governance organization’s sustainability report and body’s role in ensures that all material topics are sustainability covered. reporting Disclosure 102a. Process for communicating critical 33 concerns to the highest governance Communicating body. critical concerns Disclosure 102a. Total number and nature of critical 34 concerns that were communicated to Nature and total the highest governance body. No violation number of b. Mechanism(s) used to address and critical concerns resolve critical concerns. Search for CSR Contents 428 GC ISO 26000 Core External Disclosure Inditcator WEB Principle Subjects / Issue Assurance a. Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the following types of remuneration: i. Fixed pay and variable pay, including performance-based pay, equity-based pay, bonuses, and deferred or vested shares; ii. Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments; Disclosure 102iii. Termination payments; 35 Corporate iv. Clawbacks; Remuneration Governance v. Retirement benefits, including the policies difference between benefit schemes and contribution rates for the highest governance body, senior executives, and all other employees. b. How performance criteria in the remuneration policies relate to the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ objectives for economic, environmental, and social topics. a. Process for determining remuneration. Disclosure 102b. Whether remuneration consultants 36 are involved in determining Corporate Process for remuneration and whether they are 6.2 Governance determining independent of management. remuneration c. Any other relationships that the remuneration consultants have with the organization. Disclosure 102a. How stakeholders’ views are sought 37 and taken into account regarding Stakeholders’ remuneration. involvement in b. If applicable, the results of votes on remuneration remuneration policies and proposals. a. Ratio of the annual total Disclosure 102compensation for the organization’s 38 highest-paid individual in each country Corporate Annual total of significant operations to the median Governance compensation annual total compensation for all ratio employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. a. Ratio of the percentage increase in Disclosure 102annual total compensation for the 39 organization’s highest-paid individual in Percentage each country of significant operations to increase in the median percentage increase in annual total annual total compensation for all compensation employees (excluding the highest-paid ratio individual) in the same country. Search for CSR Contents 429 GC ISO 26000 Core External Disclosure Inditcator WEB Principle Subjects / Issue Assurance Stakeholder Engagement Disclosure 10240 a. A list of stakeholder groups engaged Stakeholder List of by the organization. Engagement stakeholder groups Disclosure 10241 a. Percentage of total employees Labor GC Collective covered by collective bargaining Management principle 3 bargaining agreements Relations agreements Disclosure 10242 a. The basis for identifying and selecting Stakeholder Identifying and stakeholders with whom to engage. Engagement selecting stakeholders a. The organization’s approach to Disclosure 102stakeholder engagement, including 43 frequency of engagement by type and Stakeholder Approach to by stakeholder group, and an indication Engagement stakeholder of whether any of the engagement was engagement undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. a. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder Disclosure 102engagement, including: 44 i. how the organization has responded Stakeholder Key topics and to those key topics and concerns, Engagement concerns raised including through its reporting; ii. the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Reporting Practice Disclosure 102a. A list of all entities included in the 45 organization’s consolidated financial Entities included statements or equivalent documents. Editorial in the b. Whether any entity included in the Policy consolidated organization’s consolidated financial financial statements or equivalent documents is statements not covered by the report. a. An explanation of the process for Disclosure 102defining the report content and the 46 topic Boundaries. Editorial Defining report b. An explanation of how the Policy content and organization has implemented the topic Boundaries Reporting Principles for defining report content. Search for CSR Contents 430 GC ISO 26000 Core External Disclosure Inditcator WEB Principle Subjects / Issue Assurance Disclosure 102a. A list of the material topics identified 47 CSR in the process for defining report List of material Management content. topics Disclosure 102a. The effect of any restatements of 48 information given in previous reports, Restatements of and the reasons for such restatements. information Disclosure 102a. Significant changes from previous 49 reporting periods in the list of material Changes in topics and topic Boundaries. reporting Disclosure 10250 a. Reporting period for the information Editorial Reporting provided. Policy period Disclosure 10251 a. If applicable, the date of the most Editorial Date of most recent previous report. Policy recent report Disclosure 102Editorial 52 a. Reporting cycle. Policy Reporting cycle Disclosure 10253 Sustainability Contact point a. The contact point for questions Report for questions regarding the report or its contents. Questionnaire regarding the report Search for CSR Contents 431 GC ISO 26000 Core External Disclosure Inditcator WEB Principle Subjects / Issue Assurance a. The claim made by the organization, Disclosure 102if it has prepared a report in accordance 54 with the GRI Standards, either: Claims of i. ‘This report has been prepared in reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core accordance with option’; the GRI ii. ‘This report has been prepared in Standards accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option’. a. The GRI content index, which specifies each of the GRI Standards used and lists all disclosures included in the report. Guidelines b. For each disclosure, the content index shall include: i. the number of the disclosure (for Disclosure 102disclosures covered by the GRI 55 Standards); GRI content ii. the page number(s) or URL(s) where index the information can be found, either within the report or in other published materials; iii. if applicable, and where permitted, the reason(s) for omission when a required disclosure cannot be made. a. A description of the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. If the report has been externally assured: i. A reference to the external assurance report, statements, or opinions. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, Disclosure 102a description of what has and what has 56 Third-Party not been assured and on what basis, External Verification including the assurance standards used, assurance the level of assurance obtained, and any limitations of the assurance process; ii. The relationship between the organization and the assurance provider; iii. Whether and how the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking external assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Search for CSR Contents 432 GC ISO 26000 Core External Disclosure Inditcator WEB Principle Subjects / Issue Assurance Management Approach a. An explanation of why the topic is material. b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes a description of: Disclosure 103-1 i. where the impacts occur; Explanation of ii. the organization’s involvement with CSR Action the material the impacts. For example, whether the Plan 2020 topic and its organization has caused or contributed Boundary to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. For each material topic, the reporting organization shall report the following information: a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. b. A statement of the purpose of the management approach. Disclosure 103-2 c. A description of the following, if the The management approach includes that CSR Action management component: Plan 2020 approach and its i. Policies components ii. Commitments iii. Goals and targets iv. Responsibilities v. Resources vi. Grievance mechanisms vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: Disclosure 103-3 i. the mechanisms for evaluating the Evaluation of effectiveness of the management CSR Action the approach; Plan 2020 management ii. the results of the evaluation of the approach management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. Search for CSR Contents 433 Topic-specific Standards ISO 26000 GC Core External Disclosure Inditcator WEB Principle Subjects / Assurance Issue 200: Economic Economic Performance 6.8 Daikin's Direct economic value generated and 6.8.3 Philosophy of Disclosure 201-1 distributed 6.8.7 Social Contribution 6.8.9 Financial implications and other risks GC Environmental Disclosure 201-2 and opportunities due to climate 6.5.5 principle 7 Accounting change Defined benefit plan obligations and Disclosure 201-3 6.8.7 other retirement plans Financial assistance received from Disclosure 201-4 government Market Presence 6.3.7 6.3.10 Ratios of standard entry level wage by GC Disclosure 202-1 gender compared to local minimum 6.4.3 principle 6 wage 6.4.4 6.8 6.4.3 Proportion of senior management hired GC 6.8 Workplace Disclosure 202-2 from the local community principle 6 6.8.5 Diversity 6.8.7 Indirect Economic Impacts 6.3.9 Infrastructure investments and services 6.8 Key Activities: Disclosure 203-1 supported 6.8.7 Environment 6.8.9 6.3.9 6.6.6 6.6.7 6.7.8 Disclosure 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 6.8 6.8.5 6.8.7 6.8.9 Search for CSR Contents 434 GC ISO 26000 Core External Disclosure Inditcator WEB Principle Subjects / Issue Assurance Procurement Practices 6.4.3 Proportion of spending on local 6.6.6 Disclosure 204-1 suppliers 6.8 6.8.7 Anti-corruption GC 6.6 Operations assessed for risks related to Disclosure 205-1 principle Compliance corruption 10 6.6.3 GC 6.6.3 Compliance Communication and training about antiDisclosure 205-2 principle Prohibiting corruption policies and procedures 6.6.6 10 Bribes GC Confirmed incidents of corruption and Disclosure 205-3 principle 6.6.3 No violation actions taken 10 Anti-competitive Behavior 6.6 Compliance Free Legal actions for anti-competitive Competition Disclosure 206-1 behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly 6.6.5 and Fair practices Business 6.6.7 Dealings 300: Environmental Materials GC Overview of Disclosure 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume principle 6.5.4 Environmental 7, 8 Impact GC Disclosure 301-2 Recycled input materials used 6.5.4 principle 8 6.5.3 Effective Use Reclaimed products and their packaging GC Disclosure 301-3 6.5.4 of Resources in materials principle 8 Products 6.7.5 Energy GC Overview of Energy consumption within the Disclosure 302-1 principle 6.5.4 Environmental organization 7, 8 Impact Overview of Energy consumption outside of the GC Disclosure 302-2 6.5.4 Environmental organization principle 8 Impact Reducing Greenhouse GC Gases during Disclosure 302-3 Energy intensity 6.5.4 principle 8 Production and Transportation Search for CSR Contents 435 GC ISO 26000 Core External Disclosure Inditcator WEB Principle Subjects / Issue Assurance Reducing 6.5.4 Greenhouse GC Gases during Disclosure 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption principle Production 8, 9 6.5.5 and Transportation Overview of 6.5.4 Environmental GC Reduction in energy requirements of Impact Disclosure 302-5 principle products and services Value Chain 8, 9 6.5.5 and Daikin's CSR Water GC Disclosure 303-1 Water withdrawal by source principle 6.5.4 7, 8 Water Water sources significantly affected by GC Resource Disclosure 303-2 6.5.4 withdrawal of water principle 8 Reduction GC Disclosure 303-3 Water recycled and reused 6.5.4 principle 8 Biodiversity Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected GC Disclosure 304-1 6.5.6 areas and areas of high biodiversity principle 8 value outside protected areas Significant impacts of activities, GC Protecting Disclosure 304-2 6.5.6 products, and services on biodiversity principle 8 Biodiversity GC Protecting Disclosure 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 6.5.6 principle 8 Biodiversity IUCN Red List species and national GC Disclosure 304-4 conservation list species with habitats in 6.5.6 principle 8 areas affected by operations Emissions Overview of Environmental Impact GC Reducing Disclosure 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions principle 6.5.5 Greenhouse 7, 8 Gases during Production and Transportation Search for CSR Contents 436 GC ISO 26000 Core External Disclosure Inditcator WEB Principle Subjects / Issue Assurance Overview of Environmental Impact GC Reducing Disclosure 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions principle 6.5.5 Greenhouse 7, 8 Gases during Production and Transportation Overview of Environmental Impact GC Reducing Disclosure 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions principle 6.5.5 Greenhouse 7, 8 Gases during Production and Transportation Reducing Greenhouse GC Gases during Disclosure 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 6.5.5 principle 8 Production and Transportation Reducing Greenhouse GC Gases during Disclosure 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions principle 6.5.5 Production 8, 9 and Transportation Low Environmental 6.5.3 Impact GC Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Refrigerants Disclosure 305-6 principle (ODS) Recovery, 7, 8 Recycle and 6.5.5 Destruction of Fluorocarbons GC Overview of Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides Disclosure 305-7 principle 6.5.3 Environmental (SOx), and other significant air emissions 7, 8 Impact Effluents and Waste 6.5.3 Overview of Water discharge by quality and GC Disclosure 306-1 Environmental destination principle 8 6.5.4 Impact Overview of Environmental GC Disclosure 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 6.5.3 Impact principle 8 Waste Reduction Search for CSR Contents 437 GC ISO 26000 Core External Disclosure Inditcator WEB Principle Subjects / Issue Assurance Environmental GC Disclosure 306-3 Significant spills 6.5.3 Risk principle 8 Management GC Waste Disclosure 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 6.5.3 principle 8 Reduction 6.5.3 Water Water bodies affected by water GC Disclosure 306-5 6.5.4 Resource discharges and/or runoff principle 8 Reduction 6.5.6 Environmental Compliance Major Legal Non-compliance with environmental GC Violations in Disclosure 307-1 laws and regulations principle 8 Daikin in Fiscal 2017 Supplier Environmental Assessment New suppliers that were screened using GC 6.3.5 Disclosure 308-1 environmental criteria principle 8 6.6.6 Supply Chain 6.3.5 Management Negative environmental impacts in the GC Disclosure 308-2 supply chain and actions taken principle 8 6.6.6 400: Social Employment Workplace New employee hires and employee GC Diversity Disclosure 401-1 6.4.3 turnover principle 6 Work-Life Balance Benefits provided to full-time 6.4.4 Disclosure 401-2 employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 6.8.7 GC Workplace Disclosure 401-3 Parental leave 6.4.4 principle 6 Diversity Labor/Management Relations Minimum notice periods regarding GC Disclosure 402-1 6.4.3 operational changes principle 3 Occupational Health and Safety Workers representation in formal joint Disclosure 403-1 management–worker health and safety 6.4.6 committees Types of injury and rates of injury, 6.4.6 Occupational occupational diseases, lost days, and Disclosure 403-2 Safety and absenteeism, and number of work6.8.8 Health related fatalities Workers with high incidence or high risk 6.4.6 Disclosure 403-3 of diseases related to their occupation 6.8.8 Search for CSR Contents 438 GC ISO 26000 Core External Disclosure Inditcator WEB Principle Subjects / Issue Assurance Occupational Health and safety topics covered in Disclosure 403-4 6.4.6 Safety and formal agreements with trade unions Health Training and Education Fostering Average hours of training per year per GC Disclosure 404-1 6.4.7 Human employee principle 6 Resources 6.4.7 Fostering Programs for upgrading employee skills Disclosure 404-2 Human and transition assistance programs 6.8.5 Resources Employee Percentage of employees receiving GC Evaluation Disclosure 404-3 regular performance and career 6.4.7 principle 6 and development reviews Treatment Diversity and Equal Opportunity 6.2 Corporate Diversity of governance bodies and GC 6.3.7 Governance Disclosure 405-1 employees principle 6 6.3.10 Workplace Diversity 6.4.3 6.3.7 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration GC 6.3.10 Disclosure 405-2 of women to men principle 6 6.4.3 6.4.4 Non-discrimination Incidents of discrimination and GC Disclosure 406-1 6.3.6 No violation corrective actions taken principle 6 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 6.3.3 6.3.4 6.3.5 Operations and suppliers in which the Labor GC Disclosure 407-1 right to freedom of association and 6.3.8 Management principle 3 collective bargaining may be at risk Relations 6.3.10 6.4.5 6.6.6 Search for CSR Contents 439 GC ISO 26000 Core External Disclosure Inditcator WEB Principle Subjects / Issue Assurance Child Labor 6.3.3 6.3.4 6.3.5 Operations and suppliers at significant GC Respect for Disclosure 408-1 6.3.7 risk for incidents of child labor principle 5 Human Rights 6.3.10 6.6.6 6.8.4 Forced or Compulsory Labor 6.3.3 6.3.4 Operations and suppliers at significant GC 6.3.5 Respect for Disclosure 409-1 risk for incidents of forced or principle 4 6.3.7 Human Rights compulsory labor 6.3.10 6.6.6 Security Practices 6.3.4 Security personnel trained in human GC Disclosure 410-1 6.3.5 rights policies or procedures principle 1 6.6.6 Rights of Indigenous Peoples 6.3.4 6.3.6 Incidents of violations involving rights of GC 6.3.7 Disclosure 411-1 indigenous peoples principle 1 6.3.8 6.6.7 6.8.3 Human Rights Assessment 6.3.3 Operations that have been subject to GC Disclosure 412-1 human rights reviews or impact 6.3.4 principle 1 assessments 6.3.5 Employee training on human rights GC Respect for Disclosure 412-2 6.3.5 policies or procedures principle 1 Human Rights Significant investment agreements and 6.3.3 contracts that include human rights GC Disclosure 412-3 6.3.5 No violation clauses or that underwent human rights principle 2 screening 6.6.6 Search for CSR Contents 440 GC ISO 26000 Core External Disclosure Inditcator WEB Principle Subjects / Issue Assurance Local Communities 6.3.9 Operations with local community GC 6.5 Disclosure 413-1 engagement, impact assessments, and principle 1 6.5.3 development programs 6.8 6.3.9 Operations with significant actual and GC Disclosure 413-2 potential negative impacts on local 6.5.3 No violation principle 1 communities 6.8 Supplier Social Assessment 6.3.3 New suppliers that were screened using GC 6.3.4 Supply Chain Disclosure 414-1 social criteria principle 2 6.3.5 Management 6.6.6 6.3.3 Negative social impacts in the supply GC 6.3.4 Disclosure 414-2 No violation chain and actions taken principle 2 6.3.5 6.6.6 Public Policy GC 6.6 Disclosure 415-1 Political contributions principle 10 6.6.4 Customer Health and Safety 6.7 Assessment of the health and safety 6.7.4 Product Disclosure 416-1 impacts of product and service Quality and categories 6.7.5 Safety 6.8.8 6.7 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 6.7.4 Disclosure 416-2 the health and safety impacts of No violation products and services 6.7.5 6.8.8 Marketing and Labeling 6.7 6.7.3 Requirements for product and service Efforts to Disclosure 417-1 6.7.4 information and labeling Ensure Safety 6.7.5 6.7.9 Search for CSR Contents 441 GC ISO 26000 Core External Disclosure Inditcator WEB Principle Subjects / Issue Assurance 6.7 6.7.3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning Disclosure 417-2 product and service information and 6.7.4 No violation labeling 6.7.5 6.7.9 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 6.7 Disclosure 417-3 No violation marketing communications 6.7.3 Customer Privacy Substantiated complaints concerning 6.7 Disclosure 418-1 breaches of customer privacy and losses No violation of customer data 6.7.7 Socioeconom Compliance Major Legal Non-compliance with laws and 6.7 Violations in Disclosure 419-1 regulations in the social and economic Daikin in area 6.7.6 Fiscal 2017 Search for CSR Contents 442 SEARCH BY ESG DATA Pages focusing on environmental performance information and social performance indicators can be found here. Figures not included here should be assumed to be the actual results for the fiscal year (April to March of the following year). Companies covered by data: Daikin Industries, Ltd. D Including group in Japan JG Overseas group companies only OG Including group companies in Japan and overseas OJG Environment Low-Impact Products Environmentally Conscious Products* as Percentage of Net Sales (residential air conditioners) OJG (%) 2016 2017 Environmentally Conscious Products 74 83 Super Green Products 43 47 Green Products 31 36 Other products 26 17 * Environmentally conscious products: Name for Super Green Products and Green Products. Products that satisfy at least one of the conditions are Green Products. Consume at least 30% less electricity than conventional products Example: Air conditioners equipped with inverters Use refrigerants with at least two-thirds less global warming potential than conventional refrigerants Example: Air conditioners using R-32, a refrigerant with lower global warming potential Contribution to Greenhouse Gas Emission Reductions from Daikin Air Conditioners on the Market* OJG (Thousand tons-CO2) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Contribution to Greenhouse Gas Emission Reductions from Daikin Air 23,000 28,000 34,800 45,000 54,000 Conditioners on the Market * Difference between emissions from all Daikin environmentally conscious products sold and emissions from noninverter products, air conditioners using conventional refrigerants, and gas-combustion space heaters and hot water heaters. Values up to fiscal 2014 are for emerging countries only. Reviewed by the third-party. Search for CSR Contents 443 Green Procurement Rate by Region* OJG (%) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Japan 95 94 96 91 92 China 96 97 95 96 92 Thailand 98 98 95 95 97 Other countries in Asia and Oceania 84 76 65 58 84 Europe 86 91 93 93 95 North America 38 39 38 30 30 South America 97 94 All regions 84 78 65 74 76 * Green procurement rate= Value of goods procured from suppliers who meet our assessment criteria / Value of all goods procured Materials Used D (tons) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Iron 62,734 67,760 61,986 64,650 66,925 Copper 14,170 14,620 13,316 14,758 15,290 Aluminium 11,637 11,408 11,667 12,138 12,847 Other metals 1,754 1,446 1,264 1,452 1,844 Plastics 19,130 18,499 18,369 18,203 17,188 Chemicals (PRTR-designated) 126,346*1 122,426 122,795 138,421 132,299 Packaging 10,253*2 8,079 10,371 11,313 13,005 *1 From fiscal 2010 to 2012, calculation covered PRTR substances and refrigerants, but starting in fiscal 2013 other materials were included as well. *2 Classification was changed in fiscal 2013, with packaging material other than wood and paper being included in each item. Search for CSR Contents 444 Recycling of Residential Air Conditioners JG 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Residential air conditioners collected by Daikin (units: thousand) 280 230 250 280 320 Weight of products recycled or reused (tons) 10,523 10,783 10,369 11,165 13,000 Amount recycled (tons) 9,313 9,661 9,419 10,116 11,768 Recycling ratio (%) 88 89 90 90 90 Iron 38 36 36 36 41 Copper 8 9 8 8 8 (Breakdown) Aluminium 7 6 5 4 5 (%) Mixture of non-ferrous and iron composite materials 34 34 35 36 43 CFCs 0.1 0.5 1.0 Other valuable materials 13 15 16 16 18 Fluorocarbons recoverd (tons) 158 164 160 175 205 Amount of Fluorocarbons Recovered JG (Thousand tons-CO2) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Electric appliances recycling 250 260 260 280 400 Fluorocarbon Recovery and Destrution 540 620 680 840 770 Low-Impact Production Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Production)*1 OJG Verified *2 (Thousand tons-CO2) 2005 2010 2015 2016 2017 Energy-induced CO2 660 710 830 780 810 HFC 1,190 390 470 360 250 PFC 3,400 1,130 480 430 290 Total 5,250 2,230 1,780 1,570 1,350 *1 The scope of calculations and the calculation method were revised in formulating the Environmental Action Plan 2020. *2 Fiscal 2015-2017 values were verified by a third party. Search for CSR Contents 445 Energy-induced CO2 Emissions per Unit of Production* OJG Standard value 2016 2017 (average for fiscal 2013-2015) Japan 160 160 160 Emissions (Thousand tons-CO2) Overseas 500 510 530 Total 670 670 690 Japan 100 97 95 Unit with standard value set at 100 Overseas 100 92 91 (%) Total 100 93 92 * The scope of calculations and the calculation method were revised in formulating the Environmental Action Plan 2020. Note: This is an aggregate value using the revised method for the Environmental Action Plan 2020 and differs from the third-party verification. CO2 Emissions per Sales from Transportation (Air-conditioning) D (%) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Per unit of production (fiscal 2001 is set at 100) 67 65 63 62 61 Energy Consumption OJG 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Electricity (MWh) 633,454 662,269 725,625 841,472 883,980 Renewable Energy generated (MWh) 20,767 19,675 20,851 20,118 21,234 City Gas (million m3) 8,277 8,181 8,549 9,922 9,652 LPG (tons) 2,726 2,630 2,770 3,786 5,249 Steam (GJ) 721,531 738,095 792,769 1,017,117 1,018,248 Petroleum (kl) 2,719 2,218 1,571 1,316 1,662 Search for CSR Contents 446 Water Intake per Unit of Production* OJG Standard value 2016 2017 (average for fiscal 2013-2015) Japan 1,850 1,790 1,860 Water Intake (Thousand m3) Overseas 4,430 4,720 4740 Total 6,280 6,510 6,600 Japan 100 94 94 Unit with standard value set at 100 (%) Overseas 100 97 91 Total 100 96 92 * The scope of calculations and the calculation method were revised in formulating the Environmental Action Plan 2020. Note: This is an aggregate value using the revised method for the Environmental Action Plan 2020 and differs from the third-party verification. Water Intake*1 OJG Verified *2 (Thousand m3) 2015 2016 2017 Water Intake 12,440 10,940 11,690 *1 The scope of calculations and the calculation method were revised in formulating the Environmental Action Plan 2020. *2 Data verified by a third party. Waste Water*1 OJG Verified *2 (Thousand m3) 2015 2016 2017 Waste Water 10,970 9,260 9,880 *1 The scope of calculations and the calculation method were revised in formulating the Environmental Action Plan 2020. *2 Data verified by a third party. Search for CSR Contents 447 Emissions per Unit of Production(total of PRTR substances and VOCs)* OJG Standard value 2016 2017 (average for fiscal 2013-2015) Japan 479 510 520 Emissions (tons) Overseas 1,125 1,428 1,489 Total 1,603 1,938 2,010 Japan 100 91 89 Unit with standard value set at 100 Overseas 100 103 98 (%) Total 100 98 95 * The scope of calculations and the calculation method were revised in formulating the Environmental Action Plan 2020. Note: This is an aggregate value using the revised method for the Environmental Action Plan 2020 and differs from the third-party verification. Search for CSR Contents 448 Compilation of PRTR Substances (PRTR substances of which at least 1 ton was handled) JG (tons) 2017 Amount emitted Amount transported Substance name Public Air Soil Waste Sewage waterways Chlorodifluoromethane; HCFC-22 57.35 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Dichloromethane; methylene dichloride 19.61 0.00 0.00 2.90 0.00 1-chloro-1,1-difluoroethane; HCFC-142b 11.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Toluene 3.12 0.06 0.00 0.48 0.00 2-chloro-1,1,1,2-tetrafluoroethane; HCFC-124 1.60 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Phenol 0.73 0.00 0.00 0.75 0.00 Chloroform 0.62 0.00 0.00 5.90 0.00 Xylene 0.61 0.00 0.00 0.04 0.00 Formaldehyde 0.38 0.62 0.00 0.27 0.00 Ethylbenzene 0.33 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 n-hexane 0.25 0.00 0.00 0.73 0.00 Hydrogen fluoride and its water-soluble salts 0.24 0.00 0.00 41.01 0.00 Poly(oxyethylene)alkyl ether(alkyl C=12-15) 0.04 0.01 0.00 49.00 0.63 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene 0.03 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 N,N-dimethylacetamide 0.03 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.00 poly(oxyethylene)octylphenyl ether 0.02 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.00 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene 0.02 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 N,N-dimethylformamide 0.01 0.00 0.00 7.30 0.00 dichloropentafluoropropane; HCFC-225 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Methylnaphthalene 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 poly(oxyethylene)nonylphenyl ether 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Acetonitrile 0.00 0.00 0.00 2.80 0.04 nickel 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Boron compounds 0.00 0.44 0.00 0.58 0.00 ethylene glycol monoethyl ether 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 ferric chloride 0.00 0.00 0.00 10.33 0.00 Antimony and its compounds 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.85 0.00 Methylenebis(4,1-phenylene)diisocyanate 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.08 0.00 Tritolyl phosphate 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.04 0.00 Molybdenum and its compounds 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.03 0.00 nickel compounds 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.02 0.00 chromium and chromium(III) compounds 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.00 Allyl alcohol 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 manganese and its compounds 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Water-soluble salts of peroxodisulfuric acid 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 2-aminoethanol 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01 tetrachloromethane 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 styrene 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Search for CSR Contents 449 Amount of Waste and Recycled Materials*1 OJG Verified *2 (tons) 2015 2016 2017 Amount of Waste 2,677 2,919 2,965 Japan Amount of Recycle 25,306 26,344 28,196 Out of the above amount, hazardous waste 19,949 20,606 21,128 Amount of Waste 25,164 20,863 24,228 Overseas Amount of Recycle 91,939 119,447 114,612 Out of the above amount, hazardous waste 39,990 40,662 42,367 Amount of Waste 27,841 23,782 27,193 Entire Group Amount of Recycle 117,245 145,791 142,808 Out of the above amount, hazardous waste 59,939 61,268 63,495 *1 The scope of calculations and the calculation method were revised in formulating the Environmental Action Plan 2020. *2 By the fiscal 2017 values were vertified by the third party. Emissions per Unit of Production* OJG Standard value 2016 2017 (average for fiscal 2013-2015) Japan 30,100 28,300 28,900 Emissions (tons) Overseas 84,700 92,900 98,400 Total 114,800 121,200 127,300 Japan 100 91 88 Unit with standard value set at 100 (%) Overseas 100 96 95 Total 100 95 93 * The scope of calculations and the calculation method were revised in formulating the Environmental Action Plan 2020. Note: This is an aggregate value using the revised method for the Environmental Action Plan 2020 and differs from the third-party verification. Amount of Packaging Used Per Product (wood, cardboard, Styrofoam, etc.)* D (%) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Amount of Packaging Used Per Product with FY2010 set as 100% 97 96 95 93 92 * Covers residential air conditioners for the Japanese market Search for CSR Contents 450 Environmental Management Report from Audits JG (cases) 2013 2014 Problems found from Problems found by Problems found from Problems found by internal environmental third-party certification internal environmental third-party certification audits institutes audits institutes Major non3 0 0 0 conformance Minor non37 0 24 0 conformance Items 194 9 157 7 improved 2015 2016 Problems found from Problems found by Problems found from Problems found by internal environmental third-party certification internal environmental third-party certification audits institutes audits institutes Major non0 0 2 0 conformance Minor non17 0 13 0 conformance Items 136 6 130 9 improved 2017 Problems found from Problems found by internal environmental third-party certification audits institutes Major non3 0 conformance Minor non28 0 conformance Items 149 13 improved Ratio of Employees Belonging to Facilities That Obtained ISO 14001 Certification OJG (%) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Japan 100 100 100 100 100 Overseas 84 91 93 96 96 Search for CSR Contents 451 New Value Creation Research and Development Expenses OJG (billion yen) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Research and Development Expenses 40.2 42.9 46.1 53.9 62.1 Number of Patent Applications D (cases) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Japanese applications 898 1,136 948 787 780 Overaseas applications 378 344 344 329 352 Search for CSR Contents 452 Customer Satisfaction Improvement in Customer Satisfaction* 2015 2016 2017 Japan 1.00 1.07 1.11 China 1.00 1.00 1.01 Singapore 1.00 1.03 1.03 Italy 1.00 1.01 1.00 * Progress rate of after-sales services, regarding the base year 2015 as 1.00. Customer Satisfaction with After-Sales Service* D 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Overall satisfaction 4.06 4.10 4.05 4.34 4.49 * Results from surveys sent to a random sampling of customers within two weeks after a Daikin product is fixed. A weighted average of a five-stage assessment. Number of Inquiries to the Contact Center JG (thousands) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Repair inquiries 767 715 736 771 765 Technical advice 735 699 674 723 796 Parts inquiries 324 318 312 323 295 Others 42 44 48 39 18 Total 1,867 1,776 1,770 1,856 1,874 Number of Inquiries to the Contact Center China (thousands) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Repair inquiries 573 542 533 764 815 Technical advice 68 59 46 50 69 Parts inquiries 116 94 88 127 139 Total 757 695 667 941 1,024 Search for CSR Contents 453 Human Resources Employees Employee Composition* D 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Number of employees 6,810 1,084 6,839 1,151 6,844 1,189 6,896 1,232 7,002 1,286 Average range of services 16.4 10.3 16.6 10.3 16.7 10.5 16.9 10.8 17.3 11.3 (years) Average age 41.6 34.6 41.5 34.5 41.3 33.8 41.0 34.1 42.2 35.1 Number of managers 951 22 957 29 984 36 1,013 47 1,030 53 Number of board members 47 1 46 1 48 1 49 1 48 1 Number of foreign nationals 38 20 47 29 52 21 48 25 52 28 * Includes employees on loan Note: Figures as of fiscal year-end Employee Make-up by Region* OJG 2013 2014 2015 Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of companies employees companies employees companies employees Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Only) 1 6,733 1 6,845 1 6,870 Domestic Group (Excluding 28 4,707 28 4,729 28 4,848 Daikin Industries, Ltd.) China 33 16,857 32 19,044 33 18,791 Southeast Asia, Oceania 40 10,739 38 10,593 38 11,237 Europe, Middle East, Africa 57 6,605 58 6,774 59 7,175 North America, Latin America 51 10,599 54 11,194 55 11,884 Total 210 56,240 211 59,179 214 60,805 2016 2017 Number of Number of Number of Number of companies employees companies employees Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Only) 1 6,891 1 7,036 Domestic Group (Excluding 27 4,843 28 4,976 Daikin Industries, Ltd.) China 33 19,391 32 18,599 Southeast Asia, Oceania 39 12,208 49 14,250 Europe, Middle East, Africa 77 8,494 80 9,227 North America, Latin America 69 15,209 80 16,175 Total 246 67,036 270 70,263 * Figures as of fiscal year-end Search for CSR Contents 454 Number of Employees Leaving, Employee Turnover D 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Men 236 247 254 245 246 Women 56 48 59 50 68 Total 292 295 313 295 314 Employee turnover 3.7% 3.7% 3.9% 3.6% 3.8% Number of New Employees Hired; Women as Percentage of All New Employees Hired* D 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Men 170 179 174 187 181 Women 92 80 83 86 97 Total 262 259 257 273 278 Women as % of all employees 35.1% 30.9% 32.3% 31.5% 34.9% * Number of people joining the company on April 1 Development of Human Resources Human Resources Development of Manufacturing D 2015 2016 2017 The ratio of Excellent or Advanced Skilled Engineers*1 in 28.0 28.0 29.5 Manufacturing (%) 1 in 3.6 1 in 3.6 1 in 3.4 Ratio*2 employees employees employees *1 High-skilled engineers with knowledge and leadership *2 One out of every-employees is Excellent or Advanced Skilled Engineer Search for CSR Contents 455 Workplace Diversity Percentage of Women in Management Positions D 2014 2015 2016 2017 Number of Female Managers 29 36 47 53 Females as Percentage of all managers 2.9% 3.6% 4.4% 4.9% Number of Overseas Bases Where Local Nationals are Presidents and Executives OG 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Number of Bases Where Local Nationals are Presidents and Executives 37 40 42 46 46 Number of Overseas Bases Where Local Nationals are President 27 31 31 33 32 Number of Overseas Bases Where Local Nationals are Executives 59 63 63 71 67 Percentage of Overseas Bases Where Local Nationals are President and Executives OG (%) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Percentage of Overseas Bases Where Local Nationals are President 40.9 53.4 50.8 52.4 46.4 Percentage of Overseas Bases Where Local Nationals are Executives 43.4 45.7 46.7 50.0 47.9 Number of Re-employed Workers and Percentage of Re-employed after Retiring D 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Number of retirees 136 4 105 6 123 7 97 3 100 2 Number of re-employed workers 120 4 96 6 103 5 88 3 88 2 Percentage re-employed after 88.6% 91.9% 83.1% 91.0% 88.2% retiring Number of People with Disabilities Employed and Employment Rate*1 JG 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Number of people with disabilities employed 294 297 303 308 327 Employment rate of people with disabilities*2 2.07% 2.19% 2.15% 2.19% 2.28% *1 Legally, one severely disabled person employed is counted as two people with disabilities. *2 Employment rate of people with disabilities = number of people with disabilities employed / number of people employed Note: Figures as of fiscal year-end Search for CSR Contents 456 Occupational Safety and Health Frequency Rate*1 OJG 2014 2015 2016 2017 Daikin Group (Including Overseas) 1.94 1.90 1.50 1.33 Japan (Manufacturing Industry Average) 1.66 1.61 1.63 1.66 U.S. (Average for All Industries)*2 16.0 15.0 14.5 *1 This shows the frequency of work-related calamities, expressed in number of casualties for every 1,000,000 working hours. Frequency rate = Number of calamities by industrial injuries / Total actual working hours ×1,000,000 *2 Fiscal 2017 data for the U.S. was not released (as of end of June 2018) Calculated based on data from U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (October 2017) Frequency Rate D 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Daikin Industries 0.06 0.25 0.19 0.19 0.00 National average for all industries 1.58 1.66 1.61 1.63 1.66 National average for manufacturing industry 0.94 1.06 1.06 1.15 1.02 Note: This shows the frequency of work-related calamities, expressed in number of calamities for every 1,000,000 working hours. Frequency rate = Number of calamities by industrial injuries / Total actual working hours ×1,000,000 Severity Rate D 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Daikin Industries 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 National average for all industries 0.10 0.09 0.07 0.10 0.09 National average for manufacturing industry 0.10 0.09 0.06 0.07 0.08 Note: This shows the severity of the calamity, expressed in man-days lost per 1,000 hours worked. Severity rate = Total number of working days lost / Total actual working hours × 1,000 Search for CSR Contents 457 Work-Life Balance Number Taking Childcare Leave D 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Men 120 130 128 178 257 Number taking childcare leave Women 88 101 112 136 131 Total 208 231 240 314 388 Number Taking Family Care Leave D 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Men 2 2 0 1 2 Number taking family care leave Women 1 1 0 0 2 Total 3 3 0 1 4 Percentage of Employees Taking All Paid Leave D (%) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Percentage of Daikin Industries, Ltd. employees 94.4 94.8 94.8 96.7 93.5 Percentage of Japanese workers in the manufacturing industry (according to 57.6 58.7 54.7 55.4 59.9 Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare) Average Hours of Overtime per Employee D (hours) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Hours 227.50 205.60 201.70 205.40 209.70 Periodic Health Checkup Results D (%) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Percentage of employees taking checkup 97 98 99 99 99 Percentage of employees requiring treatment 61 53 72 69 53 Labor-Management Relations Ratio of Union Member D (%) 2016 2017 Percentage of Employees in Union 87 86 Search for CSR Contents 458 Communities Expenditure for social contribution Activities OJG (million yen) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total 1,175 1,220 1,286 1,548 1,623 Shareholders and Investors Consolidated Sales by Business Segments (consolidated) (%) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Air Conditioning/Refrigeration Equipment 89.3 89.3 89.5 89.8 89.6 Chemicals 7.9 7.8 7.9 7.7 8.0 Oil Hydraulics, Defense Systems, and Electronics 2.8 2.9 2.6 2.5 2.4 Consolidated Sales by Region (consolidated) (%) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Japan 28.9 26.0 24.6 25.4 23.7 China 18.1 18.5 17.1 16.1 16.7 Asia and Oceania 13.4 14.2 14.9 14.8 15.2 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 16.9 15.8 16.7 16.3 17.5 North America, Latin America 22.7 25.5 26.7 27.4 26.9 Net Sales (billion yen) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Consolidated 1,787.7 1,915.0 2,043.7 2,044.0 2,290.6 Non-consolidated 503.7 477.6 500.4 505.6 527.8 Total Assets (billion yen) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Consolidated 2,011.9 2,264.0 2,191.1 2,356.1 2,490.0 Non-consolidated 1,264.8 1,346.7 1,308.3 1,363.9 1,448.4 Search for CSR Contents 459 Ordinary Profit (billion yen) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Consolidated 155.6 194.2 209.5 231.0 255.0 Non-consolidated 44.6 75.7 86.5 141.5 135.6 Fiscal Year End Stock Prices (yen) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Fiscal year end stock prices 5,782 8,046 8,412 11,185 11,735 Operating income margin (consolidated) (%) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Profit rate 8.7 10.0 10.7 11.3 11.1 Dividends (yen) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Dividends 50 100 120 130 140 Search for CSR Contents 460 Breakdown of Shareholders 2013 2014 Number of As Percentage of all Number of As Percentage of Shares held Shares held voters shareholders voters all shareholders Financial 139 124,217,630 42.4 146 128,490,830 43.8 institutions Securities 84 10,276,183 3.5 79 7,541,543 2.6 companies Other 558 33,388,138 11.4 516 33,322,051 11.4 corporations Foreign 586 104,370,042 35.6 672 105,460,144 36.0 corporation Individuals, 33,431 20,861,980 7.1 28,443 18,299,405 6.2 other Total 34,798 293,113,973 100.0 29,856 293,113,973 100.0 2015 2016 Number of As Percentage of all Number of As Percentage of Shares held Shares held voters shareholders voters all shareholders Financial 152 140,252,048 47.9 152 136,770,197 46.7 institutions Securities 73 8,047,833 2.7 68 5,602,113 1.9 companies Other 513 30,800,241 10.5 490 29,974,441 10.2 corporations Foreign 689 97,020,517 33.1 828 106,279,164 36.3 corporation Individuals, 27,500 16,993,334 5.8 22,608 14,488,058 5.0 other Total 28,927 293,113,973 100.0 24,146 293,113,973 100.0 2017 Number of voters Shares held As Percentage of all shareholders Financial 173 139,226,030 47.5 institutions Securities 63 3,043,818 1.0 companies Other 514 29,224,321 10.0 corporations Foreign 885 107,016,161 36.5 corporation Individuals, 25,000 14,603,643 5.0 other Total 26,635 293,113,973 100.0 Search for CSR Contents 461 Dividends to Shareholders Equity (%) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Dividends to shareholders equity 39.9 45.3 46.3 47.2 52.1 Voting Rights Exercised 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Voting rights exercised (%) 82.07 83.24 85.68 86.75 89.53 Votes cast over the Internet 1,337,000 1,443,620 1,495,992 1,596,419 1,744,888 Shereholderes voting online 868 923 902 921 1,020 Business / Financial Data (Consolidated) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Years ended Years ended Years ended Years ended Years ended March 31, 2014 March 31, 2015 March 31, 2016 March31, 2017 March31, 2018 Net Sales 1,787.7 1,915.0 2,043.7 2,044.0 2,290.6 (billion yen) Operating Income 156.5 190.6 217.9 230.8 253.7 (billion yen) Ordinary Income 155.6 194.2 209.5 231.0 255.0 (billion yen) Net Income 92.8 119.7 137.0 153.9 189.1 (billion yen) Earnings Per Share 318.33 410.19 469.23 526.81 646.53 (yen) Overseas Business 71 74 75 75 76 Ratio (%) Free Cash Flow 86.9 60.2 78.3 52.3 51.2 (billion yen) Return on Assets 4.9 5.6 6.3 6.8 7.8 (%) Return on Equity 13.1 13.1 13.4 14.5 15.7 (%) Shareholders' Equity 39.9 45.3 46.3 47.2 52.1 Ratio (%) Plant-andEquipment 59.4 78.4 112.7 90.3 96.6 Investment (billion yen) Reseach & Development Costs 40.2 52.8 46.1 53.9 62.1 (billion yen) Liability with 34.5 29.3 27.8 25.9 22.3 Interest Ratio (%) Search for CSR Contents 462 Governance Number of Executives and Breakdown* D 2017 2018 Men 8 (non-Japanese 1) 7 (non-Japanese 2) Internal Women 0 0 Executives Men 2 2 External Women 1 1 Total 11 10 * Current as of June 2018 Number of Auditors and Breakdown* D 2017 2018 Men 2 2 Internal Women 0 0 Auditors Men 2 2 External Women 0 0 Total 4 4 * Current as of June 2018 Number of Board of Directors’ Meetings and Average Attendance D 2017 Number of meetings 16 Average attendance of Board of Directors’ meetings and Audit & Supervisory Board meetings (%) 84 Average Appointment Term for Directors D 2017 Average appointment term 7 years and 2 months Search for CSR Contents 463 Make-up of Human Resources Advisory Commitee and Compensation Advisory Committee* D 2016 2017 Internal Men 1 1 directors Women 0 0 Human Resources Advisory Commitee and Compensation Advisory External Men 2 2 Committee directors Women 1 1 Executive Men 1 1 officers Women 0 0 * Current as of June 2017 The vesting for variable CEO Compensation D Period During Which CEO’s Change in Compensation is Based On Maximum 1 year Median or mean annual compeasation of all employees CEO and tis ratio D 2016 2017 CEO’s annual compensation (million yen) 250 250 Median employees compensation (million yen) 7.2 7.4 CEO-to-employee pay ratio (CEO : Employee) 35:1 35:1 Executive Compensation* D 2014 2015 2016 2017 Number 13 12 15 11 Directors Amount of compensation 1,185 1,284 1,262 1,298 (million yen) Number 4 5 5 4 Audit & Supervisory Board Member Amount of compensation 90 94 94 93 (million yen) Number 17 17 20 15 Total Amount of compensation 1,275 1,378 1,356 1,391 (million yen) * About compensation amounts For fiscal 2014, the compensation amount for the term of office of one director who retired is included. For fiscal 2015, the compensation amount for the term of office of one auditor who retired is included. For fiscal 2016, the compensation amount for the term of office of one auditor and four director who retired is included. Search for CSR Contents 464 Corporate Officers with Compensation Over 100 Million Yen (Fiscal 2017) D Total of different types of compensation Total (million yen) Name compensation Category Company (million yen) Base Stock options Bonus compensation Noriyuki Inoue 410 Director Daikin Industries, Ltd. 263 29 116 Masanori 273 Director Daikin Industries, Ltd. 166 29 76 Togawa Director Daikin Industries, Ltd. 99 14 45 Ken Tayano 170 Daikin (CHINA) Investment President Co., Ltd. 11 (Consolidated subsidiary) Director Daikin Industries, Ltd. 8 14 36 Masatsugu 132 Daikin Europe N.V. Minaka Director 72 (Consolidated subsidiary) Jiro Tomita 147 Director Daikin Industries, Ltd. 92 14 40 Takashi 109 Director Daikin Industries, Ltd. 66 11 32 Matsuzaki Accounting Auditor Compensation D 2017 Auditing expenses 243 million yen Starting Salary* D (yen) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 University grad 220,000 225,000 225,000 225,000 225,000 Masters 239,800 244,800 244,800 244,800 244,800 PhD 263,800 268,800 268,800 268,800 268,800 * Figures are those during April of each year. Major Legal Violations OJG (cases) 2016 2017 Number of Major Legal Violations 0 0 Search for CSR Contents 465 -
