SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 P R O G R E S S T O W A R D S P R O S P E R I T Y Chairman's Message......................................................................................01 Materiality Test................................................................................................03 Materiality Mapping.......................................................................................05 Reporting Parameters...................................................................................06 CHAPTER SUSTAINABILITY PAGE NUMBER AND DBL CHAPTER PEOPLE PAGE NUMBER CHAPTER PROCESS PAGE NUMBER CHAPTER PRODUCT PAGE NUMBER CHAPTER COMMUNITY PAGE NUMBER CHAPTER ENVIRONMENT PAGE NUMBER CHAPTER STAKEHOLDER PAGE NUMBER ENGAGEMENT GRI Content Index .......................................................................................107 Chairman’s Message Once again, it is my immense pleasure to present The greatest contributor to our sustainability has to you the Sustainability Report of DBL Group for been our employees: and thus, we wanted to the year 2018. It is the fifth consecutive report we portray this on the cover of this report. It is with find ourselves publishing. And with this, we want them we have been able to “Progress towards to show our continuous effort in not only practicProsperity”. ing sustainability initiatives but also being transparent in our activities. 1 In addition to some of our own programs, partDisability in Development (CDD) and the Banglanerships have been a key factor with our successdesh Business and Disability Network (BBDN) to es in the different sustainability programs. As the recruit and develop the employees with disabiliSDG-17 emphasizes on our partnerships, with ties. And finally, our production of yarns from our variety of knowledge partners, we have been recycled materials is increasing especially due to able to address issues like empowerment, materthe acceptability of our buyers. nal and child health, disability recruitment, process improvement, resource conservation Corporate Social Responsibility or CSR is one practices, and so on. What we believe on is to issue that we have evolved to beyond philanthrokeep on sustaining the initiatives even after the py. While donations are still required, the effects programs come to end. are temporary. But when we consider and adopt the evolution of CSR, we have a more sustainable Being a business organization, the effect on our way to serve the society in general. It inspires us bottom line is important. And that is where greatly to know that we are moving on track with sustainability contributes. Direct impact of our efforts. sustainability comes in because of the various cost savings we are having due to resource In alignment with the 10 principles of UN Global saving practices. Indirect impact is due to Compact, we are committed to ensure sustainreduced absenteeism, reduced migration and able future for people and environment and to increased retaining of skilled employees. stand against corruption. We also respect human rights as part of our commitment to the UN GuidRelating to our 2020 Goal that we introduced in ing Principles for Business and Human Rights. our last report (Sustainability Report 2017), we have already started to move towards attaining With our theme of “Crafting happiness, since these. Targeting women empowerment, we have 1991”, we aim to sustain with our endeavors and partnered with amfori and the CSR Centre in a generate satisfaction for all our workers, our project called “Shobola”. We are looking into employees and our stakeholders. In this regard, I ways to reduce our water consumption for sincerely thank all our stakeholders for their dyeing by choosing chemicals and enzymes such ongoing understanding and continued support as from the Novozymes company. We have startfor our company. As the author Helen Keller said, ed planting trees in different places in the com“Alone we can do so little; together we can do so munities where we are operating. We are already much.” making use of solar panels in one of our factories and are exploring business options with the help of H&M and the International Finance Corporation (IFC). We are providing technical training within our factories to the job seekers of tomorAbdul Wahed row. To make a more inclusive working environChairman ment, we will be partnering with the Centre for DBL Group 2 Materiality Test Most material Material Least material Any impact 1 No impact 0 Category Aspects Sustainability impacts, risks, or Economic Performance 1 Economic Indirect Economic Impacts 1 1 OHS 1 1 1 Social 1 1 Compliance 1 Energy 1 Water 1 Emissions 1 Environment Eﬄuents & Waste 1 Compliance 1 Supplier Environmental Assessment 1 3 Sustainability interests, Future challenges for Legal compliance Total topics, & indicators the sector, reported by policies & strategies raised by stakeholders 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 4 Materiality Mapping Economic: Economic: Economic Performance Indirect Economic Impacts Social: Social: Inﬂuence on Stakeholder Assessments & Decisions Men & Women OHS Supplier Assessment for Labor Environment: Compliance Compliance Environment: Energy Water Emissions Eﬄuents & Waste Supplier Environmental Assessment Signiﬁcance of Economic, Social & Environmental Impacts 5 Period: 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018 Annual Most recent previous report: DBL Group Sustainability Report 2017 GRI Guidelines followed: GRI Standards Contact person: Mohammed Zahidullah Head of Sustainability Mobile: +880 1711 677 626 Email: zahid@dbl-group.com Deﬁning the Report Content and the Aspect Boundaries The content of the report is based on the social, environment, economic and product sustainability practices at DBL Group. Identifying of the Aspects has been as per the guidelines of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and indicators have been selected based on the availability of information on those practices. Some of the sustainability projects of DBL Group are beneﬁcial to the organization itself and some others are beneﬁtting the community as well. We have tried to create meaningful connection between the sustainability practices of DBL Group with the reporting guidelines of GRI. This is our ﬁfth reporting on sustainability and ﬁrst adhering to the GRI Standards: our previous ones followed the GRI’s G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Through this report we have focused our insights on setting goals, measuring performance and managing change in order to implement better performances. We would like to take our sustainability reporting practice to the next level by continuous improvement in our future endeavors in reporting. Through this report, DBL Group continues its journey in sustainability reporting on the economic, environmental and social dimensions of its business activities. Through progressive advancement in reporting, DBL Group is committed to report transparently on how it manages its economic, environmental, social, and governance performance. 6 CHAPTER 1 SUSTAINABILITY AND DBL DBL Group has a ﬁve-pillar strategic approach to Sustainability: People, Process, Product, Community, and Environment. 7 Service to others is the rent you pay for your room here on earth. Muhammad Ali, Professional Boxer, Activist, and Philanthropist 8 PILLARS OF DBL’S SUSTAINABILITY DBL Sustainability Pillars DBL Group’s Sustainability strategy is based on ﬁve pillars: People, Process, Product, Community and Environment; thus, integrating a holistic approach towards Sustainability. For each pillar, there are several Sustainable Action Programs in place – both on large and small scales and short and long terms – through which the sustainability plans are translated into actions. Several of our activities are in alignment with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): details are mentioned on our Sustainability page: www.dbl-group.com/sustainability. People As an organization, we realize our responsibility towards our people: our employees. Our company understands how the business practices impact our employees and we work to serve in their best interests. Process We are committed to continuously improve all our business processes: ranging from purchasing raw materials to transporting ﬁnal ﬁnished goods. We give a strong emphasis on eliminating non-value-added activities while delivering quality products on time with greater efﬁciency and least effect on the environment. 9 Product We continuously work towards improving the quality of our products, and all the processes that go into making the ﬁnal ﬁnished product and ensure to minimize the negative impact on the environment and the consumers. The R&D department is actively involved in creating new and researching existing products and the processes associated with them. Community We believe that together with our employees, customers, business partners and other stakeholders, we can create real and long-term changes for the betterment of the community and the environment. We can extend this impact from improving the livelihood of our employees to the development of the local community where we conduct our businesses. Environment Environment is a high priority for our company and we work to decrease carbon footprint, water consumption, and waste from our manufacturing processes. We dedicate ourselves in conserving energy, managing waste effectively and replenishing the environment to the best of our capacity. 10 Company Profile DBL Group is a diversiﬁed conglomerate with a strong backward linkage. The Group started its business in 1991. The diversiﬁed business includes Apparels, Textiles, Packaging, Ceramic Tiles, Telecommunications, Dredging, Semiconductor Design (VLSI), and Pharmaceuticals. In the apparels and textiles sector of Bangladesh, DBL Group is one of the largest and 100% export oriented composite knit garments and textiles manufacturing organization. We are supplying quality apparels around the world to the best of the retailers and the biggest brands of the fashion industry. The company is headquartered in Dhaka, Bangladesh and operating its production processes at the factories situated in Gazipur, Dhaka, Bangladesh. Vision We envision to sustain and grow as a diversified global conglomerate. Values Integrity, Passion, Adaptability, Care, Excellence Apparels and textiles concerns • Color City Ltd. • Matin Spinning Mills Ltd. • DB Tex Ltd. • Mawna Fashions Ltd. • Dulal Brothers Ltd. • Mymun Textiles Ltd. • Flamingo Fashions Ltd. • Parkway Packaging and • Hamza Textiles Ltd. Printing Ltd. • Jinnat Apparels Ltd. • Textile Testing Services Ltd. • Jinnat Fashions Ltd. • Thanbee Print World Ltd. • Jinnat Knitwears Ltd. 11 Products and services DBL Group offers the following products and services: • Yarns, Fabrics • Casual knitwear (T-Shirts, Polo Shirts, Tank Tops, Joggers, Hooded Jackets, Cardigans, Leggings, Trousers, and Dresses) • Fashionable wear (Skirts, Gowns) Manufacturing processes DBL Group makes use of the following in the manufacturing processes: • State-of-the-art machineries • Best grade cotton in our spinning mill for all products • Knitting makes use of low proﬁle hazardous materials • Oeko-Tex 100 Standard with Product Class I • Dyeing operation makes use of low water to dye ratio • Garments manufacturing processes make use of CAD, CAS and CAM systems • Washing operations make use of machines which consume less water and have best ﬁltering and spinning systems We use a new wave of top notch technology to put our yarn through a series of Quality Control checks, to ensure strict quality standards. This is then supplemented by concentrating on process manufacturing and process improvements. We have set-up Industrial Engineering and Work Study departments. Root cause analyses are done by using statistical quality control tools. The R&D department and in-house Design Studio help in developing new products and process improvements for incorporating the production with good quality at the lowest cost possible in the shortest time. This desire for quality is also shared by our team of highly qualiﬁed and competent professionals, who under the capable and dynamic leadership of the Board of Directors have made our remarkable growth possible. It is with this shared vision that we are marching towards our goal of attaining acknowledged leadership in providing quality products at competitive price. 12 Process Flowchart COTTON IMPORT KNITTING SPINNING DYEING AND FINISHING ALL OVER PRINTING CUTTING SCREEN PRINTING SEWING WASHING FINISHING PACKAGING TRANSPORTATION 13 Major Buyers Knowledge Partners 14 Good business is done with compassion towards humanity. We cannot underestimate the power of a smile, a kind word, a listening ear, an honest compliment or the smallest act of caring, all of which have the potential to turn a life around. If we take care of our people, our people will take care of our organizations. Abdul Wahed Chairman Board of Directors The highest governing body in DBL Group is the Board of Directors. Our current Board consists of four Directors and one Advisor. The Vice Chairman is also a director of the Bangladesh Garments Manufacturers and Exporters Association (BGMEA). The company has deﬁned guidelines and established framework for the board meetings and other proceedings. These guidelines help decision-making processes of the board members in a systematic, informed and efﬁcient manner. The Board evaluates: • Strategic decisions of the company • Management policies and their effectiveness • Strategic review from each of the board members • Financial, production and other business performance through relevant reports. DBL Group’s senior management are chosen by the Board of Directors because of their vast experiences, immense knowledge, fascinating competence, cross-industry exposure, local and overseas footage, and well accepted market reputation. This cohesive team wants to make a difference, develop and inspire others, drive innovative ideas and deliver results, and live with DBL Group’s values. The distinguished Board is cultivating a sustainable work culture through them. DBL credits its strength, the sustainability of a consistent approach to managing the business and the constant growth of its people to this senior management team. 15 An empowered organization is where individuals have the knowledge, skill, desire and opportunity to personally succeed in a way that leads to collective success. These act as the fuel for driving ourselves to a better future, packed with immense possibilities and achieving our goals along the way. M. A. Jabbar Managing Director Our Commitment to Strong Corporate Governance DBL Group adheres to the deﬁnition of Corporate Governance of the International Finance Corporation (IFC). Corporate governance is deﬁned as the structures and processes by which companies are directed and controlled. Good corporate governance helps companies operate more efﬁciently, improve access to capital, mitigate risk, and safeguard against mismanagement. It makes companies more accountable and transparent to investors and gives them the tools to respond to stakeholder concerns. The company also considers a sound system of corporate governance as an important contribution to the rule of law in Bangladesh and an important determinant of the role of the company in a modern economy and society. Through implementing the recommendations by IFC, DBL Group aims at bringing its corporate governance framework up to best international practices and standards to the extent possible.This is critical to DBL Group given the company’s expected growth. The desire to attract new investors will heavily rely on the existence of a concrete corporate governance system. DBL Group intends to establish a sound corporate governance system which will facilitate the organization to attain: • Better access to external capital • Lower financing costs • Higher credit ratings • Strong investor confidence. 16 Business is not only about making money but also about protecting the fruits of our labor. It’s about stewardship, and therefore, about achieving social and environmental goodness. Through management excellence and discipline, ﬁnancial stability of the business can be achieved. M. A. Rahim Vice Chairman Family Business Governance Family Business Governance is an important issue for DBL Group since it is a family-owned business comprising of family members vested with signiﬁcant decision-making authority. The company is investing its time and effort on implementing Family Business Governance for the greater good of the company and sustainable business. Compliance DBL Group’s Corporate Governance framework is based on Bangladesh legislation as well as internationally recognized best practices and principles, such as the OECD Principles of Corporate Governance. The company’s corporate governance framework is based on the following principles: • Accountability • Fairness • Transparency • Responsibility 17 Operational excellence takes a business from average to extraordinary. The key lies in tending to the details. The little waves we make in our day-to-day work, go a long way. The biggest step towards perfection is achieving operational excellence through an integrated approach, engaging all stakeholders.” M. A. Quader Deputy Managing Director and Group CEO General Governance Structure The company has the following governing and other bodies: • General Assembly: Allows the shareholders to participate in the governance of the company • The Board: Responsible for the strategic direction of the company, and the guidance and oversight of management • CEO: Assigned the task of the day-to-day management of the company, and carrying out strategy as approved by the board. • Company Secretary: Ensures that the governing bodies follow internal rules and external regulations in order to facilitate clear communications between the governing bodies, and acts as an adviser to directors and senior executives • Internal Auditor: Develops and monitors internal control procedures for the business operations of the company. • Structure and Committees: DBL Group has established the following Board Committees: The Audit Committee The Remuneration Committee The Nominations and Corporate Governance Committee Other committees deemed necessary by the Board 18 Internal Audit and Control • The Board’s Audit Committee: The audit committee focuses on three key areas: ﬁnancial reporting, risk management, and internal and external audits (legal compliance and risk management). • Risk Management: The company places great importance on a risk management and it is the board of directors that is tasked with ensuring that appropriate risk management systems are established. • Internal Auditor: The internal auditor (or ofﬁce of the internal auditor) is responsible for the daily internal control of the company’s ﬁnances and operations. • External Auditor: An external auditor audits the company’s ﬁnancial statements. • Disclosure: DBL’s current disclosures through its website are adequate for a non-listed private company in Bangladesh. However, once companies of DBL Group go public, there will be a much higher level of expectations – market and regulatory. DBL will improve its disclosures in two primary areas: Annual Report information and website disclosures. Matin Spinning Mills, a concern of DBL Group is enlisted under Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission and is available for public trading. A stock enlisted company needs to comply with regulatory requirements for disclosure and the company is ensuring essential disclosures of the concern thorough Annual Reports and it's own website. 19 20 CHAPTER 2 As an organization, we realize our responsibility towards our people: our employees. Our company understands how the business practices impact our employees and we work to serve in their best interests. 21 Human development is the base for sustainable development. Mekelle University, Ethiopia 22 People As an organization, we realize our responsibility towards our people: our employees. Our company understands how the business practices impact our employees and we work to serve in their best interests. People Programs Bandhan Fair Price Shop “Bandhan” – a Bengali word which refers to “bonding” – is a fair price shop which serves low income workers with all the essentials and commodities at factory price of manufactures. The shop is aimed at reducing workers’ monthly expenditure and sheltering them from the economic inflation. Any employee of DBL can buy items through zero-cash and on-credit transaction: the bills are simply adjusted with their salaries at the end of the month. The entire system has been designed and managed in-house. Bandhan was recognized by the Business Call to Action (BCtA) as an inclusive business model and gained DBL a membership of the BCtA. The case is further detailed on the BCtA website (www.businesscalltoaction.org/member/dbl -group). 23 Sales of $873,230 in 6 shops 24 Female Supervisor Leadership Program The Female Supervisor Leadership Program is an in-house training program for the women workers. Over a period of 2 months, training on both hard and soft skills is provided to potential in-house female workers having worked in sewing or quality departments within DBL. After successful completion of the training program, they are promoted as Supervisors. As per the 2020 Goal, DBL aims to have 50% of its garments sewing lines led by these Supervisors. As such, the program aims to generate a total of 150 female Supervisors. Shobola: Empowerment for Better Business In partnership with amfori and the CSR Centre, DBL Group has signed an agreement for the Shobola project. The project aims to empower female workers to take up supervisory positions. CSR Centre will be the implementing partner with amfori being the funding and monitoring partner. DBL being the knowledge sharing partner will be providing in-kind support with its technical expertise. The project will begin in 2019. 25 42 women workers promoted to Supervisors DBL Group’s vision for women To be the most attractive employer for the women workers in the garments industry of Bangladesh 26 52 workers and management were trained on CRBP 27 Mothers@Work DBL signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with UNICEF to promote and improve breastfeeding practices in the workplace. The Mothers@Work program is expected to reach female workers, pregnant and lactating women and 340 infants and young children over the 3-year span of program implementation. Infants from both the Day Care Centre and the community are availing the service. The program is being implemented by BRAC. Some of the key achievements from the program are outlined below: • Two dedicated private lactation stations, with proper ventilation and comfortable sitting arrangement • Facility to express breast milk and store breast milk in breastfeeding rooms • Two additional 30-minute time slots for breast feeding • 175 mothers are using breastfeeding bottles to preserve breast milk in factory and at home • 156 pregnant mothers and 157 nursing mothers counseled to support breastfeeding • 124 workers and management trained to support breastfeeding. The program’s concepts are now being expanded to other factories of DBL. Better Business for Children The second program with UNICEF, being implemented by Phulki, focuses on the Children’s Rights and Business Principles (CRBP). This program aims on improving the following: • Daycare services available to employees • Community living conditions for employees • Employee and child health and nutrition 28 $526,616 scholarship provided to 88 students received 8,365 recognition for students in 2018 outstanding results in 2018 Children Education Support Initiative A set of programs exist under the Children Education Support Initiative which focuses on accessibility to education • Recognition for meritorious students • Providing career path counselling to students who have passed Higher Secondary education • Children’s Education Support Allowance (CESA): Sponsoring two children of each employee whose monthly income is below BDT 25,000 29 30 Family Planning Corner In partnership with Marie Stopes Bangladesh, a Family Planning Corner has been set up in one of the RMG manufacturing complexes of DBL Group. In addition to family planning services, the setup provides antenatal care and pathological tests. A total of 2,169 different services have been received in 2017-18 from the corner. Due to the popularity, the setup has been expanded to one of DBL’s printing facilities as well. Further corners are being setup in partnership with the Directorate General of Family Planning of the Government of Bangladesh. 1,571 registered clients Disability Inclusion Program To include people with disabilities within the workforce, DBL Group has partnered up with the Center for Disability in Development (CDD). CDD has provided training and conducted awareness programs for the factory HR departments. This way, the importance of the inclusion of the people with disabilities has been brought into realization. The Disability Inclusion Program is growing with a vision to have a one percent of our workforce to consist of people with different types of disabilities. As such, DBL targets to have 330 disabled people in its operations. 88 disabled people under DBL Group’s employment 31 Women Health Initiative Starting from March 2013, the program targeted all the female workers of DBL Group with a long-term objective to ensure good health and hygiene for all female workers. The initial activity was providing women with sanitary napkins at highly discounted price of 12 cents per pack: thus, not only limiting to educating women but also providing opportunities for ensuring their safe health. Analysis and follow up are done to encourage women to make proper use of these products. For instance, to maintain the privacy of workers, the pads are now made available in the female washrooms. Due to the sensitivity in purchasing such products, the Bandhan Fair Price Shops have female staffs for the convenience of the female workers. Counselling sessions are also done regularly to aware women regarding the health beneﬁts of the products. The effectiveness of these initiatives has been visible from the substantial increase in sales. 1,876 Average sales per month in 2017-18 Nirapod NGO Phulki, in partnership with the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, is working towards promoting health awareness among the female RMG workers of DBL Group involving peer educator group. Starting in August 2013, Phulki has expanded the reach of this project through partnership approach. These trainings are provided during orientation. The second phase of Nirapod is currently underway in two factories of DBL since 2016-17. 6,500 women received training on SRHR 32 Employee distribution Total employees: 33,000 (all full-time) Male: 20,357; 62% Female: 12,643; 38% Ratio of basic salary and remuneration, female to male =1:1 Distribution by age Above 50 years 18 to below 30 years 0.88% 66.99% AGE 30 to 50 years 32.13% 33 Distribution by religion Hindus 3.68% Buddhists/others 0.13% Christians 0.19% Muslims 96.00% RELIGION New hires Above 50 years: 0.03% Between 30 to 50 years: 10.90% 18 to below 30 years AGE GROUP 89.08% Female: 34.99% Male: 65.01% GENDER 34 Training In addition to the training provided through the different Sustainability programs, a variety of generalized trainings are provided to DBL’s employees every month. These include, but not limited to, the following: Training topics: • Orientation for newly recruited workers and employees on company rules and regulations • Company Code of Conduct • Buyer Code of Conduct • Working hours, Overtime, and Calculation of Wages and Overtime Payments • Compensation and Beneﬁts (including leave facilities) • Threat Awareness • Worker Rights and Responsibilities • Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) • Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) and Chemical Handling Procedure • Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) • Lifting and Carrying Procedures • Electric Safety and Operation of Boilers • First Aid • Fire Safety • Machine Operating Process and Safety • Awareness on Health and Nutrition for Pregnant Women • Disciplinary Procedure as per Bangladesh Labour Law • Environment, Energy, and Water Saving Awareness • Waste-handling Procedure • Participation Committee (PC), OHS, and Environment Committee's Functions • Child Labor, Forced Labor, Discrimination, Harassment, and Abusive Behavior • Anti-harassment, Anti-abuse, and Grievance Procedure • Awareness on AIDS and Transmittable and non-transmittable diseases 35 Training The speciﬁc trainings target mid-level management, workers, chemical handlers and spot removers, loaders, quality inspectors, ﬁrst aiders, ﬁre ﬁghters, evacuators and rescuers, cleaners, etc. In 2017-18, the total training (man) hours spent amounted to 188,256 with female and male employees receiving 103,727 hours and 84,529 and hours respectively. The average training hours per female employee was 8.24 and male employees was 6.28; the overall average per employee was 7.03. 36 Employee benefits A variety of activities are present in DBL for the welfare of employees including the following. Some of these have already been mentioned in the beginning of this chapter. • Life insurance and disability and invalidity coverages as per Bangladesh Labour Law and Group Insurance Policy • Retirement provisions • In-house day care center with trained professionals • In-house medical center with a wide range of tests and even providing outpatient medical services • In-house pharmacy providing medicines at fair price even for employees’ family members • Participating and organizing in-house sports tournaments such as cricket, football, and volleyball • Promoting culture through the encouragement of music and art competition • Worker-Management Relationship program where personal issues and needs discussed every month through the Participatory Committee (PC) meetings Maternity facilities and benefits All the female employees of DBL Group are entitled to take parental leave. The pregnant women can also avail the following services: • Training on maternity beneﬁts • Awareness training on maternity protection and breastfeeding • 112 days of paid maternity leave • Apart from lunch breaks, two extra times, with a total of 60 minutes, breastfeeding breaks within working hours • Provision of riskless work for pregnant female employees • Gift hamper for new babies • Breastfeeding kit for lactating mothers provided by UNICEF • Facility for using lifts for pregnant women • Consideration to work on the ground floor and the ﬁrst floor of any building • Free antenatal and postnatal treatments 37 38 Grievance procedure At DBL, we train our Welfare Ofﬁcers to exercise grievance procedures very professionally and encourage employees to express their concerns without hesitation through the complaint management system. Workers feel comfortable sharing any concern that they might have with the Welfare Ofﬁcers. We process grievances both formally and informally. These include: The Suggestion/Grievance Box: Workers can put in their issues in written form and drop them in the boxes conﬁdentially. Multiple boxes are placed on each floor: these are checked every week by designated people and the grievances are recorded in a register. The Bandhan Newsletter: Workers can place their complaints in the newsletter which is published monthly. A section of this newsletter can be detached; a worker can drop this off conﬁdentially in any suggestion/grievance box. Verbal complaint: Workers can inform verbally to Ofﬁcers from the Welfare, Compliance, Human Resource (HR), and/or Admin departments or to their Supervisor or Line Chief. Participation Committee (PC) meetings: A concerned worker can express themselves through a PC member who will put forward the complaint during the meetings. Grievances of all employees regarding any topic are considered by the management. This includes violations of rights of indigenous people. In 2017-18, there were no incidents reported where the rights of such people were violated either through formal grievance mechanisms or through informal ones. DBL Group’s grievance procedure addresses labor practice issues as well as human rights and societal topics. In overall, 2017-18 recorded 229 grievances of which all were addressed and 228 resolved. 10 grievances of 2016-17 was resolved this year. 39 Occupational Health and Safety Occupational diseases are prevalent in the workplace due to the existing surroundings. The (OHS) presence of dust, heat, chemicals, work stress, posture of working, etc. make rise to illness such as DBL Group aims on creating a healthy, cough or cold, headaches, back pains, allergies, neck environment-friendly and safe workplace and pain, as well as sinusitis. Most of these diseases educating the workforce regarding health and can be cured or even prevented through the proper safety issues. A good work environment not only use of personal protective equipment (PPE). has direct impact on the employees’ health but also plays a vital role on the productivity level. A dedicated medical center is present in each factory complex which manages and treats all kinds Our Occupational Health and Safety Policy and of occupational diseases. In addition, the center also related procedures encompass all national and deals with non-occupational but common diseases international standards. This includes, but is not such as fever, measles, tooth pain, and so on. limited to: Furthermore, to aware employees and workers regarding various health issues, awareness 1) Bangladesh Labour Law 2006 including the programs, meetings, trainings, and workshops are amendments and the rules conducted on a regular basis. The topics of these sessions also deal with issues such as personal 2) Other national laws hygiene, for example washing hands, thereby 3) ILO Conventions dealing with a preventive measure for various diseases. Health and safety committees are present 4) Buyers’ Codes of Conduct in each of the factory complexes: who comprise of 4.04% of the total workforce. All employees are covered under this policy and this is applicable to any unit of DBL. Dedicated Fire safety is one of the most important issues teams are present to oversee the different health regarding occupational safety. The Compliance and safety needs and maintain safety standards. department performs audits to ensure unobstructed evacuation paths, properly designed evacuation All instances of accidents, injuries, and maps and lighting present in required areas. To occupational diseases are kept in record in DBL. tackle the events of ﬁre, four teams – the ﬁre Each record of an occurrence is categorized into ﬁghters, the rescue team, the cordon party and the multiple types to analyze the speciﬁc type of injury ﬁrst aiders – are involved. and disease. 40 Risk management Given the nature of business, the raw materials and products that DBL handles and the scale of operations, our risk management systems are designed to ensure that all our assets are safeguarded and protected against any kind of loss including mankind and property. For worker safety, speciﬁc risk analyses are done based on their workplaces. These workplaces include a wide variety of areas within the factories such as the chemical store rooms and the Effluent Treatment Plants (ETPs), as well as the zones containing different machines such as compacting machines and generators. Pregnant women are also considered under risk management: to avoid the risk to the fetuses, they are to be seated when working, allowed leaving early during the lunch breaks, and not allowed to work overtime. Each type of analysis includes the description and consequence of the hazard, the person at risk and the control or preventive measures that can be taken. In addition, hazards are given ratings, calculated by using the frequencies of occurrence and the severity, thereby effectively identifying the risks or hazards to prioritize on. OHSAS OHSAS 18001:2007 standard 18001 The Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) is an international management system speciﬁcation for occupational health and safety. Implemented by the GIZ, one of DBL Group’s dyeing units acquired this certiﬁcation in April 2016. OHSAS was chosen to further reduce illness and incidents through continual improvement, increase awareness about health and safety, and establish a health and safety management system within the factory. The multi-department committee formed has enabled multiple beneﬁts including increased hazard awareness, safety culture, and reduced risk behavior. DBL is planning to replicate the standard to other units. 41 Safety measures Fire safety : • Fire extinguishers • Gong bells • Fire blankets • Lock cutters • Stretchers • Emergency lights • Smoke detectors • Safety equipment such as gloves, • Sprinklers • helmets, gas masks and gumboots • Fire hose cabinet boxes • Mini Fire Brigade (details under • Water drums and buckets Chapter 5: Community) • Fire beaters • Fire hooks Electrical safety: • Top quality cabling and accessories • Trained technicians for maintenance • International safety features for equipment • Maintenance and risk analysis records Building safety: • Structural assessments • Bangladesh National Building Code (BNBC) during construction • Certiﬁcation with Architectural and Structural Design Standard • Scaled as-built drawings Chemical safety: • Careful assessment of chemicals • Chemical usage policy • Material safety data sheet (MSDS) • Regular trainings 42 Human Rights Investment Signiﬁcant investment agreements include participation in training, creation and implementation of new policy or procedure, and other activities that DBL Group undertakes to promote labor practices, human rights, societal and environmental concerns, as well as any sustainability issue. DBL has dealt with multiple activities that promote human rights. These are summarized below. DBL Group has made investment in various training sessions. The Mothers@Work program is designed by UNICEF and implemented by BRAC to train pregnant and lactating mothers on maternity protection and breastfeeding. The Better Business for Children is another program by UNICEF which is being implemented by Phulki. This program provides training on UNICEF’s Children’s Rights and Business Principles with focus on community improvement. The Nirapod program is Phulki’s approach supported by the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands for saving women from unwanted and unsafe pregnancy. The second phase of Nirapod is already under implementation in two factories. In addition, Phulki is also providing training on UNICEF’s Children’s Rights in Business Principles. DBL Group also became the Gold Level Member of the QuizRR training program for completing more than 100 training sessions. In collaboration with global buyers, suppliers, and other stakeholders, QuizRR aims to improve awareness, knowledge, and workplace systems for employees at all levels in factories in Bangladesh. QuizRR is a visual, simple, and rewarding digital training system that introduces tools to measure employee training outcome. Further details of these and other programs have been explained earlier in this chapter of the report. Forced labor DBL does not use involuntary or forced labor. The Code of Conduct emphasizes that all employees should be working at factory voluntarily and no means should be adopted as a measure which may indirectly result in an employee working forcibly. The freedom of movement of employees is not restricted except for the protection of property and security of factory personnel. Additionally, no employees are recruited on contract basis and an employee may resign from the company by giving one month’s notice. Child labor DBL is not engaged with any form of child labor. At the time of hiring, psychological interviews are done to determine the age of potential employees. In addition, documents such as proofs of age are collected from all potential employees and the authenticity of age documents is veriﬁed. In the absence of age documents, the potential employee is to be veriﬁed and conﬁrmed by the registered doctor available at the factory. 43 Security practices All security personnel in DBL are of our own: there are none from third party organizations. Human rights topics are communicated to all security personnel via trainings that take place every month. Non-discrimination DBL employs, pays and promotes workers based on their ability to do the job, rather than based on personal characteristics or beliefs. Discrimination on any ground is not allowed. Due to the strength of the practice, there have been no cases of discrimination. Freedom of association and collective bargaining DBL recognizes and respects the right of employees to exercise their lawful rights of freedom of association and collective bargaining. No discrimination is done against employees who form or participate in lawful associations and or collective bargaining. The presence of the Participation Committee (PC) allows the workers to freely communicate regarding any issue. To ensure these rights are exercised, monthly audits from the Compliance team take place, noting the composition of the committee members, frequency of meetings, topics discussed, and so on. DBL management has been able to form PCs according to the guidelines which is very effective for conveying information to both labor and management and resolving any grievances if present. Signiﬁcant operational changes are communicated with the concerned employees with a minimum of 3 months prior to the change. Supplier assessment Suppliers of DBL are also assessed for labor practices, human rights, societal and environmental impacts. The DBL Compliance team conducts supplier assessment through speciﬁc standards questionnaire on social and environmental areas based on the DBL Code of Conduct. Before making a business relationship with a supplier, it is compulsory that the supplier abides by our Code. 44 CHAPTER 3 PROCESS We are committed to continuously improve all our business processes: ranging from purchasing raw materials to transporting ﬁnal ﬁnished goods. 45 You need to turn over every rock and open every door to learn your industry. This process never ends. Mark Cuban, Businessman 46 Process We are committed to continuously improve all our business processes: ranging from purchasing raw materials to transporting ﬁnal ﬁnished goods. We give a strong emphasis on eliminating non-value-added activities while delivering quality products on time with greater efﬁciency and least effect on the environment. Process Programs Resource saving dyeing and finishing Starting from procuring energy efﬁcient machineries, multiple initiatives have been taken by DBL Group to reduce the consumption of energy for the dyeing and ﬁnishing processes. The energy meters ensure proper measurement of power consumption. Relevant temperature adjustments are done depending on the fabric for the dyeing, scouring-bleaching and soaping processes to optimize the energy usage. The dyes used allow consumption of less energy as well. DBL also makes use of Novozymes’ CombiPolish, a world leader in bio-innovation. These enzymes have provided multiple beneﬁts including saving 4 liters of water and one full hour processing time for every production batch. Effluent amount and requirement of treating them has also decreased due to the lower water usage. The wicking ﬁnishing process converts hydrophobic fabrics (such as polyester) to hydrophilic: which intake water much better and thus enable optimum consumption of water. Weight loss of fabric during processing is also reduced: which allows better hand-feel and increased fabric strength. DBL’s practices allow use of low water to dye one kg of fabric. Currently, the dyeing operation makes use of only 55 liters of water, whereas 120 liters were used in 2010. DBL aims to reduce the usage of water for dyeing to 50 liters per kg of fabric within 2020. 47 Resource saving 55 liters water consumed to dye one kg fabric: down from 120 liters in 2010 48 Automation of fabric manufacturing operation process The Management Information System (MIS) team of DBL Group developed an in-house system in the Fabric Knitting section to transfer the manual operation practices into an automated one. Earlier, on-time and on-line information were unavailable which lead to wastage and indecisiveness in the processes. The new system automates the manufacturing process operation to make effective decisions, reduce wastage, and ensure convenience. Workers are now using electronic tabs and computers to input production and operational information. The management now has a digital dashboard to understand the most recent status of different machines and can hence make instant decisions related to the operation. Some of the key features include: • On-line and on-time production and efﬁcient monitoring system • Supply chain traceability • Barcode and labeling system for fabric tracking • On-line and off-line quality control • Simpliﬁed electronic delivery system • Efﬁcient inventory system • Signiﬁcant reduction in fabric wastage • Completely paperless operational system • “Smart” centralized production planning: system suggests what to do The system has generated multiple benefits including the following. 43 112,355 hours* saved in operational process 20,485 kg* fabric saved in production 3% increase in efﬁciency *309 machines in operation 49 Operation Automation 50 51 Sudokkho Skill Development Program Sudokkho is a skill development program for sewing operators which caters to the capacity building for factory-based training center. The program is funded by UK Aid and SDC and implemented by The Palladium Group in consortium with Swisscontact and the British Council. The program inspires the industry to invest in developing and operating skills training and employability activities. Sudokkho supports the industry to develop innovative and sustainable training models allowing employees to acquire the skills leading to employment in higher valued semi-skilled or skilled jobs. 636 Personnel trained from May 2016 to May 2018 Lean manufacturing Lean Manufacturing is a business model and collection of tactical methods that emphasize eliminating non-value-added activities (waste) while delivering quality products on time at least cost with greater efﬁciency. The project was launched following the guidelines and support of Walmart in Jinnat Fashions Ltd. and various methods were implemented for the garments cutting, sewing, and ﬁnishing operations. Replication of the practices are ongoing at other garments and non-garments units including fabric knitting, fabric dyeing and ﬁnishing, and garments printing. 52 DBL Idea Club DBL encourages ideas from any employee, regardless of their designation. Their efforts are recognized through a monthly recognition system: the “Employee of the Month”. In 2015, a yearly recognition system was launched as well, named the “Employee of the Year”. The program has been inaugurated in the knitting section and has been replicated for other units too. This encourages employees to work at their full potential and gives them a feeling of fairness as every employee has an equal opportunity at obtaining this reward. 112 Employee of the Month presented in 2017-18 DBL Quality Control (QC) Circles The Quality Control (QC) Circles promote employee engagement in workplace decision making. The bottom-up approach to quality empowers employees and workers to make effective decisions which influence production directly. Each of the different operations has their own QC Circles. These teams have participated in both national and international QC Circle competitions held in Sri Lanka, Thailand and the Philippines and won the highest recognitions on multiple occasions. 122 QC Circles in different units of DBL Group up from 2 in 2014 53 Reducing resource consumption Water-efficient machineries We have installed state-of-the-art dyeing machines that consume 50% less water in comparison to the average dyeing machines. This in turn has a direct effect on the receding water table and energy consumption and the associated carbon emissions. Reduced water consumption Water consumption in the fabric dyeing process has been reduced from 120 liters per kg of fabric to 55 liters per kg. Less water directly impacts the consumption of dyes, chemicals, steam and electricity and reduction in waste water discharge. As such the environment impact is reduced and production cost is also lower. In 2017-18, a total of 6,021,040 liters of water were used in the different operations. Other water saving practices • Rain water harvesting • Using machines with low liquor ratio which contributes to up to 46% lower water consumption • Repair leaking taps and educate staff to turn off after use • Replace water taps without aerators by taps with aerators • Replace single flush cisterns with dual flush • Reusing hot water from boilers • Using Exhaust Gas Boilers Rain Water Harvesting Plant 24,768,000 Liters ground water saving in 2017-18 54 Energy management Energy is an essential point of the industrial sector to achieve sustainability as it is directly related to ﬁnancial matters and global climate change. Energy consumption within the organization is monitored and tracked to reduce wastage of the energy. The following steps are currently implemented to reduce energy consumption: • Preparation of energy management policy • Collecting consumption of water, steam, diesel, gas and electricity along with monthly production • Benchmarking and regulating energy consumption in consultation with the production team by doing process re-engineering and innovations • Reducing carbon emission • Reducing diesel consumption in generators • Taking initiative to reduce energy consumption by choosing alternative sources of non-renewable resources • Training employees on energy and environmental aspects within the industry DBL primarily makes use of non-renewable energy sources for its operations. In 2017-18, 42,915,318 cubic meters of natural gas and 17,297,683 liters of diesel has been used. For transportation, 922,292 cubic meters of natural gas, 353,493 liters of diesel, and 157,716 liters of octane were used. A 25-kW solar power generation has been set up in our all-over printing facility which in 2017-18 generated 14,414.87 kWh power. Further renewable energy projects will be implemented in the coming years. Heat recovery from Stenter machines 6,270,536 Mega joules energy saved annually 55 Natural water-cooling pads We are using natural water-cooling pads in our production floors. One side of the production floor has cooling pads through which water flows continuously while the other side has blower fans which “pull” and circulate the generated cool air on the floor. The room temperature for the workers is comparatively lower than the cooling done by ceiling fans. The need for installing hundreds of ceiling fans has been abandoned and energy consumption has greatly reduced. Workplace comfort has also been increased signiﬁcantly. Energy efficient machineries High end energy efﬁcient capital machineries from Europe, USA and Japan are used in our production processes. These world class machineries have greatly reduced the energy consumption for different production processes by up to 15%. Some of the features of our energy efﬁcient and environment friendly machines are as follows: • The dyeing machines have individual heat recovery unit resulting in lower power consumption and energy saving by 15% • Water consumption saving of 20% compared to normal dyeing machines • Reduction in consumption of dyes, chemical and steam due to less water consumption • Heat recovery from Captive Power Plant is providing energy saving of about 15% Servo motors We are using sewing machines with energy efﬁcient servo motors instead of the traditional clutch motors in the sewing lines. Servo motors consume electricity only when the machine needle is active whereas the clutch motor consumes electricity even in standby mode. The remaining clutch motors will be replaced as soon as the machines are out of order. Other energy saving practices • Replacing T8 and T5 lights with the more efﬁcient LEDs (light emitting diodes) • Hot water recovery (lowering the consumption • Recovering steam condensates of fossil fuel) • Preventive Variable Frequency Drive (VFD) • Reducing light intensity in certain areas in-built air compressors • Switching off unnecessary lights during day • Regular maintenance time 56 CHAPTER 4 We continuously work towards improving the product quality and the processes that go into making the ﬁnal ﬁnished product to minimize the negative impact on the environment and the consumers. 57 A brand is a voice and a product is a souvenir. Lisa Gansky, Enterpreneur and Author 58 Product We continuously work towards improving the quality of our products, and all the processes that go into making the final finished product and ensure to minimize the negative impact on the environment and the consumers. The R&D department is actively involved in creating new and researching existing products and the processes associated with them. Product Programs Innovation in yarn production Our Spinning Mill makes use of different processes that reduces the consumption of cotton. Recycled textile materials are used instead of raw cotton. The Coarse yarns used to produce fabrics reduces the consumption of raw materials by up to 60%. Up to 30% recycled materials can be used with virgin fiber to produce ornamented products known as Cotton Neppy Mélange yarns. Different colored neps (produced from recycle polyester) are visible in the yarn body and this works as ornamentation on the fabric surface. Mixing of spinning waste produces Snow yarns, which create a snow effect in the finished fabrics which takes its place in the new fashion trade. Furthermore, in collaboration with the Forestry Stewardship Council (FSC), traceability is being introduced for the viscose used in the processes. The FSC promotes the responsible management of the world’s forests. In addition, under the Global Recycled Standard (GRS) certification, recycled polyester blended yarn is being produced to create a variety of sustainable products. Currently, our Spinning Mill is producing 10% of Sustainable Yarns. As part of the 2020 Goal, it targets to have 20% of total production made from these recycled products by the year 2020. 30% 60% recycled less usage materials being of raw used materials 59 Better Cotton Initiative The program has been adopted to sup-port the global standards for Better Cotton and to promote our commitment to make global cotton production better for the producers, environment and the sector. Over 90% of the total yarn pro-duction is from BCI. Organic Cotton It is an initiative to reduce the negative impact on the environment and consumers. Organic cotton is imported from India to process organic yarn. This comprises of about 8% of the total yarn production. Oeko-Tex Standard 100 For our Spinning, Dyeing, Printing and Garments processes, we follow the Restricted Substances List (RSL) specified by Product Class 1 of the Oeko-Tex Standard 100 certificate. Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS) The GOTS certiﬁcation is a worldwide leading textile processing standard for organic ﬁbers. This includes ecological and social criteria, backed up by independent certiﬁcation of the entire textile supply chain 60 $225,256,339.16 Exports in 2017-18 15.55% More exports than in 2016-17 EUROPE AFRICA ASIA & OCEANIA NORTH AMERICA SOUTH AMERICA AUSTRIA MOROCCO AUSTRALIA CANADA ARGENTINA BELGIUM SOUTH AFRICA CHINA EL SALVADOR BOLIVIA CROATIA HONG KONG MEXICO BRAZIL DENMARK INDIA USA CHILE FRANCE INDONESIA ECUADOR GERMANY JAPAN PANAMA GREECE MALAYSIA PARAGUAY ITALY NEW ZEALAND PERU NETHERLANDS PHILLIPPINES URUGUAY NORWAY SINGAPORE VENZUELA POLAND SOUTH KOREA RUSSIA TAIWAN SERBIA THAILAND SPAIN UAE SWEDEN TURKEY UK 61 Economic summary All amounts in million US$ (USD 1 = 83.75 BDT) 2017-18 Revenue (gross) 449.91 Other income 3.59 Direct economic value generated 453.50 Operating costs 287.95 Employee wages and benefits 66.47 Payments to providers of capital 21.73 Payments to government 16.62 Community investments 0.29 Economic value distributed 393.06 Economic value retained (direct economic value generated 60.44 less economic value distributed) Tax rates • Garments: 12% • Textiles: 15% • Corporate: 35% 62 Economic sustainability The apparel manufacturing industry continues to contribute to Bangladesh’s total exports. At the end of 2017-18, the industry stands at $30.6 billion: which is 83.49% of the total exports [1]. Within the last ﬁve years, the industry rose by 42.29%, with the knitwear exports rising by 44.99% . DBL Group’s knitwear exports have risen in par with the country’s rise: compared with 2012-13 the exports in 2017-18 rose by 44.34%. Constant expansions and a variety of sustainability initiatives has contributed to the rise. However, the industry in Bangladesh has changed signiﬁcantly and is changing still. With the inclusion of health and safety, focus on social and environmental impact is being addressed as well, even from the end of the buyers. The ﬁnished product is now being tracked way back to the cotton ﬁelds and all raw materials used, including the chemicals, in the entire supply chain. Companies are now to report on how they are addressing social issues including the communities that they are operating in. The end-product is now a socially and environmentally addressed one. Economic sustainability is also being addressed through these social and environmental ventures. In our previous report, some discussions were made regarding these, with a focus on the environmental side. From the social side, the direct business impacts occur as there is increased production. For instance, an in-house study showed that female Supervisors are about 3% more efﬁcient than the males and hence this has a direct relation to increased production. Indirect impacts include decreased turnover and increased retention. [1] http://bgmea.com.bd/home/pages/TradeInformation, Accessed: 2 Feb 2019 Awards and accolades 1. National Export Trophy 2014-15, Hamza Textiles Ltd. 2. Superbrands Award, 2018, DBL Group 2018 3. 8th HSBC Export Excellence Awards, 2018, DBL Group 4. Honorable Mention, Bangladesh Innovation Award 2018 under Best Social Innovation, DBL Group 5. Bangladesh Business and Disability Network (BBDN) Champions of Disability Inclusive Employment Award, 2018, DBL Group 6. 5th ICSB National Award 2017 for Excellence in Corporate Governance, Matin Spinning Mills Ltd. 7. ICMAB Best Corporate Award, 2017, Matin Spinning Mills Ltd. 8. National Export Trophy, 2015-16, DBL Group Further details are included on our website: 63 www.dbl-group.com/category/award Superbrands recognition DBL Group has won the ‘Superbrands’ award. Superbrands, the world’s largest independent arbiter of branding paid a tribute to the most recognized and valuable brands of Bangladesh. Only the brands that have established themselves to a meaningful height in terms of business value and contribution to consumer life throughout the years have achieved this status. A tribute event has been organized by Superbrands Bangladesh on 1 September 2018 at the Radisson Blu Dhaka Water Garden to declare the Superbrands of Bangladesh. M. A. Jabbar, Managing Director of DBL Group, received the award and promised to maintain the excellence in future as well. Participation in Superbrands is by invitation only and offered to the most outstanding brands in their ﬁeld. Attaining Superbrands status strengthens a brand's position, adds prestige and reassures consumers and suppliers that they are buying the best brand in its category. 64 Use of materials Depending on the different production processes, different raw materials are used. All input materials are weighed and tracked to control unwanted wastage. Systems such as Lean Manufacturing, Kaizen and 5S are included to make proper use of materials thereby reducing waste. Electronic tabs are used for data input with in-house developed software and hence moving a step closer to paperless systems. External assessments by government and private organizations are made on noise and air pollutions and the quality of wastewater before discharging. DBL performs its own assessments as well. All recommendations are implemented to reduce impact on the environment. Primary raw materials for the different production processes Process Input material(s) Output from process Spinning Raw cotton Yarns Fabric Knitting Yarns Fabrics Fabric dyeing and finishing Fabrics, dyes and chemicals Dyed fabrics All-over printing Fabrics, dyes and chemicals Printed fabrics Garments manufacturing Fabrics, accessories Finished garments Garments printing Finished garments, dyes and chemicals Printed garments Garments washing Finished garments Washed garments Corrugated carton Cardboard Cartons 65 Materials used by weight or volume Materials Unit Amount Cotton kg 16,133,277 Yarn kg 26,039,391 Fabric kg 25,909,842 Dyes kg 835,896 Chemicals kg 6,757,393 Salt 6,561,494 kg Paper kg 6,924,689 Waste management All wastages in DBL are tracked and monitored regularly. Non-hazardous and hazardous are given to government authorized waste collectors for proper disposal. Different types of wastes are disposed in different ways. Before disposing any waste, they are categorized according to their characteristics. In general, they may be categorized as hazardous and non-hazardous. Materials used by weight or volume Section/Area Types of waste Non-hazardous Hazardous Synthetic fabric, poly bag, Cotton fabric, paper, carton, Cutting cutting knife, scissors, tubes of fabric roll blade, pp van 66 Synthetic fabric, synthetic thread, Cotton fabric, cotton thread, synthetic label, poly, cutter, Sewing cotton label, paper scissors, needle, plastic cone, button, zipper, rivet Needle, poly, used gum tape, Finishing Cotton thread, cartons tag pin, empty bottle of spot lifter Syringe, synthetic packaging Medical Centre Gauge, unused cotton materials of medicine, empty, medicine bottle Canteen Gauge, unused cotton Plastic packets, water bottle etc. Lab Cotton, paper boxes, etc. Detergent (liquid and solid) Tube lights, electric bulbs, oil, Common Wood, paper, etc. electric wires, rubber mats, metal, empty chemical drums Total waste by type: Type of waste Unit Amount Hazardous kg 229,593 Hazardous Pieces 20,056 Drums (hazardous) Pieces 23,028 Other hazardous items Pieces 5,527 Non-hazardous kg 9,956,274 There are 3 separate dustbins clearly labeled set in the medical center for depositing all types of bottle/strips, cotton/bandages and syringes/needles respectively. All concerned staff are instructed to deposit waste in those speciﬁc dustbins. 67 Product Responsibility Customer health, safety and privacy DBL respects the privacy of all customers and henceforth there has been no complaints regarding breach of customer privacy and losses of customer data. DBL does not engage itself into incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling. Additionally, there were no incidents of non-compliance with any regulations or codes that deal with marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Furthermore, DBL incurred no ﬁnes for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. DBL ensures the following for each product created: Created according to brand’s specifications Fusing process for embroidery to safeguard human skin Pull-testing of buttons to avoid choking hazard Restrictions on use of certain Button strength test for children-wear substances and methods 68 CHAPTER 5 We believe that together with our employees, customers, business partners and other stakeholders, we can create changes for the betterment of the community and the environment. 69 He who wishes to secure the good of others has already secured his own. Confucius 70 Community We believe that together with our employees, customers, business partners and other stakeholders, we can create real and long-term changes for the betterment of the community and the environment. We can extend this impact from improving the livelihood of our employees to the development of the local community where we conduct our businesses. Community Programs Mini Fire Brigade The Mini Fire Brigade (MFB) is DBL Group’s ﬁrst public-private partnership, which is in collaboration with GIZ (German Cooperation) and the Bangladesh Fire Service and Civil Defence (BFSCD). Already in operation, the objective of the MFB rapid response and risk reduction unit is to prevent ﬁre in the industrial buildings around Kashimpur, Gazipur area. The unit is located outside the Jinnat Complex of DBL Group which is also serving the community in the Kashimpur-Konabari industrial cluster. The facility is staffed 24 hours a day with a target to respond within the ﬁrst 10-15 minutes to both industrial ﬁre and building collapse.The MFB was recognized by the Bangladesh Innovation Award 2018 as a Best Social Innovation . 71 Bangladesh Fire Service and Civil Defence (BFSCD) • Firefighters • Operation and Maintenance Costs • Equipment • Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) and Protocols • Advising Factory Management and Training to Factory Fire Teams German Development Cooperation • Technical Cooperation • Concept • Training via Bonn Fire Brigade and BFSCD • Fire Truck and Equipment DBL Group • Land • Building, Fittings and Furniture • Firefighters • Utilities Costs • Support Staffs Controlled and extinguished fire in 40 factories and establishments in the industry and community Estimated value of assets recovered: over $5,120,145 72 Community Knowledge Exchange Programs DBL continues to hold Community Knowledge Exchange Programs in the different communities where DBL’s operations are taking place. These programs focus on a wide variety of issues that DBL has learnt through the “People” programs (Chapter 2), including the following. Personal hygiene for women Community Knowledge Sexual and reproductive Maternity protection Exchange Programs health and rights & breastfeeding Empowering women through financial literacy Community education support As part of endorsing the need for achieving SDG-4: Quality Education in Bangladesh, DBL Group has been involved with multiple initiatives. A four-storied building has been constructed by DBL for Hatimara School and College. The building can accommodate about 1,000 students. DBL also donated 100 sets of benches to Sardagonj Government Primary School to accommodate 300 students. A renovation of an existing building in the school has also been done to further facilitate the students. 73 74 Industry-based Training Center With a vision to establish a Technical Vocational Education and Training (TVET) Center in the industry cluster, the Industry-based Training (IBT) Center was initiated in DBL’s spinning factory complex. The IBT Center has already developed training modules and the curricula and these have been submitted to the Bangladesh Technical Education Board (BTEB) for accreditation. The BTEB is a government board which is responsible for regulating, developing and certifying technical education throughout Bangladesh. On the initial phase, 1,070 workers in the Spinning Mill will be targeted for the year 2018-19. 75 Features of Industry-based Training (IBT) 20% Classroom training 80% On-the-job training Community Health Development Program To further focus on SDG-3, Good Health and Well-Being, DBL is continuing with Community Health Development Programs in the different communities where DBL’s operations are taking place. Children, women, men, and the elderly of the community visit to take free treatments. 76 Wage and its Impacts Entry level wage DBL Group always abides by the minimum wage as set by the government. The levels of wages are a common standard for the industry regardless of gender or area of operation: this is constant throughout Bangladesh. Each worker is recruited in one of seven grades (apart from trainees). For all grades, DBL pays at a higher rate than the minimum: experience is also considered in relevant cases – the lowest grade usually comprises of people with little or no prior experience. The surplus amount depends on the amount of prior experience the recruit has. Sensitivity of the wage issue The Bandhan Fair Price Shop of DBL Group plays an important role towards the positive contribution through its product lines. Products from reputed brands such as Unilever, Nestle and GSK are available for the workers at prices which are more affordable to them: hence they now have access to better quality as well as healthier products. Items include food, cooking oil, toiletries, house-keeping goods, tea and beverages, along with others, including sanitary napkins. An inclusive business model, Bandhan was established as a strategic approach. Back in 2007-08 when the global ﬁnancial crisis affected everyone, DBL decided to increase the salaries of our workers by 15%. This had a negative effect as the other industries in the cluster started to demand the same in their factories. To cope with that, Bandhan was established which not only reduced the expenditure burden of the workers, but also prevent any unrest. Bandhan acts as an inclusive business model since it includes the low-income workers as consumers.Bandhan was recognized by the Business Call to Action (BCtA) as an inclusive business model and gained DBL a membership of the BCtA. Society Local communities Apart from the machinery used in the different operations, DBL procures all other products and services from Dhaka. When DBL began its operations in Kashimpur and Mawna (Gazipur), the entire area/locale was undeveloped. The progression was escalated by industries and the locality has gone through a signiﬁcant transformation. Popular local branded shops and local and global branded products are now available in the community. DBL Group has also contributed to the economy through the following ways: 77 • 24/7 medical facilities for workers and consultation services for family members • Providing access to medicine at manufacturer’s price for workers and their families • Contribution to educational institutions in the community • Conducting surveys to understand the needs of the community • Financial assistance to various hospitals DBL has also formed a partnership with the NGO Shishu Polli Plus. A Beauty Parlor was set up in the local community of Tepirbari, Mawna. The facility was inaugurated on 19 June 2018 by Ms. Trisha Silvester – Chair of Trustees of Shishu Polli Plus and the Head of Sustainability of DBL Group. DBL is bearing the rent and utilities expenses. For the female workers of DBL Group, Shishu Polli Plus is providing special discounts on the different beauty treatments provided by the parlor. Other impacts on communities To minimize the impact on communities, the industries of DBL are situated in remote locations. Potentiality, however, is still present to create negative impacts on the local communities. These include the following: 1. Noises from machines, particularly generators, tend to reach out of the factory premises. Quality machines are procured which produces lesser noise than the inexpensive alternatives. These machines are also placed in ideal places within the facilities to reduce the impact. 2. Although Effluent Treatment Plants (ETPs) are present, there is dumping of the treated wastewater. Programs such as the Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals are present which improves the quality of wastewater discharged. The quality of sludge produced is also equivalent to that of municipal waste, which contributes further in reducing the negative impact on the community. 3. Carbon emissions from the different machines influences the air quality and temperature of the local environment. With the goal of planting 100,000 trees by 2020, DBL has started to offset the carbon emissions within the different communities where we are operating. These trees will also be mitigating the increase in temperature. 78 Anti-corruption DBL has no conﬁrmed incidents of corruption and has not made any ﬁnancial and in-kind political contributions. In addition, there have been no legal actions for anti-competitive behaviors, anti-trust and monopoly practices. An always compliant organization, DBL did not incur any ﬁnes or been involved in non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. The reputation of DBL Group for lawful and responsible business behavior is of prime importance and is one of its greatest assets. DBL Group is committed to the prevention, deterrence and detention of corrupt business practices, fraudulent activities and bribery. DBL Group has zero tolerance toward any unethical business practice. DBL Group has strictly enforced policies on anti-corruption, anti-fraud and bribery which apply to all businesses within DBL Group. The Management seeks to promote the adoption of regulations consistent with the principles set out in the different company policies on anti-corruption. It is required that all personnel: • Act honestly and with integrity and safeguard the company resources for which they are responsible • Respect customers, suppliers, and other parties to achieve DBL’s objectives by conducting business in an ethical, lawful, and professional manner. At DBL, we have an effective compliance program which includes but is not limited to, the following components: • Communicating code of conduct to employees and suppliers; • Reporting and investigating any allegation of fraud, bribery, and other corrupt practices; • Appropriate disciplinary procedures for employees who are found to have engaged in such practices; and • Monitoring of the effectiveness of such controls DBL Group and each of its business take the appropriate steps to ensure all its employees and those acting on its behalf: • Meet all legal and regulatory requirements governing the lawful and ethical conduct of business • Make all employees aware of their personal responsibilities and strictly adhere to this policy • Provide information to all employees and further guidance if they have any query or uncertainty regarding these requirements. 79 80 CHAPTER 6 Environment is a high priority for our company, and we work to decrease carbon footprint, water consumption, and waste from our manufacturing processes. 81 No water, no life. No blue, no green. Sylvia Earle, Marine Biologist 82 Environment Environment is a high priority for our company, and we work to decrease carbon footprint, water consumption, and waste from our manufacturing processes. We dedicate ourselves in conserving energy, managing waste effectively and replenishing the environment to the best of our capacity. Environment Programs Partnership for Cleaner Textile (PaCT) A program by the International Finance Corporation (IFC), PaCT is a holistic program supporting textile wet processing factories to adapt to cleaner production. It engages with brands, government, communities, ﬁnancial institutions and other stakeholders in bringing about systemic, positive environmental change for the Bangladesh textile sector, the workers and the communities of operations. The program contributed to water, gas, electricity, steam, dyes/chemicals and carbon emission consumption reduction. DBL Group has signed up for the second phase of PaCT. Sustainable Action and Vision for a better Environment (SAVE) A project by Puma co-ﬁnanced by DEG with support from H&M and ASSIST, SAVE aimed at reducing carbon emission, energy consumption, waste and water consumption by 25% by 2015 keeping 2011 as the baseline. Multiple recommendations were implemented in the garments manufacturing unit Jinnat Knitwears Ltd. based on an onsite assessment performed in November of 2014. These recommendations have immediate, short-term or long-term payback periods and were implemented throughout 2015. DBL received the recognition for having the “Best Management System” during the event closing in January 2016. DBL replicated the SAVE program in the Screen-Printing unit: Thanbee Print World Ltd. The program enabled Thanbee savings of 308 tons of carbon emissions and 460 MWh of electricity annually. 83 Bio Gas Generation In collaboration with GIZ, a bio gas generation plant has been set up in the Jinnat Complex, where the knitting and garments operations take place. Cattle excrement is used to provide as source of the gas and is currently being used as a source of fuel in cooking. With an initial investment of US$ 6,218, a return of about US$ 7,692 is obtained per year. Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) In 2011, a group of major apparel brands and retailers made a collective commitment to help lead the industry towards zero discharge of hazardous chemicals by 2020. Brands involved in this project are H&M, Esprit, G-Star and Puma. A “Joint Roadmap” was published in November 2011 which demonstrates the group’s collaborative efforts in leading the apparel and footwear industry towards ZDHC for all products across all pathways by 2020. Tree Plantation Program A method of offsetting carbon emissions is by planting trees. Trees, of course, have other beneﬁts including restoring biodiversity. Recognizing all these, DBL has already started planting trees as part of the Tree Plantation Program. DBL aims to plant 100,000 trees in different regions of its operations and beyond within 2020. More than 1,200 trees were planted in 2018 Renewable energy usage The use of renewable energy, such as solar power, reduces the impact on the environment. This is because this type of power generation causes no carbon emission and even saves fossil fuels; thereby often referred to as “clean” energy. With the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and other stakeholders, DBL has already studied, and is continuing to study, the feasibility of using solar panels. A 25-kW solar power generation has been set up in our all-over printing facility which in 2017-18 generated 14,414.87 kWh power. Further renewable energy projects will be implemented in the coming years. Targeting 2020, DBL aims to use up to 10% solar power for the production processes. 84 Environment Management Approach DBL management is committed to manage and protect environment as an integral part of its business. The company prefers to run its businesses in a responsible, environmentally sound and sustainable manner by implementing effective environmental policy and procedures in all the factories. Several sustainability projects relating to environmental management system have been and are being implemented. To reduce environmental footprint, DBL Group has formed a team for Environmental Management System (EMS). Standard environmental policy and Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) policy have been formulated which addresses management of the following. Energy ODS & others Water Environmental GHG policies Waste Noise Waste-water GHG: Greenhouse gases ODS: Ozone-depleting substance These guiding activities help us address environmental challenges such as biodiversity conservation. These are given priority to ensure environmental responsibilities and continual improvement to reduce environmental impacts. As minimization of pollution is addressed, the organization can ensure sustainability of the environment as an integral part of the business. 85 Awareness training on environment Environment awareness trainings are conducted every month for all employees relating to more general issues as well as on the production processes. All new employees, irrespective of their levels, are briefed about EHS and environmental related aspects of the organization during their induction process. Employees are also made to undergo speciﬁc training with respect to the nature of their work. Need identiﬁcation for this is done by the respective heads of departments for sending staff across for internal as well as external trainings. Environmental certifications Certification Processes Environmental Clearance Certificate (ECC) Spinning, fabric dyeing, washing, all-over printing, screen printing and packaging Oeko-Tex Standard 100 Spinning, fabric dyeing, all-over printing, garments manufacturing and screen printing Spinning, fabric dyeing, all-over printing, Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS) garments manufacturing and screen printing Organic Content Standard (OCS-IN) Garments manufacturing ISO 14001 Fabric dyeing, washing and all-over printing 86 Cotton import Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) Organic Cotton Spinning Energy efficient machinery Innovation in yarn production Fabric dyeing Low liquor ratio machines Energy saving dyeing Partnership for Cleaner Textiles (PaCT) Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) Garment manufacturing Energy, water, and waste management Emissions Emissions include greenhouse gases (GHGs) which are emitted from the different machines used in the operations and from vehicles. This consists primarily of carbon dioxide and is calculated using IFC and GHG Protocol guidelines. From the different operational facilities, 127,421 tons of carbon dioxide emissions were recorded in 2017-18. From the transportation services, the emissions are from compressed natural gas, octane, and diesel used by the vehicles. In 2017-18, 3,031 tons of carbon dioxide emissions were recorded from the transportation services. GHGs are related with energy production and reducing energy consumption helps with reduction of GHGs, thus contributing to minimization of climate effects. To ensure effective monitoring and minimizing of energy consumption and GHG emission, DBL’s practices include the following: • Maintaining an energy usage inventory (e.g. energy consumption data such as gas bills, electricity bills, and fuel use in vehicles) • Checking electricity lines, gas lines, oil tankers and generator connections • Maintaining GHG emission inventory including direct and indirect energy consumption. 87 Effluents DBL Group currently has two biological Effluent Treatment Plants (ETPs) in the fabric dyeing facility. These ETPs are for treating the wastewater generated from the fabric dyeing and all-over printing operations. The ﬁrst ETP, with the capacity of 4,000 cubic meters, was taken as a benchmark by the Department of Environment (DoE) of the government of Bangladesh. To meet the extended capacity of the dyeing process, a second of 7,500 cubic meters ETP was constructed and went into operation in November 2014. DBL also constructed another biological ETP in the screen-printing facility, which went into operation on February 2016. In 2017-18, a total of 3,087,075 cubic meters of effluents were generated. Biodiversity management Environmental impact assessment is done for every facility and preventive actions are taken against the possible impact. This assessment takes the following into consideration: • Noise pollution management • Air emissions management • Greenhouse gas emissions monitoring and energy management • Safe disposal of waste materials from production process • Biodiversity conservation Products and services To mitigate the impacts on the environment, multiple Sustainability programs have been taken by DBL Group. Brief explanations of these programs have been included in this report. DBL is constantly involved in resource saving and reducing emissions to preserve the environment. 88 Transportation impact management The impacts due to transportation are managed in several ways including the following: • Daily, weekly and monthly maintenance • Engine servicing after running every 3,000 km or 3 months: including washing, engine flashing, changing Mobil and air ﬁlters, etc. • Spark plug checking and replacing • Engine valve (inlet and exhaust) clearance checking and adjusting • Greasing moving parts to avoid friction • Fuel ﬁlter cleaning and replacing • Battery water level checking and recharging • Gear box and axle gear oil level checking and replacing • Avoid air draft using windshield/air reflector • Motivating drivers to minimize fuel consumption, avoiding over speed, etc. Environmental grievance mechanisms Till now, we have had no grievances about environmental impacts since all our facilities maintain environmental compliance. Responsible consumption In alignment with SDG-12 – Responsible Consumption and Production, DBL’s initiatives are targeting the optimal use of natural resources such as water. The dyeing industry is one of the most water intensive industries and hence programs like the Partnership for Cleaner Textile (PaCT) have speciﬁc targets in reducing water consumption. PaCT began in DBL in 2013 and after concluding in 2016 has provided signiﬁcant amounts of savings in water, dyes and chemicals. A quick overview of the savings in 2017-18, considering the amount of production, is shown below. The deﬁnition of sustainability encompasses social, environmental and economic performance. In cases, initiatives may be taken directly to address economic sustainability such as procuring machines with greater life span or reducing the use of raw materials by using recycled products. The indirect beneﬁts can occur from reducing turnover and absenteeism; for the former, recruitment and training costs are reduced and for the latter, there is a direct impact on production. 89 Savings from PaCT: Dyeing operations 288,461,976 1,547,205 Liters water Kg dyes and chemicals saving in 2017-18 saving in 2017-18 Condensed water recovery 1,051,200 499,320 Liters diesel saving Cubic meters gas saving at diesel boiler per year at gas boiler per year Exhaust Gas Boiler 436,362 Normal cubic meters natural gas saving in 2017-18 Hot water recovery 1,051,200 Liters diesel saving per year 90 CHAPTER 7 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Our stakeholders include those who are associated directly or indirectly to our businesses. DBL reserves special interest in identifying all applicable stakeholders and understanding their expectations to remain sustainable in the long run. 91 A good head and a good heart are always a formidable combination. Nelson Mandela, Philanthropist 92 Stakeholder Engagement At DBL Group stakeholder satisfaction is of very high concern to the company values and we take the matter very sincerely. Our stakeholders include those who are associated directly or indirectly to our businesses. The approach and the frequency of engagement with the stakeholders differ based on the category of the stakeholder. DBL Group reserves special interest in identifying all applicable stakeholders and understanding their expectations to remain sustainable in the long run. DBL Group is growing sustainably and we believe that a fully sustainable company will have all its stakeholders engaged in the key processes of the business. All organizations and entities that have signiﬁcant influence on DBL Group and those that are directly or indirectly affected by the Group’s operations are considered as stakeholders. We identify potential stakeholders through the following process. All organizations and entities that have signiﬁcant influence on DBL Group and those that are directly or indirectly affected by the Group’s operations are considered as stakeholders. We identify potential stakeholders through the following process. Stakeholder engagement process Stakeholder Identification Consultation Prioritization Collaboration Reporting There is no particular frequency of engagement with the stakeholders. However, there are annual events like vendor meetings for suppliers, annual general meeting for investors and shareholders, exhibition for customers and others. In addition, respective departments engage with their speciﬁc stakeholder groups as situation demands and on need basis. 93 Key Stakeholders Suppliers NGOs Community Media Board Members Employees Shareholders Customers (Buyers) Investors Knowledge Partners Service Providers Government/Public Sector Industry Associations Internal Stakeholders External Stakeholders Committing to Internal Stakeholders DBL Group’s major stakeholder group and a principal asset is the workforce. Hence, DBL reserves a special importance to creating the proper work environment for all employees. Similar attention is also given to their families. To maintain a fully energized workforce we maintain several initiatives to strengthen employer-employee bonding. Some are discussed below. Participation Committee (PC) Collective bargaining agreement is not prohibited in DBL Group. To make a trustworthy relationship between the workers and the company, DBL Group has formed Workers Participation Committees. These committees constitute of representatives of both the employers and the workers. Workers are encouraged highly in forming of this committee, over 50% of each the committee comprises of workers. To promote mutual trust, understanding and cooperation between the employers and the workers as to fulﬁll production target, reduce production cost and improve the quality of products, the committees meet once every month. They are working to effectively establish privileges as well as to improve welfare services for the workers and their families. Through the PC, workers can freely contact the committees to discuss any issue. 94 DBL Group encourages good relations between workers and managers, through hosting trainings covering topics, such as labor standards, leave days, working hours, wages, personal protective equipment, health and safety, environmental issues, welfare, and so on (further details are stated in Chapter 2 of this report). The committees’ members are representatives of employees and top management: they were selected by each group respectively. The selection criterion has now been completely replaced through a supervised election procedure. Issues discussed include wages, beneﬁts, working conditions, complaints, productivity, quality, health issues and even items for the Bandhan Fair Price Shop. Effective communication procedures DBL Group has established different channels to communicate with its workers: these include the following. • Meetings • Poster boards • Suggestion boxes • Open door policy. Grievance mechanisms Apart from formal grievance procedures which are set up as per local laws, DBL Group has informal ways to resolve any sort of disputes quickly and effectively. The top management has an open-door policy and grievance boxes are provided to assist employees maintain conﬁdentiality. DBL Group has established several channels for workers to ﬁle complaints, including anonymous complaints. These include suggestion box and an open-door policy. The Welfare Ofﬁcers are responsible for handling complaints. The suggestion boxes are checked every Saturday and the grievances are recorded. Appropriate actions are taken, and results are reported back to employees. Welfare Officers The Welfare Ofﬁcers stationed at the factory complexes oversee workers’ concerns and problems and communicate with the Human Resource and other concerned departments as required. These Ofﬁcers are involved with multiple tasks as shown below. Workers feel very comfortable expressing themselves to them. They handle every single case with great care and efﬁciency and maintain conﬁdentially depending on the sensitivity. Proper measures are taken immediately to resolve any concern over workplace or even workers’ personal issues. 95 Roles of Welfare Officers • Maintaining first aid boxes and checklists • Dealing with complaints from workers • Registering and providing extra care to pregnant employees • Ensuring washroom hygiene • Coordinating and conducting trainings • Facilitating meetings • Informing workers of any changes in policies Kaizen Suggestion Box DBL Group appreciates ideas from all workers and employees. Besides the Suggestion/Grievance Boxes, an additional box has been included with the aim of taking in suggestions from workers that relate to improving production efﬁciency. This method provides a way to involve workers in the decision-making process which makes workers feel important about themselves and they highly appreciate the management for such initiative. These boxes are referred to as “Kaizen Suggestion Boxes” and are present in all units. These boxes are green in color – as opposed to the white for the Suggestion/Complaint Boxes – in order to help users easily identify and distinguish them. Users submit their ideas in the boxes including their names in order to be identiﬁed for recognition. All suggestions are discussed in the Kaizen Meetings held every month: the employee or worker with the best suggestion for the month is recognized with the “Kaizen Award”. Some of the suggestions have even been implemented: in some cases, the best suggestion had to be chosen among the multiple good ones received. In addition to the award, the names, photos, and ideas of the accepted ones are displayed on the notice boards. Employee of the Month and Employee of the Year In addition to the Kaizen Suggestion system, efforts of our employees and workers are also recognized through another monthly recognition system: the “Employee of the Month”. In 2016, a new recognition system, “Employee of the Year” was included as well. These ideas are compiled under DBL Group Idea Club Sustainability program. 96 A huge advantage of having an employee of the month incentive is the motivation. It encourages the employees to work at their highest potential and move them towards empowerment. This is in terms of work performance as well as punctuality and attendance on the job. It promotes employees to work at their full potential without causing any adverse side effects. The Employee of the Month program is open for all employees and it gives them a feeling of fairness as every employee has an equal opportunity at obtaining this reward. The evaluation system also encompasses suggestions provided by employees and workers that would improve working procedures. The employees and workers that win the award are provided certiﬁcates of achievements in addition to cash incentives. Moreover, their names and photos are displayed on the notice boards of the respective units in order to further motivate them to grow in their careers and for improving the company. Connecting with External Stakeholders DBL Group is committed to generating positive relations with external stakeholders through various non-binding initiatives which the organization subscribes and endorses. A constant communication is vital in order to ensure business sustainability: DBL recognizes and acts on this principle. The table below shows the various external stakeholders that DBL is currently involved with and how interaction is being made with each. External stakeholder Engagement Merchandizing Team, Emails, Exhibitions, Local and International Buyers Management Visits, Audits, Conferences Community Meetings with Local Union Councils, Surveys, Accommodating Requests, Community Engagement Emails, Meetings with BGMEA, BKMEA, BTMA, Interactions with Chamber Industry associations of Commerce (FBCCI, DCCI, BGCCI, JBCCI, etc.) Interaction with different Ministries of the Government of Bangladesh, Government Embassies, and Overseas Ministries Media Communications Team, Press Releases, Press Briefings, Interviews Investors Emails, Meetings, Visits, Conferences, Internal Relations Team Suppliers Marketing Team, Sourcing Team, Emails, Meetings, Audits Emails, Meetings, Conferences, Workshops NGOs and CSOs 97 Community development A wide variety of activities are integrated within DBL’s sustainability that promotes societal development: thus, integrating the concept of “Community” included as a branch in the comprehensive coverage of sustainability. These activities include the following: HEALTH CAMP FREE MEDICAL CARE ACCESS TO IN-HOUSE MEDICAL CENTER FOR COMMUNITY PEOPLE HEA LTH COMMUNITY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS CO ON ATI M UC COMMUNITY KNOWLEDGE ITY ENGAGEM ED EXCHANGE PROGRAMS UN EN LOGISTICS AND RENOVATION OF M URE COMMUNITY SCHOOLS UCT T TR AS FR IN N IO CT A CO L LE ROAD MAINTENANCE D AT CONDUCT COMMUNITY SURVEYS COURTYARD MEETINGS 98 Honorable Prime Minister of Bangladesh presenting National Export Trophy to Mr. Abdul Wahed, Chairman Participating in the P4G Copenhagen Summit 2018 by Mr. M. A. Jabbar, Managing Director 99 Launching of Sustainability Report 2017 with the BGMEA by Mr. M. A. Rahim, Vice Chairman Puma Chief Operating Officer accompanied by Mr. M. A. Quader, Deputy Managing Director and Group CEO 100 Visitors Bruno Wenn, Chairman of the Management Board, DEG Team from DEG including Antje Steiner, Director Portfolio Management, Dominik Paris, Senior Manager Environment and Social (E&S), Satawee Pusara, Investment Manager Portfolio Management, and Faiyaz Hossain, Analyst 101 Ms. Rana Karadsheh-Haddad, IFC's Regional Industry Director Manufacturing, Agribusiness & Services, South Asia & East Asia and Paciﬁc along with Ms. Wendy Werner, IFC's Country Manager for Bangladesh, Bhutan and Nepal Team from The Netherlands Development Finance Company (FMO) including Martijn de Groot, Investment Ofﬁcer; Charlotte van Andel, Senior Environmental and Social Ofﬁcer; Merel Kampmeinert, Senior Legal Assistant; and Tianhan Ji, Associate 102 Ms. Laura Gok, Chairman of Turkish-Bangladesh Business Council Team from ICCO Cooperation (Interchurch Organization for Development Cooperation) and CDD (Centre for Disability in Development) 103 H.E. Ms. Winnie Estrup Petersen, Honorable Ambassador of Denmark to Bangladesh and Jacob Kahl Jepsen, Commercial Counsellor, Head of Trade, Royal Danish Embassy Ms. Karin M. Krchnak, Global Head of 2030 Water Resources Group (an initiative of the World Bank) 104 Delegation of UNICEF Delegation of UNICEF 105 Delegation from the UNICEF Regional Management Team Delegation from the UNICEF Regional Management Team 106 GRI Content Index Material topics This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Disclosure Page Omission option GRI 200: Economic General Disclosures GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 GRI 103: Management 62 No Disclosure Page Omission Approach 2016 GRI 201-1: Direct economic 62 No Organizational proﬁle value generated and distributed 102-1: Name of the organization 11 No GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 102-2: Activities, brands, 11-14 No GRI 103: Management 33 No products, and services Approach 2016 102-3: Location of headquarters 11 No GRI 202-1: Ratios of standard 33 No 102-4: Location of operations 11 No entry level wage by gender 102-5: Ownership and legal 19 No compared to local form minimum wage 102-6: Markets served 61 No GRI 202-2: Proportion of senior 15 No 102-7: Scale of the organization 13, 33, 61, 62 No management hired from the 102-8: Information on 33 No local community employees and other workers GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 102-9: Supply chain 13 No GRI 103: Management 77-78 No 102-10: Signiﬁcant changes to 44 No Approach 2016 the organization and its supply GRI 203-2: Signiﬁcant indirect 77-78 No chain economic impacts 102-11: Precautionary Principle 41 No GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 or approach GRI 103: Management 77 No 102-12: External initiatives 23-32, 47-53, No Approach 2016 59-60, 71-76, GRI 204-1: Proportion of 77 No 83-84 spending on local suppliers 102-13: Membership of 97 No GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 associations GRI 103: Management 79 No Strategy Approach 2016 102-14: Statement from senior 1-2 No GRI 205-3: Conﬁrmed incidents 79 No decision-maker of corruption and actions taken Ethics and Integrity GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 102-16: Values, principles, 11 No GRI 103: Management 79 No standards, and norms of Approach 2016 behavior GRI 206-1: Legal actions for 79 No Governance anti-competitive behavior, anti102-18: Governance structure 15-19 No trust, Stakeholder engagement and monopoly practices 102-40: List of stakeholder 97 No groups GRI 300: Environmental 102-41: Collective bargaining 94-95 No GRI 301: Materials 2016 agreements GRI 103: Management 65-66 No 102-42: Identifying and 93 No Approach 2016 selecting stakeholders GRI 301-1 Materials used by 65-66 No 102-43: Approach to 93 No weight or volume stakeholder engagement GRI 302: Energy 2016 102-44: Key topics and concerns 94-98 No GRI 103: Management 55-56 No raised Approach 2016 Reporting practice 302-1: Energy consumption 55-56 No 102-45: Entities included in the 62 No within the organization consolidated ﬁnancial GRI 303: Water and Eﬄuents 2018 statements GRI 103: Management 54 No 102-46: Deﬁning report content 6 No Approach 2016 and topic Boundaries 303-1: Interactions with water 54, 83 No 102-47: List of material topics 107-109 No as a shared resource 102-48: Restatements of 6 No 303-2: Management of water 88 No information discharge-related impacts 102-49: Changes in reporting 6 No 303-3: Water withdrawal 54 No 102-50: Reporting period 6 No GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 102-51: Date of most recent 6 No GRI 103: Management 84, 85, 88 No report Approach 2016 102-52: Reporting cycle 6 No 304-2: Signiﬁcant impacts of 84, 85, 88 No 102-53: Contact point for 6 No activities, products, and services questions regarding the report on biodiversity 102-54: Claims of reporting in 6 No GRI 305: Emissions 2016 accordance with the GRI GRI 103: Management 85, 87 No Standards Approach 2016 102-55: GRI content index 107-109 No 305-1: Direct (Scope 1) GHG 87 No 102-56: External assurance 6 No emissions GRI 306: Eﬄuents and Waste 107 GRI 103: Management 84, 88, 66-67 No GRI 103: Management 44 No Approach 2016 Approach 2016 306-1: Water discharge by 88 No 410-1: Security personnel 44 No quality and destination trained in human rights policies GRI 307: Environmental Compliance or procedures GRI 103: Management 89 No GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples Approach 2016 GRI 103: Management 39 No 307-1: Non-compliance with 89 No Approach 2016 environmental laws and 411-1: Incidents of violations 39 No regulations involving rights of indigenous GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment peoples GRI 103: Management 44 No GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment Approach 2016 GRI 103: Management 43 No 308-1: New suppliers that were 44 No Approach 2016 screened using environmental 412-3: Signiﬁcant investment 43 No criteria agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or GRI 400: Social that underwent human rights GRI 401: Employment screening GRI 103: Management 37 No GRI 413: Local Communities Approach 2016 GRI 103: Management 77-78 No 401-2: Beneﬁts provided to full37 No Approach 2016 time employees that are not 413-1: Operations with local 71-76 No provided to temporary or partcommunity engagement, time employees impact assessments, and GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations development programs GRI 103: Management 44 No 413-2: Operations with 77-78 No Approach 2016 signiﬁcant actual and potential 402-1: Minimum notice periods 44 No negative impacts on local regarding operational changes communities GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment GRI 103: Management 40-42 No GRI 103: Management 44 No Approach 2016 Approach 2016 403-1: Occupational health and 40-42 No 414-1: New suppliers that were 44 No safety management system screened using social criteria 403-3: Occupational health 40-42 No GRI 415: Public Policy services GRI 103: Management 79 No GRI 404: Training and Education Approach 2016 GRI 103: Management 35-36 No 415-1: Political contributions 79 No Approach 2016 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 404-1: Average hours of training 36 No GRI 103: Management 68 No per year per employee Approach 2016 404-2: Programs for upgrading 25,52 No 416-2: Incidents of non68 No employee skills and transition compliance concerning the assistance programs health and safety impacts of GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity products and services GRI 103: Management 33 No GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling Approach 2016 GRI 103: Management 68 No 405-2: Ratio of basic salary and 33 No Approach 2016 remuneration of women to men 417-1: Requirements for 68 No GRI 406: Non-discrimination product and service information GRI 103: Management 44 No and labeling Approach 2016 GRI 418: Customer Privacy 406-1: Incidents of 44 No GRI 103: Management 68 No discrimination and corrective Approach 2016 actions taken 418-1: Substantiated complaints 68 No GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining concerning breaches of GRI 103: Management 44 No customer privacy and losses of Approach 2016 customer data 407-1: Operations and suppliers 44 No GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance in which the right to freedom of GRI 103: Management 79 No association and collective Approach 2016 bargaining may be at risk 419-1: Non-compliance with 79 No GRI 408: Child Labor laws and regulations in the GRI 103: Management 43 No social and economic area Approach 2016 408-1: Operations and suppliers 43 No at signiﬁcant risk for incidents of child labor GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor GRI 103: Management 43 No Approach 2016 409-1: Operations and suppliers 43 No at signiﬁcant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor GRI 410: Security Practices 108 Design & Concept by www.greyshack.com CORPORATE OFFICE: Capita South Avenue Tower info@dbl-group.com 6th floor, House 50, Road 03 /dblgroupbd Gulshan Avenue, Gulshan 1 www.dbl-group.com Dhaka 1212, Bangladesh dbl_group
