STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (CEO) PERIOD COVERED BY OUR COMMUNICATION ON P ROGRESS FROM: FEBRUARY 27, 201 8 TO FEBRUARY 27, 2019 Edelman has been a proud participant in the United Nations Global Compact since March 2001, and I am proud to affirm our continued support of the Compact and its principles. Since our last Communication on Progress in February 2018, we published our FY18 Citizenship Report, “Act With Certainty,” to communicate our continued commitment to practicing responsible business from the inside out by: ▪ Empowering our employees to work and live well Human Rights, Employee Training, Labor Rights Principles ▪ Holding our suppliers and business partners to high ethical standards Labor and Anti-Corruption Principles, Supplier Code of Conduct ▪ Reducing our impact on the environment Environment Principles, GHG reduction policies, Citizenship Scores ▪ Making an impact in the communities where we operate Community Investment Grants, Volunteerism Last year, Edelman introduced new goals to further evolve our social performance and reinforce our commitment to Citizenship. Throughout the year, we made significant progress on most goals and fully realized several of them. Accordingly, we have updated the goals to better reflect our enhanced ambition for the future. We also added two new goals to drive change in all the areas where we have an impact. This year marks the first time Edelman achieved an EcoVadis Gold rating, which placed the firm among the top 5 percent of performers evaluated by EcoVadis. As you know, EcoVadis provides an independent Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) analysis covering 21 criteria across four themes of environment, fair labor practices, ethics/fair business practices and supply chain. The methodology is built on international CSR standards including the Global Reporting Initiative, the United Nations Global Compact and the ISO 26000, covering 190 spend categories and 150 countries. Edelman is dedicated to procuring goods and services from sustainable sources and collaborating with partners who share our commitment to sustainable procurement. This year, we updated our sustainable procurement policy and launched our first effort to evaluate the environmental, economic and social impacts of our business partners. In collaboration with EcoVadis we reached out to 68 suppliers in the U.S., Europe and China to measure their performance on labor practices and human rights, fair business practices, environment and sustainable procurement. In June 2018, Edelman secured a biannual Carbon Trust Standard (CTS) recertification. This achievement builds on our ongoing efforts and commitment to sustainability, originally recognized in 2016 when Edelman became the first professional services company globally to attain CTS certification. As part of our CTS certification process, we updated Edelman’s environmental policy, which outlines our approach to reducing emissions from our operations, improving energy efficiency, advancing sustainable energy solutions, reducing waste and leading in advancing sustainable and socially responsible business models. In addition to environmental stewardship, we also continue to give back to the communities where our employees live and work. In fiscal year 2018, we provided more than 20,000 hours of volunteerism, the equivalent of more than USD $3 million in cash, non-cash (volunteerism) and in-kind giving. This included sharing our professional expertise with NGOs that are working to eradicate hunger and poverty and contributing our time and enthusiasm to a wide variety of causes. This year we also surpassed a total of $1 million in Community Investment Grants (CIG). Since its inception in FY11, the CIG program has made more than 750 separate grants to organizations that our employees devote their time and energy to. This year we awarded 50 grants, totaling $101,500 across 18 offices globally. We recognize the critical importance of employing a diverse workforce—at all levels—and in maintaining an inclusive workplace by setting firm objectives and holding ourselves accountable to exceed them. In 2011, I made a deep commitment to gender equality at Edelman, and I’m proud to report that we expect to meet our 2020 goal of achieving 50 percent representation of women in senior leadership roles firmwide. With our goal in sight, we have updated our strategy to focus on providing opportunities, access and growth for women across all levels at Edelman. Edelman’s Global Women’s Executive Network (GWEN), will transition to the Global Women’s Equality Network. Its mission will be to continue to foster an environment that is both safe and conducive for women of all backgrounds to enjoy equal opportunity to grow, lead and succeed in and beyond Edelman In 2018, our U.S. Executive Committee set a racial and ethnic workforce goal of 30 percent by 2022 (from 24 percent). At the end of the fiscal year, our diverse workforce percentage was 25 percent and it has continued to increase in the current fiscal year. In addition to GWEN, we have LGBTQ, veteran, Hispanic/Latino and African American networks to build community and share learnings. We will launch our Asian-American network in January 2019.s Edelman continues to be engaged in the World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI), reflecting our commitment to the 10th Principle of the United Nations Global Compact. As a company, we are committed to ensuring our business is run in a sustainable and ethical manner. We look forward to our continued partnership with the United Nations Global Compact as we move forward with our commitments to the Compact principles. Sincerely, 2 Richard Edelman President & CEO
