2019 Sustainability Report 4 2019 GALLAGHER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Letter from Pat Gallagher While this is our inaugural Sustainability Report, We’re excited to share our efforts and achievements Gallagher has had a long-standing commitment of to date, and I’m particularly proud our success is sustainability. For more than 90 years, Gallagher has recognized by others. For example, in February 2019, been committed to maintaining high standards of Ethisphere named us as one of the World’s Most ethical behavior. Improving the sustainability of our Ethical Companies® for the eighth consecutive year. global operations and supporting the communities In addition, Forbes named Gallagher one of “World’s where we live and work is now an increasingly Best Employers,” the only company in our industry to important part of that commitment. receive this distinction. In 1984, our former Chairman and CEO, and my uncle, When we published our 2018/2019 Corporate Social Robert E. Gallagher, captured this sentiment and Responsibility Report, we shared some of our outlined our corporate culture when he wrote “The sustainability activities and other achievements that Gallagher Way.” Today, it’s our cornerstone for the support what we call the “three Ps”: People, Planet ethical behavior we expect in everything we do. You and Profit. We wanted to provide more in-depth can find all 25 tenets on page 14 of this document. information about our ongoing sustainability efforts, so we decided to commission this report. We became members of the United Nations Global Compact in 2013, the voluntary initiative based At its core, this report isn’t about policies and on CEO commitments to implement universal procedures, as much as it is about our greatest asset: sustainability principles. Along with other members of our people — from our frontline employees all the way the global business community, we’ve taken concrete up to our Board of Directors. They do the work, set the steps to support the UN’s Sustainable Development policies and make the everyday decisions that drive Goals and incorporate them into our business. our reputation and impact our clients, our partners You can read more about the Global Compact at and our communities. It is my honor to share the great UNglobalcompact.org. work they are doing. We also try to practice what we preach. In 2016, Sincerely, we completed a top-to-bottom renovation of our worldwide headquarters in Rolling Meadows, Illinois, which features a café with healthy and better-for-you J. Patrick Gallagher, Jr. food options, plus a fitness center for our employees. Through our Gallagher Green initiative, we strive to Chairman, President and CEO minimize any environmental hazards, manage our energy usage and reduce the environmental impact of our global operations. 2019 GALLAGHER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 5 Facts and Figures (as of December 31, 2018) 30K $6.8B total company employees revenue Member of the Publicly traded on New Fortune York Stock 500 Exchange under ticker Market symbol capitalization AJG (as of Dec. 31, 2018) $13.6B 6 2019 GALLAGHER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Company Overview Arthur J. Gallagher & Co. (“Gallagher”) is an international We have three reportable segments: Brokerage, Risk service provider that plans, designs and administers a full array Management and Corporate. of customized, cost-effective property/casualty insurance and risk management programs. The company also furnishes a • Our Brokerage segment operations provide brokerage and broad range of risk management services including claims consulting services to companies and entities of all types, and information management, risk control consulting and including commercial, not-for-profit and public entities, and, to appraisals to help corporations and institutions reduce their a lesser extent, individuals, in the areas of insurance placement, cost of risk. In addition, the company assists clients in all risk of loss management and management of employerareas of their employee health/welfare and retirement plans, sponsored benefit programs. including plan design, funding and administration. • Our Risk Management segment operations provide contract Gallagher has direct operations in 35 countries, and through a claim settlement, claim administration, loss control services network of correspondent brokers and consultants, offers clientand risk management consulting for commercial, notservice capabilities in more than 150 countries around the world. for-profit, captive and public entities, and various other The company is headquartered in Rolling Meadows, Illinois. organizations that choose to self-insure property/casualty coverages or choose to use a third-party claims management organization rather than the claim services provided by Corporate Strategy underwriting enterprises. Arthur J. Gallagher & Co. and its subsidiaries provide • Our Corporate segment reports the financial information insurance brokerage, consulting and third-party claims related to our debt, clean energy investments, external settlement and administration services to both domestic and acquisition-related expenses and other corporate costs. international entities. Clean energy investments consist of our investments in Our brokers, agents and administrators act as intermediaries limited liability companies that own 34 commercial clean coal between underwriting enterprises and our clients. We production facilities that produce refined coal using Chembelieve that our major strength is our ability to deliver Mod LLC’s proprietary technologies. comprehensively structured insurance and risk management Investment income and other revenues are generated from our solutions, superior claim outcomes and comprehensive premium financing operations and our investment portfolio, consulting services to our clients. which includes our invested cash and restricted cash we hold on behalf of our clients, as well as clean energy investments. We do not assume underwriting risk on a net basis, other than with respect to minimum amounts necessary to organize captives, pools, specialized underwriters or risk-retention groups. Capital necessary for events of loss coverages is provided by underwriting enterprises. 2019 GALLAGHER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 7 Company History The story of Arthur J. Gallagher & Co. is more than 90 years in the making, comparable to few and as unique in strengths as it is rich in history. Since our founding in 1927, we have grown from a one-person insurance agency to the world’s fourth-largest insurance broker based on revenues, and one of the world’s largest property/casualty third-party claims administrators. Arthur Gallagher founded Arthur J. Gallagher & Co. in Chicago on Oct. 1, 1927. Already a successful insurance agent when he decided to build a business of his own, Art focused on 1920s commercial insurance and also pioneered the concept of risk management. Art knew that by THE BEGINNING understanding his customers and helping them save money by identifying and reducing their risks, he would build strong relationships. The agency continued to expand and Arthur hired two new producers. It also continued 1930s to focus on loss control. In the late 1930s, Gallagher helped create The Hartford Group’s SUCCESS groundbreaking Retrospective Rating Program, which rewarded customers who minimized THROUGH PERSISTENCE their losses. Gallagher also wrote Chicago’s first large-deductible fire policy for Bowman Dairy Co. Both concepts were considered radical ideas in that era, and Gallagher was at the forefront. 1940s In the early 1940s, the United States entered World War II. All three of Art Gallagher’s sons — THE NEXT John, James and Robert — enlisted in the U.S. Navy. At the war’s end, his sons all joined the GENERATION company, setting the stage for the next generation of leaders. In 1950, Art decided to incorporate the company, giving each of his sons an equity interest. 1950s In 1957, Gallagher landed its largest client to date — Chicago’s Beatrice Foods Co. This AT THE accomplishment cast Gallagher in the limelight, as it bested Beatrice’s incumbent insurance FOREFRONT broker, then the largest broker in the U.S. In 1962, asked by Beatrice to help the client self-insure, Gallagher partnered with Sterling Bassett to form a new claims management subsidiary, Gallagher Bassett Services, Inc., to 1960s provide services to self-insured clients. This changed the landscape of commercial insurance. REVOLUTION AND In 1963, Robert E. Gallagher was named President and CEO of Gallagher, positions he held RESPONSIVENESS into the 1990s. The ‘60s also brought Gallagher’s earliest forays into the life insurance and benefits business. 8 2019 GALLAGHER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The ’70s were a period of rapid growth. Gallagher established an international presence in 1974 when it co-founded Lloyd’s broker, Gallagher, Hinton & Vereker Ltd. in London. Gallagher 1970s later purchased the remaining interest. In 1975, Gallagher also opened an office in Bermuda INTERNATIONAL to provide access to many offshore alternative markets. In that same year, Gallagher’s EXPANSION employee benefits division wrote Gallagher’s first self-funded employee benefits plan. By 1976, Gallagher’s revenues had topped $10 million and by 1978, they had more than doubled to $25 million. In 1981, Gallagher, Hinton & Vereker became the first subsidiary of a U.S. broker to be accepted as a Lloyd’s broker in its own right. In 1984, Gallagher went public with an initial common stock 1980s offering, and in 1987, Gallagher was invited to join the prestigious New York Stock Exchange. PROSPERING Traded under the symbol “AJG,” industry publications often highlighted Gallagher as one of AS A PUBLIC the fastest-growing brokers. Gallagher also finalized a major step in the evolution of Gallagher COMPANY Bassett during this decade. In 1988, to enable GB to grow and prosper, the decision was made to “unbundle” and market GB’s services to non-Gallagher brokers, allowing them to be purchased on a stand-alone basis. In 1990, CEO Bob Gallagher was named Chairman of the Board, and his brother, John, was named Vice Chairman. John’s son, J. Patrick Gallagher, Jr., became President in 1990 1990s and CEO in 1995. In 1997, Gallagher formed a domestic wholesale brokerage division, Risk THE FOURTHPlacement Services, Inc., to market wholesale services to retail insurance agents and brokers, LARGEST BROKER including Gallagher’s. Gallagher also established a presence in Australia. By 1999, based on 1998 revenues of more than $500 million, Gallagher was recognized by Business Insurance magazine as the world’s fourth-largest broker. 2000s In 2002, Gallagher celebrated its 75th anniversary and hit $1 billion in revenues. It also was TECHNOLOGY recognized by Fortune magazine among the Fortune 1000 Largest Companies. Gallagher was INFUSED named to Forbes magazine’s Platinum 400 List of Best Big Companies in America for 2004 SOLUTIONS and 2005. In 2006, J. Patrick Gallagher, Jr. was appointed Chairman of the Board. Gallagher completed nearly 300 acquisitions from Jan. 1, 2010 through Dec. 31, 2016, which fueled strong revenue growth and significant international expansion. By 2016, 34 percent 2010s of Gallagher’s Brokerage revenues and 15 percent of Gallagher’s Risk Management revenues GROWING were generated outside of the U.S. For eight consecutive years, from 2012 to 2019, Gallagher THROUGH OUR STRENGTHS was recognized by the Ethisphere Institute as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies™. In 2018, Gallagher was the only insurance brokerage to be named a “World’s Best Employer” by Forbes Magazine. 2019 GALLAGHER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 9 Let me tell you why I have the best job at Gallagher. I have the privilege to serve as the Company’s global We wrote this report to include the recommended representative for Ethics and Sustainability. This position disclosures established by the Global Reporting enables me to learn and implement the best practices Initiative (GRI). This international independent from key organizations around the world, including standards organization helps businesses, governments the Ethisphere Institute, the Boston College Center for and other organizations understand and communicate Corporate Citizenship and the United Nations Global their impact on a range of sustainability issues. Compact. This demonstrates the deep commitment Specifically, Gallagher adopted the standards outlined Gallagher makes to this stewardship, that the company in GRI 102. created a senior role to oversee it, reporting directly to At their core, insurance and sustainability share a our Chairman, President and CEO, Pat Gallagher. common vision: safeguarding the future. So it’s not In this position, I am able to share the recommendations, surprising to see how we all embrace and demonstrate best practices and guidance from leading global Gallagher’s shared commitment to operate in a organizations with everyone at Gallagher. This affords sustainable fashion each and every day. us the ability to ensure we make all the changes we collectively agreed we “should” make. That’s what Ethics is all about. Compliance tells us what we “must” do, and Ethics gives us the roadmap to establish what we Tom Tropp “should” do. Sustainability is an important part of our Corporate Vice President ongoing commitment to ethics, and has been since I Ethics and Sustainability joined Gallagher more than a decade ago. In addition, I have the honor of traveling to visit our employees to solicit their ideas and suggestions. Good ideas come from anywhere and the foundation of our corporate culture encourages sharing. My role gives me the opportunity to collect the very best ideas and bring them directly to our senior executives who can take immediate action. As we continue to grow, we want to emphasize that we are not trying to “Gallagherize the Globe,” rather, we are trying to “Globalize Gallagher.” We incorporate the very best ideas from around the world, and work tirelessly to blend those characteristics into a Global Community dedicated to delivering the best possible client service and maintaining the highest level of integrity in the industry. 10 2019 GALLAGHER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainability can start with the smallest of decisions—our Gallagher colleagues have Combined implemented these decisions into their everyday lives! From carpooling with coworkers, picking Efforts up trash while running, or even planting community and backyard gardens, every effort helps in making a lasting impact on the world around us. Backyard Garden Richard Allan, Australia, is growing a garden in his backyard that he shares with his housemates and coworkers! Elk Grove Living Green Community Garden Carpooling Recycling Run Joan Arrington, United States, started a Sandie Hord and Iris Bermudez, Valentine Verrijken, United Kingdom, picks up trash nonprofit community garden that provides United States, carpool to and recycling while she runs. Here she is picking up produce to three local food pantries. work everyday! trash during her 40 mile fundraising run! Girl Scout Gardening Beach Cleanup Southwestern Volunteer of the Year Vivianne Pulido-Price, United Julie Bush, United States, works with her local girl scouts Kelly Bradley, United States, has troup to educate them on sustainable efforts and maintain States, took part in a beach cleanvolunteered at her local lake for 8 years. a community garden with them! up near our Irvine Office. Friends of Shirati Free Store Dale Ressler, United States, volunteers with Friends of Shirati, a nonKerry Stafford, Untied States, helps out at the Free Store, a nonprofit that has focuses on sustainable energy projects for the Shirati profit focused on repurposing materials, produce, products that community in Tanzania. would have otherwise been thrown out. COMMITMENT TO PEOPLE Clients, employees, partners and communities 12 2019 GALLAGHER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT A place. A passion. Our promise to How the Gallagher way drives our our people. business. We are global leaders in insurance, risk management and When Arthur J. Gallagher founded the company in 1927, he consulting services. As such, we are an international sales and knew exactly what it would stand for and how it would make a marketing company that plans and administers cost-effective, difference in the lives of people, businesses and communities. differentiated property/casualty and human resource risk He defined how to deliver the best solutions, while always management programs as brokers, consultants and thirdgiving clients the very best service. This exemplary service party administrators. underscores the core of our business and explains how our shared values that motivate our decision-making process. At our core, we help people and communities at risk by offering sound solutions to identify, mitigate and manage risk. At Gallagher, we’re committed to people. We put our expertise “Gallagher is the only and exceptional service at the center of everything we do — for our clients, partners, employees and within our local communities. Here’s how: • We provide superior, cost-effective risk management insurance broker to products and services that meet the ever-changing needs of our current and prospective clients, while continuing to strive for the highest professional excellence in the delivery receive Ethisphere’s of those products and services. • We provide all our employees opportunities for professional World’s Most Ethical growth, personal satisfaction and financial security. • We establish, build and maintain long-lasting, consistent, Company® honor, honest and profitable relationships with our insurance markets to surpass our clients’ risk management needs. underscoring the • We grow shareholder value by increasing our client base and dedicating ourselves to increased productivity, profitability company’s ongoing and professionalism, resulting in long-term earnings-pershare growth. commitment to Our leadership sets the bar for our distinct corporate culture. We adhere to rigid moral and ethical standards for all aspects of our business. Recognized by Ethisphere as one of the leading with integrity and prioritizing ethical World’s Most Ethical Companies® for the past eight years — and the only insurance brokerage on this list — Gallagher is at work in over 150 countries helping to protect and sustain business practices. “ businesses, relationships and communities. Our success gives us the confidence to face future challenges head on, because our team is the very best at what we do. 2019 GALLAGHER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 13 Our Commitment As Gallagher expands and evolves, we remain rooted in these principles that guide our actions and obligations every day. In 1984, then Chairman and CEO Robert Gallagher took the time to write these principles down and share The Gallagher Way with the entire company. This is the foundation of our company’s culture, motivates our decision-making process and guides our actions every day. Our team passionately adheres to these tenets, which allows our employees to thrive, our organization to succeed and our clients to prosper. This is what our clients, employees and partners expect from Gallagher. The Gallagher Way 1. We are a sales and marketing company 14. Never ask someone to do something you dedicated to providing excellence in risk wouldn’t do yourself. management services to our clients. 15. I consider myself support for our sales and 2. We support one another. We believe in one marketing. We can’t make things happen without another. We acknowledge and respect the ability each other. We are a team. of one another. 16. Loyalty and respect are earned—not dictated. 3. We push for professional excellence. 17. Fear is a turnoff. 4. We can all improve and learn from one another. 18. People skills are very important at 5. There are no second-class citizens—everyone is Arthur J. Gallagher & Co. important and everyone’s job is important. 19. We’re a very competitive and aggressive 6. We’re an open society. company. 7. Empathy for the other person is not a weakness. 20. We run to problems—not away from them. 8. Suspicion breeds more suspicion. To trust and be 21. We adhere to the highest standards of moral and trusted is vital. ethical behavior. 9. Leaders need followers. How leaders treat 22. People work harder and are more effective when followers has a direct impact on the effectiveness they’re turned on—not turned off. of the leader. 23. We are a warm, close company. This is a 10. Interpersonal business relationships should strength—not a weakness. be built. 24. We must continue building a professional 11. We all need one another. We are all cogs in company—together—as a team. a wheel. 25. Shared values can be altered with 12. No department or person is an island. circumstances—but carefully and with tact and consideration for one another’s needs. 13. Professional courtesy is expected. 14 2019 GALLAGHER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Santa Fe, Our Santa Fe, New Mexico office truly looks to make a lasting impact and already has within New Mexico their community. The Santa Fe office is our first ever office entirely powered by solar energy! Their efforts do not stop there; they seek out other renewable and reusable ways to be waste Office conscientious through reusable water systems, recycled office products and much more. Our Commitment Workplace Culture Career Growth We are pleased to be the only insurance brokerage firm Becoming a destination employer is a means — not an end. We recognized by Forbes as a “World’s Best Employer” for 2018. enable our employees to cultivate their skills and grow their We recognize that becoming an employer of choice is a matter careers through strategic professional development and sound of steady improvement, not instant perfection, so this honor investments in their growth. acknowledges our steadfast commitment to our employees. We strive to instill a strong sense of purpose in our people Developing Young Talent and build an environment that helps them face their own The Gallagher Summer Internship Program began in 1965 future with confidence. We’re focused on providing our with a single intern. More than 50 years later, our program has employees with meaningful experiences; making sure they grown to employ more than 400 interns each summer. We take can bring their true self to work, have tools and resources to pride to cultivate interns’ expertise and our program provides fuel their growth, and are able to drive real impact both at limitless opportunities to accelerate their career growth. work and in the communities they call home. Our program is competitive and also ranks on the list of the We attribute our long-standing success to our people. They are 2018 Top 100 Internship Programs, as published by career site our best asset, helping clients navigate an increasingly complex WayUp.com. Nearly 25,000 interns rated their experiences. insurance market in a no-nonsense way. Our employees are a Gallagher sits in good company with different technology, global force for change, using their considerable experience, logistics, hospitality and other Fortune 500 companies, voted confidence and knowledge to reduce risk and provide expertise as great places to learn and work. for our clients, wherever we go. We achieve this by forming lifelong partnerships, maximizing business objectives and securing the best insurance cover for all different needs. 2019 GALLAGHER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 15 Work Environment Safety At Gallagher, we foster teamwork, entrepreneurialism and We’re in the risk management business and safety is of utmost success. Everyone is expected to stand by our exacting importance. At Gallagher, we offer our clients useful information standards and principles, guided by our founder’s values of to share with their employees to better manage their risks personal integrity, innovative thinking, deep commitment to across a host of industries. For 11 years, we’ve published Minute clients, openness, empathy and respect for each other. for Safety newsletters (in English and Spanish). Topics range from working safely with solvents to carpal tunnel syndrome Our employees enjoy different opportunities to chart their own to aggressive driving. We also share Risk Management Safety courses and build exciting and lucrative careers. We recognize Insight newsletters online as downloadable PDFs, featuring there are concerns about pay equity, and we remain committed recent and/or topical information about risk management to removing all barriers so our employees can succeed. issues that could impact clients’ business. Inclusion and Diversity Community Service We work hard to foster a fair, respectful and inclusive culture, To celebrate Gallagher’s 90th Anniversary, employees across and we see diversity as our greatest strength. We strive to 35 countries were encouraged to volunteer in their local create a culture where all team members genuinely feel they communities. Thanks to their efforts, the company contributed belong, and are empowered and supported to achieve their more than 112,706 hours of service. professional goals and life’s ambitions. Gallagher is the official Title Partner of Premiership Rugby in the United Kingdom. In November 2018, we supported Rainbow Laces, an initiative by Stonewall UK to promote LGBT inclusion in sport. We continue to look for opportunities that reflect of our company’s culture and values — hard work, teamwork and doing the right thing. Carolyn Budelman, United States, organized a recycling program Recycling in her children’s school. Through with Schools the efforts of everyone involved, including coworkers, they collected over 500 pounds of thin plastic! Gallagher Bassett Colleagues, United States, volunteered time at Give Kids Give Kids the World Village, a park for families the World with terminally ill children. They made repairs to the grounds as well as planted new trees. Recycling Effort Our Business Operations team, United Kingdom, volunteered at the Nagshead Nature at Nagshead Reserve in the Forest of Dean. The team’s time and energy went into demolishing damaged fencing and carrying it to a suitable collection point. Nature Reserve “ Employees, merger partners and clients choose Gallagher not just for our expertise, but because we treat people with respect and work hard to help them grow and succeed. When you get down to what makes us excellent at what we do— it comes down to people who have always been at the center of The Gallagher Way. SUSAN E. PIETRUCHA, CHIEF HUMAN RESOURCES OFFICER “ 17 COMMITMENT TO PLANET Environmental and sustainability efforts 18 2019 GALLAGHER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Purpose “We help you face your future with confidence.” It’s the a reflection of the tenets of The Gallagher Way, the experience “why” of everything we do for our clients and our employees. of working at Gallagher, and the way each of our colleagues And make no mistake; this is not a tagline. This is a simple shows up in every office around the world. For more than 90 articulation of what separates Gallagher from our competitors. years, we’ve been helping businesses, communities and our Our core purpose is something we’ve always lived by—and is people prepare for their futures. Our Service The Gallagher Way Volunteer Contributions Gallagher’s mission to improve the world transcends borders As a company with a global footprint, Gallagher strives and cultures. Whether on or off the grid, our teams strive to to preserve, enrich and serve in our local communities. A leave the communities they serve better than they found them. yearlong effort for Gallagher employees worldwide to reach 90,000 hours of volunteerism culminated in early October 2018. To celebrate Gallagher’s 90th Anniversary, employees Disaster Relief across 35 countries were encouraged to volunteer in their When Hurricane Maria hit Dominica in 2017, representatives from local communities. The efforts totaled 112,706 volunteer hours Gallagher organized aid and jumped on the first plane to help between Oct. 1, 2017 and Oct. 3, 2018. our four Gallagher employees and 250 clients in desperate need. “True to our values and culture, it was fitting to mark this special milestone by supporting communities around the globe through volunteerism and giving to charities and causes near and dear to our employees and clients,” said J. Patrick Gallagher, Jr., chairman, president and CEO. “ We adhere to the highest standards of moral and ethical behavior. THE GALLAGHER WAY TENET #21 “ 19 2019 GALLAGHER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 19 AMERICAS ASIA PACIFIC BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS: Goodwill Industries Toy Drive AUSTRALIA: Cancer Council As part of their annual toy drive, the Boston office collected Every year our employees volunteer for Daffodil Day, to sell and delivered more than 200 gifts for our client, Morgan daffodils, the international symbol of hope, as well as collect Memorial Goodwill Industries’, youth holiday party. The team donations to help raise funds for cancer research. also decorated the organization’s headquarters to mark the fifth anniversary of our partnership. INDIA: Dictionary Drive As part of our ongoing literacy efforts, our employees provided CHICAGO, ILLINOIS: Neighborhood Cleanup dictionaries to 140 students. As part of our partnership with the Chicago Cubs, 500 employees from our global headquarters in Rolling Meadows, EURPOE, MIDDLE EAST, AFRICA IL, volunteered to clean up the Wrigleyville neighborhood as RWANDA: School Supply Drive part of a beautification project. Chicago Cubs Chairman, Tom To help Rwandan students thrive at school, we organized a Ricketts, and former Cubs second baseman and Baseball Hall drive to donate hundreds of books and essential supplies. of Famer, Ryne Sandberg, joined in the effort as well. UK: Charity Bike Ride PORTLAND, MAINE: Lifesaving Service Colleagues from our UK Retail-South West offices (including Christy O’Hare of Risk Placement Services, Portland, Maine, their CEO), hopped on their bikes in memory of a colleague spent a week in Bangladesh with Light for Life USA, a nonprofit who was lost to cancer. The team cycled over 170 miles and organization serving individuals and orphans in the country’s raised a phenomenal £40,000 for Cancer Research UK. poorest communities. UK: Alesco Number Partners ROCHESTER, NEW YORK: Delivering Supplies For the past two years, 15 members of our London office have Kristin Sampson, the Area Vice President for Global HR been volunteering their lunchtimes to help elementary-aged Services at our Rochester, New York office, delivered needed children develop their math skills. supplies to orphanages and communities in Haiti. Crombie Lockwood Our New Zealand division, Crombie Lockwood, has been working hard to make a lasting impact in their communities through volunteering efforts working with plant nurseries, bird sanctuaries and the Department of Conservation. Check out some of the photos below to find out more about the amazing efforts our Crombie Lockwood employees have been up to all year round. Helping Create a The Manawatu Branch, New Zealand, helped prepare the new Wildbase facility for Wildlife Preserve 20 opening day by shoveling mulch & preparing the outside rehabilitation areas. 2019 GALLAGHER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Planted Trees During The Wanganui Branch, New Zealand, planted 200 native trees with the Department of Conservation during Conservation Week. Conservation Week Crombie Lockwood worked with partners at the New Zealand Department of Conservation Supporting to put together a special package to ensure the travel of the endangered parrot, Sirocco, Sirocco around New Zealand. Volunteer Maria Bossa and Michelle Quin, New Zealand, volunteered at the Shade house to assist with Nursery restoration 2019 projects of native forest species in the far north. GALLAGHER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 21 Our Strategy Sustainability is The Gallagher Way Gallagher is committed to sustainability. We comply with applicable laws and regulations, and we seek to reduce the environmental impact of our operations and services. Through our Gallagher Green initiative and in other ways, we show our respect for the environment by striving to minimize any environmental hazards, managing our energy usage and reducing the environmental impact of our global operations. Scotland Isle of Man Canada Northern Ireland England Jersey Guernsey United States Gibraltar Bermuda Mexico Antigua St Kitts Cayman Islands Dominica Jamaica Barbados Grenada St Vincent/St Lucia Columbia Peru Chile 22 2019 GALLAGHER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Approach Environmental Topics Preserving the environment is more than a moral imperative, it’s a sound business strategy. We strive to connect the dots between our environmental impact and best practices. In 2017, we finished our new 315,000-square-foot corporate headquarters in Rolling Meadows, Illinois, near O’Hare International Airport. Our close proximity to a major transportation hub in the Northwest suburbs benefits our clients by minimizing travel time and cost, as well as gives us the opportunity to reduce our carbon footprint. Norway The new building houses 1,500 employees (with a capacity for 2,000), while an additional 270 employees in our IT and mail departments work in a separate two-story brick Sweden building on our campus. Employees who work in the main building can use a treadmill or bike desk. We also feature an on-site fitness center and a café that offers healthy food options for our HQ employees. Czech Republic Malta India Philippines Singapore Indonesia Australia New Zealand 2019 GALLAGHER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 23 GLOBAL OPERATIONS Economics, governance, global standards of business conduct and reporting 24 2019 GALLAGHER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Organization Location Our worldwide headquarters for both the executive offices Further, we derive a significant portion of our revenue and of our corporate segment, as well as certain subsidiary and operating profit from operating subsidiaries located outside branch facilities of our brokerage and risk management the U.S. Since the majority of our financing obligations as segments are located 2850 Golf Road, Rolling Meadows, well as dividends to stockholders are paid from the U.S., it Illinois. We own approximately 360,000 square feet of space is important to access the cash generated by our operating that can accommodate nearly 2,000 employees. subsidiaries located outside the U.S. in the event we are unable to meet these U.S.-based cash requirements. Ownership and Legal Form Funds from our operating subsidiaries outside the U.S. may be repatriated to the U.S. via stockholder distributions and We are a holding company and, therefore, may not be able to intercompany financings, where necessary. A number of receive dividends or other distributions in needed amounts factors may arise that could limit our ability to repatriate funds from our subsidiaries. or make repatriation cost prohibitive, including, but not limited We are organized as a holding company, a legal entity separate to the imposition of currency controls and other government and distinct from our operating subsidiaries. As a holding restrictions on repatriation in the jurisdictions in which our company without significant operations of our own, we depend subsidiaries operate, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, the on dividends and other payments from our operating subsidiaries imposition of withholding and other taxes on such payments to meet our obligations. This includes paying principal and and our ability to repatriate earnings in a tax-efficient manner. interest on outstanding debt obligations, paying dividends to In the event we are unable to generate or repatriate cash from stockholders, repurchasing our common stock and paying our our operating subsidiaries for any of the reasons discussed corporate expenses. If our operating subsidiaries are unable to above, our overall liquidity could deteriorate and our ability pay sufficient dividends and other payments to us, we may not be to finance our obligations, including to pay dividends on or able to service our debt, pay our obligations, pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock, could be adversely affected. repurchase our common stock. Our Values Ethics and Integrity The Global Standards of Business Conduct apply to all We ensure that callers to the Hotline can remain anonymous if Gallagher directors, officers and employees. We expect they choose, and if they do not choose to remain anonymous, Gallagher Global Alliance members, strategic vendors, their identity will be kept confidential to the extent permitted suppliers and other business partners or agents acting on our by law, and the information will be relayed to the appropriate behalf to adhere to similar high standards of behavior. Company Resources for further investigation. Please note, however, that it may be more difficult for Gallagher to Our Ethics and Compliance Hotline is managed by an outside thoroughly investigate reports that are made anonymously. company and is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. 2019 GALLAGHER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 25 Our Governance Corporate Structure The Board of Directors (the “Board”) of Arthur J. Gallagher & Co. In addition, members of the Audit and Compensation (the “Company”) oversees the management of the Company Committees shall meet according to the additional, heightened and its business. The Board selects the senior management independence standards applicable to audit and compensation team, which is responsible for operating the Company’s committee members under the NYSE listing standards. From business, and monitors the performance of senior management. time to time, the Board may form a new committee or disband a The Board has adopted the governance guidelines set forth current committee depending upon circumstances. below (the “Guidelines”) as a framework for the governance of the Company. Committee members are recommended to the Board by the Nominating/Governance Committee in consultation with the Chairman and CEO. Committee members shall possess such Delegating Authority skill and experience as is appropriate for the committee or committees on which they serve. Board members are responsible to designate one person to serve as Chairman of the Board. The powers and responsibilities Each of the Audit, Nominating/Governance and Compensation of the Chairman are outlined in the Company’s bylaws, which Committees will have its own charter. The charters will set forth can be supplemented at times by a resolution of the Board. The the purposes, goals and responsibilities of these committees as position of the Board members is that it is in the best interests well as qualifications for committee membership, procedures of the Company for a single person to serve as Chairman of the for committee member appointment and removal, committee Board and CEO. Board members may recommend separating structure and operations, and committee reporting to the Board. the two roles, if the members deem it advisable, and in the Each committee will assess the adequacy of its charter annually Company’s best interests, to do so. and recommend changes to the Board as appropriate. Company Committees Chairman of the Board At all times the Board will have three organizations: an J. Patrick Gallagher, Jr., Chairman of the Board, Audit Committee, Nominating/Governance Committee and President and Chief Executive Officer Compensation Committee. All committee members shall be independent directors under the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange. “ Shared values can be altered with circumstances—but carefully and with tact 26 and consideration for one another’s needs. THE GALLAGHER WAY TENET #25 2019 GALLAGHER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT “ Board Nominations Exchange of Business Gifts The Nominating/Governance Committee reviews director Gallagher recognizes business gifts and entertainment candidates’ qualifications according to Gallagher’s are exchanged to develop and encourage strong working guidelines, as well as current business needs, and makes relationships with existing and potential clients, vendors, recommendations as appropriate. The Board presents a insurance companies, suppliers and other business partners. slate of candidates for election at the annual meeting. In order to avoid even the appearance of a conflict of interest, The Committee also considers candidate nominations by good judgment and moderation serves as our guide. Company stockholders in compliance with the procedures set forth in the Company’s proxy statement. Giving or receiving a gift, or an offer of entertainment, is not an appropriate activity if it creates a sense of obligation, puts us in a situation where we may appear biased or is given with the intent Board Selection to influence a specific business decision improperly. Concerns about whether a gift or entertainment is in violation of our The Board seeks members from diverse professional standards should be referred to the Legal Department. backgrounds who have broad expertise combined with a reputation for integrity. Directors should have experience in positions with a high degree of responsibility, serve as leaders The Board of Directors’ Purpose in their respective organizations, can make considerable impact on the Board and be free from relationships or conflicts of Our Board of Directors oversees the management of the interest that could interfere with the director’s duties to the Company and its business. The Board selects the senior Company and its stockholders. management team, which is responsible for operating the Company’s business, and monitors the performance of The Board uses the requirements for directors under the senior management. The Board has adopted the governance Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the listing standards guidelines set forth in the Governance Guidelines, a framework of the NYSE, and it may take into consideration additional for the governance of the Company. The Nominating appropriate factors and criteria, including the nominee’s Governance Committee annually reviews these Guidelines and judgment, qualifications, attributes, skill, integrity, diversity recommends changes to the Board for approval. and international business or other experience relevant to the Company’s global activities. The Board of Directors’ Independence Conflicts of Interest The Company shall have a substantial majority of directors At Gallagher, every employee is responsible to serve in our who meet the criteria for “independence” established by the company’s best interests. We must avoid situations where NYSE. The Board makes an affirmative determination regarding our personal interests and loyalties are — or even appear — at the independence of each director annually, based upon the odds with the best interests of our company. While potential recommendation of the Nominating/Governance Committee. conflicts do arise on occasion, they are not necessarily prohibited. We require that any actual or potential conflict be disclosed immediately so it can be addressed and resolved The Board of Directors’ Evaluations quickly. Questions about potential conflicts of interest, and The Board will conduct an annual self-evaluation to determine disclosures of these situations, should be discussed with whether it and its committees are functioning effectively. the Legal Department right away, so they may be reviewed, documented and resolved appropriately. The Audit, Compensation and Nominating/Governance Committees will conduct annual self-evaluations to assess their performance. 2019 GALLAGHER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 27 The Nominating/Governance Committee shall be responsible Determinations as to whether a director satisfies the for reviewing with the Board, on an annual basis, the requisite requirements for membership of the Committee shall be made skills and characteristics of prospective Board members as well by the Board. as the Board’s composition. Such review shall include a review of the qualifications of each Board member other than the The Committee’s duties include: Chairman and CEO, whose annual evaluation in his capacity • Annually review and approve corporate goals and as Chairman shall be conducted by the Lead Director together objectives relevant to CEO compensation, evaluate the with the other independent directors. CEO’s performance and establish the individual elements of the CEO’s total compensation based on this evaluation. In determining the long-term incentive component of the CEO’s Identifying Environmental Impact compensation, the Committee shall consider, among other Gallagher is committed to environmental protection. In addition things, the Company’s performance and stockholder returns, to complying with applicable laws and regulations, we look for including relative to comparable companies, the value of ways to reduce the environmental impact of our operations similar incentive awards to CEOs at comparable companies and services. and the awards given to the CEO in past years. Through our Gallagher Green initiative and in other ways, we • Review and approve the compensation and benefits of the show our respect for the environment by striving to minimize Company’s executive officers. any environmental hazards, managing our energy usage and reducing the environmental impact of our global operations. • Consult on the setting of compensation for such other officers as the Committee deems appropriate. In addition to competitive salaries, Gallagher offers such Communicating Critical Concerns benefits as a variety of health insurance options and well-being We all share the responsibility to report suspected programs, 401(k) retirement savings program, flexible spending misconduct where local law allows and to ask pertinent accounts for healthcare and dependent care, employee stock questions if help or guidance is needed. This helps Gallagher purchase plan, commuter benefits, long-term care insurance minimize, mitigate or avoid the consequences of any legal and more. or ethical misconduct before it becomes an issue. It can also prevent a situation from escalating. In addition, reporting helps Gallagher prevent future misconduct. Annual Total Compensation Ratio Each executive officer of the Company who has served in such capacity for at least five years should own stock in the Company Remuneration Policies having an aggregate value of not less than a multiple of his or The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of her annualized base salary. If an executive officer is promoted the Company shall be appointed by the Board pursuant to and becomes subject to a different targeted multiple or if the the Board’s overall authority to discharge responsibilities targeted multiple for a position is increased by the Board, an relating to the compensation and benefits of the Company’s additional two-year period is provided to meet the standard. executive officers and to perform the established authorities, duties and responsibilities. The Committee shall seat three The targeted multiples vary among executive officers or more directors. Each member of the Committee shall depending on their position and responsibilities: meet the independence requirements of the NYSE, including requirements specific to compensation committee members, • Chief Executive Officer — six (6) times annualized base salary; and at least two members shall meet (i) the requirements • Chief Financial Officer — four (4) times annualized base salary; for a “non-employee director” contained in Rule 16b-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and (ii) the • All other executive officers — three (3) times annualized requirements for an “outside director” for purposes of Section base salary. 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. 28 2019 GALLAGHER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR BOARD MEMBERS J. Patrick Gallagher, Jr. Sherry S. Barrat Chairman of the Board, President and Retired Vice Chairman of Northern Chief Executive Officer Trust Corporation William L. Bax D. John Coldman Former Managing Partner of Former Chairman of The Benfield Group PricewaterhouseCoopers’ Chicago office Frank E. English, Jr. Elbert O. Hand Former Managing Director and Vice Former Chairman of the Board and Chief Chairman of Investment Banking, Morgan Executive Officer, Hartmarx Corporation Stanley & Co. David S. Johnson Kay W. McCurdy Lead Director, Arthur J. Gallagher & Co., Retired Partner, Locke Lord LLP Chief Executive Officer of North America, Aryzta AG Norman L. Rosenthal, Ph.D. Ralph J. Nicoletti Senior Vice President and Chief President, Norman L. Rosenthal & Financial Officer, The AZEK Company Associates, Inc. 29 Our Reporting Financial Statement Entities Our retail brokerage operations are organized and operate within certain key niche/practice groups, which account for approximately 73 percent of our 2018 retail brokerage revenues. These specialized teams target areas of business and/or industries in which we have developed a depth of expertise and a large client base. Significant niche/practice groups we serve are as follows: AFFINITY AUTOMOTIVE AVIATION CONSTRUCTION ENERGY ENTERTAINMENT ENVIRONMENTAL EQUITY ADVISORS FINANCIAL FOOD/ GLOBAL RISKS HEALTHCARE INSTITUTIONS AGRIBUSINESS HIGHER EDUCATION LAW FIRMS LIFE SCIENCES MARINE NONPROFIT PERSONAL PRIVATE CLIENT PUBLIC SECTOR REAL ESTATE/ RELIGIOUS RESTAURANT TECHNOLOGY HOSPITALITY TRADE CREDIT/ TRANSPORTATION POLITICAL RISK Financial Accounting Period Most Recent Report Gallagher’s fiscal year runs January 1 through December 31, We published our fourth-quarter and full-year financial results concurrent with the calendar year. for the period ending December 31, 2018, on January 31, 2019. 30 2019 GALLAGHER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Point of Contact Communications regarding direct stock purchases, dividends, lost stock certificates, direct deposit of dividends, dividend reinvestment and changes of address should be directed to: Computershare Trust Company, N.A. P.O. Box 50500 462 South 4th Street Louisville, KY 40233-5000 312.360.5386 Online Inquiries: www-us.computershare.com/investor/contact Gallagher has been named as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies® by the Ethisphere® Institute, a global leader in defining and advancing the standards of ethical business practices, eight years in a row. © Arthur J. Gallagher & Co. | 35292 2019 GALLAGHER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 31 Between the forest and the final user, products may undergo many stages of processing, manufacturing and distribution. FSC Chain-of-Custody certification traces the path of products from forests through the supply chain, verifying that FSC-certified material is identified or kept separated from non-certified material throughout the chain. Any company in this supply chain, including harvesters, processors, manufacturers, distributors, printers, retailers* or anyone that is taking ownership of the forest product before the end user, needs to be FSC certified to be able to label or promote their products as FSC certified. © 2019 Arthur J. Gallagher & Co. All rights reserved. 35292A
