BALANCE Sustainability report 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ONLINE 25th issue Maintaining balance. lufthansagroup.com/responsibility Out of responsibility. CONTENT 1 __ About this report COVER STORY: MAINTAINING BALANCE. OUT OF RESPONSIBILITY. 2 __ At a glance 3 __ Editorial 8 __ Focus on climate and the environment from early on 4 __ The Lufthansa Group 10 __ 20 years of active noise abatement 11 __ 25 years of climate research on scheduled flights 12 __ Pioneer for environmentally friendly aircraft 13 __ Flying responsibly 14 __ Growing responsibly 15 __ Diversity as a basic principle 16 __ 20 years of help alliance 17 __ Balance over time 18 __ Responsibility is our leitmotif 20 __ Future-oriented solutions 01 02 03 COMPANY & RESPONSIBILITY CLIMATE & ENVIRONMENT EMPLOYEES & SOCIETY 26 __ Strategy and management 50 __ Environmental management 74 __ The ability to transform 35 __ Compliance and human rights 54 __ Fuel consumption and 76 __ Diversity and 41 __ Sustainability along the emissions equal opportunities supply chain 65 __ Energy and resource 82 __ Employment policy 42 __ Fleet management management based on partnership 46 __ Sustainable innovation, 69 __ Active noise abatement 85 __ Talent management research and development 88 __ Occupational safety and health management 90 __ Corporate citizenship 04 05 PRODUCT & CUSTOMER SERVICE & INFORMATION 98 __ Product and services 111 __ Scope of consolidation 103 __ Operational stability 112 __ Environmental / Personnel data 105 __ Flight safety and 118 __ Glossary health protection 122 __ GRI Content Index 108 __ Data protection and 128 __ Editorial information data security 129 __ Overview: Noise standards 130 __ The operating fleet 132 __ Prizes and awards 134 __ Contact ABOUT THIS REPORT Balance, the Lufthansa Group’s Sustainability Report, informs stake­ Additional information on the Internet holders and the interested public about the Group’s goals, activities and In addition to this report, the Lufthansa Group informs readers via advances in the areas of business, social responsibility, environment, the Internet about its activities in the area of sustainability: product and corporate citizenship. It thus complements and expands ↗ www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility the information in the Annual Report. Disclaimer in respect of forward-looking statements Across the Lufthansa Group, Corporate Responsibility is The data included in this report has been collected and processed with understood to comprise the following dimensions: the utmost care. Nevertheless, errors in transmission cannot be ruled out entirely. Information published in this report with regard to the future • Economic sustainability development of the Lufthansa Group and its subsidiaries consists purely • Corporate governance and compliance of forecasts and assessments and not of definitive historical facts. Its • Climate and environmental responsibility purpose is exclusively informational, identified by the use of such • Social responsibility forward-looking terms as believe, expect, forecast, intend, project, plan, • Product responsibility estimate, count on, can, could, should or endeavor. These forward• Corporate citizenship look­ing statements are based on all the discernible information, facts and expectations currently available. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. This publication also serves as a progress report concern­ Numerous factors affect the facts and forecasts published in this report, ing the implementation of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, which are in large part outside the Lufthansa Group’s sphere of influ­ which the Lufthansa Group joined in 2002 and to which it has been ence. This includes, among others, changes in national and international committed as “Participant” since 2018. The Group determined the most laws and regulations or fundamental changes in the economic or significant topics related to sustainability in 2018 in the context of political environment. an aggregated materiality analysis, which is based on the results of a stakeholder survey (see page 29). It is possible that the Group’s actual results and development may differ materially from the forward-looking statements implied by the forecasts. Scope of consolidation and comparability The Lufthansa Group assumes no obligation for and does not intend to Unless noted otherwise, the data in this report refers to the financial adapt forward-looking statements to accommodate events or develop­ year 2018. You will find explanations concerning the scope of consoli­ ments that may occur at some later date. Accordingly, it neither dation and calculation methods used to determine the absolute and expressly nor conclusively accepts liability, nor does it give any guarantee specific resource consumption at the Lufthansa Group on page 111. This for the actuality, accuracy and completeness of this data and report covers the activities of the Lufthansa Group. Under the aspect information. of materiality, reporting focuses on the product of “flying” without upstream and downstream processes. Reporting restricted to individual Group companies is indicated in the text. Due to changes in the portfolio over recent years, the figures for personnel and environmental performance cited in this report are only to a limited extent comparable with those reported for previous years. For example, Brussels Airlines, 1 Taken from the Annual Report 2018 of the Lufthansa Group. The figures for 2017 and 2018 shown here include effects from the first-time which is part of the Lufthansa Group, was first included in this report’s application of new accounting standards and other accounting changes. coverage during the reporting year 2017. In the reporting year 2018, 2 Previous year’s figures have been adjusted. 3 For the reporting year Luftverkehrsgesellschaft Walter was included in the coverage. There are 2018, the following companies have been included in Balance: Lufthansa (including Lufthansa CityLine and Air Dolomiti), Lufthansa Cargo, also certain differences in approach compared to the Annual Report SWISS (including Edelweiss Air), Austrian Airlines, Eurowings (including when calculating passenger numbers and their derivative performance Germanwings and Luftfahrtgesellschaft Walter) and Brussels Airlines. indicators (see explanations relating to the overview on page 2, Excluding the services of third parties, i.e. airlines outside the scope of consolidation of Balance, but that take over services from Lufthansa, for At a glance). example in the event of capacity bottlenecks (see page 112, table “Share of third parties”) 4 Types of flights taken into account: all scheduled and Publication dates of this report charter flights. 5 See page 112, table “Fuel consumption”. 6 Balance: Balance, the Lufthansa Group’s Sustainability Report, is published once segments (operational perspective); Annual Report: distance (customer perspective). One distance can include several segments, e. g. in the a year in German and in English. The preceding edition was published on event of stops en route. 7 Balance: on the basis of all passengers aboard; June 6, 2018. The Group has regularly reported about its environmental Annual Report: on the basis of all revenue passengers. 8 Companies performance since 1994 and has continuously expanded its reporting to referred to as in 3, but including the services of third parties, as these contribute to the Group’s results. Types of flights as in 4, but including the other dimensions of entrepreneurial responsibility. ferry flights, as these represent costs. page 1 AT A GLANCE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE DATA 1 2018 2017 Change Revenue million € 35,844 35,579 + 0.7 % of which traffic revenue million € 28,103 28,399 – 1.0 % EBIT million € 2,974 3,297 – 9.8 % Adjusted EBIT million € 2,836 2,969 – 4.5 % Adjusted EBITDA million € 5,016 5,009 + 0.1 % Net profit / loss for the period million € 2,163 2,340 – 7.6 % Total assets million € 38,213 35,778 + 6.8 % Cash flow from operating activities million € 4,109 5,368 – 23.5 % Capital expenditure (gross) million € 3,757 3,474 + 8.1 % Equity ratio percent 25.1 25.5 – 0.4 PP PERSONNEL DATA 2018 2017 Change Number of employees (on December 31, respectively) 135,534 129,424 + 4.7 % of these, in Germany 72,716 69,142 + 5.2 % of these, outside Germany 62,818 60,282 + 4.2 % Staff costs million € 8,811 8,172 + 7.8 % Revenue / employee € 266,835 276,1142 – 3.4 % Staff costs / revenue percent 24.6 23.0 + 1.6 PP Average age years 41.5 42.2 – 0.7 years Part-time ratio, absolute percent 28.8 28.6 + 0.2 PP Part-time ratio, men percent 14.9 14.4 + 0.5 PP Part-time ratio, women percent 45.3 45.3 ± 0.0 PP Share of women in management (worldwide) percent 15.9 15.1 + 0.8 PP Share of women in management (Germany) percent 17.7 16.5 + 1.2 PP ENVIRONMENTAL DATA 3, 4 2018 2017 Change Resource consumption Fuel consumption 5 tonnes 10,254,365 9,618,095 + 6.6 % Fuel consumption, specific, passenger transportation l / 100 pkm 3.65 3.68 – 0.8 % Fuel consumption, specific, freight transport g / tkm 213 215 – 0.7 % Emissions Carbon dioxide emissions tonnes 32,301,249 30,296,998 + 6.6 % Carbon dioxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation kg / 100 pkm 9.19 9.27 – 0.8 % Nitrogen oxide emissions tonnes 161,427 151,402 + 6.6 % Nitrogen oxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation g / 100 pkm 45.8 46.1 – 0.7 % Carbon monoxide emissions tonnes 23,197 21,922 + 5.8 % Carbon monoxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation g / 100 pkm 7.1 7.2 – 2.1 % Unburned hydrocarbons tonnes 2,310.9 2,226.1 + 3.8 % Unburned hydrocarbons, specific, passenger transportation g / 100 pkm 0.7 0.7 – 4.3 % TRANSPORT PERFORMANCE DATA Balance 3, 4 ± 2017 Annual report 8 ± 2017 Flights 6 1,115,714 + 12.6 % 1,228,920 + 8.9 % Passengers carried 7 thousand 134,743 + 13.3 % 142,335 + 10.0 % Seat kilometers offered, SKO million pkm 334,231 + 9.6 % 349,489 + 8.2 % Freight tonne kilometers offered, FTKO million tkm 16,883 + 10.0 % 16,431 + 4.3 % Passenger kilometers transported, PKT 7 million pkm 277,462 + 9.8 % 284,561 2 + 9.0 % Freight tonne kilometers transported (including third-party performance), FTKT million tkm 10,118 – 0.5 % 10,907 + 0.8 % page 2 Dear Readers, It is with great pleasure that I introduce the 25th issue of our sustainability report Balance to you. There is also a little bit of pride in doing so because we were among the first in our industry when we started reporting about this topic in 1994. The environmental report of yesteryear has evolved into a comprehensive sustainability report covering all dimensions of corporate responsibility. Being an aviation group, we are aware of the fact that the past years’ growth in passenger numbers also implies growing responsibility for us to ensure that future mobility will be shaped in environmentally compatible ways. It is no coincidence that the title of this report is “Maintaining balance. Out of responsibility.” To reach this goal, we continuously invest in new and especially efficient aircraft – we took delivery of 46 aircraft during the past year; in 2019 we will receive more than 30. During the past year, our aircraft needed a mere 3.65 liters of kerosene on average to fly one passenger over a distance of 100 kilometers. This is a new record! While enormous changes have been realized in this area over the past 25 years, we will not rest on our laurels. We intend to take a leadership role within the aviation industry on the topic of responsibility. Our report is also intended as a comprehensive basis for dialogue with our interest groups. For this reason, we talk openly not only about success stories, but also about challenges: despite the financial success we achieved in 2018, it was not an optimal year for our customers. The disproportionate growth in air transport revealed the infrastructure bottlenecks affecting the entire industry, especially during the summer months of 2018 – both on the ground and in the air. We have taken action immediately and are maintaining close dialogue with our system partners, industry representatives and politicians because this is a challenge we can only surmount together. All our activities are guided by the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, which have helped us since 2002 in positioning our actions; the same is true of the Sustainable Development Goals. I would like to recommend our cover story particularly warmly to you. It illustrates by means of examples what we have been able to achieve over the last quarter of a century with regard to sustainability. Our path will not come to an end for a long time yet. And we will pursue it with responsibility and from a perspective of conviction – for the benefit of those generations that will follow us. I thank you for your interest and wish you a captivating read. Carsten Spohr Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO Deutsche Lufthansa AG LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 3 THE LUFTHANSA GROUP Corporate headquarters Cologne The Lufthansa Group is an aviation company Legal form with worldwide operations and more than Stock corporation 550 subsidiaries and affiliated companies. The portfolio comprises the Network Airlines, Total revenue 2018 Eurowings and the Aviation Services. 35.8 billion euros The Lufthansa Group’s goal is to be the first Number of employees choice in aviation for shareholders, customers, on 31.12.2018 employees and partners while continuing to 135,534 play a significant role in shaping the global aviation market. The Lufthansa Group Number of nationalities 176 pursues this standard in the knowledge that only responsible business practices, oriented Hubs by the principles of sustainability, can be Frankfurt, Munich, successful over the long term. Zurich, Vienna In 2018 the Group’s airlines set a new record: Number of aircraft AT A GLANCE With more than 142 million passengers, the in the Group’s fleet 763 Lufthansa Group is the number one in Europe. ↗ www.lufthansagroup.com Number of passengers in 2018 142.3 million A DAY AT THE LUFTHANSA GROUP 3,366 flights 1.97 million meals 1,700 aircraft supported 389,958 passengers page 4 / Group Portrait THE SET-UP OF THE LUFTHANSA GROUP NETWORK AIRLINES EUROWINGS The business segment Network Airlines comprises the The business segment Eurowings comprises the flight operacompanies Lufthansa, SWISS and Austrian Airlines. They offer tions of Eurowings, Germanwings as well as Brussels Airlines. their customers a premium product via their respective hubs Furthermore, the equity investment in SunExpress is part of and, thanks to the multi-hub strategy, a comprehensive route this business segment. Together, these airlines are characternetwork combined with the highest degree of travel flexibility. ized by an innovative and competitive product for price↗ www.lufthansa.com | www.swiss.com | www.austrian.com sensitive and service-oriented customers in the growing direct-traffic segment. ↗ www.eurowings.com AVIATION SERVICES The Aviation Services strengthen the Lufthansa Group’s portfolio and are leaders in their respective worldwide markets. This includes the business segments Logistics, MRO (Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul), Catering and Aviation Training as well as other companies and Group functions. Lufthansa Cargo AG, with headquarters in Frankfurt, is the Lufthansa Technik AG, with headquarters in Hamburg, is Lufthansa Group’s specialist for logistics and Europe’s leading the world’s leading manufacturer-independent provider of cargo airline. The company serves a worldwide network and maintenance, repair and overhaul services for civil commercial is known for short transport times and the highest quality aircraft operated by more than 850 customers. standards. In addition to its own and chartered freight capaci↗ www.lufthansa-technik.com ties, Lufthansa Cargo also markets those in the freight compartments of the passenger aircraft operated by Lufthansa, Austrian Airlines, Brussels Airlines, SunExpress and Eurowings on long-haul routes. ↗ www.lufthansa-cargo.com The LSG Group is the industry leader for high-quality in-flight Lufthansa Aviation Training, with headquarters in Hallbergmoos catering. With its established LSG Sky Chefs brand, it offers a near Munich, is the result of the merger between Lufthansa comprehensive portfolio of products and services in all areas of Flight Training and Swiss Aviation Training. Under the brand of in-flight service. The group’s parent company, LSG Lufthansa European Flight Academy, the full-service provider supports Service Holding AG, is headquartered in Neu-Isenburg. airlines, pilots and cabin personnel with tailor-made training ↗ www.lsgskychefs.com programs in 12 training centers in Europe and North America. ↗ www.lufthansa-aviation-training.com LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 5 page 6 / Cover story: Maintaining balance. Out of responsibility. Cover story MAINTAINING BALANCE. OUT OF RESPONSIBILITY. Air transport connects people, countries and cultures around the world. Its economic importance is enormous, it drives employment and it ensures the fast and reliable flow of goods. At the same time, it has undesirable effects on climate and the environ­ ment, similar to other modes of transport. Therefore, sustainable and environmentally compatible forms of mobility are among the key challenges of the 21st century. The Lufthansa Group is aware of its responsibility to protect and maintain the basis of life. For 25 years the Group has published key data of its environmental performance in its sustainability report Balance, which covers progress as well as challenges in all dimensions of the company’s corporate respon­ sibility. What are the Group’s achievements in the area of corporate responsibility over the past quarter of a century? What are the success stories and milestones, and where are the opportunities for the Lufthansa Group to improve even further in order to maintain a balance in the future as well? The follow­ing pages provide insights into this story. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 7 FOCUS ON CLIMATE AND THE ENVIRONMENT FROM EARLY ON The Lufthansa Group has declared its support for sustainable and responsible corporate policies for decades. Already, the introduction of the Environmental Report’s first issue, Balance 1994, stated: “At Lufthansa, we see making a contribution to the preservation of ecological balance as one of our most important tasks. Therefore, we strive to keep the environmental burdens caused by air transport as limited as possible and to handle reserves of raw materials with great care.” Even at that time, the Group identified continuous ﬂeet modernization as the central switch lever: “We will continue to demand that manufacturers of aircraft and engines pursue improvements through which our aircraft – and ultimately all aircraft – can achieve lower emissions of pollutants.” A successful approach: thanks to ever­more efficient aircraft and numerous efficiency programs, the Lufthansa Group has been able to significantly reduce the specific consumption of its Group ﬂeet since 1994 from 5.2 liters to today’s value of 3.65 liters per passenger and 100 kilometers, a reduction of 30 percent. Sustainability in the Publication of the first Environmental Adoption of Guidelines of Lufthansa Group – Report Environmental Protection Milestones from 25 years 1 1994 1995 1996 1998 Participation in the climate Lufthansa Technik is Launch of the Lufthansa research project MOZAIC; validated in accordance School of Business, two Lufthansa A340-300s are with EMAS, the EU’s Germany’s first corporate equipped with measuring probes eco-audit regulations university 1 selection page 8 / Cover story: Maintaining balance. Out of responsibility. DEVELOPMENT OF SPECIFIC FUEL CONSUMPTION Pioneer work for alternative fuels IN LITERS PER PASSENGER AND 100 KILOMETERS (L/100 PKM) Over the past years, the Lufthansa Group has been intensively involved in researching, testing and using sustainable alternative 5.2 liters 3.65 liters fuels. It has thus done important pioneer work: • 2011 Lufthansa became the first airline worldwide to test the use of biosynthetic fuel for about six months under regular operating conditions. Under scientific oversight the airline completed 1,187 flights between Hamburg and Frankfurt using a biokerosene mixture. With this test run Lufthansa demonstrated that alternative fuel can be used in everyday operations without problems, lowering CO2 emissions at the same time. • 2013 The Lufthansa Group and the German Armed Forces Research Institute for Materials, Fuels and Lubricants started the EU research project “Blending Study”. In this project, 1994 2018 important insights were gained concerning the blending properties of conventional fossil fuels and different new biokerosenes. REDUCTION SINCE 1994: • 2016 The Lufthansa Group refueled its aircraft at Oslo Airport 30 % with a fuel mix containing 5 percent alternative fuel. A total of about 5,000 flights were operated with this blend. • 2019 Lufthansa and the Refinery Heide signed a joint declaration of intent concerning the future production and acceptance of synthetic kerosene that is to be produced with electricity generated by wind power. Participation in the Lufthansa CityLine becomes Launch of “AIRail”, interdisciplinary the first airline worldwide to be a cooperation between Participation in the UN Global research project validated in accordance with Lufthansa and Compact, the largest initiative for “Quiet Traffic” the strict EMAS standards Deutsche Bahn sustainable corporate governance worldwide 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Lufthansa Technik inaugurates Lufthansa Technik Foundation of the the world’s largest and most becomes founding employees’ aid initiative Participation as a founding modern noise-protection hangar member of Environmental help alliance e.V. member in the initiative in Hamburg Partnership Hamburg “Pro Recycling Paper” LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 9 20 YEARS OF ACTIVE Dr. Gerd Saueressig NOISE ABATEMENT Manager Group Environmental Issues, Lufthansa Group Making commercial aviation HOW AND WITH HOW MUCH SUCCESS IS THE continuously quieter is a complex LUFTHANSA GROUP COMMITTED TO ACTIVE NOISE PROTECTION? task that requires the cooperation The most important point is to make continuous investments in ever quieter aircraft. Additionally, we retrofit aircraft in of different players. The the existing fleet to reduce noise emissions, optimize approach Lufthansa Group has therefore and departure procedures and actively participate in noise research. We also place great emphasis on actively taking part worked closely over the past 20 in dialogue forums. Research and development create the years with partners in the aviation foundations for successful measures in active noise protection. They lead to quieter aircraft and engine generations as well industry, public administration and as optimizations within the existing fleet. It is essential science, including the Joint for the Lufthansa Group to contribute to shaping this approach, which consists of intensive research as well as Research Project Quiet Traffic. new technologies and products in order to achieve further efficiency increases. 99.6 % ↓ fact check In this spirit, Lufthansa and the German Aerospace Center (DLR) demonstrated already in 2001 that a so-called chevron nozzle reduces the exhaust jet noise of an Airbus A319 engine by about 1 dB(A). At the beginning of 2014, Lufthansa became the first airline worldwide to put an Airbus A320 equipped with noise-reducing vortex generators into service. These OF THE AIRCRAFT IN THE OPERATIVE GROUP devices are also based on research results produced by the FLEET MEET THE STRICT MINUS-10-DB Lufthansa Group and DLR. They make our aircraft up to CRITERIUM OF THE ICAO CHAPTER 4 STANDARD 4 decibels quieter during the approach phase. Participation in the Lufthansa and SWISS offer climate research passengers the option of Miles & More project CARIBIC compensating CO2 emissions Pioneer in the switch to launches the on a voluntary basis by the “paperless cockpit” “Miles to Help” cooperating with the climate program protection foundation 2004 2005 2006 2007 myclimate First participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Introduction of the Foundation of Cargo Human Care compliance program by Lufthansa Cargo employees and German physicians page 10 / Cover story: Maintaining balance. Out of responsibility. 25 YEARS OF CLIMATE RESEARCH ON SCHEDULED FLIGHTS 500 ABOUT 500 SCIENTISTS AROUND THE WORLD USE THE IAGOS DATABASE Since 1994, the Lufthansa Group has been a reliable partner for climate research and has continuously expanded this commitment. What the Currently, three Lufthansa aircraft are equipped with special measuring Lufthansa Group instruments in the context of the projects CARIBIC and IAGOS (see page 51, contributes to climate Balance 2017), tasked with measuring atmospheric trace substances and cloud particles. Data collected at cruising altitude is of particular importance research: for the understanding of the earth’s climate. Scientists use data generated by research projects supported by Lufthansa to make existing climate • modifications of aircraft, which models more accurate and improve weather forecasting models. Starting simultaneously operate scheduled with the project MOZAIC, the predecessor of IAGOS, all projects taken flights and serve the goals of together have been successful in creating a unique database on the highly climate research. important greenhouse gases, water vapor and ozone. • measurements of climate-relevant trace gases – daily and on a global scale. • aircraft are ideal platforms for carrying out measurements in the upper troposphere and lower stratosphere. • the Group’s worldwide route network offers extensive coverage of the earth’s most important regions. 01 MOZAIC FROM 1994 TO 2014 02 IAGOS SINCE 2011 Lufthansa Technik Green Building Certificate introduces the highly Introduction of paperless for the Lufthansa Aviation Center efficient Cyclean Engine boarding passes at Lufthansa Wash for aircraft engines 2008 2009 2010 Adoption of the Strategic Environmental Program First Package of Measures for The Lufthansa Group sets Lufthansa Cargo’s environ“Active Noise Abatement” up its Compliance Office mental management system implemented by Forum Airport and is certified in accordance with Region, with Lufthansa’s participation ISO 14001 for the first time LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 11 PIONEER FOR ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY AIRCRAFT The Lufthansa Group invests continuously in a modern and CONTINUOUS INVESTMENTS IN efficient fleet, and for decades has made significant contribuFUEL-EFFICIENT AIRCRAFT 1 tions to developing new types of aircraft. Sustainability considerations play an important role in this context. The Group has been the launch customer for the introduction of new, fuel efficient Airbus A340-300 and quieter aircraft multiple times. In 2016, it was the C Series at SWISS and the Airbus A320neo at Lufthansa. In the long-haul 5 segment as well, the Lufthansa Group has set the trend with regard to climate and environmental responsibility for Airbus A350-900 many years by putting especially economic aircraft in service. New entries to the fleet were the A380 in 2010, the 4 Boeing 777-9 Boeing 747-8 in 2012, the Boeing 777F in 2013 and the Airbus A350-900 at the end of 2016. In summer 2020 Lufthansa L/100PKM expects its first state-of-the-art Boeing 777-9 long-haul aircraft. 3 From the end of 2022, the Boeing 787-9 will become part of the Lufthansa Group’s fleet. By replacing four-engined aircraft with new twin-engined models, the Group creates a basis for the future over the long term: fuel consumption and noise 2 emissions decline, operating costs fall and customer comfort increases. 1 Currently, the Lufthansa Group has 210 new aircraft with delivery dates up to 2027 on order.2 0 1994 2017 2020 COMMISSIONING Three special CARIBIC Project management for MODAL flights to measure the in the framework of the aviation Lufthansa refits the engines of concentration of airborne research program of Germany’s Start of the first long-term the Frankfurt-based B737 fleet ashes after a volcano Federal Ministry for Economic trial worldwide of with acoustic panels eruption in Iceland Affairs and Energy biokerosene in regular flight operations 2011 2012 Participation in the climate research project Start of replacing about Start of trials with electricIAGOS for long-term 30,000 standard trolleys with powered taxiing for aircraft on investigation of the lightweight models the ground (eTaxi) earth’s atmosphere 1 Values based on a standardized mission (manufacturers’ data) and generic, comparable layouts, in each case with full payload (including cargo). 2 as of May 7, 2019 page 12 / Cover story: Maintaining balance. Out of responsibility. FLYING RESPONSIBLY Helping with miles Since 2006, the participants of Europe’s leading frequent flyer and awards program, Miles & More, have been able to donate award miles to charitable causes through the initiative “Miles to Help”. The help alliance, the Lufthansa Group’s charitable aid organization, uses donated miles to support disadvantaged children in Africa, Asia and South America with food, health care and education. For example, 5,000 miles ensure the salary for an additional teacher in Africa for one month. And 10,000 miles make sure that ten children in Asia get meals for one month. Miles & More participants decide themselves which specific project is to benefit from the value of their award miles or if they want to support the help alliance with an unassigned donation. Compensating CO2 emissions on a voluntary basis The Lufthansa Group offers its customers the option to compensate on a voluntary basis a large part of the CO2 emissions that are unavoidably caused by their flights and thus to make a personal contribution to climate protection. Since 2007, Lufthansa and SWISS have cooperated with the climate protection foundation myclimate for this purpose. An emissions calculator on dedicated Internet pages indicates an appropriate amount for the customer’s climate donation. In the end, passengers decide themselves how much they wish to give. Donations are channeled to certified projects that support climate-friendly energy sources. This offer is to be integrated into the booking masks. Latest measure: Since January 1, 2019 all official air travel for Lufthansa Group staff is now CO2-neutral. The Group compensates these CO2 emissions through myclimate as well. Furthermore, the Lufthansa Group is developing similar offers for its distribution customers and has already launched a successful test run. Implementation of project First A320 with flow“2nd Life” for recycling optimized wing tips decommissioned aircraft LZ-Catering introduces (sharklets) in service at climate-friendly main courses Lufthansa for employees in company restaurants 2013 The Lufthansa Group sets up a Identification of savings Cabin Air Quality Review Board potentials by weighing all loose items on board a Start of the initiative “Flygreener” for improved Cabin Air Lufthansa A340-300 waste avoidance and recycling on board Quality LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 13 GROWING RESPONSIBLY The Lufthansa Group is growing – and has done so for many years. Today, the Group airlines transport almost four times more passengers than 25 years ago. Even though the number of aircraft and ﬂights per year have more than doubled since 1994, the Company’s determination to meet its responsibility and to put this principle into practice every day has remained unchanged. COMPARISON 1994 AND 2018 PASSENGERS DESTINATIONS 1994 37.7 million 1994 200 destinations in 93 countries 2018 142.3 million 2018 343 destinations in 103 countries EMPLOYEES FLIGHTS 1994 57,798 1994 536,687 2018 135,534 2018 1,228,920 NUMBER OF AIRCRAFT IN THE GROUP’S FLEET REVENUES 1994 317 1994 9,6301 million 2018 763 2018 35,844 million Beginning of the partnership Inauguration of the Introduction of “Luftikusse”, between Lufthansa Cargo Lufthansa Cargo successfully Lufthansa Innovation a day-care program for children and the emergency-aid alliance implements replacement of about Hub in Berlin of employees during the “Aktion Deutschland hilft” 5,500 freight containers with summer holidays more lightweight models 2014 Start of the electromobility initiative Operation of the world's Scientifically guided E-PORT AN at Frankfurt Airport Introduction of the “New first A320 equipped with study on the analysis Work Space” concept with noise-reducing vortex of cabin air open office landscapes generators 1 Deutsche Mark (DM) converted at a rate of 1.95583 page 14 / Cover story: Maintaining balance. Out of responsibility. DIVERSITY AS A BASIC PRINCIPLE Juliane Grauer Equal opportunity officer, Lufthansa Group The Lufthansa Group underscored the importance of diversity and equal WHAT IMPORTANCE DOES THE TOPIC OF DIVERSITY HAVE FOR THE LUFTHANSA GROUP? opportunities over 20 years ago by creat­ For a cosmopolitan company like the ing the management function “Change Lufthansa Group, diversity is important and Management and Diversity”. Further natural – both as an employer and as a service provider. Our employees quite literally come evidence is the responsibility for from all over the world; currently, people from promoting equal career opportunities for 176 nations work in our Group. We are proud of this diversity within the workforce. It is our men and women, already defined in the lever for creativity, innovation and agility. Esteem 1990s. In 1997, for example, Lufthansa for people – independent of their gender, age, origin, religion, sexual identity and orientation – was honored by the association “Total shapes our conduct, be it vis-a-vis employees, E­Quality”. Today, the Lufthansa Group customers or suppliers. is more diverse than ever. Expanded ↓ fact check continuously over the past years, 91 the Group’s commitment to numerous initiatives related to the topic of diversity 1994 is an established element in the orientation of its corporate culture. 176 NATIONALITIES REPRESENTED IN THE LUFTHANSA GROUP 2018 All Lufthansa Group First parent-and-child aircraft fly for one Lufthansa Cargo signs office for employees year from Oslo with cooperation contract with with childcare a five-percent share German Red Cross bottlenecks of biokerosene 2015 2016 Flyover measurements on World premieres: Lufthansa puts Lufthansa Cargo MD-11 freight the first A320neo aircraft into Signing of the aircraft to test noise-reducing service; SWISS the first CS100 Charter of Diversity modifications on engines and Introduction of landing gear eJournals LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 15 20 YEARS OF HELP ALLIANCE Two Lufthansa employees had the idea of founding PROJECTS the charitable employees’ organization help alliance; 1999 9 13 colleagues eventually made it a reality in September 1999. For 20 years, the help alliance – active under the 2018 41 roof of the Lufthansa Group as a charitable limited liability company since 2017 – has given disadvantaged 17 million € invested in aid projects since 1999 people around the world access to education. 150 projects since 1999, of which: 55 in Asia 50 in Africa 25 in South America 20 in Europe 1,500 continuous donors worldwide 80 employees became involved over the past 20 years as voluntary project managers Countries in which the help alliance is active. Start of the program Health Lufthansa receives the first First fully-electrified catering Management@Lufthansa Group Beginning of a two-year test run Airbus A350-900, one of the lift truck (“eLift”) of LSG Group to check the durability of riblet most environmentally-friendly put into service structures in flight operations aircraft worldwide Health Management 2017 Participation in “Initiative Transformation of employee Adoption of the Chefsache” (“A Matter for the organization help alliance Lufthansa Group Boss”) to promote equal First aircraft tow-truck with dieselinto a charitable limited Code of Conduct opportunities electric hybrid propulsion system liability corporation (“eTug”) worldwide put into service page 16 / Cover story: Maintaining balance. Out of responsibility. ↑ fact check BALANCE OVER TIME Andreas Bartels Senior Vice President & Head of Corporate Communications, Lufthansa Group HOW MUCH EMPHASIS IS PLACED ON THE TOPIC OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY IN COMMUNICATIONS? Sustainability topics are on an equal footing with financial, corporate and product topics in our communications Lufthansa selected the title “Balance” for its reporting on the topic of the work. Our approach is and remains to environment and later on sustainability. It signifies responsibility for a world inform comprehensively, openly and of reconciliation between the Group’s interests and those of its stakeholder transparently about our activities – groups. Shortly after the publication of the first environmental report, the including challenges. Because of its “Initiative Balance” was launched too, which Lufthansa used to explain its regular publication rhythm, our sustainposition on socio-political topics, both within the Company and in public. ability report has allowed us to The guiding motto “maintaining balance” remains valid today. accompany longer-term processes, document progress and cast a light on Starting with the 1998 / 99 edition, the report was presented in a new format: significant topics. Simultaneously, the in addition to the facts-and-figures part containing all the important data on report also reflects the changes in the environmental protection, for the first time there was also a magazine part requirements of our internal and with articles and features focusing on the topic of aviation and the environexternal stakeholders. And incidentally, ment. From 2006, Balance was again published as a one-part report and has with this edition it is published for the since evolved into a comprehensive Group sustainability report. Coverage at first time only as a digital version on first followed the internationally acknowledged guidelines of the Global our website. Reporting Initiative (GRI) and has been in accordance with the GRI Standards since the reporting year 2017. Declaration of intent by Lufthansa Group Launch of the LGBTI Raffinerie Heide and Lufthansa employees fly CO2 neutral Lufthansa Technik launches network “Diversifly” concerning production and when traveling on efficient method of cleaning at the Lufthansa Group delivery of environmentally-friendly business engines with CO2 dry ice synthetic kerosene 2018 2019 Lufthansa's Munich hub Test run of CO2 compensation for validated for the first time corporate customers in Germany, according to EMAS and certified Implementation of the Austria and Switzerland according to ISO 14001 central eHealth platform for health-care provision LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 17 RESPONSIBILITY IS OUR LEITMOTIF Interview with Carsten Spohr, Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO, Deutsche Lufthansa AG CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY IS AMONG THE WHAT DO YOU EXPECT FROM THE GROUP’S EMPLOYEES LUFTHANSA GROUP’S TOP FOCUS TOPICS IN 2019. AND MANAGERS IN THIS RESPECT? IS THE GROUP FOLLOWING A TREND IN DOING SO? Responsibility is a guiding principle for all employees and Responsibility for the environment and society has been a executives at the Lufthansa Group. From our employees central strategic topic for us for some time, so this is certainly I expect that they internalize the aspect of sustainability not new. Just think of our long-term fleet modernization and in everyday working life and act responsibly as a result. efficiency programs. When it comes to introducing new Our managers must be models for their staff in this respect technologies we have always had a leading role. And we have and always include all dimensions of entrepreneurial been committed to social concerns for quite some time now. respon­sibility in their decisions. The help alliance, our aid organization, celebrates its 20th anniversary this year and has supported thousands of disadvantaged young people around the world since 1999. WHAT ARE THE LUFTHANSA GROUP’S PLANS IN THE Even if we are already doing a lot of “good”, we want to AREA OF SUSTAINABILITY? consider corporate responsibility much more strongly in our future decisions. It is my goal to strengthen our leading role The Executive Board has approved a large package of in the airline industry in this area as well. mea­sures. Retroactively from January 1, 2019, all flights our employees take for business purposes are made CO2-neutral. On the ground, we will switch our mobility in Germany, WHY IS THIS TOPIC SO IMPORTANT FOR THE LUFTHANSA GROUP? Austria and Switzerland to CO2-neutral mode by 2030 and will use eco-electricity in these countries whenever possible. Over the long term, we can only be successful if the interests As the third important measure, we have increased annual of our customers, employees and shareholders are in balance. donations to our help alliance because we want to get much At the same time, we also must and want to assume our more in­volved at our large locations, to begin with in Germany. responsibility for social issues as well as that for the environIn the future, our employees at these locations are to have ment. Without this balance, success is not sustainable. an option for voluntary duties during working hours. Our customers as well as our investors increasingly consider criteria of sustainability and climate protection, and young Our goal is to meet increasing demand for mobility as talents now also prefer companies that act sustainably. environmentally compatible as possible and fulfill our social Corporate responsibility thus makes a decisive contribution responsibility even better while doing so. to securing the Lufthansa Group’s future potential in a comprehensive way. page 18 / Cover story: Maintaining balance. Out of responsibility. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 19 FUTURE-ORIENTED SOLUTIONS All entrepreneurial activities at the Lufthansa Group are guided by responsible thinking. The following statements illustrate how this mindset guides the individual Members of the Executive Board of Deutsche Lufthansa AG. In this context, responsibility also implies meeting complex challenges resolutely and with farsightedness, and creating future­oriented solutions that work well for the Company, stakeholders and society in equal parts. page 20 / Cover story: Maintaining balance. Out of responsibility. Thorsten Dirks Member of the Executive Board, Eurowings „ Eurowings is Europe’s fastest-growing airline. In 2018, following the insolvency of Air Berlin, we hired more than 3,000 employees in record time and integrated 77 aircraft into our fleet. Together we have thus achieved an extraordinary result and made an investment in a future that will be successful for many stakeholder groups over the long term. Now we want to intensify our commitment to society, climate and the environment. Airlines that are active in the price-sensitive market segment also have an obligation to make their flight operations as sustainable and environmentally efficient as possible. This is the kind of responsibility that is applied to assess us and our competitors. The essential prerequisite for greater sustainability is a strong economic foundation. Therefore, it is our goal to build up and expand the Eurowings Group into an innovative travel platform and a leading Europe-wide provider of direct flights. Our particular focus will remain on operational stability, as our customers rightly expect flights that are safe and comfortable as well as punctual and reliable. Harry Hohmeister Member of the Executive Board, Chief Commercial Officer Network Airlines „ Lufthansa is the first and only airline in Europe with a five-star rating and ranks among the ten best premium airlines worldwide. This award underscores the Lufthansa Group’s commitment to offer its customers an excellent product. Today our three Network Airlines Lufthansa, SWISS and Austrian Airlines are already at the top of European hub traffic. To ensure that this position can be maintained we continuously invest, particularly in efficient and quiet aircraft, product innovations and service optimizations. It is also part of our quality standard to strengthen our position as the leading airline group in the area of sustainability. Our aim is not to have as many aircraft as possible taking off at all costs; this does not correspond to our understanding of sustainable and responsible mobility. We will resolutely continue our numerous fuel-efficiency programs and assess very meticulously how we can further improve our on-board product in the light of sustainability considerations. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 21 Dr. Detlef Kayser Member of the Executive Board, Airline Resources & Operations Standards „ Following the operational challenges of the preceding year, it is our first priority to make the flight operations of our Group airlines more punctual and reliable. We owe this to our customers who were not satisfied with our performance in 2018 in particular. We are therefore working with great intensity on increasing our operational stability by means of focused qualitative growth over the long term. To this end we have not only launched numerous programs, but also consistently seek our system partners’ cooperation. As delays and flight cancellations are usually caused by many factors, it will take coordinated solutions to improve the situation in the future. The same applies to the reduction of fuel consumption and thus CO2 emissions. The most effective environmental levers by far are and remain the avoidance of unnecessary holding patterns in the air – and by making more direct routes over Europe available. It is the politicians’ task to accelerate the implementation of the Single European Sky. page 22 / Cover story: Maintaining balance. Out of responsibility. Ulrik Svensson Member of the Executive Board, Chief Financial Officer „ In its entrepreneurial activities the Lufthansa Group places great emphasis on applying responsible and sustainable principles. Therefore, our financial strategy is based on the clear concept of value-based management: by investing our capital specifically in areas with the highest expected yield, we are able to actively shape our industry and remain competitive, so that the Group remains in a favorable position in the future as well. In doing so we want to increase our profitability, secure the Group’s financial stability and as a rule have our shareholders participate in the Company’s success on a continuous basis. At the same time, we constantly invest in our Company, our products and the quality of our offer. It is in particular the modernization of the fleet that allows us to increase efficiency levels, reduce our CO2 emissions and use scarce resources in more responsible ways. Our overriding goal is to be number one for customers, employees, shareholders and the environment. Dr. Bettina Volkens Member of the Executive Board, Corporate Human Resources and Legal Affairs „ We are proud that the Lufthansa Group has been one of Germany’s most popular employers for many years. It is of great importance to me that this will remain so. We want to continue to find the right talented people who will successfully steer our fascinating company into the future. This also implies that we will have to become even more international with regard to our employees. We are working on this task as resolutely as we are developing leaner and more flexible structures, which give the necessary dynamism and speed to the Lufthansa Group’s transformation process. The ongoing evolution of market conditions also demands that our employees have to further develop their know-how and abilities on a continuous basis. We support this need with diverse digital and non-digital training options. At the same time, managers are expected to act responsibly. Serving as examples and compasses for their teams, they are indispensable for the success of our cultural development process. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 23 01 Key points on COMPANY & RESPONSIBILITY page 24 Developments in society have a profound inﬂuence on the business activities and sustainability agenda of the Lufthansa Group. Among the worldwide megatrends and challenges are population growth, increasing mobility, technological progress and the advancing digitalization of numerous processes. Concurrently, climate and environmental protection are becoming increasingly important. For the Lufthansa Group, facing up to these developments means acting sustainably and responsibly. In this context, the Group places the focus on those aspects that allow it to achieve signiﬁcant effects. In particular, this includes limiting environmentally relevant effects from ﬂight operations by making comprehensive investments in new aircraft, technologies and products. The Lufthansa Group is a service company whose economic success depends to a signiﬁcant extent on the commitment and motivation of its employees. Applying a responsible and sustainable approach to dealing with resources, the environment and employees secures not only long-term ﬁnancial stability, but also acceptance for its business model inside and outside of the Company as well as attractiveness for customers, employees, shareholders and partners. This also includes the attentive management of opportunities and risks, consistent supply chain management and a constructive dialogue with diverse stakeholder groups. In this way, the Group underscores the goal of further strengthening its role as a leader in the aviation industry with regard to its corporate responsibility. (→ PAGE 26 FF.) LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 25 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT The Lufthansa Group pursues an extensive sustainability Sustainable management allows the Lufthansa Group to seize agenda, which comprises different dimensions and ensures opportunities that present themselves, and also to minimize responsible corporate governance in all business segments or entirely avoid risks, including those that might result from (see illustration below). Value-based management is an integral more rigorous regulatory requirements. Managing opportunities component of sustainable governance for the Group. The and risks is integrated into all business processes. The Company’s financial strategy aims at increasing its value Lufthansa Group risk management system has included the sustainably. At the center of attention are the three dimensions dimension “effects from business activities on non-financial of increasing profitability, focused use of capital and safe­ aspects” since the reporting year 2017. An update was carried guarding financial stability. The concept and related ratios out in 2018 (see page 63, Annual Report 2018). are described in detail in the chapter Financial strategy and value-based management in the Annual Report 2018 (see page 16 ff.). The key ratios are also shown in this report New package of corporate (see page 2, At a glance). responsibility measures In March 2019, the Lufthansa Group’s Executive Board defined new areas of emphasis for society and the environment: • All business-related air travel by Lufthansa Group em­ The Corporate Responsibility ployees has been made CO2-neutral since January 1, 2019. • Switch to CO2-neutral ground operations in its home dimensions of the Lufthansa Group markets (Germany, Austria and Switzerland) by 2030. • Expansion of social commitment in Germany and opportunities for corporate volunteering. Economic sustainability Management structure and organization Corporate Product citizenship responsibility The highest monitoring body in the area of sustainable man­ agement is the Supervisory Board. The coordination and Corporate further development of activities and initiatives relevant for Responsibility sustainability within the Lufthansa Group is the task of the Corporate Responsibility Council (CRC), which is chaired by the Head of Group Strategy and reports to the Chairman Climate and Social of the Executive Board. This interdisciplinary and Group-wide environmental responsibility body was established at the senior management level. responsibility The CRC consists of the heads of Group Strategy, Policy, Environmental Issues, Investor Relations, Controlling, Legal, Corporate governance and Human Resources, Communications and Corporate Sourcing. compliance Individual managers are responsible for implementing concrete activities and projects. They bundle and organize the topics within their respective areas of responsibility. page 26 / Company & responsibility Since the reporting year 2017, sustainability aspects have neighbors, NGOs and scientists, among others. The Group been even more strongly interlinked with Group strategy by places great emphasis on an open, continuous and trusting prioritiz­ing strategically relevant topics, which are then dialogue with its internal and external interest groups, and concretized and implemented by a working group managed actively seeks exchanges with them by using diverse formats by the department. The latter’s members are experts from the (see page 28, Stakeholder dialogue: The most important same departments and staff units that form the CRC. The activities in 2018 at a glance). team meets twice a month and discusses current issues and challenges in the context of entrepreneurial responsibility. This dialogue allows the Group to gain a better understanding During the reporting year, one area of emphasis for the working of needs, expectations and wishes held by different interest group was again reporting in accordance with the CSR guide­ groups and enables it to incorporate these in its entrepreneurial line relating to environmental topics, considering the topic of activities. The Lufthansa Group also receives important input supply chains and the significance of human rights in an on key issues from stakeholder surveys on significant nonentrepreneurial context. The separately set up human rights financial topics (see page 29 ff.) and from the Group-wide project group was maintained in the reporting year 2018 em­ployee survey “involve me!” (see page 83). The Group (see page 38, Respect for human rights). develops action areas and measures from the results and open-ended commentaries. Stakeholder dialogue The short version of the employee survey, conducted during ↗ GRI 102-40, GRI 102-42, GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44 the reporting year 2018, yielded more than 25,000 open-ended commentaries for the Group, including on the topic areas The continuous exchange with stakeholders makes an working conditions, employee motivation, health, information important contribution to the further development of the technology and digitalization. One of the goals of this “quick Lufthansa Group, its sustainability strategy and the annual check” is to evaluate if the action areas and measures derived reporting on significant topics related to corporate responsibil­ from the comprehensive biannual employee survey – last ity. The spectrum of stakeholders ranges from customers and conducted in 2017 – have had an effect. Key topics of that employees, investors and suppliers to politicians, municipalities, survey included the expansion of dialogue formats, staff The stakeholders of the Lufthansa Group Customers Investors Governments Neighbors Consumers Shareholders Legislators Publicity Analysts Politicians Social networks Rating agencies Authorities Nongovernmental organizations Science Employees Suppliers (NGOs) Research & Education Employee representatives Contractual partners Organizations Consortia LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 27 Stakeholder dialogue: The most important activities in 2018 at a glance ↗ GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44 CUSTOMERS SHAREHOLDERS, INVESTORS AND ANALYSTS • Continuous, worldwide passenger surveys. • Beyond the quarterly conferences, Executive Board and Investor • Customer events, customer forums and participation in discussion forums. Relations presented the Group’s latest developments in 2018 to institu­ • Monthly inflight magazine and regular newsletter. tional investors through 30 roadshows and 19 investors’ conferences. • Lufthansa InTouch Service Centers ensure 24-hour reachability for all • Four forums specifically aimed at private investors. questions concerning flight reservations. • “Shareholder information” for private shareholders. • Format “Lufthansa Flying Lab”: on selected flights passengers can • In addition to annual and interim reports, the capital markets are experience innovative products and services live onboard, test them informed monthly about the latest traffic developments at the airlines and provide feedback. of the Lufthansa Group. • Visitor service “Discover Lufthansa” assumes important function of • Participation in sustainability ratings, such as CDP. customer care at largest location, Frankfurt. Tailor-made programs for • All publications, financial reports, presentations, background information national and international top customers, people living near the airport, and speeches, current news and relevant dates can be consulted at: associations, research institutions and partner universities. During the ↗ www.lufthansagroup.com/investor-relations reporting year preparations were begun to extend “Discover Lufthansa” to the Munich location. LAW MAKERS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS • Exhibition “Green Gate” by Lufthansa and Munich Airport in the satellite • Continuous and intensive exchanges with representatives from building that is part of Terminal 2. The experience area provides politics and administrations as well as participation in numerous events information about the two companies’ range of programs and initiatives and panel discussions. to support sustainable mobility. • Participation in numerous events and panel discussions. • “Policy Brief” and “Aeropolitics” are published by the Lufthansa Group EMPLOYEES and SWISS respectively to inform decision-makers in politics, media • Group-wide employee survey “involve me!”. and business about developments in the aviation industry and topics • “Pilots’ Convention” – pilots in a dialogue with representatives related to aviation policy. of management. • Participation in the First Aviation Summit in Hamburg on October 5, 2018. • Continuous communication via the formats pooled in the product group “One”: regularly published employee magazine “One”, news app SCIENCE AND RESEARCH “One”, “eBase One” (intranet news), “Connection One” (community • Numerous cooperations with scientific research institutions. on the social intranet) and the newly introduced large screens at central • Participation in panel discussions and conferences. locations, “Screens One”. • Continuation of dialogue forums for cabin and cockpit employees. NEIGHBORS AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES • Continuation of CabCons: dialogue events for flight attendants • Regular information events and discussion round-tables with at Lufthansa. representatives of state and municipal governments in municipalities • Continuation of the dialogue series “Frankly speaking …” with the surrounding the Lufthansa Group’s hubs. Lufthansa Group’s CEO at different Company locations and live • Participation in the “Forum Airport and Region” in Frankfurt as well as transmission on the Intranet. in the “Vienna Airport Dialogue Forum”. • Live chats, web casts and other personal dialogue events for different • Participation in the German aircraft noise commissions. employee groups and managers. • Since May 2015, LSG Sky Chefs has been a member of “LEEN 100” • Continuation of the event format “Market conferences”: dialogue events (Learning Energy Efficiency Network) initiated by the city of Frankfurt with managers and the Lufthansa Group’s CEO in different business to help reduce CO2 values in the Rhein-Main area and increase the regions (2018 in Shanghai, New York and Cape Town). share of renewable energies. • Workshops and information stands on the topic of sustainability as part • Lufthansa CityLine has been a member of the fifth “Environmental of the group-wide initiative “Flygreener”. Pact Bavaria” since September 2015. Its goal is to give incentives to • First Lufthansa Sneaker Day on August 24, 2018. sustainable development and continuous improvement of corporate • #Danke-Tour by the Lufthansa Group’s Executive Board on December 13 environmental protection in Bavaria. and 14, 2018 at seven Group locations in Germany and Austria. At these • Participation of Lufthansa Technik and LZ-Catering in “Environmental dialogue events, the members of the Executive Board spoke with Partnership Hamburg” and of Lufthansa Technik in Frankfurt in employees, thanked them personally for their commitment and answered “Environmental Alliance Hesse”. questions from those attending and via webcast. page 28 / Company & responsibility leadership and employee appreciation, continuing education, defined in Section 289c Paragraph 3 HGB, i. e. to determine focus on agile and digital work formats, promotion of talents which aspects are material for understanding the course and improvement of the IT infrastructure. of business, the financial results and the position of the Lufthansa Group, as well as their effects on the aspects of sustainability. The materiality analysis was also conducted in Materiality analysis view of sustainability reporting in accordance with the ↗ GRI 102-42, GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44, GRI 102-46, GRI 102-49 GRI Standards, core option, in this report. Accordingly, significant topics are those that indicate important economic, In October 2018, the Lufthansa Group again conducted a ecological and social effects caused by the reporting company broad-based stakeholder survey that included customers, or those that significantly influence the stakeholders’ employees, neighbors, investors, business partners, politicians evaluations or decisions. and NGO representatives, among others. For this purpose, the Group contacted about 10,000 external addressees The Lufthansa Group’s Corporate Responsibility Council (CRC) in a personal format. The survey was also available to a broad evaluated the results of the stakeholder survey and, using public on the Company’s Internet page and social-media these as a basis, prioritized the most important action areas channels. Employees were able to participate in the survey on from the Group’s perspective. A materiality matrix visualizes the intranet. Separately from other stakeholders, all managers this prioritization of action areas from stakeholder and at the Lufthansa Group were contacted with an online survey. Company perspectives (see illustration, page 31). The result of Overall, the participants in the stakeholder survey 2018 fully this materiality analysis is the basis for the strategic further completed more than 2,500 questionnaires. development of corporate responsibility management and for the selection of topics to be covered in this sustainability report The findings of the stakeholder survey were analyzed by and in the non-financial report (see insert below). management particularly in terms of the materiality criteria COMBINED NON-FINANCIAL REPORT In accordance with the CSR Directive Implemen­ta­tion Act (CSR-Richtlinie-Umsetzungsgesetz – CSR-RUG) passed on April 19, 2017, Deutsche Lufthansa AG has again published a combined non-financial report for the financial year 2018 in accordance with Sections 315b and 315c German Commercial Code (HGB) in conjunction with Sections 289b to 289e HGB. Deutsche Lufthansa AG published a separate non-financial report at Company level and a separate non-financial Group report together as a combined non-financial report. It combines significant aspects and reporting on the following key issues: environmental concerns, customer concerns, employee concerns, anti-corruption and bribery, human rights, social concerns and sustainability in the supply chain as an inter­disciplinary topic. Measures and initiatives taken by the Lufthansa Group that demonstrate the Company’s wide-ranging commitment to corporate responsibility are described in the combined management report. References to these passages are made in this report in the appropriate passages. The combined non-financial report was the subject of a voluntary limited assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 (revised). It is based on the GRI Standards 2016. Additional, comprehensive reporting on non-financial topics is presented in this sustainability report. ↗ www.lufthansagroup.com/investor-relations LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 29 Environmental concerns, customer concerns and employee Data protection and data security: Protection and security of concerns are especially important for the Lufthansa Group’s personal data according to the highest standards as the basis business activities. Existing flight operations are not possible for a trusting business relationship and to prevent penalties, without kerosene – and thus CO₂ emissions – nor without noise. fines and reputational damage. Moreover, being a service company, the economic success of the Lufthansa Group depends significantly on the satisfaction Digitalization and innovation: Focus on digital innovations in of its customers and the commitment and motivation of its all business segments to improve product and service offers on employees. Additionally, fighting corruption and bribery, a continuous basis and to optimize processes. Strengthening of respect for human rights as well as a sustainable supply chain innovation culture, ability to innovate and research activities – have a high degree of relevance for the Lufthansa Group. also with regard to more sustainable products and services. Use of digital innovations and tools, such as augmented reality, to optimally support employees in their daily tasks. The 12 topics of the stakeholder Corporate citizenship: Implementation of corporate citizenship survey 2018 at a glance 1 initiatives worldwide and locally at large locations and hubs ↗ GRI 102-44, GRI 102-47 of the Lufthansa Group to strengthen the respective regions. Promoting the employees’ social commitment by means of Respect for human rights: Visible positioning as a company corporate volunteering options. that works around the world for respect of and adherence to human rights. Climate protection: Commitment to long-term improvement of fuel efficiency and reduction of specific CO₂ emissions as Active noise abatement: Participation of the Lufthansa Group an active contribution of the Lufthansa Group to climate in measures that advance active noise abatement and support protection. Increased use of alternative fuels in flight opera­ for related research projects. tions and of renewable energies on the ground. Attractiveness as an employer: Positioning of the Sustainability in supply chain: Securing of standards with Lufthansa Group as an attractive employer, acting responsibly regard to human rights, working conditions, environmental and with integrity. Comprehensive approach to promoting protection and compliance criteria in the supply chain, and diversity and equal opportunities, broad portfolio of training regular supplier screenings and audits; consideration of sustain­ and continuing education options as well as maintaining ability aspects in selecting suppliers. a well-balanced relationship between work and private life. Service and customer orientation: Oriented by the wishes Occupational safety and health protection: Setting up of and needs of the Lufthansa Group’s customers. This also health-promoting work environments, work processes and includes making products and services discrimination-free and collaboration. Supporting employees in treating their health environmentally compatible, and informing customers as a personal responsibility (empowerment). Implementation sufficiently about environmental and social effects of products of preventative measures to avoid accidents, health risks and services. and occupational illnesses. Responsible production: Responsible and efficient use of Compliance: Adherence to rules concerning fair competition. natural resources as well as continuous optimization of products Responsible conduct and working against all forms of bribery and processes on board to offer passengers the highest level and corruption. Active consideration of ethical aspects and of quality in combination with far-reaching consideration voluntary commitments. of sustainability aspects. 1 The topic of aviation safety was not a subject of the stakeholder survey as the Lufthansa Group considers it a self-evident basis for its business activities. page 30 / Company & responsibility 2018 materiality analysis conducted by the Lufthansa Group ↗ GRI 102-44, GRI 102-47 Climate protection Service and customer orientation Occupational safety and health protection Respect for human rights RELEVANCE FOR STAKEHOLDERS Responsible production Attractiveness as an employer Sustainability in supply chain Digitalization and innovation Data protection and data security Corporate Active noise citizenship abatement Compliance EFFECTS LEVEL OF RELEVANCE FOR BUSINESS LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 31 Values and standards of conduct With the aim of continuing the corporate culture based on THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE trust and integrity, and to secure the Company’s sustainable UN GLOBAL COMPACT success, in 2017 the Lufthansa Group introduced a binding Code of Conduct for all bodies, executives and employees Already since 2002, the Lufthansa Group has (see page 35 f.). The Group has supported the ten principles of participated in the UN Global Compact, the largest the UN Global Compact for sustainable and responsible initiative worldwide for responsible and sustainable corporate governance since 2002. Since 2018, the corporate governance. The participating companies Lufthansa Group has been committed to the “Participant” commit themselves to aligning their business tier in this alliance between United Nations and businesses, activities and strategies with ten principles from the the goal of which is to shape globalization in socially and areas human rights, labor standards, environmental environmentally compatible ways. The aviation group thus protection and anti-corruption measures. again confirms its voluntary commitment to align its business strategy with the ten globally recognized principles covering HUMAN RIGHTS the areas of human rights, labor standards, environmental 1. Businesses should support and respect protection and anti-corruption measures. The Lufthansa Group the protection of internationally proclaimed participated in the yearbook “Global Compact Deutschland human rights; and 2018” with a best-practice example in the subject area “Climate 2. make sure that they are not complicit in and environmental responsibility”, showing how sustainable human rights abuses. fleet management contributes significantly to making flight operations as environmentally compatible as possible. LABOR 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition Sustainable Development Goals of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced The central element of the Agenda 2030 is a set of 17 global and compulsory labor; sustainability goals, which were adopted in September 2015 by 5. the effective abolition of child labor; and the United Nations’ members (Sustainable Development Goals, 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect SDGs, see illustration on page 33). A large part of the global of employment and occupation. sustainability goals is relevant for the Group, even though intensity and shaping vary. ENVIRONMENT 7. Businesses should support a precautionary Of particular importance for the entrepreneurial activities of approach to environmental challenges; the Lufthansa Group are support for climate goals (SDG 13) and 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater responsible use of resources (SDG 12). These are the areas environmental responsibility; and where the Company sees the greatest opportunities for apply9. encourage the development and diffusion ing its influence in order to make a measurable contribution. of environmentally friendly technologies. The same is true for promoting female employees (SDG 5) and the continuous improvement of working conditions (SDG 3, 8). ANTI-CORRUPTION In the context of innovation and digitalization projects (SDG 9) 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all the Lufthansa Group also pays increased attention to social its forms, including extortion and bribery. and ecological compatibility. Among others, this applies to paperless aviation, the promotion of intermodal solutions, ↗ www.unglobalcompact.org electromobility at airports and active noise abatement. page 32 / Company & responsibility In addition to its entrepreneurial activities, the Lufthansa Group’s Communications and commitment includes its registered charity help alliance, which was given a new base effective January 1, 2017, whose emphasensibilizing employees sis is in education and enabling (SDG 4) as well as work and income (SDG 8). For a long time, high-quality training and In 2018, the Group again incorporated sustainability topics into continuing education programs have been of particularly high its communications to inform and sensibilize employees on importance across the entire Company. Beyond this, the Group a continuous basis. Additionally, employees are also made supports the SDGs through cooperation with science and aware of relevant topics related to sustainability by means of research as well as its active participation in numerous national voluntary – and sometimes obligatory – training opportunities; and international committees and workgroups (SDG 17). Some examples are compliance and data protection. examples are its participation in econsense, German industry’s forum for sustainable development, and its support for climate research (see page 11). An overview of the most important sustainability related memberships is available at: ↗ www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility Since 2015, the Lufthansa Group has supported the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which the member states of the United Nations adopted in the Agenda 2030. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 33 External evaluation that is based on exclusion criteria as well as positive criteria in the categories of environment, social issues and corporate Sustainability analysts and rating agencies regularly assess the governance. Only those companies are included in these activities of the Lufthansa Group according to criteria of indices that depict suitable, sustainable investment according responsible corporate governance. In 2018, the Lufthansa share to ECPI’s assessment. was again represented in the following sustainability indices: The Lufthansa Group received the following ratings in 2018: Sustainalytics / FTSE4Good Worldwide renowned rating agency Sustainalytics regularly CDP: scoring result “B” evaluates the Lufthansa Group’s sustainability activities in In the 2018 climate change reporting of CDP, the international accordance with the ESG criteria. The rating is included in the charitable rating organization, the Lufthansa Group reached the composition of the FTSE4Good, in which the Lufthansa Group Climate Scoring Result “B” (previous year: “A-”). share has been listed since 2001. The index includes only those companies that meet the internationally accepted standards The aviation group is thus among the top five airlines listed in of entrepreneurial responsibility. the CDP. CDP Climate Scores are awarded on a scale from “A” (best result) to “D-”. CDP is widely recognized among experts MSCI Rating / MSCI Sustainability Index Series and annually conducts the world’s most comprehensive climate The Lufthansa Group is regularly assessed by MSCI, a leading ranking, for which companies have to report wide-ranging rating agency for investors. In July 2018, the Group was again information and data concerning CO₂ emissions, strategies for con­firmed with a rating of BBB and thus ranked above average reducing these emissions as well as climate risks. The in comparison with its industry. In the areas of carbon emissions Lufthansa Group has participated in the annual CDP reporting and corporate governance, the Group even has a leading since 2006. A large part of the CDP data is also used for position. The Lufthansa Group is represented in several MSCI other ratings established by leading rating agencies. Sustainability Indices. The index family depicts companies with a particular commitment to environmental, social and goverISS oekom Corporate Rating: “Prime” status nance (ESG) issues. In the ISS oekom Corporate Rating of July 2018 the Lufthansa Group again received “Prime” status with a “C+” ECPI rating. It thus belongs to the group of “Industry Leaders” among The Lufthansa share is listed in the sustainability indices ECPI a total of 115 companies evaluated in the area of transport EMU Ethical Equity, ECPI Euro Ethical Equity, ECPI Euro ESG and logistics. In this rating process the social and governance Equity and ECPI World ESG Equity. ECPI has offered a selection rating has a weight of 30 percent and the environmental of ESG indices since 1997 and uses its own evaluation method rating 70 percent. page 34 / Company & responsibility COMPLIANCE AND HUMAN RIGHTS Compliance and respecting human rights are significant ele‑ The Lufthansa Group endeavors to manage the Company ments in the entrepreneurial activities of the Lufthansa Group. ef­fec­tively, as required by the principles of good corporate For the Company it is self-evident to comply with applicable gov­­er­nance. In particular, they imply integrity on the part of the law as well as voluntary self-commitments, and to actively employees as a prerequisite for the Company’s sustainable consider ethical principles, too. success. The Lufthansa Group Code of Conduct, which was adopted in The Lufthansa Group reflects these principles by applying 2017 and internally and externally communicated in 2018, corporate leadership and control focused on responsibility and contains the principles and guidelines that are binding for all sustainable value generation. This approach is in accordance bodies, executives and employees in daily business life. The with high international standards and is of vital importance in code also serves as an aid to orientation for business partners. maintaining transparency vis-a-vis the Company’s shareholders The Lufthansa Group expects that they will also adhere to and continuously increasing trust in the Company’s top the principles defined in it. The Code of Conduct has been management. published in nine languages and can be accessed on the Group’s intranet and Internet. An essential legal base for these principles are the German Stock Corporation Act and the German Corporate Governance Further self-commitments for the Lufthansa Group result from Code. The Declaration of Compliance with the German its participation in the UN Global Compact (see page 32), its Corporate Governance Code was updated in December 2018 membership in the anti-corruption organization Transparency and has been published on the Internet at: International, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights ↗ www.lufthansagroup.com/investor-relations and the four core work standards of the International Labor Organization (ILO). Code of Conduct The principles anchored in the Lufthansa Group’s Code of Conduct are the basis for fair competition and help to avoid legal risks and to identify and avoid reputational risks. In addition to the Code of Conduct, a number of Company-internal guidelines complement the Code’s binding principles and standards of conduct. In particular, this includes the Lufthansa Group Compliance Program, which consists of the following components: COMPETITION INTEGRITY CAPITAL MARKET EMBARGO To allow for confidential information concerning potential crimes or violations of laws or regulations, the Lufthansa Group set up an ombudsman system. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 35 In addition, the Lufthansa Group is listed in the joint transparenFighting corruption and bribery cy register of the European Commission and the European Parliament. The goal of this register with public access is to Corruption risks may occur in companies worldwide, including increase the transparency of decision-making processes on a within the Lufthansa Group or at its business partners. voluntary basis. Simultaneously, it aims at ensuring that interTherefore, the issue of anti-corruption is significant for the actions between EU institutions and organizations, associa­ Group as it makes an important contribution to strengthening tions and corporations are conducted in conformity with fair competition, integrity and responsible conduct. The current laws and carried out on the basis of ethical principles. Lufthansa Group’s goal is to further increase awareness of the issue of anti-corruption throughout the Company and to ensure conduct in conformity with applicable law and regulations. Its global operations mean that the Lufthansa Group is obliged to comply with national anti-corruption legislation around the world and in some cases with anti-corruption laws that have extraterritorial application. Infringements may not only result in criminal and civil penalties for the individuals and companies involved, but may also result in incalculable reputational damage. Combating and preventing corruption and bribery is also an integral part of the Lufthansa Code of Conduct and is essential for the business operations of the Lufthansa Group. Code To ensure this outcome, the Lufthansa Group’s Compliance of Conduct Management System aims at keeping employees and the Company from breaking the law and supporting employees in applying laws correctly. The Compliance Management System consists of the modules Competition, Capital Market, Integrity (anti-corruption) and Embargo Compliance (see page 35). Corporate Compliance Office The Group-wide implementation, development and communication of the Lufthansa Group Compliance System is the responsibility of the Group Compliance Office, which is part of the central Legal Department. It is supported by a worldwide network of compliance managers at the Group companies. Continuous self-audits and audits ensure the effective implementation of the compliance program. The head of the Legal department and Chief Compliance Officer reports directly to the Executive Board member for Human Resources and Legal Affairs and presents two Compliance Reports a year to the Executive Board. Further­ more, the Steering Committee of the Supervisory Board is informed twice a year about compliance-relevant developments within the Group. page 36 / Company & responsibility Anti-corruption training Review for corruption risks All managers, team leaders and employees from relevant areas All companies in the Lufthansa Group were reviewed for participate in obligatory two-year cycles of an IT-based anticorruption and antitrust risks by means of a compliance risk corruption training to make them aware of potential risks. assessment (see page 26, Balance 2017). Automated IT processes ensure that A report detailing the results for each Group company reviewed all employees and members of and describing recommended mitigation measures was issued bodies of the Lufthansa Group regularly take part in the web1,200 during the reporting year 2018. These measures are to be implemented by the respective companies according to a based compliance trainings COMPLIANCE structured plan. In addition to the risk areas identified in this WORKSHOP that are relevant for them. The PARTICIPANTS manner, further potential compliance-critical areas with Group companies’ employees regard to integrity and competition are identified in all Group have access to these e-learning companies in the context of regular Group-wide risk assesscourses and are in part already linked ments. Appropriate preventative measures are subsequently to automated mailings or participate in corresponding taken with the goal of eliminating potential weak points. company-specific processes. As a complement, the Corporate These risk assessments include both interviews with managers Compliance Office conducts worldwide classroom training as well as written self-assessments. and offers workshops. During the reporting year, more than 1,200 participants took part in such trainings and workshops. Ombudsman system The training offers are directed at managers as decision-makers The Lufthansa Group set up an ombudsman system in 2008 and multipliers as well as at employees who need in-depth to enable information to be provided confidentially about compliance knowledge to handle their tasks. suspected criminal offences, particularly potential breaches of anti-corruption legislation and regulations. An external, Risk-based business partner due diligence independent lawyer, Dr. Rainer Buchert in Frankfurt, acts as the The Lufthansa Group also expects the conduct of its business ombudsman. Informants can give information by telephone, partners to be fully in line with compliance requirements. in writing or personally to the ombudsman. He communicates Therefore, the integrity of suppliers and service providers is any information he receives to Lufthansa while respecting ensured by means of a risk-based business partner compliance absolute confidentiality concerning the name and identity due diligence process. In the course of the review, the compliof the informant. In this way, the disclosure of an informant’s ance managers or the employees in the Corporate Compliance identity to the Company or to third parties without his or Office carry out compliance screenings. To begin, this entails her consent is ruled out. determining the identity of the business partner in order to then carry out a check against databases in the compliance, embargo, sanctions, PEP (politically exposed person) and watch lists categories, verifying that there are no relevant entries. Depending on the result, various measures proposed jointly by the Corporate Compliance Office and Corporate Security may be necessary to deal with a potential business partner, up to a decision against establishing a business relationship. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 37 The Lufthansa Group’s overarching goal is to avoid human rights breaches by means of organizational and process-based measures. The Group’s procurement policy states that the Lufthansa Group expects its suppliers to respect human rights too (see page 41). Contracts should therefore include the Respect for human rights possibility of penalties up to and including the immediate termination of the business relationship. Respecting human rights is self-evident for the Lufthansa Group as a company acting with integrity and The Lufthansa Group is guided in implementing measures responsibility. In the Lufthansa Group’s stakeholder survey concerning human rights obligations by the recommendations of 2018, this action area was elected into the first half of given by the National Action Plan for Business and Human prioritizations, both by internal and external stakeholders Rights (NAP), adopted by Germany’s federal government on (see materiality matrix, page 31). Respect for human rights December 21, 2016. It formulates the expectation that German along the entrepreneurial supply chain includes the aspects companies ought to adhere to their human rights obligations supply chain, employee environment and business purpose. and respect these rights along their supply and value chains. The NAP describes five core elements of human rights-related As a member of the UN Global Compact, it is important for duties of care. These include a declaration of principles, the Group to align entrepreneurial conduct with internationally a procedure to determine actual and potential disadvantageous accepted principles and self-commitments, and to anchor effects on human rights, measures and effectiveness control, respect for human rights as an integral part of its corporate reporting and a complaints mechanism (see illustration on culture worldwide. This is also reflected in working conditions, this page). All measures listed below can be assigned to one freedom of association and assembly, rules to ensure gender of these core elements. equality and inclusion of minorities as a matter of course. Thus, Article 6 of the Lufthansa Group’s Code of Conduct Working group human rights acts as contact and multiplier specifically states that the Company always acts in agreement The human rights working group, established in 2017 in the with human rights, the principles of the UN Global Compact Human Resources and Legal Affairs Division of the Executive as well as recognized international work and social standards. Board, continued its work in the reporting year and includes representatives of all relevant head office functions and Group companies potentially at risk. Its regular meetings serve to communicate information and develop a uniform, Group-wide position and strategy. In the future, the development of a CORE ELEMENTS OF THE GERMAN NATIONAL ACTION PLAN structured media monitoring process is planned. In addition, FOR BUSINESS AND HUMAN RIGHTS selected contacts advise, support and follow up on the topic at the main companies in the Lufthansa Group. International 1 Human Rights Policy Statement reporting obligations are also dealt with by the working group. Procedures for the identification if actual The Lufthansa Group has published a mandatory declaration 2 or potential adverse impact on human rights for the financial year 2018 as required by the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. 3 Measures to ward off potentially adverse impacts and review the effectiveness of In addition, the Lufthansa Group signed the “Resolution these measures against Trafficking in Persons” of the International Air Transport 4 Reporting Association (IATA) during the reporting year. The Company supports this industry initiative, which aims in particular 5 Grievance mechanism at sensibilizing staff in the operational, cabin and ground areas at stations with regard to the issue of human trafficking. page 38 / Company & responsibility Three questions for KARLHEINZ SCHNEIDER Senior Vice President Corporate HR Steering & Labor Relations smuggling people – additional topics, more from an operations context, are also being considered. The strategic steering and further development of this topic is handled centrally and Lufthansa Group-wide, and its content is built up from the relevant interfaces. Taking the responsibility and ensuring respect for human rights concerning employees is organized in line with these policies via a decentralized key account system within the parent companies. WHAT CAN COMPANIES EXPECT IN TERMS OF LEGISLATION WHAT IS THE LUFTHANSA GROUP’S POSITION ON IN THE COMING YEARS? HUMAN RIGHTS? We observe that in this area as well, there is an increasing It is often assumed that human rights are respected as a tendency towards legal regulation. Today, numerous national matter of course. However, this is not the case everywhere. and international reporting obligations already exist for the As an aviation group with worldwide activities, we consider Lufthansa Group in the topic area of human rights. On the it our responsibility to make a contribution in this area. occasion of the 70th anniversary of the UN Universal Companies do not control the political development in those Declaration of Human Rights, Germany’s federal government countries in which they are active. But they do bear responsipointed out to the German business community – with referbility in the areas in which they operate, especially for the ence to the framework of the National Action Plan for Business treatment of their own employees and those employees along and Human Rights – that they have a duty to care for human the value chain – in a global context. For the Lufthansa Group rights. In 2020 at least half of all companies with more than as a member of the UN Global Compact, it is important to align 500 employees in Germany will need to be able to prove our practices with internationally recognized principles and conclusively that they have incorporated the core elements of to anchor respect for human rights actively in the Company’s care concerning human rights into their corporate processes. everyday life. Whether legal regulation will be deemed necessary will depend on the results of monitoring. Germany’s Federal Ministry for Economic Development and Cooperation is already working IN CONCRETE TERMS, WHAT DOES THIS MEAN? on draft legislation for a sustainable value-added chain. The German Minister of Labor announced that an emphasis is also Dealing with the contents related to the topic of human rights to be placed on sustainable value-added chains at the within the Lufthansa Group is divided into different topic areas European level in the context of Germany’s presidency of the and currently includes the Company’s own employees as well European Council in 2020. as the supply chain. To prevent “human trafficking” – meaning LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 39 Managers and employees are sensibilized Furthermore, all employees are being sensibilized by a by target audience Group-wide communications campaign on an intranet portal Based on an analysis carried out by Verisk Maplecroft, an dedicat­ed to the topic. This includes a statement by the advisory company, an overview was drawn up of all Group member of the Executive Board responsible for Corporate companies operating in high-risk and extreme-risk countries, Human Resources and Legal Affairs, which emphasizes the i.e. where the risk of human rights violation is particularly high. Lufthansa Group’s responsibility for respecting human rights The country overview is regularly updated. as a company with global business activities. Additionally, further information on this subject is available to all em­ployees. The companies are obliged to identify human rights risks and In 2019, this communication is to be continued in a needreport the type and number of suspicious incidents. Individual oriented and target audience-specific manner. It focuses on complaints can be made also by third parties to the external expanding internal communications concerning the NAP. ombudsman – confidentially if so desired. “Zero tolerance” for cases of sexual harassment Employees of the Lufthansa Group can also report to their Respect for one another is particularly important to the manager, Human Resources management or the employee Lufthansa Group. This includes ensuring a working environrepresentative. A works agreement with regard to procedures ment for all employees that is free of discrimination, for grievances is already in place for all employees in Germany. harassment and unequal treatment. The Lufthansa Group It is already used for many different kinds of complaints expects that this principle is reflected globally in the conduct and can also be used for complaints regarding human of all employees towards one another. A corresponding clause rights violations. was added to the Code of Conduct in 2018 and an extensive communications campaign to raise awareness was carried Managers and personnel services at the Group companies out using various internal and external communications are being sensibilized concerning their duty of care related to channels. For those employees affected, the Lufthansa Group avoiding human rights violations. Thus, the employment also expanded its range of options for providing support. contracts for these managers have been complemented step-by-step with a specific appendix since 2018. page 40 / Company & responsibility SUSTAINABILITY ALONG THE SUPPLY CHAIN The Lufthansa Group has more than 40,000 suppliers. The Group procurement policy includes the obligation to The annual procurement volume is about 20 billion euros. assume social and ecological responsibility It is to be understood as an overriding specification for all To meet the standards it sets for the sustainability of its own procurement guidelines at the Group companies and includes products, the Lufthansa Group relies on close cooperation the obligation to assume social and ecological responsibility. with suppliers who share and implement these standards. In addition, it serves as a handbook for buyers and all em­ This ap­proach is also part of the Lufthansa Group’s Code of ployees with contacts in the procurement markets. Among Conduct. The Group expects its suppliers to fully comply with other considerations, it requires that these obligations be current law, guidelines and regulations concerning fair compeincluded in contracts with suppliers: tition, integrity and responsible practices (see page 35 ff., Compliance and human rights). • to comply with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact (see overview on page 32); A transparent supply chain allows the Lufthansa Group to • to comply with the four basic principles of the International manage procurement processes in a targeted manner. Bottle­ Labor Organization (ILO); necks and weak points can thus be identified quickly and • to consent to announced and unannounced audits by countermeasures taken. For these reasons, setting up and companies of the Lufthansa Group; expanding a sustainable supply chain is of strategic importance • to accept the termination of the contract in the event that for the Lufthansa Group. these contractual obligations are breached. Since October 2017, the purchasing units in the Lufthansa During the reporting year, the application of standardized Group have been organized within a single reporting line under contract clauses was further advanced. By setting up these the Chief Financial Officer. They inform the Executive Board requirements the Lufthansa Group aims at ensuring responsible about current developments on a regular basis. In some cases – practices at its immediate suppliers and thus meeting its own especially airline-specific processes such as purchasing aircraft entrepreneurial responsibility. or kerosene – the purchasing units are centralized. In other cases they are decentralized throughout the Group companies The purchasing units responsible for specific product groups (for more specialized products). Reporting lines are based on carried out a suppliers’ risk assessment with the goal of identiresponsibilities for different product groups and Group compafying the types and levels of risks related to suppliers. These nies. Defining product groups optimizes the purchasing assessments are reflected in the result of the Group’s risk function in the procurement markets. Reporting on the basis management. At the same time, Group-wide, standardized and of Group companies ensures security of supply. structured supplier screening continues to be implemented. The introduction of a process-based matrix organization makes The Lufthansa Group’s commitment to sustainability is it easier to establish sustainability standards because it means confirmed by EcoVadis that standardized processes and IT systems are increasingly With the aim of being able to describe its sustainable and used. In addition, defining responsibility within the Group responsible practices vis-a-vis customers, the Lufthansa Group ensures efficient ways of working together. The goal is also to participates in EcoVadis, a sustainability evaluation platform improve the enforcement of sustainability standards. Further­ for global supply chains. During the reporting year 2018, more, confidential information concerning potential criminal the Lufthansa Group’s commitment was again confirmed by conduct or violations of laws or regulations are made possible EcoVadis with the “Silver Status”. by the Group’s ombudsman system. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 41 FLEET MANAGEMENT The Lufthansa Group counts on a modern, efficient and stanFleet planning and management dardized fleet and continuously makes investments in its fundamental modernization. By following this approach, the from one hand aviation group will be able to continue to offer leading-edge product quality in the future, while flying increasingly economCommercial Fleet Management at the Lufthansa Group steers ically and quietly. Operating new aircraft with lower fuel burn is the Group-wide fleet planning and is thus responsible for the the most effective lever the Group can apply in keeping the fleet’s size and composition as well as the allocation to environmental burdens from flight operations as low as possiindividual Group airlines (see interview page 10 ff., Balance ble. In 2018, the Lufthansa Group received a total of 2018). The internal matrix structure ensures that the 46 aircraft, including six long-haul aircraft (see Company optimally bundles the technical knowlpage 20, Annual Report 2018). At the end of edge available in the Lufthansa Group. On the 2018, the Lufthansa Group’s operative fleet included a total of 744 aircraft with an average 210 basis of market and requirement analyses as well as efficiency criteria, experts select suitage of 11.9 years (see page 45, table: The NEW AIRCRAFT able types of aircraft and determine the number Lufthansa Group fleet). ON ORDER to be ordered. The process from deciding on a particular type of aircraft to taking delivery takes In March 2019, the Lufthansa Group placed about three to five years. At the same time, Fleet an order for 40 ultra-modern long-haul aircraft: Management regularly calculates the optimum point in 20 Boeing 787-9s and 20 Airbus A350-900s, which are time for replacing an aircraft, which provides the highest considered the most fuel-efficient in their respective classes. possible planning security for distribution, network planning They are to be delivered between the end of 2022 and 2027 and technical services, among other considerations. and primarily replace four-engined aircraft in the fleet of the Group airlines. The order has an investment volume of 12 billion In its fleet planning, the Lufthansa Group currently focuses U.S. dollars at list prices. Moreover, a decision was made to above all on increasing the Group fleet’s efficiency and on sell six of a total of 14 Airbus A380s to the manufacturer; further harmonizing it. Older aircraft are replaced by modern the aircraft are to leave the fleet in 2022 and 2023. ones with low fuel consumption and thus low CO2 emissions. Simultaneously, the Lufthansa Group has been reducing The Lufthansa Group currently (as of May 7, 2019) has firm the number of aircraft types for a number of years, so that the orders for a total of 210 new aircraft with delivery dates by fleet’s complexity is continuously reduced and efficiency 2027. During the financial year 2019 the Group expects to take increased. The fleet’s harmonization also helps decrease delivery of up to 32 new aircraft. Seven new aircraft were maintenance and operating costs, and create additional syneralready incorporated into the fleet during the first quarter 2019, gies, from licensing for pilots and cabin personnel to standardprimarily to replace older aircraft. ized processes on board and maintaining stocks of spare parts. After decommissioning, aircraft are either sold or recycled The largest part of aircraft is financially unencumbered and (see page 13, Balance 2018). The majority of the aircraft in the is in the unrestricted ownership of the Group. fleet are manufactured by Airbus and Boeing. On shortand medium-haul routes the Group airlines also operate aircraft produced by manufacturers Bombardier and Embraer. page 42 / Company & responsibility SWISS CS300 featuring the “Fête des Vignerons” livery A Lufthansa A320neo Fleet standardization advances For long-haul operations Lufthansa integrated six A350-900s in its fleet during the reporting year. At the end of the year, the With the goal of becoming more flexible and taking advantage airline operated 12 of these environmentally friendly long-haul of synergies, the Lufthansa Group is continuing the standard­ aircraft from its Munich hub. They consume about 25 percent ization of its Airbus A320 fleet (see illustration, Balance 2018, less fuel, emit correspondingly less CO2 and are significantly page 33). In the future, the aircraft of the Group Airlines will be quieter during takeoff and landing than comparable types of configured and standardized from the start so as to allow aircraft (see page 70). conversions within a short time and with little effort when they are transferred between Group airlines. As a result, duration Lufthansa CityLine, which has provided an important portion and costs associated with such modifications can be reduced of feeder flights at the Munich and Frankfurt hubs for many significantly. This allows the Group to react more swiftly and years, has operated its first Airbus A319 at the Munich hub flexibly to current developments, and to move aircraft and since the beginning of the summer timetable 2019. More capacities more simply and efficiently between its airlines and aircraft of this type are to follow by the end of 2020. Inde­pen­ hubs. The airline brands with their respective corporate identidently of this development, the airline has counted on ties remain unchanged in this context. Bombardier CRJ series aircraft for more than 25 years. The CRJ900s epitomize fuel efficiency, low emissions values and The fleet development of the Group airlines from an a low noise burden. Currently, 35 CRJs are the mainstay of operative perspective: Lufthansa CityLine’s fleet, complemented by Embraer 190s and 195s. Lufthansa SWISS In 2018, Lufthansa consistently continued its fleet modernization. Six Airbus A320neo aircraft were put into service during SWISS also successfully continued its fleet modernization the reporting year. At the end of 2018, a total of 16 A320neos during the reporting year. The airline put another two were in operation. The A320neo is significantly more fuel-effiBoeing 777-300ERs into service in 2018 and thus currently cient than comparable predecessor models and is characterized operates ten aircraft of this type. An order for a further two by correspondingly lower CO2 emissions. In addition, the Boeing 777-300ERs was placed in May 2018. These two 85-decibel noise contour of an A320neo taking off is only half long-haul aircraft are to be commissioned in 2020. The SWISS that of an A320 in the existing fleet. long-haul fleet will then comprise 12 Boeing 777-300s, five A340-300s and 14 A330-300s. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 43 For shortand medium-haul operations the fleet was expanded The sale of LGW is also an important step for Eurowings by another 13 C Series aircraft. By the end of the reporting towards a homogeneous Airbus A320 fleet on shortand year SWISS had received 28 of the 30 C Series aircraft it medium-haul routes. has on order. Lufthansa Cargo Austrian Airlines At the beginning of 2019, Lufthansa Cargo expanded its fleet Austrian Airlines expanded its long-haul fleet with with two factory-new Boeing 777F freighters, which had been one Boeing 777-200ER, which started revenue services in ordered in May 2018. This aircraft is considered the quietest May 2018. In shortand medium-haul operations all 18 and most fuel-efficient freighter in its class and is characterized 76-seater Bombardier Q400s are to be replaced by ten by its high level of reliability and long range. As a countermove, Airbus A320ceo aircraft by the end of 2020. Once this meatwo Boeing MD-11Fs are to be decommissioned later in 2019. sure is completed, Austrian Airlines’ shortand medium-haul At the end of 2018, the freighter fleet of Lufthansa Cargo fleet will consist of 17 Embraer 195s and 46 aircraft of the comprised five Boeing 777Fs and 12 Boeing MD-11Fs. The Airbus A320 family. freight specialist’s strategic goal is to switch to an allBoeing 777F fleet over the long term. This fleet modernization is to be fully concluded by the middle of the next decade Eurowings at the latest. During the reporting year, Eurowings took over 77 aircraft In addition, Lufthansa Cargo leased two further Boeing 777Fs from the Air Berlin Group and integrated these into its fleet, from the manufacturer, which are operated by AeroLogic, following Air Berlin’s insolvency in 2017; these included 20 the joint venture with DHL. The first aircraft arrived in Bombardier Q400s of Luftfahrtgesellschaft Walter (LGW). On February 2019 at the Leipzig/Halle Airport; the delivery of April 1, 2019, Zeitfracht Group acquired LGW from Eurowings. the second one has been planned for the fall. With these two A longer-term wet-lease agreement ensures that LGW’s additions the AeroLogic fleet will in the future consist of contribution to Eurowings’ operations remains unchanged. 12 Boeing 777F aircraft. page 44 / Company & responsibility One of the initial customers for the highly-efficient Boeing 777-9 The Lufthansa Group is a pioneer of introducing environmenFurthermore, the Boeing 777-9 features a significantly wider tally friendly technologies. The Group airline Lufthansa will cabin compared to its predecessor models. For the first time, be one of the first airlines worldwide to receive the new it will feature the new Lufthansa Business Class that gives Boeing 777-9 in summer 2020. The Group has ordered a total every passenger direct aisle access at any time. In addition, of 20 of these highly-efficient long-haul aircraft. Their fuel new seats provide greater privacy and optimum sleeping efficiency is improved by about 15 percent compared to the comfort (see page 101). In configuring the cabin of the new Boeing 777-300ER. Lower kerosene consumption is achieved Boeing 777-9, the Lufthansa Group for the first time opts for above all by the two newly-developed General Electric standardization of long-haul aircraft too. GE9X engines as well as the extremely long and narrow, curved wings, which consist for the most part of carbon fiber. THE LUFTHANSA GROUP FLEET AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 (changes compared to 2017) In possession ¹ In operation 2 Number Age Number Age Lufthansa (including regional partners) 351 (– 6) 11.5 (+ 0.6) 351 (+ 14) 11.5 (+ 0.6) Eurowings 3 153 (+ 17) 11.1 (+ 0.7) 133 (+ 46) 10.9 (+ 0.7) SWISS (including Edelweiss Air) 105 (+ 14) 10.2 (– 0.8) 105 (+ 14) 10.2 (– 0.8) Austrian Airlines 83 (± 0) 14.6 (+ 0.9) 83 (± 0) 14.6 (+ 0.9) Brussels Airlines 52 (+ 8) 15.3 (± 0) 55 (+ 11) 15.4 (+ 0.1) Lufthansa Cargo 19 (+ 2) 14.4 (+ 0.3) 17 (± 0) 15.1 (+ 1.0) Lufthansa Group fleet 763 (+ 35) 11.9 (+ 0.5) 744 (+ 85) 11.9 (+ 0.4) 1 Aircraft in the possession of Lufthansa Group 2 Operated by companies of the Lufthansa Group 3 Including Germanwings (GWI) and Luftfahrtgesellschaft Walter (LGW) LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 45 SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Lufthansa Group and its companies continuously work on the Group’s business segments. It allows the development product innovation and research and development projects, of new business models, solutions and products. All companies both individually as well as Group-wide. Given the highly within the Lufthansa Group are thus able to redesign their heterogeneous core business models within the Group, product customer interfaces and better address differentiated customer innovations are mainly driven forward in a decentralized manner needs (see page 36, Balance 2018). in the respective business segments. This is also where the concrete effects of research and development are the most The open platform AVIATAR, which was developed by distinctly perceptible (see page 41 ff., Annual Report 2018). Lufthansa Technik for digital MRO solutions (see page 9, Balance 2017) also makes a contribution in this area. By now, Beyond that, there is a partial centralized coordination of more than 1,000 aircraft are live on this platform in order to activities as well as incentives and financial support provided benefit from optimized operating times, lower follow-up costs for Group-wide innovation projects, which intensifies interdiscias well as safer and more reliable fleet operations. plinary cooperation. The results thus generate added value for the Lufthansa Group and strengthen interconnectedness as Additionally, in March 2019 the MRO specialist established the well as alignment with overarching goals. AVIATION DataHub. For the first time, this gives the entire aviation industry an independent data platform on which In the digital era, the ability to innovate is more than ever a key airlines, manufacturers and companies in the maintenance and prerequisite for sustainable economic success. For a company overhaul areas as well as data providers and other market such as the Lufthansa Group this means thinking and acting participants can digitally gather, combine and process technical strategically in a highly competitive environment. Therefore, and flight operations data – with the full security, integrity and digitalization is the central innovation and future topic in all of control over data by their owners being assured. The start-up Yilu, founded by the Lufthansa Group and the Lufthansa In­no­va­At the beginning of 2019, the Lufthansa Innovation Hub opened its first tion Hub, developed an end-to-end platform for travel service providers. location abroad in Singapore. page 46 / Company & responsibility Beyond that, Lufthansa Technik is the most important provider customer-relevant digital activities under one roof. The focus is of ideas within the Lufthansa Group. The world’s leading supon developing the digital customer interface eurowings.com plier of technical aviation services saves about 40 million euros into a comprehensive travel platform on which the airline’s per year by implementing creative improvement suggestions customers can not only book flights but also take advantage made by employees working in hangars, workshops and offices. of personalized offers of digital services and products. Chair for innovation endowed In May 2018 Dr. Bettina Volkens, Member of the Executive Board, Corporate Human Resources and Legal Affairs of Deutsche Lufthansa AG, endowed the new Lufthansa Group Lufthansa Innovation Hub Chair in Innovation Studies at the private European School of With the aim of identifying and managing opportunities result­ Management and Technology in Berlin. The chairholder’s future ing from industry changes and digitalization trends in an even tasks will include analyses of how new ideas and innovations more structured manner, in 2014 the Lufthansa Group set up are developed in networks and communities, and how compathe Innovation Hub in Berlin. Its goal is to further develop the nies can more effectively take advantage of external sources Group’s distinct innovation culture and power, and to take of innovation and integrate them. advantage of opportunities in a focused way. Meanwhile, the Lufthansa Innovation Hub has established itself as one of the Numerous internal platforms most important drivers of the Group’s digital activities and in With the goal of increasing its ability to innovate, the 2018 was honored by business magazine Capital for the second Lufthansa Group offers a number of events and platforms, time in a row for its work as “Germany’s best innovation lab­ including the annual Innovation Forum as well as the Innovator oratory”. During the reporting year, 23 projects were deve­loped, Awards. The latter have honored exceptional innovation four partnerships successfully implemented and three investprojects once a year since 2014. ments in tech start-ups in Germany, the USA and Canada realized. Furthermore, the Innovation Hub was expanded by Beyond that, the Group runs the Innovation Accelerator, new digitalization units in Asia. With the aim of being better a program that imparts methods and tools for agile working able to create network links with local players and increase the techniques and fast prototyping. In addition, since 2014 footprint of the Lufthansa Group in the Asian economic system, employees have had the opportunity to apply to the LH Group the Lufthansa Innovation Hub opened its first location abroad Innovation Growth Fund (IGF) for development funds of at the beginning of 2019 in Singapore, while the second one up to 10 million euros per year to develop ideas from their is to follow this summer in Shanghai. early stages. Th Lufthansa Innovation Hub and the SAP.iO Foundry Berlin With the aim of securing its worldwide pioneering role in the also have jointly chosen to pursue a creative approach. In July area of digitalization and innovation within the aviation industry, 2018, the partners launched an ideas competition for blocksince 2018 the Lufthansa Group has made available an chain-based solutions, aimed at making the customer experi­ addition­al 20 million euros per year through its new Lufthansa ence as well as processes, supply chains and maintenance Digital Fund (LDF). These funds are aimed at the development processes at airlines even more smooth and interconnected. of digital business models as well as technology and risk capital projects (see page 37, Balance 2018). With the format FlyingLab the Lufthansa Group created an open innovation platform. On selected Lufthansa flights, Furthermore, the Lufthansa Group cooperates with aircraft passengers have since been able to experience innovative manufacturers, airports, fuel producers and science to advance products and services live on board, test these themselves innovations on the basis of substantiated data and continuously and give feedback. improve the Company’s own involvement in environmental protection. In addition, in 2018 Eurowings founded Eurowings Digital GmbH. This new company is to bundle all of the airline’s LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 47 02 Key points on CLIMATE & ENVIRONMENT page 48 Global aviation is a growth industry and, for the foreseeable future, it will continue to require the use of fossil fuels or alternative liquid fuels with a corresponding energy density. Therefore, the material environmental effects of ﬂight operations are primarily climate effects due to the CO2 emissions produced by burning kerosene and the noise caused by aircraft while taking off and landing. In addition, upstream and downstream activities consume resources, such as energy and water, and generate waste materials. Against this background, climate and environmental responsibility are key concerns for the Lufthansa Group. The Company has been committed to limiting the environmental effects of its business activities for many years. This approach also has an economic motivation, as fuel consumption, CO2 certiﬁcate acquisition and noise-related airport fees all generate costs. In line with the consideration of materiality, the Lufthansa Group focuses its commitment above all on its core business, the product of “ﬂying”. Central action areas are emissions reduction, active noise abatement, energy and resource management as well as the commitment to scientiﬁc research and the establishment of environmental management systems. The Lufthansa Group aims to conduct its business in a sustainable and responsible manner in all business segments. The Company’s goal is to meet increasing mobility needs with environmentally compatible products and to increase the ecoefﬁciency of ﬂight operations on a continuous basis (→ PAGE 50 FF.) LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 49 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT As early as 1996, the Lufthansa Group firmly anchored rules is still in the development phase and is to be approved by concerning environmental care in its Environmental Guidelines. the Executive Board in 2019. In this context, further control In 2008, the Executive Board approved the strategic environ­ parameters are to be implemented at the Group level wherever mental program valid until 2020. It establishes the continuous possible and environmental care is to be interconnected even expansion of the environmental management systems in the more strongly with Group strategy. At the same time, the Group companies as well as significant action areas concerning department Group Environmental Issues expanded its database fuel efficiency and climate protection, active noise abatement, during the reporting year to allow for the systematic integration and energy and resource management. The implementation of other environmental values beyond flight­related environ­ of the environmental strategy thus unfurls its effects in all mental data in order to be even better able to meet future areas of the Lufthansa Group – from operative activities and reporting requirements. technical maintenance to procurement, facility management and administration. The Lufthansa Group links entrepreneurial risks related to climate change and noise emissions into multidisciplinary, In 2018, the Group was intensively concerned with analyzing Group­wide risk management processes. They are also increasing stakeholder demands with regard to climate and summarized in a regularly updated risk chart. The Group’s environmental protection and incorporating these in a new environmental experts continuously monitor, analyze and strategic environmental program. At the beginning of 2019, the manage the environment­related opportunities and risks by Executive Board communicated an initial package of key goals means of environmental programs and the environmental and measures (see page 26). Furthermore, these measures management systems. are currently being integrated into a sustainability concept that Integrierte Umweltberichterstattung 2017 – 2019 Lufthansa Airlines München und Lufthansa CityLine Profil | Management | Strategie Umwelterklärung Lufthansa Airlines München Bilanz der Umweltleistungen am Standort München Umwelterklärung Lufthansa CityLine Bilanz der Umweltleistungen an den Standorten München, Frankfurt, Köln For the first time, the Lufthansa hub Munich was successfully validated in accordance with the stringent European environmental regulation EMAS and certified with the international standard ISO 14001 for environ­ mental management systems. page 50 / Climate & environment In their exhibit “Green Gate”, Lufthansa and Munich Airport inform passengers about the numerous programs and initiatives for sustainable mobility. With regard to climate and environmental responsibility, the Environmental management systems companies of the Lufthansa Group take their bearings from voluntary external guidelines and participate in various sustain­ To support the systematic control and continuous optimization ability initiatives. The resulting obligations in large part exceed of environmentally relevant processes, the Lufthansa Group legal requirements. steadily advances the implementation of environmental management systems according to ISO 14001 or EMAS at the The department Environmental Issues reports to the Chairman Group companies. This is an overview of the current situation: of the Executive Board and CEO, and is responsible for the Lufthansa Group’s definition, coordination and implementation The Group’s pioneer is Lufthansa CityLine with its long-stand­ of Group-wide goals and measures with regard to environmental ing experience in environmental protection: in 1999, it became management. In addition, all larger subsidiaries have their the first airline worldwide to launch a professional environmental own environmental departments as well as an environmental management system and to pass EMAS (Eco-Management commissioner or coordinator. The environmental commissioners and Audit Scheme), the most rigorous European certification and coordinators meet at least once a year at the Group-wide system in 2000. Since then, the program has been validated Environmental Forum to coordinate strategies, measures and annually. Lufthansa CityLine is also certified according to the processes, to exchange experiences and to identify possible interna­tional environmental standard ISO 14001. synergies. In addition, new or planned legal requirements and their effect on the Lufthansa Group are discussed at the forum. During the reporting year, the environmental management system of Deutsche Lufthansa AG at the Munich location was validated for the first time according to EMAS and certified in accordance with ISO 14001. The airline is considering the extension of the validated and certified environmental manage­ ment system to other locations. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 51 Four questions for BERNHARD DIETRICH Head of Environmental Issues, Lufthansa Group we would like to expand our strategy by adding the topic areas “innovative solutions” and “organization” because we see significant potential in these subjects for further improving the Group’s environmental performance. WHICH MEASURES HAVE ALREADY BEEN LAUNCHED? In March, the Executive Board decided to compensate CO2 emissions, starting in 2019, for all business­related flights the Group’s employees take. Here we cooperate with our partner myclimate with whom we already offer voluntary CO2 WHAT IS THE LUFTHANSA GROUP DOING TO MAKE FLYING compensation for our customers. Another important measure MORE SUSTAINABLE? is CO2­neutral mobility on the ground. By 2030 we want to replace our vehicle fleets – including those on the aprons – The Lufthansa Group makes immense efforts in all business in Germany, Austria and Switzerland with e­vehicles or vehicles segments and areas to make flying more compatible and thus with other emissions­free propulsion systems. To ensure that more sustainable. In many subject areas we closely cooperate the necessary infrastructure will be in place, we will closely with partners in industry, science and research. Within our coordinate and implement this measure with the respective action areas “reduction of emissions”, “active noise abatement” airports. Another part of this package is that we will switch to as well as “energy and resource management” we have an sources of “green” electricity supply. entire portfolio of projects. For example, this includes measures to increase fuel efficiency, improve building efficiency, reduce noise, avoid waste and stimulate recycling. In addition to WHEN WILL THE LUFTHANSA GROUP’S AIRLINES AGAIN REFUEL making continuous investments in new aircraft, we also modify WITH SUSTAINABLE ALTERNATIVE FUEL? aircraft in the existing fleet, so that our overall flight operations will get quieter and more and more efficient. Our interest in sustainable alternative fuels is very strong. Therefore we are working with vigor on ensuring that these fuels will be used more in the future. To help achieve this goal THE LUFTHANSA GROUP’S STRATEGIC ENVIRONMENTAL we are actively involved in different research projects and PROGRAM OUTLINES THE PATH TOWARDS IMPROVEMENTS IN THE industry associations, among other efforts. At the moment it is AREA OF CLIMATE AND THE ENVIRONMENT BY 2020. WHAT DOES above all two factors that hinder the use of these fuels: avail­ FURTHER PLANNING INCLUDE? ability and price. Sustainable alternative fuels are only available in small quantities and still about three to five times more During an initial workshop with the Executive Board all principal expensive than conventional kerosene. However, we recently considerations concerning the further development of the signed a declaration of intent covering production and delivery Lufthansa Group’s environmental strategy were discussed. of synthetic kerosene with Raffinerie Heide. This renewable Now, our task is to make specific topics more concrete so that fuel is to be produced with regional wind­generated electricity. they can be included in corresponding programs. For example, Hamburg Airport is also a partner in this project. page 52 / Climate & environment Lufthansa Cargo has been certified according to the environ­ The LSG Group has operated an in-house environmental mental management standard ISO 14001 at its Frankfurt management system, which comprises significant portions location since 2008 and worldwide since the end of 2015. The of core elements from ISO 14001, since 2008. All locations worldwide recertification took place in 2017, for the first time worldwide that are fully owned by the airline caterer are covered in accordance with the more stringent requirements of the by this system. The system’s components are continuously revised standard. The latter include the detailed compilation supported by short-term and long-term goals, activities and of environmentally relevant risks and opportunities as well as programs. Furthermore, each region of the LSG Group has a materiality analysis and a life-cycle evaluation including a Regional Environmental Manager (REM), who works together supplier management. After the certificate’s validity had been with the regional management team on implementing and extended to Jettainer GmbH, it was successfully widened monitoring the local environmental programs. to include another subsidiary, time:matters GmbH in Germany. In 2018, conformity with the ISO norm was again confirmed LZ-Catering is preparing the introduction of an environmental in a monitoring audit and for the first time the subsidiary management system. The company is an “environmental time:matters Netherlands was also integrated into the environ­ partner” of the City of Hamburg and has been a member of mental management system. In the process of certification Ökoprofit since 2010. In 2017, LZ-Catering introduced reusable the auditors evaluate among other points whether the cups at its Bartesse coffee shops to help reduce the quantity environmental effects of daily operations are known in all areas, of waste. At a majority of its company restaurants LZ-Catering whether employees receive training on environmental issues, has offered at least one daily “CO2-friendly” main course since whether reduction goals have been defined and which July 2014. Individual special dishes and regionally-sourced optimization measures have been launched and implemented. ingredients complement the meal offers at the different These continuous improvements are of central importance for restaurant locations. the environmental management system. They can be measured by evaluating to which degree Lufthansa Cargo has reached On the basis of its strategic environmental program, the its goal in areas such as emissions, digitalization and number Lufthansa Group pursues the goal of establishing certified of lightweight containers. environmental management systems step-by-step at the large Group companies. The airlines SWISS (including Edelweiss Air), Lufthansa Technik received its validation according to EMAS Air Dolomiti, Austrian Airlines, Eurowings and Brussels Airlines as long ago as 1996, as the first Group company to do so, and have currently not implemented certified environmental has been certified in accordance with ISO 14001 since 1999. management systems. The MRO specialist has also operated a job safety management program validated in accordance with the international specifi­ cation OHSAS 18001 since 2008. In 2017, the certification of Lufthansa Technik Philippines in Manila was concluded successfully. Thus, beyond all of the Lufthansa Technik Group’s European locations, all of its locations in the Asia-Pacific region have been certified as well. In 2018, the Lufthansa Technik locations in Tulsa (Oklahoma), Frankfurt (Osthafen) and London (Hayes) had their environmental management systems certified in accordance with ISO 14001 for the first time. The engine overhaul locations in Wroclaw (XEOS) and Jasionka (EME Aero), which are being set up, are preparing for certification in 2019 and 2020, respectively. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 53 FUEL CONSUMPTION AND EMISSIONS The CO2 emissions of civil aviation currently account for 2.83 All projects concerning the subject of improving fuel efficiency percent1 of all CO2 emissions caused by human activities, are managed by the department Flight Operations Efficiency & according to the International Energy Agency (IEA), and Innovation. The experts’ task is to identify, develop and imple­ count among the industry’s significant global environmental ment concepts, projects and processes in flight operations – effects. Given that increasing demand for mobility is foresee­ with the goal of continuously improving the Lufthansa Group’s able, air transport and its related emissions will continue to fuel efficiency (see interview page 58). In addition, the increase in the future. The aviation industry has reacted to this modernization of the fleet is a fundamental building block development and in 2009 adopted the following goals within the concept of resource conservation (see page 56 ff., with worldwide validity: Fleet management). 1. Fuel efficiency is to be increased by 1.5 percent per year by 2020. Specific fuel consumption: 2. From 2020, growth in civil aviation is to be realized in CO2­neutral ways. A new efficiency record 3. By 2050, the net­CO2 emissions of civil aviation are to decline by 50 percent, compared with 2005. The Lufthansa Group again established a new efficiency The Lufthansa Group had a significant role in this approach record in the reporting year: and shares the industry’s goals. The Company participated in 2018, the aircraft of in numerous working groups of the International Air Transport the passenger fleets 3.65 l / 100 pkm Association (IATA), such as the Environmental Committee needed only 3.65 liters EFFICIENCY INCREASE BY and the Industry Affairs Committee as well as the Board of kerosene on average 0.8 PERCENT COMPARED of Governors. to transport one passen­ WITH THE PREVIOUS YEAR ger over a distance of In addition, the Lufthansa Group has set its own goals 100 kilometers (2017: to reduce its specific CO2 emissions by 25 percent by 2020, 3.68 l/100 pkm). This is an compared with 2006 values. It achieved 67 percent of this improvement of 0.8 percent com­ goal by the end of 2018. Against the background of responsible pared with the previous year. SWISS (including Edelweiss Air) mobility, fuel efficiency and climate protection in flight opera­ was again the most efficient Group airline with an average tions are fundamental for the Group, both from an economic specific fuel consumption of only 3.15 liters per 100 passenger and an ecological perspective. In this way, effects on environ­ kilometers – an improvement of 1.34 percent compared with ment and society can be reduced as well as operational 2017. The efficiency values of all Lufthansa Group airlines costs – important preconditions for ensuring the Company’s are shown on page 56 f.. The new fuel efficiency record is in long­term success. Simultaneously, the Lufthansa Group large part the result of the long­term fleet modernization fulfills the (transparency) requirements of its stakeholders and program and numerous operative measures aimed at meets national, regional and industry­specific energy and conserving kerosene. emissions regulations. The CO2 emissions of the Lufthansa Group, increased by 6.6 percent during the reporting year, compared with the preceding year. page 54 / Climate & environment CO2 emissions according to the aviation group in accordance with the requirements of the European emissions trading scheme. Beyond that, for some GHG Protocol years the aviation group has also recorded indirect emissions caused by its business activities. All recorded and calculated The Lufthansa Group determines its CO2 emissions on the direct and indirect CO2 emissions were verified externally basis of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol), which (see page 115, Verification statement). The so-called CO2 foot­ divides emissions into three main categories (scopes). print helps the Lufthansa Group to identify and evaluate its All direct emissions from flight operations, which are shown significant environmental effects with greater precision, in the illustration as “Direct and indirect CO2 emissions of the pursuing the goal of developing more effective options for Lufthansa Group”, were determined and verified on behalf of reduction as the next step. Direct and indirect CO2 emissions of the Lufthansa Group 2018 SCOPE 2 3 0.4 % SCOPE 1 2 194,059 tonnes 75.4 % Indirect CO2 emissions of electricity and energy purchases for ground 34,634,582 tonnes operations, including catering and maintenance. Direct CO2 emissions from the Lufthansa Group’s flight operations and ground traffic of own vehicles SCOPE 3 3 as well as own energy-generating facilities. 24.2 % 11,089,327 tonnes Further indirect CO2 emissions along the supply chain and from purchased services, here essentially the emissions from the kerosene supply chain and those related to the manufacturing of aircraft and engines. 1 Source: International Energy Agency (IEA) 2018, data for 2016 2 Audited with the result High Assurance. 3 Audited with the result Limited Assurance. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 55 PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION 2018 SPECIFIC FUEL CONSUMPTION AND SPECIFIC CO2 EMISSIONS Values for specific fuel consumption in liters per 100 passenger kilometers (l / 100 pkm) Values for specific CO2 emissions in kilograms per 100 passenger kilometers (kg / 100 pkm) LUFTHANSA GROUP Share of fuel consumption by traffic areas 1 Total LongMediumShort-haul Long-haul Medium-haul Short-haul 57 % 31 % 12 % 3.65 3.33 3.84 5.48 9.19 8.39 9.68 13.81 LUFTHANSA 67 % 23 % 10 % 3.76 3.49 3.94 6.13 9.47 8.81 9,94 15.44 SWISS 67 % 28 % 5% 3.15 2.88 3.72 5.03 7.94 7.25 9.38 12.67 AUSTRIAN AIRLINES 40 % 40 % 20 % 3.79 3.10 4.09 5.33 9.55 7.82 10.31 13.42 1 Definitions of traffic areas: Long-haul more than 3,000 km | Medium-haul Germanwings and Luftfahrtgesellschaft Walter), Brussels Airlines and 800 to 3,000 km | Short-haul under 800 km 2 All scheduled and charter Lufthansa Cargo. Excluding services of third parties as the Company cannot flights operated by Lufthansa (including Lufthansa CityLine und Air Dolomiti), influence their performance. SWISS (including Edelweiss Air), Austrian Airlines, Eurowings (including page 56 / Climate & environment EUROWINGS Share of fuel consumption by traffic areas 1 Total LongMediumShort-haul Long-haul Medium-haul Short-haul 66 % 34 % 4.00 –– 3.72 4.70 10.09 –– 9.37 11.84 BRUSSELS AIRLINES 48 % 52 % 3.43 3.27 3.59 –– 8.63 8.24 9.04 –– DECOUPLING OF TRANSPORT PERFORMANCE AND FUEL CONSUMPTION 2 SINCE 1991 Changes compared to 1991 in percent, values for the fleet of the Lufthansa Group +442 % 450 Transport performance 400 350 300 Efficiency gain 250 +227 % 200 Fuel consumption 150 100 50 0 1991 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 For further environmental ratios refer to the chapter Service & Information, page 112 ff. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 57 Three questions for JÖRG PIKOLIN Head of Flight Operations Efficiency & Innovation Group Airlines WHAT KIND OF TRAINING DO LUFTHANSA GROUP PILOTS RECEIVE ON THE TOPIC OF OPERATING EFFICIENCY? Efficient flying accompanies our pilots continuously – starting at the flight academy and then throughout their flying careers. Economic and ecological topics are core elements of training and continuing education for cockpit crews. But efficiency topics are also an integral component of aircraft documenta­ HOW MUCH INFLUENCE DO PILOTS HAVE ON FUEL EFFICIENCY tion itself. As the most efficient flight operations possible are WHILE IN FLIGHT? indispensable for us, we also support pilots across the entire Lufthansa Group with the so­called “Ops Efficiency Guide”. Safe flight operations have the top priority for us. Beyond that, It provides them with information, tips and background details our cockpit crews make every effort to operate a flight within on each flight phase to enable them to operate flights as optimum economic and ecological values. To help them make efficiently as possible, both economically and ecologically. the best decisions possible at any time, we support them with information and IT tools. Flight altitude has a decisive influence on fuel consumption. For this reason we show our pilots IT­ YOU ARE INTENSIVELY CONCERNED WITH OPTIMIZING AND supported values for the optimum – and thus most efficient – SHORTENING FLIGHT ROUTINGS. WHAT IS THE CURRENT altitude while in flight, taking into account numerous parame­ SITUATION IN THIS AREA? ters. Selecting the shortest possible route between the points of origin and departure means the least kerosene is consumed. As a responsible company, we are naturally interested in plan­ To enable our cockpit crews to easily identify possible shortcuts, ning the optimum flight routing possible. As the European we give them data­analytically supported depictions of past network of air routes is very dense and highly complex, we flight routings. In addition, to determine the optimum speed of cooperate with other European airlines, the European air traffic an individual flight within the overall system while airborne, control organizations as well as national and international we provide our pilots with systemic parameters such as parking organizations. By means of numerous initiatives and projects positions or information on connecting flights. Thus they can we shape changes in order to make the dense network function make decisions based on a broad range of input. more efficiently for all of us. page 58 / Climate & environment Four-pillar strategy for climate protection The aviation industry intends to reach its goals concerning fuel efficiency and reduction of CO2 emissions by pooling different measures implemented by different players (manufacturers, airports, air traffic control, airlines, politics). These were classed at the IATA assembly in 2007 in the industry’s four-pillar climate protection strategy (see overview below). This strategy also forms the basis for the Lufthansa Group’s fuel-efficiency activities. Furthermore, the Group draws orientation in the area of climate and environmental responsibility from the environ­ mental principles of the UN Global Compact and the Sustain­ able Development Goals of the United Nations (see page 32 f.). 1. Technological progress The most important lever for reducing CO2 emissions from flight operations is to invest continuously in modern and especially fuel-efficient aircraft and engine technologies (see production and supply chains, as well as cost effectiveness, of page 42 ff., Fleet management). The airlines within the course. In 2018, the Lufthansa Group took part in another Lufthansa Group took delivery of 29 new aircraft in the course cross-sector initiative. It aims to launch and build an interna­ of the reporting year. tion­al alliance to develop the future strategic importance of synthetic renewable energy sources (PtL – power to liquid), to Moreover, the Lufthansa Group has participated for a number jointly advance a global market for these energy sources and to of years in researching and testing alternative fuels in flight accelerate their market development. Furthermore, Lufthansa operations (see page 9, Pioneer work with alternative fuels). and Raffinerie Heide signed a joint declaration of intent at Before the aircraft of the Group airlines can use alternative the beginning of 2019 concerning the future production fuel, a number of basic conditions must be met. They include and delivery of synthetic kerosene, which is to be produced above all irrefutable quality specifications, sustainability in with green electricity. Four pillars for climate protection 1. Technological progress 2. Improved infrastructure 3. Operational measures 4. Economic measures Innovation in aircraft and Better use of airspace Efficient aircraft sizes A global, sensibly designed, engine technologies market-based system for reducing Needs-based Optimal flight routes and speeds emissions to complement the Alternative fuels airport infrastructures other three pillars Optimized processes on the ground LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 59 PROJECT PROFILE 2. Improved infrastructure The largest climate protection project in European aviation is to PROJECT NAME: establish a standardized airspace above Europe, the so-called NETWORK COLLABORATIVE MANAGEMENT Single European Sky (SES). With a “Schengen in the air”, aircraft would no longer have to fly detours. According to the European air traffic control organization, Eurocontrol, airlines could con­ serve up to 10 percent of fuel and reduce their CO2 emissions In the context of the SESAR research project proportionally. The airlines of the Lufthansa Group alone would Network Collaborative Management (NCM) the be able to reduce their CO2 emissions by 3 million tonnes per participating system partners demonstrate how they year. This would be the largest single contribution to sustain­ can maintain or even increase efficiency in flight ability. In Europe, there are still about 61 air traffic control operations through improved cooperation in the centers with responsibility for air safety in 28 different national event of bottlenecks and disturbances (weather, systems, which means that aircraft can rarely follow an strikes, etc.). For this purpose they have tested both optimum route to their destinations. new concepts and procedures as well as technical innovations under the conditions of everyday flight The Lufthansa Group supports the EU’s SES initiative explicitly operations; these measures include B2B interfaces and works through the European airline association Airlines between airlines and air traffic control as well as for Europe (A4E) for the creation of a reliable and efficient forecasting systems concerning critical weather EU air space. An important milestone on the path toward this situations. The goal is to make data from all system goal is the standardization and modernization of the European landscapes generally available and to exchange it in aviation infrastructure, for which the European Commission a coordinated and standardized way. The partners set up the SESAR (Single European Sky ATM Research) thus aim to remove inefficiencies and to improve and program. SESAR is to advance the development, testing and stabilize traffic flows. The greatest challenge is to Europe-wide implementation of new technologies, procedures harmonize system landscapes and data formats. and standards that contribute to harmonizing and digitalizing European air traffic management. The work of air traffic TOPIC AREA controllers could be significantly facilitated if systems become Air traffic management more digital and virtual. Numerous technologies have already been developed and were presented to the EU in the middle of FOUR-PILLAR STRATEGY March in the context of the Airspace Architecture Study – now The project “Network Collaborative Management” they have to be introduced resolutely. The Lufthansa Group makes a contribution to the pillar “improved is committed to SESAR with the clear expectation that infrastructure”. measurable operational improvements in the area of air traffic management will turn into reality. PARTICIPATING EXPERTS Experts from several system partners participate in The implementation of these technologies in everyday opera­ this project: air traffic control, airlines – including tions is coordinated under the roof of the industry consortium Lufthansa, SWISS, Austrian Airlines and Eurowings – SESAR Deployment Manager (SDM). The Lufthansa Group is as well as network management and meteorological a member of this consortium and provides experts on site. services. Currently, the SDM coordinates 349 projects across Europe. The different airlines of the Lufthansa Group and Lufthansa GOAL Systems as an IT provider also actively participate in the SESAR The goal of the Lufthansa Group airlines is to avoid research and demonstration projects (see profile on the right). delays and emissions through this project, and above One example is the project Network Collaborative Manage­ all to reduce unnecessary long routes and the ment (see project profile on this page). related fuel burn. In addition to the improved use of air space, a further goal is to DURATION OF MEASURE optimize conditions on the ground. Here, more than anything it February 2018 to January 2020 page 60 / Climate & environment is airport infrastructure adapted to actual needs that allows PROJECT PROFILE efficient flight operations. A further contribution to reducing environmental burden comes from intelligent links between PROJECT NAME: different transport modes. The Lufthansa Group is active in this EXPANDED CONNEX INFO area too and develops intermodal transport concepts that systematically interlink air, rail and road traffic. Offers include feeder services to and from airports by ICE high-speed trains, modern long-distance buses and car-sharing. Pilots already receive information about connecting flights and the number of connecting passengers 3. Operational measures (connex info). This also includes the latest possible In 2018, 21 fuel-saving projects were underway across the arrival time at the parking position to ensure that Lufthansa Group, comprising activities relating to weight passengers reach their connecting flights. With the reduction, flight route optimization and technical developments. inclusion of a new component, “expanded connex These include “Expanded connex info”, the “Development of info” allows pilots to evaluate unequivocally under Company-own approaches based on most modern area economic and operational aspects if they need navigation” and the “Optimized filling of fresh water tanks” (see to accelerate to catch up with a delay. So-called project profiles, page 61, 62 and 64). With these operational high-speed cruises are thus reduced to the measures, the Group sustainably avoided more than 24,000 necessary minimum. tonnes of CO₂ emissions in addition to the reductions achieved in 2017. In comparison, the quantity of kerosene saved – and TOPIC AREA thus CO2 avoided – is equivalent to approximately 90 return Systemic operations management, cross-functional flights between Munich and New York with a Lufthansa Airbus control logic in the areas flight control, group A350-900. Or in different terms, the quantity of kerosene control and operations control, and deployment conserved would allow SWISS to operate its schedule between control to reduce delays and fuel costs. Geneva and London City with its C Series aircraft for about 20 months. FOUR-PILLAR STRATEGY The project “expanded connex info” makes a Lufthansa Cargo has also developed a broad-ranging contribution to the pillar “operational measures”. catalogue of measures aimed at reducing the CO2 emissions of its freighter fleet. The logistics specialist continuously PARTICIPATING EXPERTS works on alternatives for its loading devices and has already Flight operations experts from the areas fuel replaced 75 percent of all standard containers with more efficiency, cockpit information service and air/ lightweight models. ground communication participate in this project. In addition, the hub control center is involved with Furthermore, Lufthansa Cargo is testing the use of more light­ information about the current operative situation weight palettes for freight stowage. While standard palettes and monitoring of transfer connections. currently in use weigh around 100 kilos, lightweight versions weigh about 20 to 30 kilos less. With a stock of about 18,000 GOAL palettes, a conversion would result in significant efficiency With this project, the Lufthansa Group aims at gains. Tests with an aluminum-foam palette were successful. avoiding up to 6,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions over All possible alternatives also undergo economic feasibility the long term. studies in the framework of evaluation. DURATION OF MEASURE In the area of loading accessories, the cargo airline is currently “Expanded connex info” is to be available at the evaluating the use of lightweight structural elements made Group airlines step-by-step from July 2019. from recycled cardboard-fiber composite material in loading air freight palettes and has carried out some positive tests. In these palettes, heavy-duty floors and beams made of heavy­ LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 61 PROJECT PROFILE weight wood are replaced by more lightweight materials. It is important that the mechanical properties of the cardboardPROJECT NAME: fiber composite material are comparable to those of wood. OPTIMIZED FILLING OF FRESH WATER TANKS Moreover, Lufthansa Cargo pursues the goal of digitalizing air freight and implementing paperless handling of all related processes step-by-step. Effects on the environment can be Lufthansa optimizes the filling of fresh water tanks significantly reduced by fully digitalizing the delivery chain. aboard its aircraft on the basis of route characteris­ The electronic air waybill, eAirWaybill (eAWB), is already in tics and passenger numbers. New types of aircraft, use at more than 150 Lufthansa Cargo stations. By using digital such as the Airbus A350-900, capture significantly air waybills, the entire industry could save 7,800 tonnes of more data than earlier types. Among other data, they paper per year. Furthermore, the cargo airline is rolling out more automatically record the filling level of the fresh documents, such as the Consignment Security Declaration water tanks for later analyses. This allows the airline (CSD), which transfers security-related information, and the to evaluate fresh water consumption and optimize Shipper’s Dangerous Goods Declaration (DGD), which provides tank fillings by means of artificial intelligence, thus data on hazardous shipments. Another advantage of digital avoiding unnecessary quantities being filled. documents: by means of pre-checks, Lufthansa Cargo can inform its customers about possible problems with data quality TOPIC AREA at an early stage and thus avoid that truck drivers deliver the Weight savings: the spectrum of projects ranges shipment in vain, as not all hurdles have been cleared yet. from structural changes on aircraft to optimizing the loading of consumable supplies. For many years, Lufthansa Technik has participated in numerous research and development projects with the aim of improving FOUR-PILLAR STRATEGY the efficiency of flight operations sustainably (see page 46, The project “Optimized filling of fresh water tanks” Sustainable innovation, research and development). Among makes a contribution to the pillar “operational others, the MRO specialist developed a unique engine wash measures”. process using CO2 dry ice. The CO2 used is a byproduct of crude oil processing and the fertilizer industry, and therefore no PARTICIPATING EXPERTS additional carbon dioxide has to be generated. There is also Experts of Operations Efficiency work closely with no residue as the CO2 dry ice pellets, which are just a few colleagues from Cabin, Ground Ops and MRO. millimeters in diameter, turn into gas. The procedure can also Lufthansa Technik staff support with improved be used at external temperatures below the freezing point. sensor technology and capture; colleagues in ground Thus, engines can be washed 365 days a year, even in perma­ services and cabin crews subsequently manage the frost regions. With this innovation Lufthansa Technik makes optimized filling of fresh water tanks during a significant contribution to lowering the fuel consumption and ground handling. CO2 emissions in civil aviation by several hundred thousand tonnes per year. Cyclean Dry Ice has been available since 2019 GOAL as a complement to the water-based engine wash Cyclean. Lower departure weights are to reduce Lufthansa’s CO2 emissions by about 3,200 tonnes per year. In a complementary move, Lufthansa Technik achieved another milestone on the path towards Green MRO with the first DURATION OF MEASURE automated steam cleaning system for engine heat exchangers The optimization is to be introduced on all long-haul worldwide. So far, heat exchangers were maintained in the flights in the third quarter 2019. framework of engine overhauls with great manual effort and chemical cleaners. Lufthansa Technik has used the new process since July 2018, allowing even heavily soiled heat exchangers to be restored to original performance entirely page 62 / Climate & environment Measures taken by the Network Airlines and Eurowings to reduce fuel consumption and thus also CO2 emissions (selection) Expected Fuel savings Expected CO2 savings Project Airline Measure fuel savings 1 2018 CO2 savings 1 2018 completed • On short-haul flights, the Flightprofile 4,038 t 4,038 t 12,720 t 12,720 t 2018 Optimizer OPTI calculates the optimum flight profile on the pilots’ Electronic Lufthansa FlightBag. • Installation planning for optimum 628 t 105 t 1,979 t 330 t 2021 engine-aircraft combination in relation to fuel efficiency and the remaining SWISS lifetime. • A weight saving is realized on the 667 t 500 t 2,100 t 1,575 t 2018 entire Boeing long-haul fleet with the introduction of Premium Economy Austrian Airlines Class seats. • In cooperation with the LSG Group, 975 t 975 t 3,073 t 3,073 t 2018 Eurowings is replacing older catering trolleys with modern lightweight models. Eurowings 1 In tonnes p. a., total project without chemical substances. This saves not only time, costs increases in CO2 emissions of included international flights and resources, but it is also kind on the environment. within the aviation industry, should it not be possible to limit these CO2 emissions appropriately. In the EU emissions trading In addition, Lufthansa Technik has tested low-drag surfaces on system for civil aviation, CO2 emissions have been steered and aircraft fuselages for many years (see page 51, Balance 2018). limited by trading certificates since 2012. The Lufthansa Group What works there might also pay off if used in engines. Coating is covered by this system for all flights within Europe. In 2018, the low-pressure turbine vanes of CFM56 engines with these these flights emitted about 8.5 million tonnes of CO2, of which advanced surface structures (riblets) would significantly about 62 percent were compensated and neutralized by improve the aerodynamic characteristics of the low-pressure purchasing emissions certificates. Thus, the goal of CO2-neutral turbine – which, in turn, would reduce kerosene consumption. growth has effectively been more than fulfilled within Europe. 4. Economic measures Today, the Lufthansa Group already offers the majority of its With the agreement on climate protection (CORSIA – Carbon customers the option of voluntary CO2 compensation. The latter Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation), is provided through renowned agencies that apply the highest which was adopted in October 2016 in the context of the standards in selection and implementation (see page 67, International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), growth-related Balance 2016). In cooperation with the renowned Swiss climate CO2 emissions in international civil aviation are to be compen­ protection foundation myclimate, customers can have the sated from 2021 by CO2 savings achieved by climate protec­ emissions related to their flights with Lufthansa and SWISS tion projects. As a result, the Lufthansa Group will have to pay calculated online, and can offset them by making a donation in the corresponding CO2 compensation costs from 2021 for favor of selected climate protection projects. Austrian Airlines LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 63 PROJECT PROFILE cooperates with compensation partner Climate Austria in PROJECT NAME: this area (see page 65, Balance 2017). In 2018, many customers DEVELOPMENT OF COMPANY-OWN APPROACHES of the Group airlines again took advantage of the opportunity BASED ON MOST MODERN AREA NAVIGATION to travel in a CO2-neutral way. Passengers of Lufthansa, SWISS and Austrian Airlines as well as customers of AirPlus compen­ sated a total of 6,539 tonnes of carbon dioxide in the reporting year. As a result, more than 127,404 euros were donated to So-called performance-based navigation technology climate protection projects. In the future, customers will be (PBN) complements and increasingly replaces air able to compensate CO2 emissions even more conveniently navigation with ground radio stations. Modern as the Group airlines are to integrate the option into their avionics equipment and navigation sensors allow not reservations masks. only accurate navigation to any geographical point, but also more economic flight routes. Lufthansa Furthermore, all Lufthansa Group employees on business flights has adapted this technology to support pilots by have flown CO2-neutrally since January 1, 2019 (see page 26, means of the Flight Management System (FMS) at Strategy and management). Likewise, corporate customers airports with challenging approach procedures. have had the option of flying CO2-neutrally with the airlines of Increased precision has a positive effect on fuel the Lufthansa Group since January 1, 2019. For this purpose, efficiency and also increases safety by lightening the the Group has started a test run with selected customers in pilots’ work load. Germany, Austria and Switzerland who have a support contract within the PartnerPlus Progress Program. Through the latter, TOPIC AREA the program’s “Added Value Fund” is debited for 50 percent of Flight procedures. The spectrum of PBN projects the cost due for CO2 compensation for all flights customers ranges from flight route optimizations during take within Germany and the EU with Lufthansa Group airlines. departure and approach, tighter separations on The Lufthansa Group assumes the remaining 50 percent of the transatlantic routes and during final approach, compensation cost. The participating companies can compen­ to new approach procedures that increase safety sate long-haul flights on a voluntary basis. and fuel efficiency while decreasing costs. FOUR-PILLAR STRATEGY The project “Development of Company-own ap­proach­es based on most modern area navigation” makes a contribution to the pillar “operative measures”. PARTICIPATING EXPERTS This project is carried out by experts from the area Navigation and Approach Procedures. GOAL Increasing flight safety and higher efficiency of approach procedures mean lower emissions and improved punctuality. DURATION OF MEASURE Current projects, such as approach procedures in Nice, Tokyo Haneda and Tivat, are almost completed; other projects are pursued long-term. page 64 / Climate & environment ENERGY AND RESOURCE MANAGEMENT It is part of the entrepreneurial DNA of the Lufthansa Group to (without transport) on the ground during its three-year keep air transport’s effects on the environment as environmen­ duration. tally friendly as possible – not only in flight operations, but also in its activities on the ground. The Group’s corresponding For energy-intensive service companies Lufthansa Technik and guidelines and goals result from the strategic environmental LSG Group, the topic of energy management has a particularly program 2020, which was implemented in 2008 (see page 36, high significance. Therefore, these companies use their own Balance 2015). Its 15 guidelines outline how the Lufthansa Group concepts and systems that are geared to their particularities is to continuously optimize its energy and resource manage­ and business activities. ment, among other considerations, by 2020. This approach also takes into consideration energy-saving and resourceFor example, Lufthansa Technik operates a certified environ­ conserving aspects related to planning, modernizing and con­ mental management system (see page 53). A proprietary structing buildings. building standard with company-wide application helps the leading provider of MRO services (Maintenance, Repair & Input for optimizing buildings with regard to energy consump­ Overhaul) to increase the energy efficiency of its locations tion is above all provided by the results of energy audits in worldwide. Moreover, the Lufthansa Technik Group has launched accordance with the EU Energy Efficiency Directive (EED). a carbon-save program that was concluded successfully in Accordingly, companies above a certain size are obliged to 2018. Its goal was to lower the company’s CO2 emissions by conduct energy audits at least once every four years (see page 30 percent by 2018 when compared with those of 2012. 45, Balance 2017). To meet these requirements, energy audits To realize further savings, at the end of the carbon-save pro­ will again take place at the end of 2019 at the Lufthansa Group; gram the company defined new goals to be reached by 2025. the Company has already started these audits. They include the objective to increase resource efficiency by 25 percent and the recycling ratio by 75 percent. Furthermore, the Group again evaluated measures to increase energy efficiency during the reporting year. A Group-wide stan­ In recent years, the LSG Group has launched numerous pro­ dardized tracking tool is the basis for continuously monitoring grams aimed at conserving energy and water, and continued cost savings realized by planned or implemented measures, these during the reporting year. They included the replacement such as further changes of lighting systems to LED. of dishwashers at locations in Brazil and Mexico. The company also introduced monitoring technology to measure the energy, To generate sustainable potentials for the sparing use of water and detergent consumption of existing dishwashers. electricity and water, and to develop suitable solutions, are as Since 2018, the LSG Group has recycled PET items at its important for the Lufthansa Group as its efforts to optimize German locations. waste management in catering. Within the new matrix organi­ zation, the aviation group therefore continuously intensifies the The catering specialist checks the key performance indicators cooperation of its subsidiaries in the area of energy manage­ (KPI) concerning energy consumption and waste quantities ment with the goal of generating synergies and deepening every year, and defined new KPIs per region for the period 2017 exchanges on best-practice cases. to 2020 (see page 46, Balance 2017). It also works with its own environmental management system that closely follows the At its Frankfurt location, the Lufthansa Group and 14 other ISO 14001 standard. companies in the Rhine-Main region have participated since March 2017 in the Business Energy Efficiency Network of During the reporting year, Lufthansa Cargo purchased 49 energy provider Mainova and the Frankfurt Chamber of Com­ modern, energy-efficient chargers for forklift batteries in merce. The goal of the initiative is to conserve 17,500 mega­ Frankfurt; the use of its 80 forklifts is indispensable for loading watt hours of electricity per year and 5,000 tonnes of CO2 freight pallets. At 1.5 charging cycles per day and charger, this LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 65 corresponds to an annual conservation of about 235,000 kilo­ In recent years, the aviation group has implemented numerous watt hours. This is due to the new chargers’ effectiveness of measures on this basis. These ensure, for example, that correct 97 percent, among other factors. stowage on board helps reduce waste and makes recycling possible in the first place. In addition, the freight specialist achieved a significant reduc­ tion in the consumption of mono batteries in 2018, which con­ At Flygreener, flight attendants act as “Ambassadors on Board”, tain numerous poisonous pollutants. While Lufthansa Cargo support crews with their know-how and raise their environmen­ has used high-performance accumulators as an energy supply tal awareness (see page 55, Balance 2018). Additional support for its own cooling containers for many years – to cool highly in this area comes from regular Flygreener product stands at sensitive pharmaceutical products, for example – environmen­ different locations as well as guided tours in LSG facilities. tally harmful mono batteries were still used as energy supply Moreover, numerous measures were implemented to further for the control element in some types of containers used by optimize the loading of beverage trolleys. At Austrian Airlines customers. Thanks to a suggestion from an employee, their use this means weight reductions on specific flights of 10.3 kilos has been significantly reduced since the reporting year thanks per trolley, to name but one example. to a special charger (Interim Power Supply, IPS). Lufthansa Cargo was thus able to reduce the number of batteries used at As the aviation group attempts to find a sensible equilibrium the Frankfurt location from 45,000 in 2015 to 24,000 in the between unavoidable waste volumes, striving for weight reporting year. Given these positive results, the use of IPSs is reductions, fulfilling hygiene-related regulations and a perfect being evaluated at all cargo stations worldwide. customer experience, the initiative follows a multi-functional approach. Flygreener therefore involves cabin and product management as well as the LSG Group and airports. Further­ more, a project group was set up in 2018, preparing the development of a specialized recycling trolley to establish alternative options for the disposal of liquids. Waste and recycling management on board Reduction of disposable plastic packaging on board Permanently reducing waste quantities on board or increasing its recycling ratio are important considerations for the The Lufthansa Group continuously aims at improving sustain­ Lufthansa Group’s waste management. ability on board. For this purpose, product management and operations efficiency experts continually analyze all products However, there are limits to separating and recycling materials and processes. The Group pursues a demand-oriented from different types of waste on board – for instance, waste approach in doing so and already has successfully implement­ed from meal services. To exclude any health risk, the transport numerous measures. It is not only a concern for the Company and disposal of such waste is regulated by the strict EU to replace disposable plastic products with environmentally regulation EG 1774/2002. Accordingly, food leftovers and foils, friendly alternatives in catering whenever possible, it is also a packaging and transport packaging as well as beverage goal to avoid taking superfluous catering items on board in the cartons or food cans that arrive by air in EU countries have to first place (see page 100, interview with Annette Mann). be consistently burned, deposited at special disposal sites or disinfected. Since January 2019, Austrian Airlines has its crew members in the Flygreener team to thank for a future-oriented project Beyond these legal requirements, the initiative “Flygreener” through which plastic cups used by passengers have been contributes Group-wide to reducing waste volumes continu­ used to produce synthetic crude oil. Cups are collected sepa­ ously and to make the processes on board more sustainable. rately from disposable waste and are subsequently cleaned page 66 / Climate & environment Austrian Airlines flight attendants Astrid Harrer (left) and Angelika Hönigmann of the Flygreener team collect plastic cups for the OMV ReOil® pilot project. 100 kilos of plastic will be turned into 100 liters of synthetic crude oil. and shredded by a waste management company. The plastic waste is subsequently used in a pilot plant operated by oil and gas company OMV to produce synthetic crude oil, which is then processed into fuel and primary products for the plastics industry. Up to 100 tonnes of disposable waste annually Electromobility: Project Airport eMove can be avoided in this way. successfully concluded Since May 2019, Eurowings has offered its passengers on shortand medium-haul flights the option of reducing plastic Fuel-efficient and quiet aircraft are the central, but not the only waste and supporting the construction of wells when buying regulating options that can be applied to make air transport still water. The background is the introduction of the first more environmentally compatible. On the ground, there are fully-recycled PET water bottle marketed by the “Share” brand, also numerous opportunities, in particular in ground handling which will help the airline conserve an estimated three tonnes processes as well as taxiing and towing processes of aircraft. of newly-produced plastic per year. For each bottle of water At Frankfurt Airport, the Lufthansa Group places an emphasis sold, the Berlin-based social start-up provides one person in on advancing projects aimed at reducing the consumption of distress with an equivalent product. Additionally, the water gasoline or diesel by ground vehicles. This includes the initia­ sold on Eurowings flights is expected to allow Share and its tive E-PORT AN. Its goal is to switch individual vehicle types social partners to construct or repair at least three wells. step-by-step to electric propulsion technologies (see page Between February and April 2018, Eurowings passengers also 55 ff., Balance 2018). had the option of bringing their own cups aboard, receiving a 20-percent discount on hot beverages in exchange. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 67 In the context of E-PORT AN, the LSG Group cooperated closely with external partners in the development of the fully electrified catering lift truck “eLift”. Part of the Lufthansa Group’s consortium project eMove was the development of the world’s first electrically powered tug for wide-body aircraft, which has been in operation In its home markets – Germany, Austria at Lufthansa LEOS since 2016. The “eTug” helps avoid up to and Switzerland – the Lufthansa Group 75 percent of emissions in comparison with conventional, diesel-powered aircraft tugs. In June 2018, the subsidiary com­ is to switch its vehicles to CO2-neutral pany of Lufthansa Technik put a second vehicle of this type mode by 2030. into service. Compared with the first “eTug” it features numer­ ous optimizations. The LSG Group developed the fully-electri­ fied catering lift truck “LSG eLift” in close cooperation with external partners in the context of E-PORT AN (see page 55 f., Balance 2018). After the conclusion of Airport eMove, the Lufthansa Group To underscore its commitment to sustainability, the aviation continues its commitment to sustainable aircraft handling at group intends to realize CO2-neutral ground operations in the Frankfurt hub. Thus, since 2018 and in cooperation with its home markets (Germany, Austria and Switzerland) by 2030. Fraport AG, the Company has been testing the first remoteThis is to be achieved by switching vehicles to electric and controlled aircraft tug. Lufthansa provides aircraft to be pushed other emissions-free propulsion systems, using 100 percent back from parking positions and to be towed to runways by electricity from renewable sources at the earliest possible time this electrically-powered tug. and using this eco-electricity as power supply for all buildings of the Lufthansa Group, if possible. To give this venture the In 2019, Lufthansa Cargo is planning to replace a dieselnecessary thrust, the Group’s Executive Board decided to powered forklift with a weight-bearing capacity of 12 tonnes establish a dedicated project management. with a modern 15-tonne electric forklift. The background is that most of the aircraft engines that the cargo specialist transports are getting ever larger. Additionally, significant quantities of diesel fuel can be conserved. page 68 / Climate & environment ACTIVE NOISE ABATEMENT Operating aircraft causes noise, especially during takeoffs Therefore, the Lufthansa Group has been working with deter­ and landings. As a result, it is chiefly people living in areas mination on operating the quietest aircraft possible and on surrounding airports who are affected by aircraft noise. At making its existing fleet even quieter. These efforts have been higher altitudes, such as during cruising flight, aircraft noise is successful: in 2018, 99.6 percent – and thus almost the without consequence. The noise-related effects of the entire operative Group fleet – fulfilled or exceeded the strict Lufthansa Group’s aircraft operations primarily affect hub minus-10-decibel criterium of the ICAO Chapter 4 standard locations and airports with high flight frequencies. (see overview page 130). The aircraft noise experts from the Group’s different departments are closely connected within The Lufthansa Group supports numerous long-term activities a network. In addition, they are active in aircraft noise com­ and measures designed to decrease aircraft noise perceptibly. missions, dialogue forums and research projects, which in The main goals are to lower noise sustainably at the source some cases they initiated and have coordinated. For example, and to develop optimized flying procedures in cooperation with this includes participation in test projects under the umbrella system partners. In addition, noise protection efforts also of SESAR (Single European Sky ATM Research, see page 60 f.). have an economic element. Noise-related airport fees are lower for quieter aircraft, while they are higher for louder aircraft. The Lufthansa Group’s commitment to active noise abatement For this reason, modern fleets and noise-abatement measures comprises five dimensions (see graphic below). In addition to pay off directly. this issue of Balance, the Lufthansa Group also published this approach in its Annual Report 2018 as part of the combined non-financial report (see info box page 29). Active noise abatement 1. Investments 2. Noise-reducing technolo-­ 3. Participation in noise 4. Optimization of approach 5. D  ialogue with residents in quieter aircraft gies for the existing fleet research and departure procedures near airports and other stakeholders Introduction of the latest Retrofitting of noiseContinuous collaboration Cooperation with system Continuous exchanges with aircraft such as the reduc­ing vortex generators and exchange with partners partners residents as in the Airport Airbus A320neo and to the existing fleet from research and industry and Region Forum Airbus A350-900 Development and testing Development and analysis of new methods Active participation in Retirement of older models of new noise-reduction aircraft noise commissions measures Use of new navigation technology LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 69 1. Investments in quieter aircraft The most effective lever for reducing aircraft noise is fleet modernization. In this area, the Lufthansa Group cooperates closely with aircraft manufacturers and actively influences the shaping of specifications and the technical status of new aircraft. In 2018, the aviation group put 29 new aircraft into service, including six further Airbus A320neos, six Airbus A350-900s and 13 Bombardier C Series aircraft, all of which are equipped with modern engines (see page 42, Fleet management). 2. Noise-reducing technologies for the existing fleet Noise contours compared In addition to modernization measures, retrofitting the existing A350-900 vs. A340-300 / 600 fleet can also produce measurable reductions of aircraft noise. At the beginning of 2014, Lufthansa was the first airline Compared to previous models, the Airbus A350-900 worldwide to start operations with an Airbus A320 equipped shows a 40–50 percent lower noise contour. The 85 with noise-reducing vortex generators, thus setting an industry dB(A) maximum noise level contours are shown for a standard (see page 49, Balance 2017). Aircraft with vortex takeoff with Lufthansa standard takeoff procedures generators are up to 4 decibels quieter during the approach and maximum takeoff weight (MTOW). phase. In the meantime, the Group has retrofitted all aircraft By comparison, a maximum noise level of 85 dB(A) of the A320 family operated by Lufthansa and SWISS with is produced by a truck passing at a distance of five these vortex generators. meters (16 feet) in city traffic. At Austrian Airlines, all aircraft of the A320 family already in the fleet at the beginning of the reporting year had been equipped 40-50 % with this technical improvement by the beginning of 2019. LOWER NOISE CONTOUR A retrofit has been planned for all aircraft added to the fleet in 2018. The modification is carried out in the framework of routine technical maintenance cycles. Likewise, the largest part of the Eurowings A320 fleet has already been equipped with the noise-reducing vortex generators. All A320 aircraft of 8 km the Eurowings Group, which are not yet equipped with vortex generators – including aircraft taken over from the former 6 Air Berlin – are being retrofitted systematically. 4 Retrofitting aircraft with vortex generators is another example that shows how economy and ecology go hand in hand for 2 many measures. With this project, the Lufthansa Group makes progress in active noise abatement and in particular lessens Runway the noise burden on people close to airports. On the other 0 hand, there is a positive economic effect as noise-related fees 1 km 0 1 km 1 km 0 1 km 1 km 0 1 km at Frankfurt Airport are reduced in the context of calculating Airbus Airbus Airbus noise charges for aircraft equipped with vortex generators A340-300 A340-600 A350-900 compared with charges for comparable aircraft without these MTOW: 271 t MTOW: 368 t MTOW: 268 t parts, for example. In an environment with intensified competi­ tion, the economic efficiency of such measures will gain Source: Airbus, information as of: 11 / 2016 increasing importance. page 70 / Climate & environment 3. Participation in noise research new navigation technology on the so-called southern circum­ For many years, the Lufthansa Group has been committed to navigation in Frankfurt in the context of SESAR. The newly used noise research via projects such as MODAL (Models and Data Radius-to-Fix (RF) functionality allows flying highly-precise for the Development of Active Noise Abatement Measures in circular-path segments with fixed radius and fixed origin at a Aviation, 2012­–2015), thus helping to create the foundations quality level that so far is unique in Germany. For people living for successful active noise protection. in the region, this is likely to produce correspondingly positive effects on noise burdens. Operations will be accompanied In 2017, the project “EffFlug” (Efficiency increases in flight op­er­ by comprehensive monitoring in cooperation between DFS and ations) was added. Its goal is to analyze efficiency measures the Environment and Neighborhood House. more precisely with regard to their noise reduction potential compared with previous solutions. To this end, the existing 5. Dialogue with residents near airports evaluation methods are to be expanded and deepened. Digital­ and other stakeholders ization makes it possible to analyze flight operations data even Since 2001, the Lufthansa Group has actively and continuously more intensively and to link them with intelligent analytic tools. participated in measurement packages aimed at noise The prerequisite for the participation in “EffFlug” is a high abatement in the framework of dialogue forums, in Frankfurt de­gree of expert knowledge and cockpit experience. In this and Vienna among other locations. project, the Lufthansa Group closely cooperates with the German Aerospace Center (DLR), Fraport AG and Flughafen One example is the “Alliance for Noise Abatement” in Frankfurt, München GmbH. in which the state government of Hesse, Fraport AG, Deutsche Lufthansa AG, the Airport and Region Forum (FFR), Beyond that, the DLR – with support from Lufthansa Technik Deutsche Flugsicherung (DFS) and the aviation association and other partners – is conducting research into options for BARIG participate. Moreover, the Lufthansa Group also works optimizing existing fleets. The DLR expects audible improve­ actively in some of the German aircraft noise commissions ments from fairings on landing gears and innovative exhaust stipulated by Germany’s Civil Aviation Act. nozzles on engines in particular. The development, certification and testing of such noise-abatement measures require several In January 2018, the FFR presented 17 additional measures years of preparations. to reduce the noise burden in the areas surrounding Frankfurt Airport or to enable an improved political and legal framework Continuous research and development work, especially for the expedited implementation of measures. Those involved by manufacturers, produce new generations of quieter aircraft took the first steps in this context in 2017. The new package and engines as well as desired optimizations on the aircraft in of measures “Active Noise Abatement” builds on the 12 noise existing fleets. Therefore, it is of great importance for the protection measures that were implemented in the past in Lufthansa Group to help shape this steady cycle of intensive standard operations, and also opens up new perspectives, such research as well as new technologies and products in order to as the precision navigation system. achieve further efficiency improvements in aircraft and engines. Simultaneously, Hesse’s Ministry for Economic Affairs and 4. Optimization of approach and departure procedures Transport, the Frankfurt Aircraft Noise Commission, Lufthansa, Optimizing flight procedures and flight routings also contributes Condor, BARIG, Fraport and the FFR agreed on a voluntary to noise reductions. The Lufthansa Group is active in this area upper noise limit at Frankfurt Airport. This agreement gives the in numerous ways by cooperating with international partners airlines an additional incentive for flying even more quietly: such as EUROCONTROL. In the framework of the project doing so is the only way to increase the number of their aircraft EMAS 1 (Early Morning Arrival Stream) Frankfurt, the time during movements. The Lufthansa Group welcomes such a reliable, which approaching aircraft are in the airport’s close range could clear and long-term regulatory framework that creates be reduced by up to 20 percent. This project is supported and investment and planning security for future growth and fleet co-funded by the Environment and Neighborhood House (UNH) decisions. In May 2016, the state of Hesse and the aviation in Kelsterbach as a part of the Airport and Region Forum (FFR). industry had already sealed the voluntary introduction of noise breaks in an “Alliance for Noise Breaks” (see page 60, Balance In July 2017, Deutsche Flugsicherung (DFS, air traffic control), 2016, and page 55, Balance 2015). Lufthansa and Fraport successfully tested and implemented LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 71 03 Key points on EMPLOYEES & SOCIETY page 72 Working at the Lufthansa Group has many facets. But the individual is always at the center of attention. The employees’ know-how and diverse talents are a central variable that directly inﬂuences the Company’s entrepreneurial success. Therefore, the Group’s goal is to establish itself as an attractive employer over the long term while meeting its social responsibility. The Lufthansa Group places the greatest emphasis on offering its employees an attractive working environment with transparent structures and processes in order to meet the requirements of megatrends such as digital evolution and to strengthen the innovative and transformative forces within the Company over the long term. Custom-ﬁt offers for continuing education that also promote the willingness to learn life-long, a realistic framework of conditions to promote balance between working and private life, a comprehensive approach to equal opportunity and diversity in all its dimensions, and intensive support for talent – all of these are signiﬁcant action areas for the aviation group to meet its self-deﬁned benchmark for treating employees fairly and as partners. By using modern information technology the Group takes into account the fact that the working world is global, digital and networked. In addition, the Group meets its responsibilities for its employees by means of its tried-and-tested health and safety policies. With regard to society as a whole, the Lufthansa Group also acts responsibly. As a corporate citizen it engages in a dynamic process supporting social issues and has ﬁrmly anchored speciﬁc employee involvement in its HR strategy. (→ PAGE 74 FF.) LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 73 THE ABILITY TO TRANSFORM Changing market conditions and megatrends such as digital­ The responsibility for cultural aspects of transformation lies ization demand continuous adaptation and further develop­ with a separate “process domain owner” (see page 67, Balance ment of companies and their employees. To achieve this goal, 2018), who reports directly to the Executive Board’s Chief employees have to acquire corresponding competencies on Officer Corporate Human Resources and Legal Affairs and a continuous basis and be willing to take on new challenges heads a department with several staff members responsible again and again. for processes. The goal is to establish a process that allows the Lufthansa Group’s administrative employees in particular to Working world of the future analyze their abilities and compare them with current and future requirements on their tasks. Innovations and digital trends are changing both private and professional environments. Mobile and flexible work has The Lufthansa Group’s managers play an important role in become a fundamental building block and continues to gain this process of transformation as values, standards and importance. Digital change in particular opens up entirely new convictions are formed by role models, who provide orientation options for companies and their employees to collaborate in in times of cultural change. The Lufthansa Group CAMPUS, even more efficient ways (see interview, page 75). which is open to all Group employees, therefore also supports managers and top management with qualification options and For this reason, in the reporting year the Lufthansa Group accompanies team development processes and organizational began to roll out Microsoft Office 365 in the administrative change. This internal learning platform helps complement areas under intensive employee participation. This software existing continuing education offers and close possible allows transparent and efficient ways of collaborating in knowledge gaps by means of innovative formats. networks and teams, and thus promotes the exchange of ideas across departmental boundaries. This creates not only trans­ parency, but it also contributes to making the Lufthansa Group more nimble as a whole. This change, which benefits about 45,000 employees and supports the current transformation process within the Lufthansa Group toward a modern corporate and collaborate culture, is to be completed in 2019. It is accompanied by rolling out new mobile work equipment. The new software is also a gain for operational employees who work on computers at least some of the time. “open mind” represents the new culture of lifelong learning. This is the umbrella for all topics concerning learning and acquiring new qualifications within the Lufthansa Group. page 74 / Employees & society Four questions for DR. ANJA DREẞLER Senior Director Future Digital Workplace, Lufthansa Group WHAT WILL THE FUTURE DIGITAL WORKPLACE BE LIKE? In the future, employees will remain irreplaceable because of their creativity and competence in finding solutions. For the benefit of the Lufthansa Group we continuously assess what digital change means for our tasks and working methods as well as for the individual abilities and skills of each employee. Working in networks is gaining more and more importance in the future working environment. Employees and their knowl­ edge are at the center of collaboration. They will be continu­ ously supported with appropriate tools, working methods and YOU HEAD THE LUFTHANSA GROUP’S DEPARTMENT “FUTURE ways of using these effectively in order to experience the DIGITAL WORKPLACE”. WHAT DOES THIS ENTAIL? digital workplace actively for themselves. We benefit from numerous digital offers today that simplify everyday life. Social platforms such as Facebook and WhatsApp WHICH INITIATIVES HAVE ALREADY BEEN LAUNCHED connect people like never before. This global trend also in­ TO ACCOMPANY EMPLOYEES DURING THIS cludes companies. At the same time, our employees’ expecta­ DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION? tions concerning their work situation are rising. The depart­ ment “Future Digital Workplace” is the link between the private At the moment we are in the process of introducing new forms of experiencing digitalization and their translation into technologies that will shape the future of digital collaboration meaningful support at the workplace – today and in the future. within the Group. An example is the new software Office 365. This is a large project and we accompany and coach our em­ ployees throughout all transition phases. In addition, we offer WHAT IS THE IMPORTANCE OF DIGITAL CHANGE FOR new formats, such as “cloud­based collaboration”. Or we TOMORROW’S WORK ENVIRONMENT? provide methodical support, for example for design thinking; a method that helps develop customer­oriented innovations, Digital change has a very high level of importance for our work products and services. environment because digitalization, automatization and artificial intelligence provide entirely new technological options. Our In addition, our monthly virtual conferences focusing on the task is to recognize digital trends early on and to transform “digital journey” create an active community, which delves into them into user­friendly work environments for our employees. the digital world by exchanging tips and tricks, and makes it Doing so means we support efficient ways of working in a evolve in accordance with the users’ needs. This is also a form “Leading Digital Aviation Group”. of cultural change and one that is fun as well. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 75 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES For the Lufthansa Group, diversity and equal opportunities are Impressive proof of applied diversity are the 176 nationalities central elements of the Company’s strategic alignment. They who are represented worldwide throughout all age levels are indispensable in positioning the Group as an attractive among managers and employees across the Group. They employer in a global and intergenerational setting – today and contribute an enormous variety of points of view and compe­ in the future. Diversity in all its dimensions is also a fundamental tencies to the Company. Among other advantages, this prerequisite for being able to innovate and change, and to perspective results in a differentiated understanding of needs, secure a leading competitive position over the long term. which, in turn, makes a significant contribution to customercentric development of products and services. This is especially Against this background, the hallmark of the Lufthansa Group’s important against the background of the Lufthansa Group with corporate culture is pronounced diversity, which makes the its different business segments offering a broad spectrum of Company more open for different values, attitudes and life products and serving correspondingly varied customer groups. situations at the same time. For the aviation group, diversity is a decisive foundation of its modern service philosophy and customer centricity. In addition, diversity helps to minimize Organizational anchoring risks, as in mixed teams different points of view are contributed to development and decision-making processes. The Lufthansa Group pursues a comprehensive management approach, which understands diversity in the sense of variety with regard to gender, demography and internationality, creativity and mixing of perspectives. Regular reports, such as on gender distribution, are used to evaluate the effectiveness of the management approach and related measures. Moreover, exchanges within networks or with other DAX-30 companies allow a comparison of develop­ ments against external benchmarks. Exchanges additionally provide insights on how effective certain measures are. For more than 20 years, the Group has had an officer responsi­ ble for equal opportunities, whose task and role is the strategic further development of this topic within the Group. In 2016, the Lufthansa Group launched a project for promoting women in managerial positions, which has since been used to initiate and implement measures aimed at increasing the share of women in supervisory positions (see page 66, Balance 2017). page 76 / Employees & society Goals and central action areas EMPLOYEES IN THE The Lufthansa Group pursues several goals with its diversityoriented personnel policy. The Company wants to even better LUFTHANSA GROUP take advantage of the enormous potential of the diversity that KEY DATA 2018 1 already exists among its roughly 135,000 employees, while simultaneously even further increasing diversity in profiles, competencies and experience up to the management level. 135,534 In addition to its explicit goal of strengthening and expanding its attractiveness as an employer, the aviation group aims at using diversity management to secure its competitiveness and future viability, increase its ability to innovate, facilitate access EMPLOYEES Group total to potential employee groups on the global labor market and further boost its distinctive customer orientation. The Lufthansa Group approaches the task of realizing diversity 45.9 % and equal opportunities in accordance with defined goals from several directions. For example, the Company wants to increase the share of women in management and improve the compati­ bility of work and family – two central goals in the area of FEMALE EMPLOYEES Group total gender diversity to ensure equality between men and women. 32.5 % Further items on the agenda are an even stronger international­ ization of staff and the inclusion of people with disabilities. SHARE OF WOMEN with staff responsibility Gender diversity 15.9 % SHARE OF WOMEN in management positions 6.2 % Company-wide, the Lufthansa Group employs nearly as many men as women. In management positions too, women have long been well-established. Nevertheless, it is especially at the SHARE OF WOMEN in the cockpit management level that their numbers should be increased. At the end of the reporting year, 15.9 percent (2017: 15.1 percent) of managers worldwide were women. 1,087 Ambitious goals were set against the background of imple­ menting the German Act on equal participation of men and women in executive positions in the public and private sectors. Beyond the legally required definition of target values for the APPRENTICES share of women on the management board and the first two management levels, the Lufthansa Group companies adopted shared target values. Each company contributes to reaching 150,000 these target values, while consideration is given to the respec­ tive external conditions. In 2016, the Lufthansa Group defined targets that are to be fulfilled by December 31, 2021. For Deutsche Lufthansa AG, the target value for the Executive JOB APPLICATIONS Board was set at 30 percent, for the management levels below the Executive Board at 20 percent for management level 1 and 1 as of December 31, 2018 LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 77 Currently, 15 percent of future pilots in training at the Lufthansa Group are female. 30 percent for management level 2. For the Lufthansa Group, introduced: first, a transparent applica­tion and selection the target value for management level 1 was set at 18 percent process; and second, the program was offered twice and thus and for management level 2 at 24 percent. The Group also allowed twice as many female talents to participate. From publishes all values and target quotas on its website. 2019, an additional new program is to be offered to female top coordinators who are on their way to their first team-leader The Lufthansa Group applies a broad portfolio of measures and positions. For many years, the Lufthansa Group has also support­ activities to increase the share of women in management ed female junior employees with cross-industry mentoring positions. For example, since 2015 a transparent job advertise­ and internal Female Network Events. ment process for management positions has been used and diversity criteria have been applied in filling vacancies. Within the Group, the concept of equal opportunities has been Moreover, a rotation policy ensures that the staff composition anchored in collective bargaining agreements for a long time. at the management level changes regularly and that enough The principle of “same pay for same performance” was applied open positions are available for qualified talents to rise to within the Lufthansa Group as long ago as the 1970s. the executive level. Collective wage agreements that can be consulted by all employees and company-wide non-tariff remuneration systems For administrative employees the aviation group has introduced are proof of this approach (see page 65, Balance 2018). a Group-wide standardized potential and performance data collection process with subsequent conferences in order to In 2018, increasing awareness for the issue of “unconscious create transparency and allow targeted rotation-related consul­ bias” was again an important building block in internal commu­ tations. The internal development and mentoring program nications. With the goal of identifying and reducing uncon­ “GoAhead” launched its fourth generation in 2018. It is address­ scious thinking patterns, all managers watch a short video ed at women who supervise teams and aim at a man­agement before making personnel decisions. In this way, personnel position. During the reporting year, two innovations were selection is to be as objective as possible. This measure was page 78 / Employees & society devel­oped in cooperation with the initiative “Chefsache” LGBTI network “Diversifly – we colour the air” launched (“A Matter for the Boss”). The Lufthansa Group’s goal is to promote a work environment in which all employees are able to develop their talents inde­ At the international level too, the Lufthansa Group supports pendently of their sexual orientation or identity and without the economic strength­ening of women from all countries and fear. During the reporting year, the long-established informal strata of society. To this end, personnel manager Martina LGBTI network was given a formal framework (LGBTI = lesbian, Niemann participated as Germany’s representative in the gay, bisexual, transgender and intersexual). Since then it has international Business Women Leaders’ Taskforce (BWLTF) operated under the name “Diversifly – we colour the air”. To in December 2018 at the G20 Summit in Buenos Aires. underscore the importance that is placed on a liberal-minded The BWLTF, which was founded in 2017, unites managers and and esteem-based corporate culture, the LGBTI network’s first supervisors who support promoting women in business. official event was supported in 2018. Another central Human Resource goal at the Lufthansa Group “Diversifly” acts not only as contact and mediator in cases of is to inspire more women to pursue careers in the cockpit. discrimination and conflicts, it also drives the development Today, 15 percent of future pilots in training are female. and implementation of measures and guidelines that prevent Lufthansa Aviation Training actively recruits additional female discrimination. Furthermore, the network has taken up the applicants. During the reporting year, the employment of cause of the internal and external exchange of experiences, female pilots at the Lufthansa Group passed its 30th anniver­ and it is also available as a sparring partner in the development sary. In 2018, their share among cockpit crews reached of new business ideas and projects focused on the LGBTI 6.2 percent (2017: 6.1 percent). target group. Additionally, the Lufthansa Group has advertised all vacancies by including the third gender since 2019. As an expression of its responsibility for enforcing the human rights of LGBTI employees, the Lufthansa Group also supports the UN Global LGBTI Standards of Conduct for Business. ↗ www.unfe.org/standards International Business Women Leaders’ Taskforce (BWLTF). Lufthansa HR manager Martina Niemann is Germany’s BWLTF representative. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 79 Varied activities (sabbaticals). To ease the re-entry into working life after paren­ The individual companies of the Lufthansa Group also tal leave, the Lufthansa Group has set up specific coaching. pursue the goal of gender diversity and equal opportunities The central element is a “business plan” that is jointly worked with vigor. For this purpose, they again successfully completed out by employee and supervisor before the beginning of numerous programs during the reporting year. For example, parental leave. It defines central aspects, such as the leave’s Lufthansa Cargo ran the program “cargo.ahead” to specifically duration, who assumes which tasks in the interim, how contact gain highly qualified employees from outside the aviation is maintained and how the employee remains informed with industry with an international career background for the regard to work content, and whether the employee returns on company. In addition, with “GROW!” and “female talent a full-time or part-time basis. program”, two internal continuing education programs were launched for female junior staff members. Ambitious female In Frankfurt, Lufthansa Group employees together with their employees were also the focus of the “LSG Group Female children have the use of three parent-child offices when there Leadership Program”, which prepares participants for future are difficulties with child care; in Hamburg one such office management roles. is available. Offers such as the summer school vacation care program “Luftikusse” in Frankfurt and Munich, “pme Eurowings gave the starting signal in 2018 for the first two Familienservice” at all German locations or the network rounds of a cross-mentoring program for women who envisage “Väter gGmbH” (“Fathers, Inc.”) were continued during 2018 a leadership position – in cooperation with the Cologne-based (see page 86 ff., Balance 2016). alliance MIT FRAUEN IN FÜHRUNG (In the lead with women), of which Eurowings has been a member. And SWISS con­ The topic of compatibility of work and caring for family mem­ ducted two scientific studies in cooperation with the School bers also plays an important role. In 2015, the Lufthansa Group of Management and Law at the International Management signed the “Charter for care” in the state of Hesse. In accor­ Institute (ZHAW). These aimed at developing measures and dance with the charter, the Group offers two regular care concepts for optimizing both corporate responsibility and consultation hours in Frankfurt – a service that employees in diversity management at SWISS in consideration of Hamburg and Munich have also been able to use since 2018. the aspects of gender and age. Programs aimed at making professional and private lives more compatible are also offered by the companies of the aviation Work-life integration group. Lufthansa Technik set up an “Innovation Classroom” in 2018. This seven-week personality coaching served to improve Traditional family and work models are undergoing change. stress resistance, for example. In 2019, Eurowings is coordi­ The Lufthansa Group supports its employees and managers by nating two dialogue events in cooperation with Cologne-based offering flexible work-time models, which accommodate this alliance MIT FRAUEN IN FÜHRUNG, including one on development and the related varying needs in different life “Leadership in part-time”. phases, for example with part-time and home-office options. For example, there are more than 100 different part-time models for cabin staff at Lufthansa alone. This allows not only Internationality a better equilibrium between professional and private demands, it also promotes employees’ motivation and health. The Group Given its diverse business segments with international provides detailed information about the concrete options locations and global business links, a broad range of cultural available on the intranet and in the context of various events. and linguistic diversity exists within the Lufthansa Group. The Numerous communication measures have contributed to in­­­­goal is to further strengthen this diversity, as it supports the creasing the transparency of offers and strengthening demand. Company’s business strategy with regard to future develop­ ments. Therefore, the aim is an even higher degree of diversity Furthermore, there are the options of filling managerial positions among its employees. To advance the internationalization of its in tandem (shared leadership) or taking limited time off work employees consistently, the Group launches new measures page 80 / Employees & society step-by-step, such as the development of a Group-wide At the end of 2018, the employment rate for people with transfer guideline or even more internationality in the context severe disabilities at the Lufthansa Group in Germany stood at of trainee and internship programs. 4.3 percent (2017: 4.3 percent). While some Group companies, such as LSG Sky Chefs, reach employment rates of up to Outside of Germany, the Lufthansa Group specifically hires 20 percent and thus overfulfill the legally defined minimum local employees and supports them adequately in order to quota of 5 percent, the employment share of disabled people enable the sharing of know-how between regions and business at the passenger airlines is significantly lower, in part due to segments by means of selective transfers on the one hand, and legal requirements. Therefore, the Lufthansa Group also takes to promote employees’ individual development and the creation advantage of other ways of supporting people with disabilities, of intercultural competencies on the other. such as placing orders with Werkstätten für Behinderte Rhein-Main (see page 95). Further social projects within the Group companies include cooperation with the National Inclusion Paralympic Committee Germany (DBS). For the Lufthansa Group, employment and inclusion of people with disabilities is not only a legal obligation, it also fulfills a social responsibility and is thus an important goal of personnel policy. The Group is committed to promoting people with disabilities professionally and treating them fairly and caringly. Measures designed to include people with disabilities are discussed and advanced in regular dialogue events involving top management, HR management and representatives of the severely disabled. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 81 EMPLOYMENT POLICY BASED ON PARTNERSHIP ↗ GRI 102-41 The Lufthansa Group’s success depends greatly on the ideas, The Lufthansa Group’s goal is to conclude long-term and enthusiasm and commitment of its employees. Therefore, economically viable agreements with its union partners (see the aviation company attaches the greatest importance to Annual Report 2018, page 23). This allows sustainable success, providing its employees with an attractive work environment the ability to plan, and security, for the Company and its and appropriate salaries. In this context, the goal is always employees alike. The guidelines for this joint effort are flexibility to find an equilibrium between the Company’s economic and the ability to react with sensitivity. interests and the employees’ expectations. By developing appropriate standards in personnel policy, the Lufthansa Group positions itself as an employer acting with integrity and in Active pay and social policy responsible ways. Its successful personnel policy is character­ ized group-wide by a proactive approach in a business in Germany and abroad environment increasingly shaped by digitalization, flexibility and agile structures as well as the tightening of existing and Internationalization and globalization offer a broad range the increase of new statutory regulations. Taking into account of opportunities for the Group’s business and personnel the dynamic development of social, political and legal processes. As a company with international operations, the frameworks while integrating social requirements is indis­Lufthansa Group’s pay and social policies are guided by pens­able in this context. The goal is to ensure sustainable, conditions in the various countries. The focus is on the longfuture-oriented work structures and tailor-made resource term definition of the conditions of employment, which management at the Lufthansa Group. depend on the needs of the employees, operational require­ ments, and the local labor market – with the inclusion of compensation rules, working conditions, and pension schemes. Partnership in collective agreements The Lufthansa Group defines these agreements in cooperation with internal labor committees and employee representatives. It is tried-and-tested Company policy to settle clashes of The Company is a party to collective wage bargaining interests between Company management and the bodies with employees in about 25 countries. In all countries where representing employees in a transparent manner. A fair Lufthansa acts unilaterally, the Company uses benchmarks and approach to coexistence in all areas creates the balance macroeconomic data such as inflation figures to review salaries needed to advance the Lufthansa Group’s position in usually once a year on the basis of market and competitiveness the market. The Lufthansa Group employs its staff under criteria. In countries with very high rates of inflation, this conditions that guarantee them social and material security. assessment, which usually leads to pay increases, is performed In Germany, almost all Group companies are party to more often, in accordance with circumstances. In this way collective wage agreements (nearly 100 percent). These are the Lufthansa Group offers continual review and adjustment of established on the basis of collective agreements that the working conditions for its locally employed staff. As a signatory Company negotiates with its union partners Vereinte to the UN Global Compact and supporter of the UN’s Dienstleistungs­gewerkschaft (ver.di), Vereinigung Cockpit Sustainable Development Goals, the Lufthansa Group has (VC), and Unabhängige Flugbegleiter Organisation e. V. (UFO). documented its support for freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining for all of its employees worldwide in its Code of Conduct (see info box page 32). Employees in any country where Lufthansa companies are active are free to page 82 / Employees & society lawfully organize themselves and become involved in defining In contrast to the comprehensive survey, the quick check their working conditions. For the reporting year 2018, it is concentrates on updating the central index values relating to assumed that no business activity within the Lufthansa Group commitment, leadership and health as well as on questions jeopardized the free exercise of employees’ rights concerning concerning the Group Executive Board. The quick check their freedom of association and right to collective bargaining. specifically poses questions concerning positive changes, as the focus is also to be shifted to the effectiveness of measures implemented in the individual companies. The results of the employee survey are also reported to the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board. At management level and broken down for individual teams, the results are communicated and discussed in order to derive and implement strategic measures for the entire Lufthansa Group and indivi­ dual organizational units. Employee survey “involve me!” Employer attractiveness: Engagement Index provides transparency Regular employee surveys are an important instrument for The results of “involve me!” also serve as basis for the the Lufthansa Group to measure employee commitment, calculation of the Health Index (HI) (see page 88), Leadership identify action fields and initiate change where needed Index (LI) and Engagement Index (EI). The EI indicates to which (see Balance 2018, page 67, interview Claudia Rautenberg). degree employees feel committed to the Group, to which degree they are willing to lend their support to their employer, In 2015, the Lufthansa Group conducted “involve me!”, its first and how much they are inclined to recommend the Company to standardized, voluntary employee survey. Since then, the others. It also gives insights into the Group’s attractiveness number of participating companies has increased step-by-step as an employer and allows comparisons with other employers and was extended in 2018 to the significant Group companies across industry lines. The result is indicated on a scale from (with the exception of the LSG Group locations abroad). 1 (best value) to 5 (lowest value). On the basis of the results of this survey, management is able During the reporting year 2018, the Lufthansa Group achieved to directly compare data from the individual Group companies an Engagement Index of 2.2. Compared with the preceding and engage in a transparent, Group-wide dialogue. In 2018, year, the EI again improved by 0.1 points and reached the employees had the opportunity to respond to questions from target value projected for 2020 two years earlier than expect­ four thematic areas. At 53 percent, the response rate was ed. The index has now reached the average level of comparable slightly higher than that of the previous year (51 percent). companies in Germany. The Lufthansa Group is aware of Every third employee gave additional feedback in more than the fact that merely measuring employee commitment is not 25,600 constructive comments in this context. While a enough. The greatest challenge comes after the survey is reduced set of questions (so-called quick check) was given completed. Progress can only be achieved if concrete measures to the employees in the survey carried out during the reporting are derived from the survey results and employees can thus year 2018, a comprehensive employee survey will again be see that the Group takes their responses seriously (see conducted in 2019. This alternating cycle corresponds to the page 27 f., Stakeholder dialogue). In parallel to determining the established practice. Engagement Index, the Lufthansa Group again calculated the Leadership Index (LI), which is oriented by the Group’s five Leadership Principles (see page 73, Balance 2015). During the reporting year, the LI reached 2.1 and was thus at the favorable level of the preceding year. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 83 The myTurn offer was available from September 2018 to February 2019, complemented existing programs (see page 90, Balance 2016) and also comprised newly developed advice and compensation products. A significant component of myTurn Program to support voluntary was the broad­based dialogue between managers and employees. In orien­ professional reorientation tation talks, about 3,200 em­ The Lufthansa Group is in a continuous process of moderniza­ ployees discussed their personal perspectives and future options 3,200 tion (see page 74, The ability to transform) and in this context with their supervisors. After ORIENTATION TALKS offers its employees attractive options for voluntary profes­ these talks, each employee could sional reorientation. During the reporting year, the program opt for participating in a profes­ “myTurn” was launched, which addressed administrative sional consultation on available employees of Deutsche Lufthansa AG in Germany. The goal was perspectives. As with previous pro­ to create a movement that would help develop existing em­ grams, the “double voluntary” principle was applied to myTurn: ployees for new positions, both internal and external, and at no employee was obliged to accept an offer and no employee the same time allow recruitment of new talents with important could make a claim for one. A total of more than 1,700 employ­ future­oriented competencies from the outside. ees took advantage of consultative sessions. Of these, more than 300 employees opted for one of the products offered for professional reorientation outside the Lufthansa Group, such as starting up a company or self­employed business, a course of study or a bridge model for transitioning into retirement. page 84 / Employees & society TALENT MANAGEMENT The fascination for jobs within the Lufthansa Group is unabat­ed: “Profile”. It is based on the Group’s five Leadership Principles during the reporting year, about 150,000 applications were and allows the Company to evaluate how effective the submitted and the Group has received top positions in re­ measures concerning talent management are and to which nowned employer rankings for many years. This also applies to degree goals were reached. In the reporting year 2018, about the German ranking of employers, which is based on a repre­ 16,500 employees within the Lufthansa Group completed sentative evaluation by the renowned market research institute or started the standardized performance and talent process. YouGov and comprises more than 200 companies. After it took Profile, and the related platform “eProfile”, were rolled out third place the preceding year, the Lufthansa Group ranked step-by-step for additional employee groups and companies second on average during the reporting year. The aviation during the reporting year. group’s goal is to continuously rank among the five most popular employers in Germany. Making talents visible To gain qualified and motivated personnel for all management and employee levels, talent management has a key role in The Lufthansa Group’s talent management is addressed at all the Group’s HR strategy. In the organizational structure it is employees and is not limited to vertical promotions. It makes a anchored via responsibilities, which were clearly defined significant contribution to supporting defined competencies, in the context of the Group’s process-oriented reorganization. to identifying talents for specific job families and to broadening The topic is regularly on the agendas of the Executive Board, different career paths. The formats range from trainee and HR Board and Supervisory Board; these committees can thus mentoring programs to initiatives at the top management level. initiate adaptations and complementary actions when needed. In this context, strategic personnel planning always takes the Beyond that, regular exchanges within networks ensure the employees’ different life phases into account. It is an essential validation of such measures. goal for the Lufthansa Group to fill all positions on the lower management level potentially with its own talents. In 2014, the Lufthansa Group implemented its talent manage­ ment philosophy under the motto “Every employee has talent!” During the reporting year, the Lufthansa Group introduced (see page 83 f., Balance 2015). It gives all employees the the platform-based Company-wide program “Makers of opportunity to shape their own careers in the Group according Tomorrow”. Its goal is to set up a visibility and development to their individual talents and interests. A standardized Groupprogram for those talents below the top management level wide potential identification process and subsequent training who shape the future – without limiting formal criteria such programs help them to do so. This both increases transparency as working for a particular Group company or completed and brings talents to the fore. Employees are thus encouraged university studies. The selection was made on the basis of in their own responsibility and managers are able to identify future-relevant abilities and competencies as well as sugges­ potentials and support these in concrete ways. In this process, tions and evaluations from colleagues. Fifty of the more than the Lufthansa Group places great emphasis on diversity and 1,200 applicants worldwide were included in the program. equal opportunities. It is one of the Group’s particular concerns The participants receive an individual career plan and access to promote the career development of female talents and to an internal Lufthansa Group network. “Makers of Tomorrow” to ensure a balanced proportion between men and women in has been continued in 2019. management positions (see page 76 ff., Diversity and equal opportunities). Another important format is the visibility platform “Spotlight on Talent”, introduced in 2016 (see page 70, Balance 2018). Meaningful data on the development of the Lufthansa Group’s The annual process aims not only at giving talents in specific employees has been provided annually since 2014 by the job families more visibility across all boundaries of companies internal performance and talent assessment instrument within the Group. It also gives the Lufthansa Group an overview LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 85 of the talent situation in job families that are particularly in management level. This also includes the concept of “shared demand. In addition to the areas finance, legal and procure­ leadership”, in which two employees who both work part-time ment, the IT and personnel areas have also participated in the fill one managerial role “in tandem”. The Group always has an visibility platform since 2018. eye firmly on women who aspire to a management position. For example, the internal development and mentoring program In 2018, the Lufthansa Group advanced the expansion of “GoAhead” is addressed to them (see page 78, Diversity and its trainee program “ProTeam”. The primary focus is on aligning equal opportunities). ProTeam, together with the trainee programs of other Group companies such as StartCargo or StartTechnik, even more In 2018, the Lufthansa Group fundamentally renewed and de­cisively with the process organization. For this purpose, adapted its long-standing program for managers to current cross-company standardizations are to be established, requirements. In addition to the willingness to act as an especially in the area HR Marketing, Employer Branding and influencer within the organization, another prerequisite for Recruiting. Implementation is expected to be completed participation is proven openness to change. in 2020. Additionally, managers have the option of completing practical assignments in operative customer contact once a year. The Development of managers program “Dive Into the Ops” provides opportunities for doing so. It aims at generating a deeper understanding of customer A further important building block in the Lufthansa Group’s needs and expectations by interacting with employees talent management is the long-term orientation of developing in operative areas and making a contribution to improved managers. It ensures that talents with potential are identified, customer and employee orientation. individually supported and retained by the Company. In this way, critical key positions can be filled quickly and the potential In addition to the promotional and development measures for loss of know-how can be avoided. employees and managers, the Lufthansa Group sets the course for innovative forms of collaboration. For example, the To take the life realities of managers and relevant young talents work area of the Executive Board’s member for personnel into account, for some years the Lufthansa Group has offered at the Lufthansa Aviation Center in Frankfurt was specifically the option of flexible work-time models for employees at the remodeled to make it a “collaboration workspace” (Q-Lab). The Makers of Tomorrow Event “You are awesome” addressed applicants of the Lufthansa Group’s talent program. page 86 / Employees & society This new space promotes agile forms of cooperation and forms the basis for the swift development of focus themes and projects in cross-functional HR teams. About 3,500 employees used the Q-Lab during the reporting year. Optimized recruiting for cockpit and cabin To accelerate and modernize the recruiting process in order to gain more and better applicants within the shortest time possible – this is the goal of a large-scale digitalization project that the airlines of the Lufthansa Group, HR Recruiting and The Q-Lab at the Lufthansa Aviation Center facilitates agile and crossLufthansa Aviation Training (LAT) launched in July 2018. It aims departmental work styles. at winning more than 5,000 applicants annually and training 500 future pilots at the flying schools of the European Flight Academy. Simultaneously, the standardized platform is to make a contribution to actively guiding applications between REALIGNMENT OF EMPLOYER BRANDING the Group airlines and thus to realize synergies, for example in the selection of suitable applicants. The platform successfully During the reporting year, the Lufthansa Group fundamentally revised went live for the first time in January 2019. This digital trans­ its long-existing career portal and all channels and websites. Thus, formation project is part of the newly set up Lufthansa Group be-lufthansa.com has featured a fresh design and new functions Lean Program, which is expected to conclude during the since the end of 2018. Another innovation: be-Lufthansa is to become first half of 2019. ↗ lufthansagroup.careers in the future. Furthermore, Lufthansa Aviation Training comprehensively Unlike in the past, the Lufthansa Group predefines only the framework revised basic training for flight attendants, both from a content on its career platform, while company-specific content, images and and a technical perspective. As a result, training has more colors permit the Group companies to present their own characteristic strongly incorporated megatrends such as digitalization, employer environments. The goal is to become significantly more connectivity and individualization since 2018, a development visible on the application market. Beyond that, the aviation group not from which future Lufthansa cabin crews will benefit as well. only wants to shift the focus to the diversity and strengths that are Modern tablets are now the central focus, as well as teaching characteristic of specific business segments and their individual tools at the training locations Frankfurt and Munich. Another companies, but it also wants to further strengthen the positioning of innovation is the option for future flight attendants to regionally oriented Group brands. That the reorganization of employer choose the time, place and location for individual learning branding has been successful is shown by the fact that the activities phases themselves. In addition, personal tutors are at their of the Lufthansa Group have an increasing resonance in social media sides, online and offline, to answer their questions. and career networks, among other indications. In the interest of up-to-date personnel acquisition and to avoid staffing bottlenecks, the Group also operates “Active Sourcing” via external recruiting platforms. In connection with other social media channels, it takes advantage of the opportunities yielded by (inter)active communications with potential qualified employees and managerial staff. Under the formats “Talent Hub” and “Alumni Network” (see page 71, Balance 2017) the Lufthansa Group maintains contact with former employees. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 87 OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH MANAGEMENT Occupational safety and health protection are central action visibility and to assume responsibility in this area. They act areas for the Lufthansa Group. Their development is jointly as established contacts within their companies and as an managed by the Medical Services (including psychosocial interface with the overall health management. counseling) as well as the Group occupational safety and health management functions. To promote employee health, Through the program Health Management@Lufthansa Group the areas involved have implemented various measures through the Company has integrated health aspects into existing, which the Group not only fulfills its duty of care, but also makes general processes and instruments, and implemented measures an important contribution to being an attractive employer. in a specific manner. This includes counseling offers and information events for employees and managers alike. These Megatrends such as globalization, competition and digital­ address focal themes with Group-wide relevance, such as ization are particular challenges for organizations such as stress management and recovery capacities; additionally, the Lufthansa Group and its employees. In addition, there are various seminars and learning modules are available. To com­ internal challenges such as an increasing need for flexibility plement these options, the Lufthansa Group introduced a and restructuring, and the lack of qualified staff. The digital eHealth platform with numerous internal and external Lufthansa Group’s comprehensive approach to health and health offers in January 2019. These are initially available to all safety accompanies megatrends in society and supports ground staff in Germany and then will be rolled out step-byinternal changes. The goal is to safeguard its employees’ step to additional employee groups. health and motivation and to secure the Lufthansa Group’s future viability over the long term. Logically, the Group rated Health Management coordinates and manages the central health protection as “very important” in its 2018 materiality steering committee “Health”, a forum which meets at regular analysis (see page 31). intervals and includes representatives of the largest Group companies, employee representatives, occupational safety and disabled employees’ representatives as well as experts from the medical and psychosocial areas. Health Index As the primary performance indicator for measuring the overall Health Management health-related sense of well-being among all employees, the Lufthansa Group compiled the Health Index again in 2018. To further develop health protection Group-wide, the The results are based on the responses to relevant questions in Company successfully launched the three-year program the employee survey “involve me!” (see page 83). They serve to Health Management@Lufthansa Group in 2016. At the end identify aspects of work that require adjustment and provide a of the reporting year, the health management function was basis to develop focused measures to strengthen individual transferred into the line organization. The goal of the health resources and to minimize the risk of inappropriate Group-wide health management is to maintain employees’ physical strain. As with the Engagement Index, the Health Index health and their ability to perform long-term and sustainably, results are communicated to top management, team managers and to encourage them to treat their health as a personal and the entire workforce. responsibility (empowerment). Furthermore, the key Group companies named more than 35 occupational health officers. The Health Index is depicted on a scale from 1 (best) to 5 Their task is to give the topics of health and well-being greater (worst). In 2018, it declined slightly by 0.1 to 2.4, which does not deviate significantly from the previous year’s value of 2.3. page 88 / Employees & society Medical Service Group occupational safety The Medical Service has a key role in the Lufthansa Group’s Group occupational safety ensures all employees’ health concept of occupational safety and health protection. and safety on the job. The goal of this function is to prevent Its permanent core task is to secure and improve the Group accidents, health risks and occupational illnesses at the employees’ ability to perform and thus ensure reliable business Lufthansa Group. The Company’s occupational safety experts activities and flight operations. check all professional activities as well as technical or infra­ structural set-ups by means of risk assessments and safety Medical Services at Lufthansa, SWISS and Austrian Airlines inspections at the individual Group companies in accordance are holistic centers of excellence, permanently offering a full with the regulations. range of services. This includes aviation and occupational medicine, vaccinations and travel medicine, outpatient care, Based on results thus obtained as well as legal requirements, a comprehensive social and medical advisory service, and Group occupational safety consistently implements and other preventive and healthcare treatments. Beyond these continuously develops preventive measures, such as the use individual treatments, Medical Services provide advice to of personal protective gear and various types of operating decision-makers, committees and employee representatives equipment, or conducting measurements of pollutants. In the concerning all issues of occupational health and safety. same way, standardized and binding minimum standards are established that are applicable for all employees worldwide. In fall 2018, the requirements associated with the amendment of the German Civil Aviation Act were met with the introduction Obligatory and regular training sessions for employees as well of a central interface with Germany’s federal aviation admin­as specialized and target-group oriented campaigns contribute is­tration for the transfer of pilots’ medical data. As a result, to raising awareness among employees and managers; this Deutsche Lufthansa AG fulfills the legal requirements for all approach also contributes to a sustainable safety culture. three medical centers. Low numbers of work-related accidents and occupational illnesses at the Lufthansa Group are a measure of success for Following comprehensive preparation and training for em­ medical and technical aspects of occupational safety and ployees to become quality management officers, the successful occupational hygiene. recertification of all locations and functions was completed in August 2018 in accordance with the quality management In addition to other legally required committees, a central system DIN ISO 9001:2015 (previously 2008). Many processes committee meets at regular intervals. The Occupational Safety were adapted, standardized and optimized in this context; this Committee (OSC) steers, bundles and monitors all issues process of evolution is pursued continuously. related to job safety within the Lufthansa Group. In Germany, occupational safety committees with employer Psychological and psychosocial factors also have a highly and employee representation are active at all relevant locations significant influence on health, safety and performance levels of the Lufthansa Group. In close cooperation they optimize in work settings. For this reason, the Lufthansa Group has processes and agree on measures to improve job safety. offered its employees, teams and organizational units individual counseling and mediation services under the obligation to In 2019, Group occupational safety is focusing especially maintain confidentiality, as well as different services of psycho­ on digital change and its influence on possible work-related social organizational counseling for more than 30 years. health risks. In this context, factors such as psychological stress on the job are evaluated from a technical and economic Beyond the obligatory features in the area of health protection, perspective; the possible use of modern technologies and the Lufthansa Group offers its employees a wide range of new products for health-oriented and ergonomic design of preventive measures on a voluntary basis, both for administra­ work environments are also assessed. tive and flying personnel. These measures and campaigns are widely communicated within the Company. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 89 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP As an aviation group with international activities, the by educational projects worldwide, which are bundled and Lufthansa Group also assumes responsibility for social and coordinated by the help alliance, the Lufthansa Group’s chari­ societal issues. Since 2016, the Company has been guided table aid organization (see page 93 f.). in particular by the United Nations’ global Sustainable Devel­op­ ment Goals (see page 32 f.) and concentrates especially on In the reporting year 2018, the Lufthansa Group launched the the core themes Education / Enabling and Life / Health. further development of its corporate citizenship concept at the Network Airlines’ hubs. Essentially, this implies establishing The Lufthansa Group’s stakeholders expect a comprehensive or expanding local help alliance projects as well as supporting social commitment (corporate citizenship) that reflects the additional regional projects, at first in Germany and with a Group’s importance and size, and that is transparent, credible reference to the Lufthansa Group, all oriented by the topic area and comprehensible at the same time. To meet this expecta­ Education / Enabling. Implementation will begin in 2019. In this tion, responsible thinking and practice go far beyond the context, Deutsche Lufthansa AG has increased its annual aviation group’s operative business activities. donation amount for the help alliance by 800,000 euros. The emphasis in the topic area Education / Enabling is on This commitment is complemented by a number of further aid helping disadvantaged people to be able to lead successful, projects supported by the Group airlines and Aviation Services healthy and self-determined lives. This is above all facilitated (see illustration on this page). Beyond that, the aviation group Alignment of the Lufthansa Group’s corporate citizenship Central pillar of The Lufthansa Group’s charitable aid organization currently combines more than 40 projects worldwide corporate citizenship under its roof ↗ www.helpalliance.org The Lufthansa Group is Education / Enabling Life / Health committed to these areas In addition to the emphasis on education and training, Professional and fast emergency aid during humanitarian the help alliance also supports business approaches crises and catastrophes. Lufthansa Cargo cooperates (entrepreneurship). with renowned aid organizations for this purpose. The projects are divided into Global flagship projects Local projects at the large Decentralized commitments specific Company locations to certain business segments Goal of commitment Make a measurable contribution to sustainable Expand corporate volunteering option social development for employees page 90 / Employees & society The help alliance supports about 23,000 people worldwide every year, including at iThemba in South Africa, its largest project. respects the wish of its stakeholders to continue its support for such extreme cases. Lufthansa Cargo supported humanitarian the protection of the crane – the Lufthansa Group’s heraldic campaigns on numer­ous occasions in the past by transporting bird (see Balance 2018, page 81). Selected partnerships are relief supplies (see illustration page 98 f., Balance 2016). To maintained in the socially relevant areas of culture and sports. ensure that first aid in the event of crises or catastrophes can be launched quickly, the Lufthansa Group’s logistics specialist A significant component of the Lufthansa Group’s approach cooperates closely with renowned aid organizations. to corporate citizenship is the selected social commitment of its employees. For this reason, the corporate volunteering This includes Germany’s Red Cross (DRK), with which activities and other participation formats are closely connected Lufthansa Cargo signed a cooperation agreement at the end of to the HR strategy. The Lufthansa Group continuously devel­ 2016. The goal of this cooperation is to accelerate and simplify ops the concepts of these offers. In the future, Lufthansa Group the preparation of aid flights. This cooperation sustainably employees are to have the opportunity to spend a defined improves the effective support and provision for people in amount of their time getting involved in new help alliance need in crisis and catastrophe situations. Additionally, at the projects in Germany during working hours. end of 2016 the freight airline signed an agreement in principle with Airlink. This non-commercial humanitarian aid organization Within the topic area Life / Health, for many years the Group was founded in 2010 by employees of the International has provided emergency aid to humanitarian crises and Society of Transport Aircraft Trading Foundation (ISTAT). At the catastrophes by means of dedicated flights. Swift action and beginning of 2013, Lufthansa Cargo entered into a long-term logistical know-how are decisive factors to be able to help partnership agreement with the emergency aid association victims of natural catastrophes and humanitarian crises imme­ “Aktion Deutschland Hilft”. Under the motto “Helping faster, diately and effectively. Given its expertise as an aviation group together” the preconditions were set up to be prepared for with international activities, the Lufthansa Group is able at any humanitarian emergency situations at any time and to allow time to provide transport capacities aboard its freight aircraft in swift implementation of a worldwide logistics chain. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 91 Four questions for SUSANNE FRENCH Lufthansa purser and project coordinator of the help alliance project iThemba in South Africa to receive so much support. For a few months iThemba has been receiving support from Austrian Airlines. In addition, crews regularly visit our pupils, which is great for the children. As a linking force, the help alliance is not to be underestimated. Every Lufthansa Group employee can contribute, by getting involved directly, visiting, payroll giving or as a permanent donor. This strengthens the collective spirit. YOU HEAD THE HELP ALLIANCE PROJECT ITHEMBA. WHAT ARE YOUR TASKS AND WHAT IS THIS PROJECT ABOUT? HOW IMPORTANT IS CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP FOR A COMPANY SUCH AS THE LUFTHANSA GROUP? In the context of this project, since 2006 we have looked after underprivileged children in Cape Town’s townships and given Given the enormous problems in the world, the importance them access to high­quality preschool education. As the of corporate citizenship is rising. Young, well­educated people primary responsible project coordinator, I oversee very diverse in particular are paying increasing attention to a potential tasks. To begin with, there is fundraising, which includes employer’s social commitment. This type of commitment linked negotiations with the ministry and the school authority. I am a with our Company’s international character is a perfect combi­ member of the committee that selects and hires new teachers, nation. We receive support from many business segments and and also of the School Governing Body where I make decisions subsidiary companies. The project connects Lufthansa Group concerning the school together with the other members. employees and together we achieve more for iThemba and For a short while I have been supported by Christian Haude, the underprivileged children it serves. a former volunteer at iThemba. After all, project coordination tasks are rather extensive and we do this work as volunteers. WHAT ARE THE NEXT STEPS FOR THE PROJECT? WHY ARE YOU COMMITTED TO THE HELP ALLIANCE? We will be busy with construction work well into next year. Once that is completed, we would like to realize our original As a purser I get around a lot and see where help is needed. goal, which is a community college. We will then open the The way the help alliance is set up, it does offer something school for high­school dropouts and for parents in the after­ special. It gives me the unique opportunity as a Lufthansa noons and evenings, giving them the opportunity to catch up employee to work as a project coordinator. Beyond that, trans­ on subjects they may have missed. Nothing strengthens parency is important to me and I would not want to support an people more than good education. This is the only effective organization with a heavy administration. It is also wonderful weapon against exploitation and abuse. page 92 / Employees & society The Lufthansa Group’s humanitarian emergency aid also benefits from the long­term experience of freight airline Lufthansa Cargo in the area of charters. Thanks to “network­ on­demand”, aid consignments can be transported swiftly, professionally and flexibly to any destination within or outside the network of the Lufthansa Group Airlines. ON-BOARD COLLECTION PROGRAM help alliance: Closer to the world. “SMALL CHANGE – IT’S A BIG HELP” Closer to its people. With the goal of creating a bridge towards a better life for people in need, in 2001 the help alliance The help alliance is the Lufthansa Group’s central corporate launched the onboard collection program “Small citizenship pillar. The charitable aid organization acts as a change – it’s a big help”. It offers passengers aboard catalyst for greater social engagement, combining proven Lufthansa Group long­haul flights the option to projects initiated by employees with the power and network donate coins and banknotes in any currency. of the Lufthansa Group. Defined criteria ensure that the Small, sealable donation envelopes are available in supported projects are sustainable. The importance of the the seat pockets for this purpose; they are collected help alliance is emphasized by the fact that the company by flight attendants and forwarded to the reports to the Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO. help alliance. Remaining currency can also be The focus on social and humanitarian projects in the field deposited in donation pillars placed in employee of Education / Enabling makes it possible to deploy the areas, Lufthansa lounges at German and selected available funding in an efficient and targeted way. The main international airports as well as the public areas objective is to help disadvantaged people lead a successful, at the Frankfurt and Munich hubs. healthy and self­sufficient life. This help primarily takes the form of educational opportunities. In 2018, the Lufthansa Group covered all of the costs of admin­ DEVELOPMENT OF DONATION istration, project assistance, fundraising and communication VOLUMES IN EUROS at help alliance gGmbH. This ensures that 100 percent of all 267,223 other donations can be used to fund aid projects. This also applies to voluntary donations made via salary deduction by 2018 employees of the Lufthansa Group. The option of the so­called 2017 283,127 payroll giving, introduced in April 2017, is initially open to about 2016 283,605 80,000 employees and retirees who are covered by the Lufthansa Group’s joint payroll system. 2015 362,662 2014 497,823 October 2002: Start of Condor’s participation July 2012: Start of Austrian Airlines’ participation November 2017: Start of Edelweiss Air’s participation May 2019: Start of Eurowings’ participation LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 93 Support for 23,000 people worldwide In the reporting year, the help alliance was responsible for 41 aid projects with a volume of 2 million euros and helped some 23,000 people around the world. Continuous monitoring and regular evaluations of projects according to a predefined catalogue of criteria ensure that the supported projects and Cargo Human Care programs improve the life situations of children, their families and the community in an effective and sustainable way, and In May 2007, employees of Lufthansa Cargo, together with that project funds are used effectively and efficiently. German physicians, founded the humanitarian aid association Cargo Human Care (CHC). The basic idea was – and remains – One focus was once again on the biggest help alliance project to help destitute people as well as impoverished and under­ so far, the “iThemba” project in South Africa, which enables privileged orphans in Nairobi in uncomplicated, professional children in the Capricorn township of Cape Town to receive and sustainable ways. The focus of this charitable commitment a high-quality primary education (see interview page 92). is on providing medical care, education and accommodation. The iThemba primary school was opened in January 2018 and The Executive Board of Lufthansa Cargo has supported the teaches more than 100 children in three classes. With this aid project from the start. project, the help alliance makes an intensive commitment to Sustainable Development Goal number 4, “high-quality Furthermore, Cargo Human Care is actively involved in many education”, as defined in the United Nations Agenda 2030. other areas and projects, and continuously expands its In the help alliance project “Broadening Horizons”, 30 young commitment. For example, in September 2017 the association people from the socially disadvantaged area around Sao Paulo signed the contracts for the construction of the Happy Child International Airport in Brazil successfully completed their Education Centre (HCEC), located in the Kabiria slum area training as bakers and pastry chefs during the reporting year. of Nairobi. On January 21, 2019, the HCEC was officially Ten of them were immediately hired by LSG Sky Chefs. The inaugurated and has since then provided a school education initiative was supported by employees from different areas for 100 children from the surrounding area who lacked access within the Lufthansa Group, who acted as mentors. to schooling. Financing was provided equally by CHC, ↗ www.helpalliance.org help alliance and Regine Sixt Kinderhilfe Stiftung. ↗ www.cargohumancare.de With its project iThemba, the help alliance gives children in the Capricorn The Happy Child Education Centre, opened in January 2019 in a slum district township in Cape Town access to high-quality pre-school education. in Nairobi, offers a school education to 100 children. page 94 / Employees & society Further social projects within the Group companies SWISS BRUSSELS AIRLINES • Similar to the Lufthansa Group’s approach, philanthropic commitments • Brussels Airlines set up the initiative b.foundation for Africa in focus on supporting children and young people; both in Switzerland, 2010 and has since then supported humanitarian projects on the its home market, and internationally. African continent. • The airline has supported SOS Children’s Villages Switzerland since • In addition to supporting the social commitment of its employees, its foundation – among other measures with flight tickets and on-board the airline also backs a number of non-profit organizations. collections of funds in coins. • Funds donated benefit projects located at SWISS destinations. LUFTHANSA CARGO • In cooperation with the Foundation ProJuventute, SWISS made it • Cargo Human Care e. V. (see page 94) possible for children and adolescents from the Zurich region to • For more than 35 years there has been a close cooperation with experience the airline and airport first-hand during the summer vacation. “Werkstätten für Behinderte Rhein-Main e. V.” (Workshops for the The Foundation’s goal is to energetically support adolescents in their Disabled, WfB Rhein-Main) in producing lashing straps used for development towards becoming self-confident and responsible adults. loading cargo aboard aircraft. WfB Rhein-Main’s goal is to give people • In its procurement process, SWISS takes special suppliers into with disabilities an opportunity to participate in working life and to consideration: every year, SWISS orders about 2,000 Business Class integrate them into the job market. and 300 First Class clothes hangers from the Foundation “Orte zum • With a current order volume of almost 1.2 million euros, Lufthansa Cargo Leben” (“Places to Live”). The foundation offers people with disabilities is the largest manufacturing customer at WfB Rhein-Main, thus a place to live and work, and operates a carpenter’s workshop, among securing more than 120 jobs at the workshop. others. The Foundation Pigna, a workshop for people with disabilities • The association was certified in 2016 by the European Aviation Safety in Kloten, looks after cleaning and readying for use about one million Agency (EASA) as development company and by Germany’s Federal onboard headphones a year for SWISS. Aviation Office (LBA) as manufacturing company. WfB Rhein-Main is thus one of only six manufacturers worldwide that produce lashing AUSTRIAN AIRLINES straps certified according to the highest standards. • Concentration on social projects in central and eastern Europe. • The cooperation is to be intensified in 2019. • The focus is on renowned organizations such as “Global 2000”, “Help for Children from Belarus”, and “Alliance for Children”. LSG GROUP • In the framework of the initiative “Flygreener”, discarded airplane • Its regionally varying commitment includes educational projects, blankets, crew suitcases, and mattresses from crew restrooms are health promotion and sports events, among others. donated to charitable organizations. EUROWINGS • May 2019: start of participation in help alliance’s on-board collection program on Eurowings long-haul routes. • The donations collected at the Christmas party raffle 2017 and from tickets for the carnival party 2018 were increased by management to 36,000 euros and donated to Kinderund Jugendhospiz Balthasar (Children and Youth’s Hospice Balthasar). LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 95 04 Key points on PRODUCT & CUSTOMER page 96 Customers are always the center of attention at the Lufthansa Group. Their satisfaction is a primary concern at all times. The aviation company aims at providing its passengers with perfect service and making ﬂying in all its facets a sustainably positive experience. Against this background, the goal is to assess the Company’s offers and products along the entire travel chain on a continuous basis with the aim of optimizing them. This includes punctuality and reliability in particular. For this reason, the Lufthansa Group has intensiﬁed its cooperation with system partners in order to increase and secure operational stability over the long term. Flight safety and health protection always have top priority in this context. To implement this fundamental standard without qualiﬁcation, all airlines within the Lufthansa Group operate comprehensive safety management systems. Equally important are data protection and data security as a basis for trusting business relationships. Customer orientation and a focus on quality are the Lufthansa Group’s strategic cornerstones. Regular surveys and a continuous dialogue with passengers help to learn as much as possible about customer needs and to include them in the development of innovative offers. Signiﬁcant investments in a modern and efﬁcient Group ﬂeet, more comfort on board, numerous product innovations, and digital offers ensure that ﬂying is becoming more and more attractive and sustainable for the Lufthansa Group’s customers. And the high level of commitment to product responsibility is being honored: in 2018 the airlines and service companies again received numerous prizes and awards. (→ PAGE 98 FF.) LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 97 PRODUCT AND SERVICES A high level of customer orientation is indispensable for a Eurowings Group lies with the Customer Experience & Product service company like the Lufthansa Group. For this reason, all department, which reports to the Commercial Director. products and services along the travel chain are continuously reviewed and new, innovative in-flight and ground products To ensure the Lufthansa Group’s long-term success, customer and services are developed that place the customer at the needs play a preeminent role. Therefore, the Company applies center. Digitalization and sustainability aspects play an impor­ systematic approaches to understand these even better. tant role in better meeting differentiated customer needs. By surveying customers, their needs along the travel chain are The customer’s travel experience should become even more identified. These results form the basis for strategic decisions. convenient, especially through greater personalization of the The systematic methods to continuously optimize and improve products and services along the entire travel chain. service, quality and customer orientation serve to ensure the Lufthansa Group’s long-term success and ability to create value. Responsibility for products and services for all Network Airlines in the Lufthansa Group is centrally pooled, with reporting The Network Airlines focus on the strategic vision of “New responsibilities to the Executive Board member for Network Premium” to fulfill customer needs along the entire travel chain Airlines. This ensures effective and efficient implemen­tation in and to improve weak points. In the reporting year 2018, focus the airlines by taking advantage of synergies and continuously initiatives were launched for customer-centric process improving products and services for customers. Responsibility improve­ment concerning flight irregularities and baggage for in-flight and ground products for all airlines in the handling procedures. page 98 / Product & customer Continuous, worldwide Customer satisfaction at high level ↗ GRI 102-44 customer surveys Since 2018, Lufthansa Airlines, SWISS and Austrian Airlines To obtain insights that are as differentiated as possible have harmonized their methods and processes for measuring about their passengers’ travel experiences, the airlines of the customer satisfaction in terms of both content and method­ Lufthansa Group count on regularly tracking satisfaction and ology. Customer satisfaction data is tracked separately for conducting additional detailed surveys. Thanks to these worlddifferent service aspects along the entire travel chain (in-flight wide surveys, possible starting points for improving customer and ground products). satisfaction can be identified. The main performance indicator for measuring satisfaction By means of online surveys, the three Network Airlines at the Network Airlines is overall satisfaction with products and determine on a daily basis how satisfied passengers are with services. This is the percentage of customers surveyed who the different services along the travel chain. Data collection said that they were satisfied or very satisfied with the quality and reporting are centrally steered at Group level. The team of the in-flight and ground products and services offered by responsible comprises experts from all Network Airlines and is the Network Airlines. supported in this task by a market research institute. To obtain representative results, the Lufthansa Group ensures that the This performance indicator is derived from the Passenger surveys include all service classes, traffic areas and passenger Satisfaction Tracking (PST) study and is shown for all three segments. In addition, complex statistical random sample logic Network Airlines. In the reporting year, the Network Airlines had based on monthly updated timetable data ensures that the a customer satisfaction value of 74, which is at a high level, values generated have both a high level of meaning and statiseven if the level declined over the course of the year due to the tical stability. The airlines compile the evaluations of individual challenges experienced during the reporting year (see page 103, products and services to formulate satisfaction indices Operational stability). concern­ing the onboard and ground products, and concurrently generate a higher overall satisfaction index. The departments Under a new concept, Lufthansa Cargo, the Group’s specialist responsible as well as management receive monthly reports. for logistics services, conducts its global customer survey “My Customer’s Voice” once a year. During the reporting year The satisfaction ratings allow differentiated insights into how 2018, overall customer satisfaction improved in comparison elements such as adaptations in catering, lounge moderniza­ with the preceding year and reached a high level at a value of tions, new seat concepts, the introduction of new in-flight 5.3 (on a scale from 1 = very dissatisfied to 6 = very satisfied). entertainment systems or changed service sequences influence Satisfaction with the aspects “social commitment” and “envipassenger satisfaction. They can also be used as indicators for ronmental protection”, which were also evaluated, at values of implementing improvements of services and products. 5.3 and 5.1 respectively, were situated above the level of other customer touchpoints in 2018. In a parallel move and dependent on the relevant target variable (for example satisfaction or recommendation), the Network Airlines collect data for additional central performance indicators such as the loyalty index. Furthermore, the Net Promoter Score (NPS®)1 which has been generated since 2014 places the focus on the travel experience as the airlines’ central product or service category. To establish the NPS®, the airlines continuously survey their customers, asking if they would recommend the company concerned, based on their travel experience. 1 NPS ® – Net Promoter Score, a registered service mark of Bain & Co., Inc., Fred Reichheld and Satmetrix Systems, Inc. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 99 Three questions for ANNETTE MANN Vice President Onboard & Customer Services Network Airlines ON WHICH SUSTAINABLE PRODUCT COMPONENTS ARE YOU WORKING AT THE MOMENT? We are working on developing an entire range of sustainable product components, including a new beverage cup made from recycled plastic and the avoidance of packaging for amenity kits. We have already implemented the exclusive use of reusable dishes on our long-haul flights in all service classes, the introduction of multiple-use coffee cups and the avoidance RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIETY IS A of plastic covers on reusable boxes. In Business Class we now CENTRAL TOPIC FOR THE LUFTHANSA GROUP. use paper sleeves for blankets instead of plastic. And offering WHAT DOES THIS MEAN FOR THE ON-BOARD PRODUCT? eJournals instead of classic newspapers and magazines reduces waste significantly and saves weight on board too. Applying sustainability criteria to the on-board product is a very wide field. Many first think of avoiding disposable or crude-oil plastics, recycling or reducing weight on board. This WHAT ARE THE ALTERNATIVES FOR PLASTIC? is important and we are already doing a lot in this area. In the future, we will additionally replace more than 400 million There are numerous alternatives. For dishes, for example, there plastic items per year, such as cups, cutlery and swizzle sticks is porcelain and metal. But we mustn’t forget that these are with more ecological alternatives. But the most effective lever heavier materials. And increased weight means higher kerosene for us is to load aircraft with an even greater fit between the consumption. Washing these dishes needs energy and conitems on board and those that will actually be used during a sumes resources. For disposable items, we can use natural flight. Unfortunately, we throw away too much food today fibers made from sugar cane, for example. Wood, bamboo and because we want to have something on board for each passenorganic plastic on the basis of corn starch are options for ger, but perhaps the passenger does not even want it. cutlery, containers and covers. Due to a lack of alternatives Therefore, our goal is to set up a demand-driven system that there are some areas in which we have to continue the use of focuses on customer wishes and quality, and that helps lower conventional plastic. These include medical or hygiene food waste and waste quantities to a minimum. Reduce – products such as gloves, disinfectants or trash bags, which reuse – recycle, this is our credo driving sustainability on board. must be tearproof. page 100 / Product & customer New products and services classic Business Class product components such as a fully flat seat that opens to 180 degrees, lounge access, fast-tracked In 2018, the Lufthansa Group again phased in new aircraft, security checks and other amenities. These services are supple­ programs and services, aimed at further improving the travel mented by new, up-to-date in-flight catering trends, partly in experience and thus also customer satisfaction. For example, cooperation with innovative start-ups. Eurowings also offers the new Lufthansa Airbus A350-900 offers more comfort fast broadband Internet access on more and more shortand for passengers with its wider cabin and innovative lighting medium-haul flights. concept (see pages 29 f. and 54, Balance 2017). Furthermore, from 2020 Lufthansa is planning to introduce a completely The same applies to the Network Airlines: in 2018 alone, new Business Class with the new Boeing 777-9, which will 69 shortand medium-haul aircraft were equipped with broadoffer optimum sleeping comfort and plenty of privacy as well band Internet access; by the end of the reporting year, a total as more individual seating options. of 238 shortand medium-haul aircraft featured broadband Internet. Beyond that, all flight attendants are equipped with SWISS expanded its flagship fleet by two further mobile devices which allow faster reporting about passenger Boeing 777-300ERs to a total of ten during the reporting satisfaction. year and is also planning to equip five Airbus A340-300s with a new cabin product in all three service classes. Digitalization and innovation initiatives support the Austrian Airlines completed the integration of the new Lufthansa Group in continuously developing new products Premium Economy Class for the beginning of the summer and services that are focused on customers. By means of the timetable 2018 on its entire long-haul fleet and expanded Lufthansa Innovation Hub, the Company advances the the latter by one Boeing 777-200. systematic use of innovative online business models for the Lufthansa Group airlines and develops digital solutions along In 2018, Eurowings became the first low-cost airline to intro­ the travel chain for passengers and travel providers (see duce a “BIZclass” on selected long-haul routes, which includes page 46, Sustainable innovation, research and development). Business Class seats aboard the first SWISS A340 with new cabin The new Lufthansa Business Class will enter service for the first time furnishings. in 2020 aboard the Boeing 777-9. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 101 Employees at all levels made aware of customer satisfaction Increasing demand for Development and training courses for employees on increasing customer satisfaction are continuously updated and expanded. sustainable products and services They include the Management in Practice program that encourages managers to work for one day a year in operational, The Lufthansa Group is responding in various ways to custom­ customer-facing areas of the Lufthansa Group. In competition ers’ wishes for sustainability aspects to play a greater role in with other traditional full-service carriers, on the one hand, products and services. As a result, passengers on flights with and low-cost airlines, on the other, the Network Airlines must the Lufthansa Group airlines are increasingly offered organic develop an understanding of the concept of “premium” that and fair trade food and beverages, and the recycling of in-flight meets customer requirements and enables them to differen­ waste is being expanded. LSG subsidiary SPIRIANT, a leading tiate themselves further. Various customer profiles were drawn global provider of in-flight service products and equipment, up by using “Personas” to clarify the structure of their requirecontinuously expands the range of reusable and recycled or ments. In the framework of the “New Premium” initiatives, low-waste products for airlines. employees at the Network Airlines have been trained in customer-centric methods since 2018. In training courses and In addition, product management experts are working under on the job they learn the key concepts for analyzing, designing the tenet “Reduce – Reuse – Recycle” on establishing a and sustainably improving customer experiences; for example demand-oriented system for even more sustainability on board by applying the innovative method of Design Thinking. (see page 100, interview with Annette Mann). The Group-wide In the future, these can be used in combination with the initiative “Flygreener” also contributes to reducing waste “Personas” to develop tailor-made products and services for volumes and making processes on board more sustainable individual customer needs. (see page 66). Customers are involved early The Lufthansa Group includes its customers at a very early stage in the development process of new products, to be able to decide faster whether new concepts meet their needs. For example, the new Business Class seat was tested by customers during the development process. Customer panels have been set up in Frankfurt, Munich, Zurich and Geneva; a panel in Vienna will be set up next year. With the help of these customer panels, the Network Airlines are able to get very rapid feedback from customers for specific lines of enquiry, understand customers’ expectations and needs better and faster, and proactively fulfill the “New Premium” approach by actively involving customers in the process of product and service optimization. page 102 / Product & customer OPERATIONAL STABILITY The top priority of all Lufthansa Group airlines is to ensure safe, for delays and flight cancellations. Based on this input, punctual and dependable flight operations. However, in 2018 both airline-specific and Group-wide measures were initiated the Group airlines’ passengers were also affected to a high and implemented. degree by schedule changes, flight cancellations or delays. Among the reasons were infrastructure-related bottlenecks at This includes the purchase of six additional Airbus A320ceos many airports, lack of personnel, strikes at air traffic control in September 2018 to compensate for the currently lower and violent thunderstorms that caused delayed departures or productivity of Lufthansa’s A320neos due to above-average cancellations for many flights. maintenance work as well as delayed deliveries. After having put these aircraft into service step-by-step and increased At the beginning of 2019, Deutsche Lufthansa AG expanded the number of reserve short-haul aircraft to 37, the its management with the new Executive Board function Airline Lufthansa Group expects improved punctuality and depend­ Resources & Operations Standards. It bundles vital functions ability for 2019. With the goal of ensuring operational quality, such as fleet management, flight operations standards, ground the Group is also hiring 600 new employees and training about operations standards, infrastructure, system partners as well as 500 pilots, who are to increase the number of reserve crews Group safety. The Group-wide program Operational Excellence (see illustration on page 104). 2019 is aimed at implementing especially those measures that improve the dependability of flight operations in summer 2019. In addition, Lufthansa brought forward maintenance events Unlike the existing initiatives at the Network Airlines and during the winter and invested 100 million euros in spare-part Eurowings, this program’s focus is a functional, and thus com­supplies and engines in order to avoid cancellations due to prehensive, perspective. Dependability and punctuality are a technical reasons. Eurowings carried out additional checks on concern not only for the Lufthansa Group’s airlines but also for more than 120 aircraft. Beyond that, more than 200 aircraft industry representatives and system partners such as air traffic mechanics are being recruited and trained so as to be able to control and airports. For this reason, all parties concerned react to unplanned technical problems even more flexibly. jointly search for solutions that can increase operational stability over the long term. Investments in optimized customer Numerous measures to increase information and communication operational stability It is of particular importance for the Lufthansa Group airlines to inform customers affected by flight irregularities or cancelAll airlines have adopted comprehensive measures for summer lations as quickly as possible. Therefore, the Company has 2019 to increase dependability and punctuality. This includes made significant investments in related services. For example, increased numbers of reserve aircraft and crews as well as passengers can check a flight’s status at any time on the longer time buffers in aircraft rotations by means of extended homepage or app. In case of a cancellation, customers who turn-around times on the ground. In addition, Eurowings would like to change their reservation from flight to train can do has separated the scheduling of intra-German flights from so simply and transparently on the app, online, by chatbot or European rotations to be able to operate these independently on the hotline. Rebookings on other flights are always made of overcrowded air spaces in southern Europe. automatically. In the event of delays, passengers find information about their rights directly on their mobile boarding pass, The Lufthansa Group has identified more than 400 individual on the Lufthansa app or homepage and by SMS. To handle measures to improve operative stability. These were developed these tasks, Lufthansa specifically hired 250 additional on the basis of an analysis of several hundred millions of data em­ployees in customer service. Additionally, Eurowings has sets from previous years, which indicates unequivocal causes LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 103 implemented standardized boarding processes and the strict set in motion numerous measures in cooperation with airports application of rules concerning carry-on luggage. This guaranand German air traffic control, such as optimized use of control tees not only smooth boarding, but also encourages passengers logic for air traffic in Germany. to drop off their carry-on luggage at check-in. Performance indicator of punctuality Wide-ranging initiatives launched of departures together with system partners The core performance indicator for judging operational stability The airlines in the Lufthansa Group work closely with system is the airlines’ punctuality of departures. Flights are defined partners, such as airport operators and German air traffic as punctual if they are taxiing to the runway no later than control (DFS), to find solutions for significantly reducing 15 minutes after the planned departure time. existing bottlenecks, particularly involving staff at the security gates, ground services and air traffic control centers. As a The punctuality of the Lufthansa Group airlines fell significantly result, at the First Hamburg Aviation Summit in October 2018, in 2018, following the start of the summer flight timetable in attended by the Lufthansa Group, representatives of the April. The measures taken resulted in only slightly improved German aviation industry and policymakers, a broad-ranging punctuality in August. A significant improvement only came in package comprising about two dozen measures was adopted October 2018 with the transition to the winter timetable, which to improve the reliability and quality of air traffic in Germany. has considerably fewer flights in Germany and thus reduced In March 2019, representatives met again – for the Second pressure on German airspace. On average over the year, the Hamburg Aviation Summit – and confirmed the implementation punctuality of the Passenger Airlines in the Lufthansa Group fell of the measures adopted. In particular, this includes the to 72 percent (previous year: 77 percent). re­moval of bottlenecks in state-run air traffic control services, border controls at the large airports and recruitment of addi­ The airlines of the Lufthansa Group are well prepared thanks to tional personnel for ground services. The same goal is pursued comprehensive investments and numerous measures, and they by the industry initiative Airlines for Europe (A4E), whose have adapted or regulated the flow of processes. But they are members include the Lufthansa Group and other renowned only able to influence about one-third of the issues themselves. European airlines, which works to improve the framework of Therefore it is even more important that all system partners infrastructure conditions at airports and the European air traffic involved make their indispensable contributions to the operative control authority (EUROCONTROL). The initiative has already stability of air traffic in Germany and Europe. FOR MORE STABILITY IN FLIGHT OPERATIONS, THE LUFTHANSA GROUP HAS INVESTED 250 MILLION EUROS For example in: 600 additional employees More engine and aircraft Improved communications Faster ground handling in operating areas reserves with passengers in the event of delays and cancellations page 104 / Product & customer FLIGHT SAFETY AND HEALTH PROTECTION The Lufthansa Group’s success depends primarily on safe and the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) and the U.S. reliable flight operations. The health and safety of passengers, Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). In addition, they fulfill all crews and employees have the highest priority for the aviation standards and recommendations of the International Civil group. Therefore, all Lufthansa Group airlines operate a comAviation Organization (ICAO). Every two years, independent prehensive Safety Management System (SMS). experts audit the safety standards applied Group-wide in an IATA Operational Safety Audit (IOSA). All Group airlines fully This includes continuous monitoring of flight operations: apply the internationally accepted IATA standards for air safety. The Group airlines’ experts track performance ratios, carry out These external benchmarks are supplemented by the audits and inspections, evaluate risks, analyze flight data and Lufthansa Group with internal guidelines, in particular the investigate incidents. All these measures serve the purpose Executive Board’s Safety Commitment. These guidelines are of identifying and steering safety-relevant trends at an early compiled in the aviation group’s Safety Management Manual stage, and guarding against possible undesirable develop(SMM) and are additionally included in handbooks concerning ments. Beyond the legally required reporting systems, the flight operations, training, maintenance and ground handling Lufthansa Group operates a low-threshold confidential services. The Executive Board and all managers and employees reporting system that is open to all employees. affected by operator regulations fulfill their tasks in accordance with the SMM. With regard to their safety management systems, the Lufthansa Group’s airlines take their bearings from legal require­ ments such as EU guidelines, as well as regulations issued by LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 105 Organization and responsibilities Further process adaptations were implemented in 2018 in this area. For example, risk analyses that concern more than one Within the Lufthansa Group, independent departments monitor airline are now carried out in a standardized process. The compliance with regulations and processes related to flight classification and evaluation of reports, incidents and risk operations. At every Group airline, the safety management analyses have been adapted, which makes them interchangesystem is the responsibility of a safety manager. The safety able and readies them for further analyses. As a central form of manager reports both to the airline’s management and to the documentation, a Group-wide SMM was published, suppleGroup Safety Pilot, who has Group-wide responsibility for menting local manuals. evaluating and developing procedures and standards relevant to flight safety. He reports directly to the Chairman of the Among other areas of emphasis were the verification and Executive Board and CEO of Deutsche Lufthansa AG, safeguarding of the quality offered by wet-lease partners and Carsten Spohr. the renewal of IOSA certification. Areas of emphasis in 2018 The organizational merger of the areas Security (protection from external hazards) and Safety (safe operations and flight safety), which began in 2017 was implemented in 2018. This change adapted the Group’s safety structures to the matrix organization. GERMANWINGS FLIGHT 4U9525 Four years after the crash of the Germanwings aircraft on March 24, 2015, The aid fund set up immediately following the crash to support social and the unity between all employees of the Lufthansa Group and the bereaved cultural projects commemorating the victims (see page 74, Balance 2016) around the world remains as strong as ever. It is an important concern for had already supported more than 53 projects1 by spring 2019. A particular the Group to keep alive the memory of the people who lost their lives in the priority is giving support to young people who lost one or both parents in accident that occurred in the Alps in southern France, and to support the the crash. Independent of claims for damages, an aid fund of more than next of kin. Relatives receive continued support in dealing with the effects 5 million euros was made available for them to give financial support for an of the accident by means of numerous forms of voluntary assistance academic education or professional training in accordance with their provided by the Post Emergency Organization (PEO), which was set up preferences and abilities. immediately after the crash. In addition, the PEO coordinates all non-legal tasks related to the accident. To provide spaces for grieving, numerous The aid fund’s board of trustees, in which representatives of the relatives private and public places of remembrance have been created since 2015. have seats and voting rights, decides on all support initiatives. 1 as of March 31, 2019 page 106 / Product & customer Cabin air quality Special HEPA/carbon ﬁlters being tested Additionally, the Lufthansa Group runs its own process tests The Lufthansa Group has actively participated in investigating with technical adaptations. For example, since May 2016 the so-called smell events aboard aircraft for many years. In aviation company has been testing the use of special cooperation with national and international authorities, HEPA/carbon filters. These cabin air recirculation filters associations, research institutes and manufacturare equipped with an additional layer of activated ers, the aviation group supports research on the carbon and are intended to further increase composition of cabin air, the development of cabin air quality by removing volatile subnew innovative technologies and medical Cabin Air stances and compounds from recirculated studies. So far, the Group has invested about 2 million euros in investigations and Quality air more quickly. Lufthansa has already equipped numerous aircraft of the information in this area. Airbus A320 family with these filters for test purposes, and analyzes cabin air In addition, the Lufthansa Group set up a quality before and after installation. If the Cabin Air Quality Review Board as early as filters’ performance turns out convincingly, 2012, whose members represent flight operathe Lufthansa Group will install them on additions, the Medical Services, Lufthansa Technik, tional aircraft. Furthermore, the Lufthansa Group is technical operations management, Group occupational in discussion with a number of manufacturers concerning safety and personnel representatives. This interdisciplinary a total air filter technology and sensor systems. committee decides which steps and measures are to be taken in this area within the aviation company. Detailed communications and information The Lufthansa Group covers the topic of cabin air quality Current studies prove that the air aboard aircraft is innocuous comprehensively in its internal and external media. Experts and sometimes even of better quality than in offices. For from the relevant Group departments regularly inform example, on March 23, 2017 the European Aviation Safety employees in operational areas at different company locations Agency (EASA) presented its final report on a study of cabin about measurement and research results as well as technical air quality aboard commercial wide-body aircraft, in which it analyses and innovations. The Group has presented the continues to draw the conclusion that there is currently no HEPA/carbon filters several times at product stands in provable correlation between cabin air and health problems. Frankfurt and Munich. Rather, the air quality on measuring flights was comparable to the air quality found in ordinary indoor spaces, such as classFurthermore, cockpit and cabin crew representatives from all rooms or offices (see page 57, Balance 2017). Earlier measuring flying companies within the Lufthansa Group as well as the sequences yielded the same result (see page 71, Balance 2016). airlines’ personnel and union representatives met on November 21, 2017 for the first Group-wide Cabin Air Quality (CAQ) Forum in Frankfurt. The goal of this internal event was to provide and exchange information about measures implemented and insights gained so far, as well as on current developments concerning cabin air issues. More CAQ Forums are to take place in the future. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 107 DATA PROTECTION AND DATA SECURITY The Lufthansa Group companies collect, process and use responsibilities, and also provides rules that ensure conduct personal data of customers, shareholders, employees and in accordance with data protection requirements across the suppliers on a daily basis. For the business processes of the entire Group, make data protection risks transparent and guard passenger airlines in particular, the Group depends on personal against them. The Lufthansa Group applies instruments that information about customers. The Lufthansa Group protects ensure compliance with data protection universally and thus and secures all data according to the highest standards. a uniform level of data protection. The secure handling of data is the basis for trusting business Data protection is the responsibility of the Executive Board relations and is an increasingly important factor for the Group’s member responsible for Corporate Human Resources and success. In addition, handling personal data in conformity with Legal Affairs of Deutsche Lufthansa AG (until 31.12.2018 the data protection legislation safeguards the rights of those whose Executive Board member responsible for Finance) and the data is involved and protects the Lufthansa Group against management of the respective Group company. In assuming violations of legal requirements as well as sanctions, fines and this responsibility, they are supported by the Corporate Data reputational damage that might result from such cases. Protection department. All companies that are required by law to appoint a data protection commissioner have done so. Additionally, data protection coordinators were installed in companies and process areas. The Group Data Protection Commissioner defines and establishes standards, and the required core processes such as guidelines, sample contracts and forms with regard to data protection for the entire aviation group. Guidelines and Furthermore, the Lufthansa Group has established a notifica­ organizational foundations tion process for data protection and data security incidents. Complaints and information requests from concerned parties The legally required responsibilities are implemented by the are processed in a timely and comprehensive manner within Lufthansa Group in an integrated data protection organi­­za­internally set deadlines. The Lufthansa Group fulfilled the tion on all levels. The department Group Data Protection extended reporting obligations according to the EU-GDPR in ensures the application of legal provisions across the entire all relevant cases of infringements against data protection. Lufthansa Group. It familiarizes employees with legal requireThese affected customer data and, in individual cases, ments and regularly conducts data protection audits. In em­ployee data. In addition, during the reporting year the ad­dition, data protection experts advise individual departments companies of the Lufthansa Group received inquiries from concerning the introduction of new systems and the design supervisory authorities following complaints from those or change of processes. With the taking effect of the EU affected. The Group responded completely and conclusively General Data Protection Regulation (EU-GDPR) on May 25, to information requests or inquiries from those affected 2018, the importance of data protection has been increased concerning the processing of their personal data. significantly, accompanied by comprehensive documentation and reporting obligations. International data protection regulations The framework for data protection within the Lufthansa Group is provided by the Group Data Protection Guideline which is Data protection regulations in other countries play an increas­ing based on laws such as the EU General Data Protection role for the Lufthansa Group due to its international Regulation (EU-GDPR) and Germany’s Federal Data Protection operations. Conflicts arise in the airline industry in particular Act (FDPA) as well as recognized principles. It defines roles and because foreign authorities increasingly request passenger page 108 / Product & customer data. However, providing such data would often be contrary to IT security European data protection rules (see page 67, Balance 2015). Since June 2016, the “EU-US Privacy Shield” has regulated The increasing digitalization of business processes within the data transfers between the EU and the USA (see page 73, Lufthansa Group also increases the necessity of prevention Balance 2016, and page 59, Balance 2017). against cyber risks (see page 71 f., Annual Report 2018). At the Group level, the department IT Strategy & Security is responsiThe Lufthansa Group has adapted its existing data protection ble for implementing requirements concerning data protection management system to the EU-GDPR and has almost completand IT security. This includes the development of appropriate ed related projects necessary for its introduction within those concepts and measures such as e-mail encryption, a cyber Group companies affected. Nevertheless, individual national crime awareness campaign, and protection from criminal activdeviations from this norm will continue to be in application for ity over the Internet (see page 59, Balance 2017). The risk and the aviation group, such as those concerning the obligations to security management systems as well as selected measures appoint data protection commissioners and with regard to are regularly checked by internal auditors. employee data protection. In the context of her legal supervision function, the Group Data Protection Commissioner The steadily increasing threat scenario from cyber attacks regularly monitors the situation in relation to the EU-GDPR and induced the Lufthansa Group in 2018 to assess the latest reports to the Executive Board. In 2018, the Group Data security status of its IT systems and to implement a compreProtection Commissioner carried out the first verifications of hensive protection program. The goal is to increase the Group’s Lufthansa companies domiciled in Germany. Insofar as gaps cyber resilience. The three-year cyber-security program adopted existed with regard to individual data protection requirements, by the Executive Board outlines the Group-wide implementathe data protection experts defined measures to remove them. tion of measures in different core areas as well as numerous The implementation will be evaluated in the context of the next projects. In addition, the Group decided in October 2018 to regular verifications of these companies. introduce the cyber-security trainings offered to supervisors since 2017 as an obligatory measure for all employees in managerial positions. The training sessions took place between Employee sensibilization and February and May 2019. targeted training The Group Data Protection Commissioner supports employees and managers by means of training courses, web-based training programs and comprehensive communication in understanding data protection, its necessity and its principles within the Lufthansa Group. This includes important concepts, the organization of data protection and specific aspects concerning certain areas. The Group Data Protection Commissioner plans the necessary training measures as a recommendation, informs those responsible about their training obligations and supervises – as much as this is technically possible – by means of an automated monitoring system and concrete controls, that these training obligations are met. Outlook For 2019, the Lufthansa Group has planned to further expand its data protection organization and the corresponding knowledge within individual departments. Furthermore, the data protection experts will evaluate compliance issues in the Group’s subsidiaries abroad. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 109 05 Key points on SERVICE & INFORMATION page 110 Notes on the scope of consolidation and methodology for calculating absolute and specific consumption and emissions ↗ GRI 102-45 ↗ GRI 102-48 Scope of consolidation kerosene actually consumed. The distances used in the calculations Reporting on transport performance, kerosene consumption, and are great-circle distances. In combination flights (freight and emissions from flight operations in 2018 is – unless noted otherwise passenger transport in one aircraft), fuel consumption is attributed – based on the following scope of consolidation: on the basis of its share of the total payload to calculate the passengerand freight-specific figures. • Lufthansa (including Lufthansa CityLine and Air Dolomiti), SWISS (including Edelweiss Air), Austrian Airlines, Eurowings Since 2013, the DIN EN 16258 standard has provided a guide for (including Germanwings and Luftfahrtgesellschaft Walter), standardized calculation of greenhouse gas emissions for transport Brussels Airlines and Lufthansa Cargo. Not included are processes. This guide uses the same estimates for calculating services performed by third parties, as their performance payload as the Lufthansa Group. When traveled distances are calcuis beyond our control. lated, 95 kilometers must be added to the great-circle distance • Types of flight service: all scheduled and charter flights. according to the guidelines of the EU emission allowance trading scheme. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) has Methodology of calculations separately developed its own calculation proposals, which deal Kerosene in absolute terms with the division of fuel consumption between freight and passenKerosene consumption is calculated on the basis of actual flight gers and attribute a larger share of fuel consumption to passengers operations (i. e. using actual load factors and flight routings) because of the passenger-specific infrastructure. Although this according to the gate-to-gate principle. This covers all phases of method has no effect on the overall efficiency of a flight, it changes a flight, from taxiing on the ground to flying detours and holding the apportionment between passengers and freight. There are still patterns in the air. divergences between the two methods (including from the method used up to now by the Lufthansa Group). We would welcome a Emissions in absolute terms standardized, internationally harmonized and accepted method. The absolute emissions from flight operations are calculated on the basis of actual transport performance and hence on actual load Environmental database factors and the actual absolute quantity of kerosene consumed in The environmental data for this report were compiled by the the reporting year. Transport performance is measured in tonne Lufthansa Group by means of its central environmental database. kilometers; i. e., payload transported over a distance. For passengers All Lufthansa Group companies are encouraged to feed their and their luggage, an average of 100 kilograms is the standard environmentally relevant performance and consumption data (such estimate; for freight, it is its scale weight. Each aircraft / engine as fuel consumption) into the Group’s environmental database. combination present in the fleet is considered separately, and the Data used for the calculation of the Lufthansa Group’s carbon associated values are calculated with the aid of computer programs footprint (Scope 1 – 3 emissions) were additionally checked by an provided by the aircraft and engine manufacturers. The annual external auditor for completeness and correctness according to average flight profile for each subset of the fleet is then fed into accepted verification standards and verified with High Assurance these programs. This allows us to determine emissions in relation (Scope 1) and Limited Assurance (Scope 2 and 3) respectively. to flight altitude, distance flown, thrust, and load. This approach is necessary for nitrogen oxides (NOX), carbon monoxide (CO), and Accuracy unburned hydrocarbons (UHC) in particular. Carbon dioxide (CO2) For presentation purposes the figures in the charts and tables are emissions do not require special calculation methods, as they are rounded. Changes from the previous year’s figures and share generated in a fixed ratio to the quantity of kerosene burned. The percentages refer in each case to precise figures, however. For this combustion of 1 tonne of kerosene generates 3.15 tonnes of CO2. reason it is possible that a reported value may remain the same from one year to the next even though a relative change is reported. Specific consumption and emission values Because of the rounding of share percentages, it is also possible Calculating specific consumption and emissions entails expressing that the sum of their addition may differ from the sum of the absolute values in relation to transport performance. For example, unrounded percentages. For example, as a result of rounding, share the ratio liters per 100 passenger kilometers (l / 100pkm) is calcupercentages may not add up to 100 percent even though it would lated on the basis of actual load factors along with the quantity of be logical to expect them to. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 111 ENVIRONMENTAL DATA FUEL CONSUMPTION 1, 2 FUEL CONSUMPTION 1 2018 in tonnes 10,254,365 in tonnes Passengers Freight Total Share 2018 Scheduled flights 2 2017 9,618,095 Lufthansa 4,904,843 1,566,902 6,471,744 60.7 % 2016 9,055,550 SWISS 1,263,938 431,841 1,695,779 15.9 % 2015 8,947,766 Austrian Airlines 669,166 94,351 763,517 7.2 % 2014 8,825,774 Eurowings 747,060 830 747,889 7.0 % Brussels Airlines 513,029 62,406 575,435 5.4 % 10,254,365 96.1 % SPECIFIC FUEL CONSUMPTION OF PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION COMPARED 2018 Third parties 4 373,980 21,117 395,098 3.7 % in liters per 100 passenger kilometers (l / 100 pkm) Other flights 5 20,950 0.2 % 2018 2017 Changes in % All flights 10,670,412 100.0 % Group fleet 2 3.65 3.68 – 0.8 Lufthansa 3.76 3.76 + 0.1 SWISS 3.15 3.19 – 1.3 EMISSIONS 2, 6 2018 in tonnes Austrian Airlines 3.79 3.83 – 1.0 Passengers ± 2017 Freight ± 2017 Total ± 2017 Eurowings 4.00 4.18 – 4.1 CO2 25,508,811 + 8.9 % 6,792,438 – 1.3 % 32,301,249 + 6.6 % Brussels Airlines 3.43 3.62 – 5.5 NOX 126,975 + 9.0 % 34,452 – 1.4 % 161,427 + 6.6 % CO 19,622 + 7.5 % 3,575 – 2.6 % 23,197 + 5.8 % UHC 1,944 + 5.1 % 367 – 2.6 % 2,311 + 3.8 % FUEL DUMPS 2 2018 Changes compared 2018 to 2017 Events total 26 ± 0 SHARE OF THIRD PARTIES 4, 7 2018 of which medical reasons 10 – 2 Flights 5.7 % technical reasons 13 +2 Passengers 4.5 % other reasons 3 ± 0 Tonne kilometers transported, TKT (tkm) 3.5 % Quantity 3 820 t + 11 % Fuel consumption (tonnes) 3.7 % CO2 emissions (tonnes) 3.7 % 1 Actual fuel consumption in tonnes from flight operations, based on all the scope of consolidation of Balance, but operating services on behalf of flight events under the respective operative flight number. Recorded are Lufthansa, for example in the event of capacity bottlenecks. 5 Ferry flights, consumption values from gate to gate, i. e. including taxiing on the ground, special flights, training flights, test flights, aborted flights. 6 Absolute holding patterns and detours in the air. 2 For the reporting year 2018, the emissions in tonnes resulting from flight operations (all scheduled and following companies have been included in Balance: Lufthansa (including charter flights). Recorded are consumption values from gate to gate, i. e. Lufthansa CityLine and Air Dolomiti), SWISS (including Edelweiss Air), including taxiing on the ground, holding patterns and detours in the air Austrian Airlines, Eurowings (including Germanwings and Luftfahrtgesell(see explanations on page 111). 7 Excludes road feeder services and partial schaft Walter), Brussels Airlines and Lufthansa Cargo. Excluding the capacity chartered by Lufthansa Cargo, as no fuel consumption and services of third parties as the Company cannot influence their performance emissions values are available for this performance. 8 On the basis of freight (see table “Share of third parties”). 3 In part projections 4 Airlines outside tonne kilometers (FTKT), transported on both cargo and passenger aircraft. page 112 / Service & information SPECIFIC FUEL CONSUMPTION SPECIFIC FUEL CONSUMPTION PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION LUFTHANSA GROUP PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION LUFTHANSA in liters / 100 passenger kilometers (l / 100 pkm) 3.65 in liters / 100 passenger kilometers (l / 100 pkm) 3.76 3.84 3.84 3.85 3.68 3.88 3.86 3.88 3.76 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 SPECIFIC FUEL CONSUMPTION SPECIFIC FUEL CONSUMPTION PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION SWISS PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION AUSTRIAN AIRLINES in liters / 100 passenger kilometers (l / 100 pkm) 3.15 in liters / 100 passenger kilometers (l / 100 pkm) 3.79 3.48 3.53 3.44 3.19 3.87 3.92 4.04 3.83 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 SPECIFIC FUEL CONSUMPTION SPECIFIC FUEL CONSUMPTION PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION EUROWINGS FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION 2, 8 in liters / 100 passenger kilometers (l / 100 pkm) 4.00 in liters / tonne kilometers (l / tkm) 0.266 4.50 4.45 4.46 4.18 0.276 0.282 0.280 0.268 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 113 DIRECT AND INDIRECT CO2 EMISSIONS OF THE LUFTHANSA GROUP COMPARED 1 in tonnes 2018 2017 2016 Scope 1 34,634,582 28,949,145 29,250,821 75.4 % 72.6 % 76.4 % Scope 2 194,059 256,232 275,161 0.4 % 0.6 % 0.7 % Scope 3 11,089,327 10,678,859 8,774,231 24.2 % 26.8 % 22.9 % PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION 2 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION 2, 3 CO2 emissions CO2 emissions in kilograms / 100 passenger kilometers (kg / 100 pkm) 9.19 in kilograms / tonne kilometers (kg / tkm) 0.67 2018 2018 2017 9.27 2017 0.68 2016 9.71 2016 0.70 2015 9.69 2015 0.71 2014 9.69 2014 0.70 NOX emissions NOX emissions in grams / 100 passenger kilometers (g / 100 pkm) 45.8 in grams / tonne kilometers (g / tkm) 3.4 2018 2018 2017 46.1 2017 3.4 2016 47.0 2016 3.5 2015 46.3 2015 3.5 2014 45.8 2014 3.4 CO emissions CO emissions in grams / 100 passenger kilometers (g / 100 pkm) 7.1 in grams / tonne kilometers (g / tkm) 0.4 2018 2018 2017 7.2 2017 0.4 2016 7.1 2016 0.4 2015 7.1 2015 0.4 2014 7.3 2014 0.4 UHC emissions UHC emissions in grams / 100 passenger kilometers (g / 100 pkm) 0.70 in grams / tonne kilometers (g / tkm) 0.04 2018 2018 2017 0.73 2017 0.04 2016 0.68 2016 0.04 2015 0.67 2015 0.04 2014 0.72 2014 0.04 1 Scope 1 audited for the reporting year 2018 with the result High Assurance. (including Lufthansa CityLine and Air Dolomiti), SWISS (including Edelweiss For the first time including Brussels Airlines, Luftfahrtgesellschaft Walter as Air), Austrian Airlines, Eurowings (including Germanwings and Luftfahrtgewell as further aircraft taken over from Air Berlin. Scope 2 and 3 audited with sellschaft Walter), Brussels Airlines and Lufthansa Cargo. Excluding the the result Limited Assurance (see page 115). 2 For the reporting year 2018, services of third parties as the Company cannot influence their performance the following companies have been included in Balance: Lufthansa (see table “Share of third parties”, page 112). 3 On the basis of freight tonne kilometers (FTKT), transported on both cargo and passenger aircraft. page 114 / Service & information VERIFICATION STATEMENT SCOPE 1– 3 LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 115 PERSONNEL DATA EMPLOYEES IN TOTAL 1 JOBS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD Lufthansa Group, employees as of December 31, respectively 135,534 Lufthansa Group, employees as of December 31, 2018 Frankfurt 39,017 2018 Hamburg 10,496 2017 129,424 Munich 13,149 2016 124,306 Cologne 2,238 2015 120,652 Berlin 1,592 2014 118,781 Rest of Germany 6,224 Total of Germany 72,716 Rest of Europe 28,979 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY PROFESSIONAL GROUP AND GENDER1 of which Vienna 7,816 Lufthansa Group, employees as of December 31, 2018 of which Zurich 10,712 Female employees Male employees Africa / Middle East 2,601 Female 45.9 % 62,161 North / Central Male 54.1 % America 19,029 73,373 South America 3,187 Apprentices 19.9 % 1,087 80.1 % Asia / Pacific 9,022 Ground 2 37.8 % 89,278 62.2 % Flight 3 62.5 % PART-TIME EMPLOYMENT 4 45,169 37.5 % Lufthansa Group, in percent as of December 31, respectively Cockpit 6.2 % 10,801 93.8 % Female employees Total Male employees Cabin 80.2 % 50 34,368 19.8 % 40 30 DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES Lufthansa Group, employees as of December 31, respectively 20 2018 2017 Change 10 Group employees 135,534 129,424 + 4.7 % 45.0 45.7 43.4 45.3 45.3 of which Network Airlines 51,778 50,190 + 3.2 % 28.0 28.8 27.4 28.6 28.8 of which Eurowings 9,255 7,501 + 23.4 % 14.3 14.9 14.0 14.4 14.9 of which Logistics 4,505 4,511 – 0.1 % 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 of which MRO 23,219 21,502 + 8.0 % of which Catering 35,512 34,563 + 2.7 % of which Additional Businesses and Group Functions 11,265 11,157 + 1.0 % page 116 / Service & information AVERAGE AGE 5 AGE STRUCTURE 5 Lufthansa Group, in years as of December 31, respectively Lufthansa Group, in percent as of December 31, 2018 Male employees Total Female employees 60 and older 4.7 55 – 59 10.1 45 50 – 54 15.2 45 – 49 13.2 40 40 – 44 13.0 35 – 39 12.5 30 – 34 12.1 43.1 43.3 43.4 43.5 42.1 42.3 42.3 42.2 42.2 41.5 25 – 29 11.0 41.3 41.3 40.9 40.9 40.8 20 – 24 7.3 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 18 – 19 0.8 15 – 17 0.1 SHARE OF WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS (WORLDWIDE) SHARE OF WOMEN WITH STAFF RESPONSIBILITY (WORLDWIDE) Lufthansa Group, in percent as of December 31, respectively Lufthansa Group, in percent as of December 31, respectively 20 50 15 40 10 30 5 20 14.2 14.9 15.6 15.1 15.9 35.1 33.9 34.1 35.0 32.5 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 1 Scope of application: Group scope of consolidation 2 Without apprentices Asia Limited, Hong Kong, China; LSG Sky Chefs Sverige AB, Stockholm, 3 Consists of cockpit and cabin 4 Scope of application: Group scope of Sweden; Lufthansa Technik Component Services LLC, Tulsa, USA; consolidation; shares in percent; part-time including partial retirement Lufthansa Technik North America Holding Corp., Tulsa, USA; BizJet (including blocks of free time); from 2014 including Aerologic (partial consolInternational Sales & Support, Inc., Tulsa, USA; Lufthansa Technik Shannon i­dation at 25%) 5 Scope of application: Group scope of consolidation, Limited, Claire, Ireland; LSG Sky Chefs Supply Chain Solutions, Inc., without Sky Chefs, Inc., Wilmington, USA; Western Aire Chef, Inc., Wilmington, USA; Lufthansa Malta Aircraft Leasing Ltd., St. Julians, Malta; Wilmington, USA; SCIS Air Security Corporation, Wilmington, USA; LHAMI LEASING LIMITED, Dublin, Ireland; LSG Sky Chefs Danmark A / S, Sky Chefs De Mexico, S. A. de C. V., Mexico City, Mexico; Lufthansa Malta Dragør, Denmark; Inflight Catering Services Limited, Dar es Salaam, Corporate Finance Limited, St. Julians STJ, Malta; Lufthansa Malta Working Tanzania; Constance Food Group, Inc., New York, USA; LSG Sky Chefs Capital Solutions Limited, St. Julians STJ, Malta; LSG Sky Chefs Solutions Spain, S. A., Madrid, Spain; MIM IFE Limited, Dublin, Ireland LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 117 GLOSSARY A Carbon monoxide (CO) Chemical compound consisting of one carbon and one oxygen Aerosols atom, formed in the incomplete combustion process of subAerosols are solid and /or liquid particles that are suspended stances containing carbon. For aircraft engines, the level of CO in the air. They reach the atmosphere by means of natural emissions depends greatly on the thrust level: The emissions processes (wind, desert storms, volcanic eruptions) or human per kilogram of fuel burned are higher at idle settings, while activities (combustion of biomass and fossil fuels). The most taxiing, and on approach than during the climbing and cruising important aerosols are mineral dust, sea salt, cellular (bio­ phases. logical) particles, soot, organic compounds, and sulfates. From a climatic perspective, aerosols are the opponents of CDP (previously Carbon Disclosure Project) greenhouse gases, as they can reflect incident light and The CDP is an independent nongovernmental organization with thus have a cooling effect. a current membership of more than 525 institutional investors worldwide. Founded in 2000, this initiative gathers annual data ATM – Air Traffic Management and information on CO2 emissions, climate risks as well as Air traffic management ensures both the safe and the efficient reduction goals and strategies on behalf of investors from movement of aircraft in all phases of operations. corporations and organizations by means of standardized questionnaires, which are completed on a voluntary basis. In Atmosphere 2018, 7,000 companies and organizations published their Mass of air surrounding the Earth. It is divided into various greenhouse gas emissions and other environmentally relevant layers, which are separated from one another by significantly performance ratios in this way. The CDP administers the different vertical temperature distributions. Important for air world’s largest database of its kind. Investors use this data to traffic are the two lower layers: the troposphere and, above it, assess long-term opportunities and risks for the companies in the stratosphere. The troposphere’s upper boundaries vary their portfolios, to determine their investment strategy and to depending on season and latitude. They lie at altitudes of 16 to develop investment products and indices. ↗ www.cdp.net 18 kilometers above sea level at the equator, and at eight to 12 kilometers above sea level at the poles. The temperature in Chapter 4 and Chapter 14 aircraft the tropopause, the transition layer between troposphere and The ICAO distinguishes between different noise standards, stratosphere, drops to about minus 60 degrees Celsius. It rises which are defined in related chapters of Annex 16 to the again in the stratosphere. Convention on International Civil Aviation. The Environmental Committee (CAEP) of the ICAO agreed on the Chapter 4 noise standard in September 2001, according to which all aircraft C newly certified since 2006 must remain cumulatively below the Chapter 3 noise levels by 10 decibels or more. In 2014, the Carbon dioxide (CO2) ICAO agreed on the new Chapter 14 noise standard, which Gas resulting in nature from the burning or decomposition of requires that aircraft must cumulatively remain 17 decibels organic substances (e.g. plant material). The greenhouse gas below the Chapter 3 noise levels. This standard is initially CO2 remains in the atmosphere for about 100 years. Scientists applied to new aircraft with a maximum takeoff weight of more attribute the increase in atmospheric CO2 over the last 100 than 55 tonnes that are certified after December 31, 2017. years to the burning of fossil fuels (e.g. coal, oil, natural gas) For aircraft below this weight the new certification values are by humans. Per tonne of fuel, 3.15 tonnes of CO2 result from the applied from December 31, 2020. combustion process. Currently, 2.83 percent of the CO2 emissions due to human activities are caused by global air traffic. CO – see “Carbon monoxide” (Source: International Energy Agency (IEA) 2018, 2016 values) CO2 – see “Carbon dioxide” page 118 / Service & information D F Decibel (dB) Freight performance (FTKO / FTKT) Measuring unit for the intensity and pressure of sound. The Airlines distinguish between freight performance offered difference in intensity between the softest sound the human (FTKO, freight tonne kilometers offered) and its sold freight ear can perceive and the pain threshold is 1 : 10 trillion. To performance (FTKT, freight tonne kilometers transported). depict this enormous range objectively, acoustics uses the See also “Tonne kilometers”. logarithmic decibel scale. On this scale, the value “0” is as­ signed to the perception threshold (for a sound of 1,000 Hz) Fuel dump and the pain threshold at the value “130”. An increase of 10 dB Dumping of fuel in flight due to emergency situations to corresponds to a tenfold increase in sound intensity. For the reduce a long-haul aircraft’s weight to the maximum permissiperceived volume, a difference of 10 dB corresponds to half or ble landing weight before unscheduled landings (e.g. in the double the volume. However, the human ear is not equally event of technical problems or serious passenger illness). sensitive across the entire range of frequencies. Low and high Special air space is assigned to the aircraft, if possible above sounds are not perceived as being equally loud even at the uninhabited or thinly populated areas. Fuel is usually dumped same intensity. For measurements, this difference is equalized at altitudes of 4 to 8 kilometers. A minimum altitude of 1,800 and noted accordingly. The best known such notation is the meters and a minimum speed of 500 km / h are required. The A value, marked by the index dB(A). To measure aircraft noise, aircraft may not fly a fully closed circle. The dumped kerosene the EPNdB (Effective Perceived Noise Decibel) unit is used is released from outlet vales and forms a fine mist behind the internationally. aircraft. So far, no contamination has been detected in plant or soil samples after fuel dumps. E G EBIT Financial indicator; it denotes earnings before interest and Great-circle distance taxes. From financial year 2015 it has been used as the central The shortest distance between two points on the Earth’s earnings indicator. It is calculated from total operating income surface, measured in kilometers (great circle kilometers) or minus operating expenses plus the result from equity nautical miles. The center of a great circle is the center of investments. the Earth. EMAS – Environmental Management and Audit Scheme Greenhouse gases European regulations concerning environmental management Gaseous substances that contribute to the greenhouse effect and certification; colloquially referred to as EU eco-audit and have both natural and human (anthropogenic) causes. regulations. The most important natural greenhouse gases are water vapor (H2O), carbon dioxide (CO2), and methane (CH4); the most Equivalent continuous noise level (Leq) important anthropogenic greenhouse gases are carbon dioxide The Leq is a measure for the energetic average of all sound from the combustion of fossil fuels and methane, primarily pressure levels over a defined period of time. All sound events from agriculture and industrial livestock farming. Other artificial that differ in intensity and duration are summarized according greenhouse gases are nitrous oxide (N2O), fluorocarbons (FCs to mathematical rules. The resulting average value is an and HFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF6), and chlorofluorocarbons accepted and proven measurement of the noise quantity (CFCs). occurring over an observed time interval. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 119 H N Hub Nitrogen oxides (NOX) In air transport, a hub is a central traffic point or an airline’s Chemical compounds consisting of one nitrogen and several transfer airport. Passengers and freight are transported from oxygen atoms. NOX is defined as the sum of NO and NO2 their point of departure to one of the airline’s “home airports” compounds. Natural sources include lightning and microbes in (hub). From there, they are carried to their destination by a the soil. Nitrogen oxides are also generated in combustion second flight alongside passengers and freight from other processes under high pressures and temperatures. Both of departure points, but with the same destination. these parameters have been increased in modern aircraft engines to significantly reduce fuel consumption as well as emissions of carbon monoxide and unburned hydrocarbons. I However, future combustion chambers of an advanced design could help reduce NOX emissions by 85 percent. Air traffic IATA – International Air Transport Association contributes 2 to 3 percent of man-made NOX emissions. The umbrella organization of international commercial aviation. Climate models show that nitrogen oxides have increased the ↗ www.iata.org concentration of ozone at cruising altitudes by a few percentage points. ICAO – International Civil Aviation Organization A United Nations agency that develops internationally binding Noise-related charges norms for civil aviation. ↗ www.icao.int Airports charge noise-related fees in the context of their tariffs. These reward airlines for operating quiet aircraft, while there ILO standards are significant surcharges for noisy aircraft. In Europe, noiseWork standards of the International Labor Organization, which related charges have become an important noise reduction include, among others, the bans on child labor, forced labor, instrument for areas surrounding airports. and discrimination as well as the fundamental right of freedom of association for employees. NOX – see “Nitrogen oxides” ISO 14001 – International environmental management system O Companies thereby receive an effective instrument that allows them to take environmental aspects into consideration in OHSAS 18001 – decisions relating to corporate policies and to continuously Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series improve the situation of environmental care in relation to all Job safety management system developed by the British daily tasks. ↗ www.iso.org Standards Institution in cooperation with international certification organizations. M Ozone Oxygen molecule consisting of three atoms, formed in the MRO stratosphere as well as in the troposphere at lower altitude. Acronym standing for maintenance, repair, and overhaul of The ozone layer located in the stratosphere has an important aircraft. protective function, as it absorbs harmful ultraviolet light. However, it is broken down massively by chlorofluorocarbons MTOW (CFCs), which led to the formation of the ozone hole. In the Acronym standing for maximum takeoff weight of an aircraft. troposphere, ozone is formed from numerous precursor substances under the influence of sunlight. Summer smog lowers the air quality and irritates the mucous membranes. Nitrogen oxide emissions from current levels of air traffic at cruising page 120 / Service & information altitudes cause – analogous to summer smog – an increase in W atmospheric ozone estimated by scientists at 3 to 4 percent on the heavily-flown North Atlantic routes. Water vapor The most important greenhouse gas, even ahead of carbon dioxide. Without the natural greenhouse effect, the tempera­ P ture on the Earth’s surface would be minus 18 degrees Celsius. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases increase the mean Passenger kilometer (PKO / PKT) temperature on Earth to plus 15 degrees Celsius. Natural water Measure for transport performance in passenger carriage vapor is responsible for almost two-thirds of the natural (number of passengers multiplied by distance flown). A greenhouse effect (33 degrees Celsius). For each kilogram of distinction is made between available transport performance kerosene burned, 1.24 kilograms of water vapor are released. (PKO, passenger kilometers offered, or, synonymously, SKO, Concerns that current air traffic volumes might increase the seat kilometers offered) and actual transport performance concentration of water vapor in the stratosphere and thus (PKT, passenger kilometers transported). change the climate have been refuted by scientific research. The German Aerospace Center (DLR) concluded that with today’s flight routing/flight altitudes even a one hundred-fold S increase in the quantity of water vapor emitted by air traffic would not result in a detectable climatic signal. Seat kilometer Measure of the transport capacity available (SKO, seat Wet Lease kilometers offered). Leasing of aircraft from another airline, including cockpit and cabin crews as well as maintenance and insurance. T Tonne kilometer (TKT/ TKO) Measure of transport performance (payload multiplied by distance). A distinction is made between available transport performance (TKO, tonne kilometers offered) and the actual transport performance (TKT, tonne kilometers transported). In calculating payloads, passengers are taken into account by means of a statistical average weight. U UHC – Unburned hydrocarbons Organic mixture of carbon and hydrogen that results from the incomplete combustion of fuels containing hydrocarbons or from the evaporation of fuel. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 121 GRI CONTENT INDEX ↗ GRI 102-55 This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the report. All of the GRI Standards listed in the GRI Content Index below were published in 2016. GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE TITLE PAGE NUMBER AND / OR URL / EXPLANATION GRI 101: Foundation GRI 102: General Disclosures Organizational profile GRI 102-1 Name of the organization Deutsche Lufthansa AG GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services page 4 f. GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters Deutsche Lufthansa AG is filed in the Commercial Register of Cologne District Court under HRB 2168 and has its headquarters in Cologne, Germany. The majority of Group functions are located in Frankfurt and Munich. GRI 102-4 Location of operations page 4 f. The airports served by Lufthansa Group airlines during the reporting year are located in more than 100 countries. GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form Annual Report 2018, page 10 The shareholder structure, updated quarterly, can be accessed at: www.lufthansagroup.com/investor-relations GRI 102-6 Markets served page 14 Given their materiality, the information presented in the sustainability report refer to the worldwide route network of the Lufthansa Group airlines. GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization page 2, page 4 Annual Report 2018, overview of performance indications, front cover page. For the Group consolidated balance sheet see page 102 f. GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers page 116 f. No separation by gender and by region, as this data is not control relevant. No description of staff by employees and staff subject to directives, and no indication of the share recognized as permanent freelance employees, and employees and staff subject to directives of contractual partners. GRI 102-9 Supply chain Balance 2018, page 8 f.; page 41 In this report, the primary focus is on the product “flying” without upstream and downstream processes. GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply page 1 chain For changes in the scope of consolidation in 2018, see Annual Report 2018, table page 180. The Lufthansa Commercial Holding GmbH acquired all shares in Luftfahrtgesellschaft Walter (LGW) effective January 9, 2018. For the reporting year 2018, reporting on fuel consumption and emissions therefore also includes LGW. On April 1, 2019, LGW changed over to Zeitfracht Gruppe. GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach The management of opportunities and risks is integrated in all business processes, see Annual Report 2018, page 61 ff. The Group risk management system has included the effects of business activities on the non-financial aspects since 2017; this was updated in 2018. GRI 102-12 External initiatives page 32, 35 An overview of the most important, voluntarily supported initiatives can be accessed at: www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility GRI 102-13 Membership of associations An overview of the most important, voluntarily supported initiatives can be accessed at: www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility page 122 / Service & information GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE TITLE PAGE NUMBER AND / OR URL / EXPLANATION Strategy GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker page 3 GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Annual Report 2018, page 61 ff. Ethics and integrity GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior page 32, 35 f. The Executive Board of Deutsche Lufthansa AG adopted a Code of Conduct in 2017 that serves as a basis for the Lufthansa Group’s value system. It is binding for all bodies, executives and employees of the Lufthansa Group. Beyond that, a number of Company-internal guidelines complement the principles and standards of conduct anchored in the Code of Conduct. This includes in particular the Lufthansa Group Compliance Program, see page 35 Governance GRI 102-18 Governance structure As of January 1, 2019, the Executive Board was expanded from five to six members with the creation of a new area of responsibility, “Airline Resources & Operations Standards”, see Annual Report 2018, page 13. Stakeholder engagement GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups page 27 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements page 82 GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders page 27 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement page 27 – 29 GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised page 27 – 31 For customer satisfaction value, see page 99 Reporting practice GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial page 111 statements Composition of the Group, see Annual Report 2018, page 179. A list of major subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associated companies can be found in the Annual Report, page 194 – 201. The consolidated financial statements can be accessed at: www.lufthansagroup.com/investor-relations GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries page 29 GRI 102-47 List of material topics page 30 – 31 GRI 102-48 Restatements of information page 111 During the reporting year 2018, Luftfahrtgesellschaft Walter was included. GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting In the current report, the sub-chapters “Ability to transform” and “Operational stability” were added for the first time, given the high level of relevance of both non-financial topics. GRI 102-50 Reporting period / Reporting cycle page 1 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report page 1 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle page 1 (yearly) GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report page 134 GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the page 1, page 122 GRI Standards GRI 102-55 GRI Content Index page 122 ff. GRI 102-56 External assurance page 115 In this report, the Scope 1–3 emissions data were subjected to an external audit. In addition, the Lufthansa Group published a combined non-financial report for the financial year 2018 in its Annual Report. This combined non-financial report was the subject of a voluntary limited assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 (revised). The management approaches and concepts published in it were adopted for this report and complemented with supplementary information. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 123 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE TITLE PAGE NUMBER AND / OR URL / EXPLANATION Material Topics Economic performance GRI 103: Management approach GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 25 ff. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Annual Report 2018, page 16 ff. Evaluation of the management approach GRI 201: Economic performance GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed page 2 Annual Report 2018, notes to the consolidated financial statements, page 106 ff. Anti-corruption GRI 103: Management approach GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 36 ff. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach GRI 205: Anti-corruption GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption page 37 GRI 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption page 37 policies and procedures No further breakdown available. Sustainable innovation, research and development GRI 103: Management approach GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 46 f. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / The Lufthansa Group and its subsidiaries, both individually and across Evaluation of the management approach business segment boundaries, continously work on product innovations as well as research and development projects. Energy GRI 103: Management approach GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 49 ff., page 54 ff., page 65 GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach GRI 302: Energy GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization page 113 f. In line with the aspect of materiality, the product of “flying” is primarily considered without upstream and downstream processes. Therefore, the focus of reporting is on the fuel consumption and CO2 emissions of the Lufthansa Group airlines. In addition, there is comprehensive reporting on the participation in the CDP climate change report, see: www.cdp.net GRI 302-3 Energy intensity page 111 The performance indicator for carrying a passenger over a distance of 100 kilometers is: liters per 100 passenger kilometers (l / 100 pkm). GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption page 63 GRI 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and page 54 ff. services The Lufthansa Group increased the fuel efficiency (l / 100 pkm) in 2018 by 0.8 percent compared to 2017. Emissions GRI 103: Management approach GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 54 ff. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach GRI 305: Emissions GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions page 55, page 114 GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions page 55, page 114 GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions page 55, page 114 page 124 / Service & information GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE TITLE PAGE NUMBER AND / OR URL / EXPLANATION GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity page 56 f. Values for specific CO2 emissions in kilograms per 100 passenger kilometers (kg / 100 pkm) GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions page 61 ff. Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 103: Management approach GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 41 GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using page 41 environmental criteria The project for Group-wide, standardized and structured supplier screening continues to be implemented. Active noise abatement GRI 103: Management approach GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 69 ff. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach Performance indicator Number of aircraft that meet the 10-dB criterium of page 129 the ICAO Chapter 4 standard. Employment GRI 103: Management approach GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 73 ff. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach GRI 401: Employment GRI 401-3 Parental leave The compatibility of work and private life is an important element for the Lufthansa Group to provide long-term support to employees to maintain their ability to work and perform. During the reporting year, 28.6 percent of the Lufthansa Group’s employees worked part-time, 72.9 percent of whom were women. Furthermore, numerous employees took family leave. A nuanced analysis of return rates is currently not yet possible, but is targeted for the future. Labor / management relations GRI 103: Management approach GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 82 f. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach GRI 402: Labor / management relations GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational In accordance with the stipulations of Industrial Relations Law and in the changes sense of an active social partnership, the responsible bodies of code­termination and the Company’s publics are informed at an early stage. Performance indicator Engagement Index (EI) page 83 Performance indicator Leadership Index (LI) page 83 Ability to transform GRI 103: Management approach GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 74 ff. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach Occupational health and safety GRI 103: Management approach GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 88 f. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 125 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE TITLE PAGE NUMBER AND / OR URL / EXPLANATION GRI 403: Occupational health and safety GRI 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management‑ In Germany, work protection committees that include representatives worker health and safety committees of employees and employer are active at all relevant locations of the Lufthansa Group. They jointly optimize processes and agree on measures to improve work protection. All employees in Germany are represented in work protection committees. GRI 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal The Medical Services and occupational safety provide comprehensive agreements with trade unions advice to employer and employee representations, for example in the context of implementing legal requirements or concluding collective agreements. Both departments are represented in numerous healthrelated committees of the employee representations of the different Lufthansa companies. Performance indicator Health Index page 88 Training and education GRI 103: Management approach GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 85 f. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach GRI 404: Training and education GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular perforpage 85 mance and career development reviews Diversity and equal opportunity GRI 103: Management approach GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 76 ff. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees The composition of the governance bodies is monitored with regard to the share of women and used for targeted control. An extension of this view to further diversity criteria, such as age and internationality, is planned as a perspective for management positions and the Executive Board / top management. Further differentiation is currently not control relevant for the Lufthansa Group. GRI 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Internally, the concept of equal opportunities has been anchored in works agreements for a long time. The principle of “Same pay for the same performance” has been practiced at the Lufthansa Group since the 1970s. Collective pay agreements and company non-tariff remuneration systems that can be consulted by all employees are proof of this approach. The “Report on equality and and equal remuneration” was produced for Deutsche Lufthansa AG in accordance with articles 21 and 22 EntgTranspG and published on the Internet. Apart from a statistical part, it contains information about measures to promote the equality between men and women and their effects as well as measures to ensure equal remuneration for men and women. www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility Freedom of association and collective bargaining GRI 103: Management approach GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 82 f. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach GRI 407: Freedom of association and collective bargaining GRI 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom For the reporting year it is assumed that no business activity of the of association and collective bargaining may be at risk Lufthansa Group posed a risk for the employees’ free exercise of their rights concerning the freedom of association and collective bargaining. page 126 / Service & information GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE TITLE PAGE NUMBER AND / OR URL / EXPLANATION Human Rights Assessment GRI 103: Management approach GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 32, page 38 ff. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment GRI 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights page 40 reviews or impact assessments Supplier Social Assessment GRI 103: Management approach GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 41 GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using page 41 social criteria The project for Group-wide, standardized and structured supplier screening continues to be implemented. Customer health and safety GRI 103: Management approach GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 105 ff. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach GRI 416: Customer health and safety GRI 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of page 105 ff. product and service categories Customer Privacy GRI 103: Management approach GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 108 f. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach GRI 418: Customer Privacy GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of page 108 customer privacy and losses of customer data Service and customer centricity GRI 103: Management approach GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 98 ff. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach Performance indicator Customer satisfaction value page 99 Operational stability GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 103 f. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach Performance indicator Departure punctuality page 104 Corporate citizenship GRI 103: Management approach GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary / page 90 ff. GRI 103-3 The management approach and its components / Evaluation of the management approach Performance indicator Number of people supported worldwide page 94 LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 127 EDITORIAL INFORMATION Published by Photo credits Deutsche Lufthansa AG Cover: Lufthansa Group Communications Stephan Zirwes; GettyImages: Mint Images, Senior Vice President: Andreas Bartels Evgeny Vasenev /Aurora Photos, Matteo Colombo Insides: Concept and editors Oliver Rösler (pages 3, 15, 17, 19, 22, 43, 68, 86) Lufthansa Group Communications Jens Görlich (pages 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 13, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 34, 44, Corporate Responsibility Communications & Events 59, 60, 61, 62, 64, 70, 77, 81, 94, 98, 105) Director: Susanne Kotysch Rolf Bewersdorf (page 9) Patrick Kuschfeld (pages 10, 21) Steffen Milchsack Udo Kroener (page 11) Claudia Walther Gregor Schläger (pages 23, 39, 52, 58, 75, 76, 92, 100) Michael Pasternack (page 23) Design and production Stephan Zirwes (page 24) organic Marken-Kommunikation GmbH, Frankfurt am Main United Nations, Sustainable Development Goals (page 33) Cover page: DennerleinBrands GmbH, Frankfurt am Main SWISS (pages 43, 101) Chapter opening pages: organic Marken-Kommunikation GmbH Aerobrand / David Noble (page 45) in cooperation with DennerleinBrands GmbH GettyImages: Arctic-Images (page 48) Yorck Dertinger (page 51) Copy deadline Austrian Airlines / Markus Setznagel (page 67) May 31, 2019 GettyImages: Orbon Alija (page 72) BWLTF (page 79) Use of material from Balance, including excerpts, only with André Borges (page 87) written permission from the publisher and by citing Christian Haude (pages 91, 94) Deutsche Lufthansa AG as the source (text and images). Unsplash: Anastasia Dulgier (page 96) GettyImages: Nearmap (page 110) Note Others: Lufthansa Group photo archive The terms Lufthansa Group, Group, Aviation Group, Company, and aviation company are used synonymously in this report. page 128 / Service & information MOST STRINGENT NOISE STANDARDS FOR THE LUFTHANSA GROUP’S FLEET MARGIN BELOW THE NOISE LIMIT OF ICAO CHAPTER 3 AND CHAPTER 4 The Lufthansa Group determines the effect of modernization Active fleet of the Lufthansa Group on October 27, 2018, in EPNdB concerning noise abatement of the operative fleet by means of the performance indicator “number of aircraft that meet or 0 – 10.0 * exceed the so-called ‘minus-10dB criterium’ set by the ICAO Chapter 4 standard”. This standard defines noise limits A330-200 SN – 13.9 / – 14.0 and stipulates that all aircraft newly licensed from 2006 to the A330-200 EW – 12.8 A330-300 LH – 18.4 end of 2017 must cumulatively fulfill the older Chapter 3 noise A330-300 LX – 18.4 limits by a margin of 10 decibels or more. This “minus-10EPNdB A330-300 WK – 18.3 / – 18.4 criterium” (Effective Perceived Noise dB) is signified by the A330-300 SN – 14.0 / – 18.4 vertical broken line in the overview to the left. In 2018, A340-300 LH / CL – 22.7 99.6 percent of the aircraft – thus virtually the entire operational A340-300 SN – 22.7 Group fleet – met this criterium. A340-300 LX / WK – 22.1 A340-600 LH – 23.0 The limits depend on the aircraft’s maximum takeoff weight A350-900 LH – 32.3 and number of engines. The bar chart indicates the sum of the A380-800 LH – 25.8 / – 26.7 differences between the measured value and the threshold B747-400 LH – 13.6 B747-8 LH – 25.6 value at the three measuring points by type of aircraft B767-300 OS – 16.5 / – 16.9 (cumulated margin). Where necessary, the values are based on B777-200 OS – 20.9 / – 21.1 the reduced maximum takeoff weight prevailing in flight B777-300 LX – 16.0 operations. The individual noise certificate data of all Group B777F LH – 17.0 aircraft is included in the evaluation methodology. Different MD-11F LH – 13.4 / – 13.6 versions of an aircraft and its engines by year of construction A319-100 LH – 15.3 / – 19.3 are thus better taken into account. Accordingly, the value A319-100 LX – 17.4/ – 19.8 ranges from the lowest to the highest cumulated margin are A319-100 EW – 18.2/ – 19.4 indicated for many fleets. The analysis also takes into account A319-100 OS – 19.3 any modifications to aircraft or engines that have been made in A319-100 4U – 17.5 / – 19.4 A319-100 SN – 18.7 / – 21.2 the meantime, thereby leading to modified noise data and A320-200 LH – 13.5 / – 29.8 cumulated margins in certain cases. Furthermore, additions and A320-200 LX – 14.1 / – 16.0 withdrawals in individual fleets lead to changes in the value A320-200 WK – 14.3 / – 14.4 ranges reported. A320-200 OS – 15.0 / – 16.0 A320-200 4U – 13.5 The data to calculate the indicator is gathered on the qualifying A320-200 EW – 15.0 / – 17.3 date “end of summer timetable”. Due to seasonal requirements, A320-200 SN – 14.9 / – 15.4 the fleet is largest at this point, which makes the measurement A321-100 LH – 15.5 of the largest noise-related “footprint” possible. Accordingly, A321-100 LX – 10.0 / – 11.5 A321-100 OS – 11.5 all aircraft in the possession of the individual flight-operating A321-200 LH – 14.1 / – 15.1 companies at the qualifying date are taken into account for the A321-200 LX – 14.4 calculation of the performance index. A321-200 OS – 9.3 Bombardier CS100 LX – 28.3 Bombardier CS300 LX – 26.6 Grouping of aircraft types according to MTOW (maximum Bombardier CRJ900 CL – 16.6 takeoff weight): ● under 50 t ● 50 to 150 t ● more than 150 t Bombardier DHC8-400 OS – 23.9 / – 25.9 This division generally corresponds to a grouping of regional, Bombardier DHC8-400 EW – 23.6 / – 25.6 continental, and intercontinental aircraft. Embraer 190 CL – 15.2 Embraer 195 CL – 14.8 Embraer 195 EN – 14.8 * ICAO Chapter 4 limit, which has been effective for a new Embraer 195 OS – 14.8 / – 15.3 aircraft since 2006: – 10 EPNdB when compared to chapter 3. LH = Lufthansa, Lufthansa Cargo CL = Lufthansa CityLine EN = Air Dolomiti LX = SWISS WK = Edelweiss Air SN = Brussels Airlines 4U = Germanwings EW = Eurowings OS = Austrian Airlines LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 129 THE OPERATING FLEET OF THE LUFTHANSA GROUP 1 AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 Lufthansa and regional partners Airbus A319-100 LH: 30 aircraft, 138 seats, 3,350 km range Airbus A380-800 LH: 14 aircraft, 509 seats, 12,400 km range Airbus A319-114, D-AILW „Donaueschingen“, left side, simplified version/vignette for small size use (11.2018) Illustrator: Norbert Andrup Embraer 195 Airbus A380-841, D-AIMB „München“, left side, flying, simplified version/vignette for small size use (11.2018) Illustrator: Norbert Andrup CL: 5 aircraft, 120 seats, 2,300 km range EN: 12 aircraft, 120 seats, 2,300 km range Embraer ERJ195, D-AEBC „Oberstdorf“, left side, flying, vignette (11.2018) Illustrator: Norbert Andrup Boeing 747-8 LH: 19 aircraft, 364 seats, 13,000 km range Embraer 190 CL: 9 aircraft, 100 seats, 3,500 km range Boeing 747-830, D-ABYA „Brandenburg“, left side, flying, simplified version/vignette for small size use (11.2018) Illustrator: Norbert Andrup Embraer ERJ190, D-AECH „Alzey“, left side, flying, vignette (11.2018) Illustrator: Norbert Andrup Bombardier CRJ900 CL: 35 aircraft, 90 seats, 2,100 km range Boeing 747-400 LH: 13 aircraft, 371 seats, 11,850 km range Boeing 747-430, D-ABVM „Kiel“, left side, simplified version/vignette for small size use (11.2018) Illustrator: Norbert Andrup Bombardier CRJ900, D-ACNC „Weil am Rhein“, left side, vignette (11.2018) Illustrator: Norbert Andrup SWISS and Edelweiss Air Airbus A340-600 LH: 18 aircraft, 297 seats, 12,900 km range Airbus A340-642, D-AIHH „Wiesbaden“, left side, flying, simplified version/vignette for small size use (02.2019) Illustrator: Norbert Andrup HB JNA Airbus A350-900 LH: 12 aircraft, 293 seats, 12,650 km range Boeing 777-300ER LX: 10 aircraft, 340 seats, 13,650 km range Airbus A350-941, D-AIXM „Schwerin“, left side, simplified version/vignette for small size use (11.2018) Illustrator: Norbert Andrup FRAUENFELD HB JMA MA Airbus A340-300 LH: 9 aircraft, 283 seats, 11,800 km range Airbus A340-300 LX: 5 aircraft, 219 seats, 13,000 km range CL: 6 aircraft, 300 seats, 11,500 km range Airbus A340-313E, D-AIFD „Gießen“, left side, flying, simplified version/vignette for small size use (102.2019) Illustrator: Norbert Andrup Airbus A330-300 LX: 14 aircraft, 236 seats, 9,850 km range Airbus A330-300 LH: 18 aircraft, 236 seats, 9,850 km range Airbus A330-343X, D-AIKD „Siegen“, left side, flying, simplified version/vignette for small size use (02.2019) Illustrator: Norbert Andrup Airbus A321-100 /200 LX: 9 aircraft, 219 seats, 2,100 km range Airbus A321-100 /200 LH: 63 aircraft, 200 seats, 2,600 km / 4,150 km range Airbus A321-200, D-AIDB „Bayreuth“, left side, simplified version/vignette for small size use (102.2019) Illustrator: Norbert Andrup Airbus A320neo LH: 16 aircraft, 180 seats, 3,000 km range Airbus A320-200 LX: 19 aircraft, 180 seats, 2,700 km range Airbus A320neo, D-AINO „Rastatt“, left side, simplified version/vignette for small size use (11.2018) Illustrator: Norbert Andrup Airbus A320-200 LH: 72 aircraft, 168 seats, 3,200 km range Airbus A319-100 LX: 5 aircraft, 138 seats, 3,350 km range Airbus A320-200, D-AIZG „Sindelfingen“, left side, simplified version/vignette for small size use Illustrator: Norbert Andrup LEGEND LH = Lufthansa, Lufthansa Cargo CL = Lufthansa CityLine EN = Air Dolomiti LX = SWISS WK = Edelweiss Air SN = Brussels Airlines 4U = Germanwings EW = Eurowings OS = Austrian Airlines LGW = Luftfahrtgesellschaft Walter Range indicated in general with maximum number of passengers 1 Operated by companies of the Lufthansa Group. or payload, respectively. In part, different versions are in operation. 2 Two A340-300s operated by Brussels Airlines. These aircraft are part of the Eurowings fleet. page 130 / Service & information HB JCA Eurowings Bombardier CS300 LX: 20 aircraft, 145 seats, 4,250 km range Airbus A320-200 HB JBA Kanton Zürich EW / 4U / LGW: 62 aircraft, 180 seats, 4,000 km range Bombardier CS100 LX: 8 aircraft, 125 seats, 2,850 km range Airbus A319-100 EW / 4U / LGW: 51 aircraft, 150 seats, 2,900 km range Airbus A340-300 WK: 4 aircraft, 314 seats, 11,850 km range Bombardier Q400 LGW: 20 aircraft, 76 seats, 1,350 km range Airbus A330-300 WK: 2 aircraft, 315 seats, 10,000 km range Brussels Airlines 2 Airbus A320-200 WK: 9 aircraft, 174 seats, 4,050 km range Austrian Airlines Austrian Airlines Airbus A330-300 SN: 11 aircraft, 288 seats, 7,700 km range Flotte 2019 Austrian Airlines Flotte 2019 Austrian Airlines Flotte 2019 Airbus A330-200 Austrian Airlines Boeing 777-200ER Flotte 2019 SN: 4 aircraft, 264 seats, 10,400 km range strian Airlines tte 2019 Boeing 777-200ER Boeing 777-200ER OS: 6 aircraft, 308 seats, 12,100 km range Austrian Airlines Boeing 777-200ER Flotte 2019 Boeing 777-200ER Boeing 767-300ER Boeing 777-200ER Boeing 767-300ER Airbus A320-200 SN: 16 aircraft, 180 seats, 3,700 km range Boeing 767-300ER Steirisches Weinland Boeing 767-300ER Boeing 777-200ER OS: 6 aircraft, 214 seats, 10,250 km range Airbus A321-100/200 Boeing 767-300ER Steirisches Weinland Airbus A321-100/200 Airbus A319-100 Boeing 767-300ER SN: 22 aircraft, 141 seats, 3,200 km range Steirisches Weinland Airbus A321-100/200 Airbus A321-100 / 200 Steirisches Weinland Boeing 767-300ER Airbus A320-200 Airbus A321-100/200 OS: 6 aircraft, 200 seats, 2,600 km / 4,150 km range Airbus A320-200 Steirisches Weinland Airbus A321-100/200 Steirisches Airbus A320-200 Airbus A319-100 Weinland Airbus A321-100/200 Airbus A320-200 Airbus A320-200 Lufthansa Cargo Airbus A319-100 Airbus A320-200 OS: 23 aircraft, 168 seats, 4,100 km range Airbus A319-100 Embraer E195 Airbus A320-200 Airbus A319-100 Embraer E195 Airbus A319-100 Embraer E195 Airbus A319-100 Embraer Airbus E195 A319-100 OS: 7 aircraft, 138 seats, 3,350 km range Boeing MD-11F Boeing MD-11F Embraer E195 LH: 12 aircraft, 89.4 t, 6,700 km range Embraer E195 Embraer 195 OS: 17 aircraft, 120 seats, 2,300 km range Boeing MD-11F, D-ALCD, left side, flying, detailed version (02.2018) Illustrator: Norbert Andrup Boeing 777-F Bombardier Q400 OS: 18 aircraft, 76 seats, 1,350 km range Boeing 777F LH: 5 aircraft, 103 t, 8,900 km range Boeing 777F, D-ALFA „Good Day, USA“, left side, flying, detailed version (01.2019) Illustrator: Norbert Andrup LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 131 PRIZES AND AWARDS 2018 /19 Every year, the Lufthansa Group and its subsidiaries receive • The Lufthansa A350 Economy Class won the numerous prizes and awards. Here is a selection: “German Design Award 2018” in the category “Excellent Product Design”. 2018 • At the German Brand Award in Berlin, Lufthansa won gold in the category “Excellence in Brand Strategy, Management • At the Business Travel Awards 2018, Lufthansa received the and Creation” and the “Best of the Best” award as award “Best Long-haul Airline”. Group company AirPlus was “Corporate Brand of the Year”. honored for the “Best Corporate Payment Product”. • At the Future Travel Experience Awards, Lufthansa was • The IATA gave the Fast Travel Platinum Award to named “Most Innovative Airline in Europe” for the second Austrian Airlines’ mobile self-services. time in a row. • SWISS was honored with the Randstad Award 2018 as most • The Lufthansa Innovation Hub was again honored as best attractive employer in Switzerland. German innovation laboratory by business magazine Capital. • At the ADC Awards (Art Directors Club für Deutschland e. V.), • Swiss WorldCargo and Lufthansa Cargo were presented Germany’s most important advertising award ceremony, with the DHL Care Award. It honors both air cargo service Lufthansa received a total of 15 prizes, including one for the providers for their extraordinary performance in securely #LifeChangingPlaces campaign. handling and transporting temperature-sensitive life-science products. • In a Germany-wide consumer survey conducted by Deutschland test analysis and consulting house ServiceValue • SWISS was honored at the World Travel Awards for its on the topic of sustainability, Lufthansa ranked first in the Economy Class and First Class. category “Airlines” and achieved the rank of “Test Winner”. • Lufthansa, SWISS and Austrian Airlines received four prizes • Lufthansa Systems was honored for BoardConnect with at the Business Traveller Awards 2018: SWISS took first the Onboard Hospitality Award in the category “Best Use place in the category “Best Airline for Business Travellers on of Onboard Technology”. German and European Routes”, Lufthansa took second place and Austrian Airlines third. In addition, lufthansa.com • Lufthansa was distinguished at the Business Traveller ranked first in the category “Best Internet offer for Middle East Awards as “Best European Airline Serving the Business Travellers”. Middle East”. • Lufthansa was voted “Best Airline in Europe” and • Lufthansa Technik won the “Red Hat Innovation Award” “Best Western European Airline” by Skytrax. Austrian Airlines for the IT platform AVIATAR. received the awards “Best Airline Staff Service in Europe” and “Best Business Class Onboard Catering”. • At the Dublin Aviation Summit 2018, Lufthansa Technik won three Aviation 100 MRO Global Awards: “Independent • Lufthansa Technik was honored by business magazine MRO of the Year”, “Component MRO Provider of the Year” Capital for its excellent quality of professional training. and “Aircraft Technical Manager of the Year”. • Lufthansa Consulting won the consultant’s prize • Lufthansa received the special award of the “German Light “Best of Consulting 2018” presented by business magazine Design Prize 2018” for the unusual cabin lighting aboard the WirtschaftsWoche in the category “Competitive Strategy”. Airbus A350-900. page 132 / Service & information • Lufthansa Systems secured the World Travel Award for BoardConnect as “World’s Leading Inflight Entertainment”. • Lufthansa won the “Best Airlines Award” given by Business Traveller China as best European airline in China. • Lufthansa won first place in the category “Best Airline Europe” at the Travel Weekly Asia 2018 Readers Choice Awards. • For its cooperation “Lufthansa Express Rail”, Deutsche Bahn and Lufthansa were honored with the Global AirRail Award in the category “AccesRail Integrated Partnership of the Honored for corporate citizenship: Carsten Spohr accepts the Year 2018”. Statesmanship Award 2019. • In Tanzania, LSG Sky Chefs received “The Recycler” Award DAR in the category “Environment” and thus recognition as most innovative recycler. 2019 • Lufthansa Cargo again achieved admission to the list • Lufthansa was elected ATW Airline of 2019; the first time in of 75 “Green Supply Chain Partners” of trade magazine 14 years that the award goes to a European airline. This Inbound Logistics. With this initiative the magazine coveted air transport prize is given by the industry’s leading emphasizes companies that consistently promote sustain­ publishing company, Airport Transport World (ATW). able supply chains and fulfill their responsibility in social and environmental issues. • The United States Association of Former Members of Congress (FMC) honored the Lufthansa Group with • As a founding member of the initiative “Competitive Sportthe Statesmanship Award for its corporate citizenship – Friendly Employer”, SWISS received the eponymous label. a world first for an aviation group. • Austrian Airlines was honored with the Prevention Award • In the Germany-wide consumer survey “Sustainable of European Regions for the project “Cabin Ready for Commitment”, conducted by Focus Money, Deutschland Health” in the category “Austrian Companies”. “Cabin Ready Test and Service Value, Lufthansa was again elected the for Health” also received the quality seal for corporate health most sustainable airline in the category “Airlines”. promotion. It honors exemplary measures supporting health-promoting corporate culture and requires high-level • The Chambers of Commerce (IHK) in the state of Hesse and commitment, adherence to particularly strict quality criteria the German Hotel and Restaurant Association (DEHOGA as well as sustainability. Hesse) recognized LSG Sky Chefs in Frankfurt as “Premium Training Company” for its apprentice program. • Brussels Airlines was named “Best Transatlantic Airline” by U. S. magazine Global Traveler based on reader feedback. • At Air Cargo Africa in Johannesburg, Lufthansa Cargo was honored as best global cargo airline of the year. • SWISS was again honored with the Randstad Award as Switzerland’s most attractive employer. LUFTHANSA GROUP / Sustainability Report Balance / Issue 2019 / page 133 CONTACT Deutsche Lufthansa AG Steffen Milchsack Head of Corporate Responsibility Communications Spokesperson FRA CI/BC Lufthansa Aviation Center Airportring D-60546 Frankfurt/Main balance@dlh.de You will find further information on sustainability within the Lufthansa Group at: ↗ www.lufthansagroup.com/responsibility View the Annual Report 2018 at: ↗ www.lufthansagroup.com/investor-relations page 134 / Service & information DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG Lufthansa Group Communications Lufthansa Aviation Center 60546 Frankfurt am Main Germany E-mail: balance@dlh.de Balance is a registered title. © May 2019
