WOOLWORTHS HOLDINGS LIMITED 2019 Good Business Journey Report This report is interactive. NAVIGATING Navigation tools are at the top right of each page and throughout the report: OUR REPORT Home Video Go to page Back to contents page Internet required within document IN COMMITMENT TO OUR GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY, THIS REPORT IS ONLY AVAILABLE DIGITALLY. Click to download or update to the latest Adobe Acrobat Reader Access additional Interactive indicator Print information on More detailed content the web can be found Access to the internet is required for Website content and Download functionality WHL 3 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 4 GOVERNANCE FO RWARD LO O KI N G STATEM E NTS The Sustainability Committee, a sub-committee of the Certain statements in this report may constitute forward OUR GOOD BUSINESS Woolworths Holdings Board, has oversight of the Group’s looking statements which, by their nature, involve risk sustainability strategy. The committee is chaired by a nonand uncertainty because they relate to future events executive director and meets twice a year to review the and circumstances that may be beyond the Group’s control. JOURNEY REPORT The directors, therefore, advise readers to use caution progress of the Good Business Journey programme, as well regarding interpreting any forward-looking statements in as to approve strategic matters arising for continuity of the the report. programme. The Group Chief Executive Officer and the Woolworths SA Chief Executive Officer are members of the committee, together with three independent directors. These independent directors each have significant expertise and experience in a range of corporate sustainability issues. The David Jones and Country Road Group Executive This is the 2019 annual sustainability report of Woolworths Holdings Limited (WHL or the Group). APPROVAL AND ASSURANCE Committees review Good Business Journey progress on a The report covers the 53 weeks ended 30 June 2019 and provides an overview of our The Group has always looked at obtaining independent regular basis as well. Both the David Jones and Country Good Business Journey. opinion on our progress as a crucial part of gaining and Road Group Boards also receive Good Business Journey progress updates at each Board meeting. maintaining credibility with our stakeholders. Ernst & Young Inc. (EY) has been engaged, for the ninth consecutive year, to perform a limited assurance engagement for certain quantitative information contained in this current report as follows: SCOPE AND BOUNDARY OF REPORTING FRAMEWORK THIS REPORT • Water usage for Woolworths head office, stores, and As with our 2019 Integrated Report, we have considered 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING SUITE distribution centres The companies covered by this report are Woolworths, the application of the six capitals (as recommended by the Complementing the Good Business Journey Report are a • Percentage of Woolworths branded fashion, beauty Country Road Group, and David Jones. The report is aimed International Integrated Reporting Council) in our thinking number of other reports targeted at specific stakeholders. and homeware locally sourced at providing an overview of our sustainability strategy and about sustainability. Where this report predominantly covers progress to date, as well as future plans. It is intended to the aspects related to human, social and relationship, and be read in conjunction with the 2019 Integrated Annual natural capitals, the Integrated Annual Report offers details THESE REPORTS ARE THE: Report and the 2019 Annual Financial Statements, as a about financial, manufactured, and intellectual capitals. This • Integrated Annual Report, which provides an overview of See EY’s 2019 independent assurance report compendium of our strategy and performance. We follow report references the GRI Standards. The detailed GRI index the Group’s performance, value created for stakeholders, a robust risk assessment approach to determine our risks can be found at www.woolworthsholdings.co.za. WHL is a contribution to society, and how the Group’s strategy, governance, and performance add to the creation of Various other verifications and assurances by a range across all focus areas as well as key stakeholder groupings. signatory to the UN Global Compact, and this report also value over the short-, medium-, and long-term of audit, technical, and scientific experts are obtained The principles that underlie the precautionary approach serves as our Communication on Progress (COP). We have • Annual Financial Statements, providing a more detailed over different aspects of our Good Business Journey. inform our governance and enterprise risk framework as also aligned to the UN Sustainable Development Goals understanding of the financial aspects of our business These are documented in an assurance summary in an well as our strategy. With respect to our sustainability (SDGs), as well as national development priorities of all the • Summarised Remuneration Report, providing key features appendix to this report. impacts, risk registers are developed for key business areas countries we operate in. The report also applies the King IV™ to ensure that all identified risks are documented, weighted principles. We welcome any feedback on our programme of the Remuneration Report according to the agreed risk assessment method, and and reporting. Contact details for this purpose can be found The Integrated Annual Report and Annual Financial at the end of the report. Statements, and Summarised Remuneration Report See Assurance Summary action plans are identified to mitigate the risk. are available online on our corporate website, www.woolworthsholdings.co.za Various appendices to this report, including a glossary, We feel that the combination of verification and Icons used throughout this report other supporting documents and compliance information assurance processes provides coverage for all our not included in these reports can be accessed on our material focus areas. corporate website, www.woolworthsholdings.co.za People & Social Health Sustainable Ethical Waste Water Energy & Transformation Development & Wellness Farming Sourcing Climate Change THE SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE HAS REVIEWED The contents of this 2019 Good Business Journey Report are broadly comparable with that of the 2018 Good Business Journey Report. AND RECOMMENDED THE GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY See 2019 sustainability reporting suite REPORT TO THE BOARD FOR APPROVAL. WHL 5 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 6 Q U I C K ACC E S S TO S ECTI O N S MANAGING PEOPLE AND SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY TRANSFORMATION DEVELOPMENT HEALTH AND ETHICAL SUSTAINABLE WELLNESS SOURCING FARMING ENERGY AND WASTE WATER CLIMATE CHANGE WHL 7 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 8 SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN KEY MATTERS DISCUSSED BY & GROUP CEO’S REPORT THE SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE Now in its 12th year, our Good Business Journey (GBJ) continues We continue to make progress on the responsible sourcing of The Sustainability Committee (the committee) ensures that the sustainability strategy positions the Group as to grow from strength to strength and is entrenched at the our key commodities such as cotton, timber, viscose, leather, a leader in responsible retailing in the countries in which it trades. It further oversees that the sustainability heart of our Group. The ethos behind it, though, goes back soy, cocoa, and palm oil. This year, we were also proud to initiatives and objectives are effectively integrated into the business and that the Group operates in an to the very beginning of the Woolworths business. We achieve a milestone, in that 100% of Woolworths’ food and environmentally responsible manner. Details of the committee composition and attendance at meetings are have always been driven by a strong set of values and the pet food lines are currently GMO free. included in the Integrated Report, while the committee‘s terms of reference are available on our website at recognition that we can only be successful if we address the Our people, customers, and local communities are the engine www.woolworthsholdings.co.za. sustainability of our business across the entire value chain, that drive our business. During the year, David Jones launched from within our own operations to our supply chain, our its Reconciliation Action Plan, a two-year strategic and KEY MATTERS DISCUSSED DURING THE YEAR: customers, our community and our products. operational management framework approach to bridging • Reviewed the Group’s sustainable development (Good Business Journey) strategy and performance This can be challenging, particularly in the complex global actual and perceived gaps between Aboriginal and Torres context within which we operate. There are concerns about Strait Islander peoples and non-indigenous employees, • Discussed contextualisation of the Group’s 2020 water target, taking into account the wide variety of the carrying capacity of our planet, particularly with regards customers, and communities. work the Group is undertaking with regard to water stewardship, quality, and efficiency to its ability to provide food and essential ecosystem services The Group contributed over R852 million towards corporate • Considered customer feedback on their perceptions of the Good Business Journey with particular reference to a growing population. The accelerating impacts of climate social investment causes. R83 million was contributed through to packaging change are becoming increasingly visible, and the extreme the MySchool MyVillage MyPlanet programme and R611 million • Monitored the roll-out and implementation of our zero packaging waste to landfill vision and commitments weather events related to it have not been experienced at in surplus food was donated to those in need. The annual • Considered feedback on various local and internal stakeholder engagements as well as the ongoing this scale and frequency before. This is putting additional Witchery White Shirt campaign raised A$1.7 million for the partnerships in initiatives to remain at the forefront of sustainability strain on our food production systems and our globalised Ovarian Cancer Research Foundation. Furthermore, we supply chains. At the same time, our customers’ perceptions • Monitored international developments in sustainable fibres and the Group’s ethical sourcing strategy spent over R146 million in skills development initiatives for our around health and wellness are changing, as more and more employees. Through the implementation of our GBJ we have • Monitored the restructuring of the regional sustainability team in Australia and alignment of the Australian people are shifting to healthier lifestyle choices, which, in turn, achieved R1 424 million in operational and process savings group’s programme with that of the Good Business Journey impacts their purchasing decisions. This is coupled with the to date. • Considered assurance coverage of the Good Business Journey focus areas and appointed the report’s continuing focus on plastic and packaging. Operating in South assurance service provider We are immensely proud of the recognition we have Africa, we are also deeply conscious of our role in the broader received over the last year for our GBJ performance and community, particularly in these stressed economic times. related reporting, including our inclusion in the Dow Jones Topics related to people and transformation, employee health and wellness, and social development were Looking back on the past year, we continued delivering Sustainability Index and FTSE4Good Emerging Index Series. discussed by the Social and Ethics Committee during the year. Further information on these topics is provided on our ambition of zero packaging waste to landfill via in the Social and Ethics Committee Report. a number of initiatives across the various companies in LOOKING AHEAD the Group. A significant development was Woolworths rolling out plastic-shopper-bag-free stores supported by Our vision is to be one of the world’s most responsible See Integrated Report the development of new, low-cost reusable bags as an retailers, and embedding the GBJ remains one of our key alternative to the traditional plastic bag. The business also strategic focus areas. We aim to continue to do business in See Social and Ethics Committee Report removed plastic straws and cutlery from stores as well as the most transparent and ethical way possible, managing our plastic-stemmed earbuds. Numerous other projects are in environmental and social impacts in our value chain. This aligns the works to deliver the ambitious target. At the same time, to our Woolworths Holdings values, and is nothing less than it is important to note that we are not on this packaging what our stakeholders expect. “WE BELIEVE WE CAN CONTINUE TO DO GOOD journey alone and continue to collaborate with a variety of stakeholders on a range of issues. Simon Susman BUSINESS BY DOING BUSINESS IN A GOOD WAY, The sustainable sourcing of our products was a key focus Chairman, Sustainability Committee CREATING REAL VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS.” area during the year. As part of our commitment towards increasing transparency with our customers, both Country – Simon Susman, Chairman, Sustainability Committee Ian Moir Road Group and David Jones published their supplier lists and Group Chief Executive Officer signed the Bangladesh Accord on Fire and Building Safety. WHL 1 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 2 A TRIBUTE TO SIMON SUSMAN From Hubert Brody, Deputy Chairman It is with great gratitude that we say farewell to Simon Susman at our 2019 Annual General Meeting. SIMON WAS ALSO PARTICULARLY INSTRUMENTAL Simon has been part of Woolworths for almost 40 years and his contribution to the Group has been invaluable. Notably, he was the architect and driving force behind our very successful Food business and IN INSPIRING AND further held a number of top executive positions in the Group before becoming the Chief Executive in 2000. IMPLEMENTING OUR Simon was also particularly instrumental in inspiring and implementing our Good Business Journey. Through this programme, the Group continually strives to do business in a way that is deeply GOOD BUSINESS sustainable, both socially and environmentally. JOURNEY. THROUGH Simon will become Honorary President upon conclusion of the 2019 WHL Annual General Meeting, where he will step down as a director. He will provide support and advice to the Board and continue his THIS PROGRAMME, THE deep association with the Group by devoting his time to the continued advancement of GROUP CONTINUALLY WHL’s participation in civil and corporate society. On behalf of the Board, management and all our employees, we wish to extend our deepest STRIVES TO DO BUSINESS thanks and appreciation to Simon for the passion and wisdom that he has shared with us and for IN A WAY THAT IS building Woolworths into a company that is deeply rooted in values, passionately delivers on sustainability, and brings real value to all stakeholders. DEEPLY SUSTAINABLE, BOTH SOCIALLY AND ENVIRONMENTALLY. WHL 3 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 4 HIGHLIGHTS & ACHIEVEMENTS (JULY 2018 – JUNE 2019) David Jones and Country Woolworths wins a Legends of Empowerment David Jones and Country David Jones launches its Reconciliation Action Plan, a twoRoad Group hold a Good Award at the 2019 Top Empowerment Awards. Road Group announced year strategic and operational management framework. Business Journey focus week as two of 12 leading at head office to increase representatives on the APCO employee awareness and Collective Action Group, engagement on sustainability. charged with overseeing the progress of Australia’s 2025 Woolworths launches National Packaging Targets. a new plant-based protein range of foods. Woolworths rolls out additional Woolworths’ WBeauty joins plastic-bag-free Food stores and forces with make-up maestro to Politix switches from plastic bags Mimco celebrates ‘Sustainability Woolworths removes the stars, Sir John, to launch a to recyclable paper bags. Week’, highlighting its efforts in Witchery donates A$1.7 million to the plastic-stemmed 10-piece, cruelty-free, and 100% designing more sustainable products. Ovarian Cancer Research Foundation. earbuds from stores. vegan make-up collection. Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun MySchool MyVillage MyPlanet Woolworths receives three International Woolworths Palmyra store receives a 6-star rating David Jones and Country Road Group become removes plastic Loyalty Magazine Awards, from the GBCSA, the highest rating possible. signatories to the Bangladesh Accord on Fire and cutlery and straws including the Best Corporate Building Safety, and, as part of their commitment from stores. Social Responsibility Initiative towards increasing transparency with customers, Linked to Loyalty Award. Woolworths Waterstone publish their supplier lists. store receives a 4-star Woolworths pies rating from the Green become the very Building Council of first South African made food products Country Road Group launches a collection made from traceable and verifiable South Africa (GBCSA). containing certified Australian merino wool and introduces a range of men’s ‘low water wash’ denim. sustainable palm oil. David Jones and Country Road Group host the first See full list of awards, recognition, highlights Woolworths trials a plastic-bag-free Food Australian Packaging Covenant Organisation (APCO) and achievements for the year store and rolls out low-cost reusable bags. Clothing Fashion and Footwear Industry Roundtable. WHL 5 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 6 ABOUT THE WHL GROUP Woolworths Holdings Limited (WHL) is a southern hemisphere retail Group that has been listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange Limited (JSE) since 1997. It is one of the top JSE-listed companies and has a market capitalisation of R51.3 billion as at 30 June 2019. Approximately 41% of revenue is derived from Australian operations. The Group trades through three operating subsidiaries, which include Woolworths Proprietary Limited (Woolworths or WSA), Country Road Group Proprietary Limited (Country Road Group or CRG), and David Jones Proprietary Limited (David Jones or DJ), acquired as of 1 August 2014 and formerly listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX). Woolworths Financial Services Proprietary Limited (WFS) is a joint venture with Absa Bank, which holds the controlling interest. From an operating perspective, Woolworths is the biggest contributor to Group turnover and profit and thus has the largest sustainability impact across the Group. 58.9% PROFILE Leading South African Group turnover (including retailer offering a range of concession sales) primarily private label products OFFERING A selected range of quality fashion, beauty, 75.3% Group adjusted profit before interest and tax homeware, and food products. TRADING SPACE Financial services are provided 733 000 m2 through Woolworths Financial Services (WFS) 90.0% of targets achieved on sustainability scorecard PROFILE One of Australia’s leading premium department 27.1% Group turnover (including concession sales) stores OFFERING Leading international 6.7% Group adjusted profit before interest and tax and local brands with a private TRADING SPACE label clothing, homeware, and 475 000 m2 food offering 83.0% of targets achieved on sustainability scorecard 14.0% Group turnover (including concession sales) PROFILE Leading Australian speciality retailer OFFERING Stylish, high-quality 18.0% Group adjusted profit before interest and tax apparel, accessories, TRADING SPACE footwear, and homeware 121 000 m2 84.0% of targets achieved on sustainability scorecard On a comparable 52-week basis as at 30 June 2019. WHL 7 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 8 OVERVIEW OF THE GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY OUR VISION IS TO BE ONE OF THE WORLD’S MOST RESPONSIBLE RETAILERS GOOD BUSINESS The Good Business Journey facilitates our vision to be one of the world’s most responsible retailers. It is our Group-wide plan to make a difference for our people, our communities, and for the environment. JOURNEY STRATEGY Embedding the Good Business Journey is one of the WHL Group’s strategic focus areas. See more information on the Group’s strategic focus areas in the Integrated Report Our material issues ultimately inform and influence our Good Business Journey strategy and focus areas. In order to identify our material issues, each year, we consider the operating and sustainability context, the results of stakeholder engagement, as well as our strategic risks. WHL GROUP The Group has identified talent and change management and responsible retailing as material issues at a macro level. These issues are further broken down in our Good Business Journey and are addressed through the related eight focus areas and are reported on in this report. MATERIAL ISSUES See more information on the Group’s macro-level material issues in the Integrated Report GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY FOCUS AREAS People & Transformation Social Development Health & Wellness Sustainable Farming Ethical Sourcing Waste Water Energy & Climate Change We need to create a safe To address the risks to and healthy working To manage our ethical We need to reduce the our business from climate As a responsible We need to contribute A constant supply of WHY THE FOCUS Organisational diversity environment to enable sourcing risk, we need to amount of waste sent to change, we need to ensure corporate citizen we need to a sustainable food clean water is essential to AREAS AND and transformation are employees to thrive. As a create better lives for workers landfill across our value chain, that appropriate adaptation to contribute to meeting the system, actively managing our value chain, from the MATERIAL ISSUES ARE important for enabling Food retailer, we should in our supply chain and and drive a market for and mitigation actions are economic and societal needs environmental impacts and the growing of commodities to IMPORTANT TO THE effective delivery of our inspire our customers to contribute to increasing recycled materials by using taken across our value chain of the communities where welfare and dignity of animals the manufacture and sale of WHL GROUP business strategy. make healthy choices by demand for responsibly them in our operations, to manage and reduce we operate. in our supply chain. our products. providing a wide range of sourced commodities. packaging, and products. energy consumption and healthy food options. carbon emissions. WHL GROUP GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY Refer to People and Contribute R3.5 billion to our Have at least one sustainability attribute for all directly Responsible sourcing of all key Phase out single-use plastic Save 500 billion litres of Halve our energy impact GOALS AND Transformation chapter communities by 2020. sourced products by 2020. commodities by 2020. shopping bags by 2020. water by 2020. by 2020 and source all our COMMITMENTS All our packaging will be energy from renewables reusable or recyclable by 2030. by 2022. Refer to People and Progress is varied across Energy impact: Exceeded target PROGRESS TO DATE On track Progress is varied across the Group On track Water target is being reframed Transformation chapter the commodities Renewable energy: On track Each of our focus areas has specific strategies, management approaches, related goals and targets, all of which are discussed further in this report, along with our performance during the year and any challenges faced. To ensure consistency across our operations, each business unit has a sustainability scorecard against which they are measured twice per annum. This scorecard includes a set of relevant Good Business Journey objectives, targets, and key performance indicators aligned to these eight focus areas and Group goals and commitments. These sustainability scorecards are rolled up to a company level and Group level to assess the performance of the Group against the Good Business Journey goals and commitments. WHL 9 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 10 SUSTAINABILITY RISKS As a fashion, beauty, home, and food retailer, we are faced with sustainability risks that may impact our business, both in our direct operations and in our value chain. Our response to these risks is managed through our Good Business Journey. BRAND REPUTATION • Inability to meet stakeholder expectations for reducing and positively influencing environmental and social impacts in our value chain • Inability to meet publicly stated Good Business Journey Group goals and commitments CLIMATE CHANGE WATER QUALITY WASTE ETHICAL AND ENERGY AND SCARCITY TO LANDFILL SOURCING OUR CONCERNS OUR CONCERNS OUR CONCERNS OUR CONCERNS • Failure to reduce carbon emissions and adapt to and mitigate • Food security and food price inflation • Lack of widely available recycling infrastructure and technology • Increasing expectations for transparency and traceability in the against physical climate change impacts • Contamination of available water resources through pollution • Availability of cost-effective alternatives supply chain • Threat to supply and quality of raw materials • Persistent drought • Balancing the need for packaging to minimise spoilage against • Increasing requirements to manage third-party social and • Food security and food price inflation • Threat to supply and quality of raw materials increasing expectations for packaging reduction environmental risk and animal welfare in the supply chain • Climate change impacts on seasonality and buying patterns • Increasing cost of doing business • Non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations • Balancing increasing legislative requirements for supply chain • Increasing cost of doing business • Failing infrastructure localisation with the quality, cost, and availability of goods in the • Availability of electricity rest of Africa • Failing infrastructure RELATED GBJ FOCUS AREAS RELATED GBJ FOCUS AREAS RELATED GBJ FOCUS AREAS RELATED GBJ FOCUS AREAS Sustainable Farming Energy & Climate Change Sustainable Farming Water Waste Sustainable Farming Ethical Sourcing MITIGATIONS MITIGATIONS MITIGATIONS MITIGATIONS • Achievement of 2020 goal to halve our energy impact • Implementation of water efficiency initiatives in our direct operations • Commitment to achieving our vision of zero packaging waste • Commitment to responsible sourcing of all key commodities by 2020 • Commitment to sourcing all energy from renewables by 2030 • Implementation of Woolworths’ Farming for the Future programme to landfill • Publication by Country Road Group and David Jones of their • Implementation of energy-efficiency initiatives in our • Implementation of the green factories programme with • Phase out of single-use plastic shopping bags and introduction of supplier lists direct operations Woolworths’ suppliers low-cost reusable bags • Mandatory compliance by suppliers with our Codes of Conducts • Solar photovoltaic installations across the Group • Implementation of a detox strategy to remove harmful chemicals • Proactive stakeholder engagement with the packaging and and Good Business Journey-related position statements • Implementation of Woolworths’ Farming for the Future programme from clothing manufacture recycling industries • Sourcing commodities through recognised international certification • Implementation of the green factories programme with • Involvement in water stewardship projects in key Woolworths • Trialling sustainable packaging options and verification programmes Woolworths’ suppliers sourcing regions • Recycling of waste from direct operations • Ongoing training of staff and suppliers on ethical sourcing topics • Optimisation of Woolworths’ delivery footprint • Product innovation • Provision of customer takeback facilities at Woolworths stores • Proactive stakeholder engagement with governments and regulators • Donation of surplus food and clothing to charities • Inclusion of clear on-pack recycling labelling WHL 11 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 12 OUR VALUE CHAIN OUR STAKEHOLDERS As a diversified-product retailer in food, fashion, beauty, and home with a global footprint, we We engage with our stakeholders and shareholders to understand what matters most to them and how we recognise the significant challenges associated with the complexity of working within a multi-tiered can deliver a sustainability strategy that allows us to meet their expectations without compromising our and geographically dispersed supply chain. value proposition as a business. Our material issues, risks, and impacts are spread across our entire value chain, which spans from raw material production to customers and the end-uses of our products. The WHL Group is committed to that these engagements facilitate value of stakeholder engagement. Our developing and sustaining quality, creation so that they are beneficial to stakeholders, their interests, and long-term relationships with all our key the Group and our stakeholders. level of influence in the Group’s stakeholders, including our employees, The Board is committed to stakeholder operations will vary according to customers, suppliers, communities, engagement with the interactions, geographical location, business OUR VALUE CHAIN business partners, unions, NGOs, monitoring and implementation of area, and the nature of their interest; academia, industry bodies, government, stakeholder engagement being the manner, level and extent of our regulators, and the media, among the responsibility of respective engagements are driven by their others. Our stakeholder relationships management teams in the Group. The influence, interests, expectations, and Communities help foster an environment that helps us Social and Ethics Committee annually concerns. These relationships are Environment build on the growth and prosperity of reviews the Group’s self-assessment depicted in the graph below. Economy our Group. Our philosophy is to engage authentically, openly and inclusively with our stakeholders, allowing us to better understand and benefit from their Shareholders Customers insights, concerns, and priorities and to Debt Funders Components seek areas of potential partnerships, Agriculture Suppliers & Processors WHL operations Customers mitigate risks to the business, and Government and Regulators Suppliers create mutual trust and respect. Media Employees Level of influence This is integral to the ongoing, daily Business Partners Raw material Processing Buying Purchasing management of the Group and key production Production Logistics/distribution Market influence to identifying the material issues that Competitors Function NGOs and Activists Packaging Retailing Use and disposal have the potential to significantly Unions of goods impact our performance and Industry Bodies Auditing Core business functions sustainability. We ensure our engagements are based around issues Communities that are both salient for the business and aligned to national priorities, and Level of interest in WHL activities With an understanding of our value chain, we are able to adopt a systems-thinking-based approach to addressing our material issues and risks. We demonstrate in each chapter of this report where in our value chain each of our eight Good In the appendices to this report, a full table is included where we have listed our key stakeholder groupings; their material Business Journey focus areas and related material issues and risks is relevant. needs, expectations, and concerns; and how we create value for them. Read more on the supply chain in the Ethical Sourcing chapter See Stakeholder Engagement WHL 13 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 14 Q U I C K ACC E S S TO S ECTI O N S PEOPLE AND TRANSFORMATION 17 SUMMARY OF RESULTS 18 STRATEGY & MANAGEMENT APPROACH “Central to who we are as a Group is our commitment to our customers and our people. Therefore, our focus on our people is 19 23 at the forefront of driving a successful Group strategy.” TALENT DEVELOPMENT AND RETENTION TRANSFORMATION, DIVERSITY, AND INCLUSION – Melanie Naidu, Group Head of Human Resources 27 TRANSFORMATION IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN WHL 15 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT Azania Mqayi at the Woolworths Palmyra store coffee cart. 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 16 SUMMARY STRATEGY AND OF RESULTS MANAGEMENT APPROACH Group Employee Headcount STRATEGY Woolworths SA CEO, was established in 2016 as a vehicle to deliver a modern and connected people The Vision of WHL is to be one of the world’s most experience to our employees. As part of this, responsible retailers. This vision reflects our deep Woolworths South Africa launched refreshed values in 46 831 commitment to doing good business for our customers, 2017, and we continue to engage across the business to our employees and our planet. Our Group purpose of ensure that every employee understands the role they adding quality to life for our customers and our people is play in bringing these values to life. In the last year, we WHL reflected by the fact that our commitment to our customers also successfully piloted an employee app called and our people is central to who we are. Our Group ‘MyWoolies’ as part of building a modern and connected people strategy ensures that we create a unique employee culture in the business. experience to deliver an exceptional customer experience. We have regional people strategies with Group oversight and through this, we are able to deliver this compelling IN AUSTRALIA, OUR REGIONAL PEOPLE STRATEGY IS value proposition. ACHIEVED THROUGH ENSURING THAT WE ENCOURAGE: 33 621 Woolworths 5 601 Country Road Group 7 609 David Jones As a Group, it is important for us to ensure that we employ and invest in people who share our purpose and values and have the capability to grow the business into the future. • A more integrated and sophisticated approach to culture, values, talent development, succession management, leadership development, team member experience, and To this end, it remains critical that we embed and drive an employee relations Employee Value Proposition that will continue to attract, • Inclusivity and diversity through making sure that engage, and retain the best, diverse talent required to our employees are given a voice. The first regional deliver our Group strategy. engagement survey was implemented for David Jones Our Group people strategy is, therefore, sharply focused and Country Road Group. This is aligned to the regional on ensuring that we create an environment in which our people strategy of focusing on understanding workplace Woolworths Supplier and Enterprise people can thrive and add value to the business. culture in order to build an inclusive workplace Development programme • Adding value so our customers, our people, our partners, and our communities know what we stand for through a shared values roll-out • Building a culture of collaboration MANAGEMENT APPROACH Our values inform and underpin the way we do business across the Group. We have continued to entrench a values-based culture across all our operating entities as IMPACT IN THE VALUE CHAIN an anchor for our brand, our people and customer R308.4M experiences, and, ultimately, as a key contributor to our organisational sustainability into the future. Communities 46 Environment WHL operations Procurement spend with supplier In conjunction with this, building future-focused Economy 450 development beneficiaries capabilities among our leadership remains a key priority throughout the Group to enable sustainability of our SED beneficiaries Suppliers & 2018: R246M values-based culture. Customers Processors 2018: 49 2017: NR* Youth appointed In South Africa, the Connected People Council, a 2017: 48 *not reported in 2017 at Woolworths collective forum of senior executives chaired by the WHL 17 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 18 TALENT DEVELOPMENT AND RETENTION Having the best talent in the industry We understand that attracting, in the regions in which we operate is developing, and retaining talented key to our success. At the same time, employees is critical to delivering competition for talented employees is our strategy and, therefore, we CASE STUDY intensifying. Talent development, talent remain passionate and committed management, and succession planning to sustainable transformation and YOUTH EMPLOYMENT SERVICE (YES): WOOLWORTHS SOUTH AFRICA are, therefore, vital. Our integrated steadfast in our belief that skills Woolworths is committed to making a difference in South Africa and has been involved in making a and streamlined talent management development is a key enabler of this. difference through education by participating in various initiatives like internships, graduate programmes, and succession planning engagement We are also clear in that delivery career exhibitions, and work experience opportunities for unemployed youth and people with disabilities. In sessions and processes have allowed of transformation through skills March 2018, we became one of the companies partnering with YES (Youth Employment Services) – a CEO-led us to focus on talent across the Group development requires us to extend government initiative launched by President Cyril Ramaphosa aimed at providing one million youth with work in a more focused and impactful beyond skills development within the experience and helping them gain valuable skills. In the last year, we have collaborated closely with YES and manner, with the appropriate level Group, and includes us playing a a number of external partners to build an understanding of how to implement YES within the Woolworths of strategic oversight. In addition, role in enabling education, capacity The Woolworths HR environment. Participating in YES has also offered us the opportunity to place learners in entry-level roles and our continued focus on leadership building, and skills development Learning and Development to build a pipeline of ready-now skilled people for core/scarce roles. development to build leaders now and targeted at improving the employability team was named the best YES employees have been inducted at various Woolworths facilities across the country. At stores, our into the future is part of creating an of graduates from various institutions. HR team in South Africa YES employees will be rotated around the store at approximately three monthly intervals to ensure they environment that attracts, develops This, ultimately, improves the calibre of for 2018 by the Institute of experience the complete retail life cycle. They will attend functional and technical training specific to their and retains the best talent. our future talent pipeline. People Management job role and will attend life skills and financial wellness workshops. Each head-office-based employee will receive a personal development plan based on their specific role, which ranges from visual merchandiser to marketing assistant and graphic designer. Training spend Approximately 450 young people have been offered this opportunity through Woolworths to date. R121.6M Woolworths R15.6M Country Road Group R9.4M David Jones TALENT DEVELOPMENT IN SOUTH AFRICA Given that our business model depends on specialist skills which are not always readily available in the market, skills development is a key anchor for our talent strategy as well as our employment equity and diversity strategies. Within Woolworths South Africa, the focus is on human capital transformation, specifically employment equity and skills Woolworths YES employees. From left to right: Nadine Poggenpoel, Lungisa Mjanyelwa, Tara Louw, Warren De Kock, Yonela Gozini, Anastacia Hendricks, Terri Groenewald. development, and we build skills for the company and the country. WHL 19 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 20 THE A+ FINANCE TALENT DEVELOPMENT IN AUSTRALIA INDUSTRY-BASED WORKPLACE EXPOSURE ACADEMY: WOOLWORTHS One of the key challenges highlighted in 2019 was the need to have a SOUTH AFRICA consistent approach and view of talent across the Group. In addressing SOUTH AFRICA AUSTRALIA Aspiring chartered accountants are this, the key focuses for 2019 have been to optimise and streamline the Annually, we offer opportunities ranging from bursaries Witchery collaborates with the RMIT University in Melbourne now able to complete their three talent and succession process to ensure that talent engagement sessions for students to co-op student placements, workplace to offer a work placement programme for selected visual years of articles at Woolworths. The are objective, strategic, and outcomes driven. Embedding a culture of experience programmes for Sector Education and Training merchandising students. Country Road offers 12-month Woolworths Finance Department, as regular talent discussions that are owned and prioritised by the leaders Authority (SETA) unemployed graduates, through to job graduate positions for students to be mentored by Country part of an initiative undertaken by of the organisation remains central to the people strategy. We have also placement. In the last year, we offered 251 employee Road’s visual merchandising team. the A+ Finance Academy, has been continued rolling out the values conversations throughout the organisation dependent bursaries amounting to R5 million. We also accredited by the South African Institute as a priority. hosted 102 co-op students for workplace experience, of Chartered Accountants (SAICA) as a 57 of whom were employed thereafter on long-term Training Outside of Public Practice (TOPP) contracts of at least 12 months. training office. This is a realisation of our Finance People Strategy to grow our Through the Woolworths’ Inside Retail programme, we REMUNERATION own talent and provides an opportunity collaborate in developing TVET college lecturers’ capacity The Group‘s remuneration philosophy is to ensure for our own people who desire to forge LABOUR TURNOVER by providing them with industry-based workplace that employees are rewarded appropriately for their careers as chartered accountants, exposure. Last year, 29 lecturers were immersed for five contribution to the execution of the Group strategy. The labour turnover rate for WHL was 21.2% (WSA: 20.6%; DJ: 24.4%; to do their qualifying articles without days in the dynamic world of retail, which then translates An integral component of the Employee Value Proposition, CRG: 21.7%) including stores, corporate offices and supply chain, an having to leave the business. In addition, into more up-to-date and relevant content being shared the Remuneration Policy has been designed so that it overall decrease of 3.4% from last year. employees who may not have had with their students. (This excludes the SETA-funded lecturer will continue to attract, engage, retain, and motivate the opportunity to complete tertiary development programme where we hosted 24 lecturers the right, diverse talent required to deliver sustainable studies will now be able to complete a over five days at no additional expense to us.) profit growth. Learnership through Woolworths Finance to obtain their NQF 3 Level Accounting Technician South Africa Certificate. 21.2% WHL 21.7% Country Road Group The Remuneration Policy is designed to achieve alignment between the Group‘s business strategy and the behaviours of all employees against the values of the Group. The The qualification is the South African policy recognises and rewards individual responsibility, Institute of Chartered Accountant’s performance, and behaviour in the achievement of the 102 entryto mid-level designation that 2018: 24.7% 2018: 23% business areas’ goals. This policy applies to all Group helps learners move from being unskilled 2017: 25.5% 2017: 27.3% employees, and participation in shortand long-term and unqualified to being respected incentive schemes is dependent on an individual‘s role and accountancy professionals. Both these co-op students on learnerships level within the Group. at Woolworths 24.4% programmes enable employees to 20.6% The Remuneration Policy and the implementation thereof develop the relevant skills for accounting are focused on achieving a fair and sustainable balance competency in the workplace. between guaranteed pay, short-term incentives, long-term Woolworths David Jones incentives, and retention schemes for these employees. The fair and responsible application of the Remuneration Policy 2018: 23% 2018: 33% (on a Group-wide basis) is guided by the King IV™ principles Woolworths has been relating to fair and responsible remuneration, which have R5M accredited by the South 2017: 23.7% 2017: 31.8% been adopted by the WHL Group. African Institute of Chartered Accountants (SAICA) as a TOPP training office for prospective worth of employee dependent Chartered Accountants See Group Employee Information bursaries offered See Remuneration Report WHL 21 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 22 TRANSFORMATION, DIVERSITY, AND INCLUSION WHL is committed to respecting human rights, which includes EMPLOYMENT EQUITY PEOPLE LIVING WITH DISABILITIES ensuring that all employees and others connected with our Employment equity remains a key focus of the Group’s Through BBBEE legislation, the Department of Trade and Industry (dti) has recommended a target that 2% of business are treated with dignity and respect. We value transformation agenda for Woolworths South Africa. the company workforce be black people with disabilities. In South Africa, our strategic approach to people diversity and inclusion and are committed to non-sexism and Currently, historically disadvantaged South Africans (HDSA) with disabilities is aligned with our people and transformation strategies and the national skills development non-racism across our policies, practices, and daily operations. represent 95.8% of total Woolworths permanent employees, strategy. The implementation of this strategy is being carried out in partnership with the Wholesale and It is important for us as a Group to continue to focus on our of which 62.1% are in middle to top management positions. Retail SETA. We currently have 569 people with disabilities (2018: 638) working for Woolworths. transformation initiatives and evolve them so that we are Women represent 64% of HDSA permanent employees. experienced as a truly transformed employer. Ensuring we We have 12 HDSA members at top management in have a workplace and environment where all our employees Woolworths SA, comprising executive directors on the feel welcomed, where they believe and know they are Board and members of the executive committee. Of these, treated fairly and are not discriminated against, is a critical 54.4% are black and 45% are female, with 27.3% being part of creating an environment where our people can thrive black female. TRANSFORMATION, DIVERSITY, AND INCLUSION IN AUSTRALIA and be part of growing a sustainable business. In Australia, transformation focuses on supporting Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, including those currently In addition to our overarching commitment to transformation, working for the business and those seeking employment, as well as customers. Compulsory Equal Employment Opportunity diversity, and inclusion, each region has a key focus for (EEO) training is completed by all new employees to increase awareness of these issues, and David Jones has implemented transformation that is determined by the context and a Reconciliation Action Plan. environment in which it operates. As a Group, we continue to support these region-specific strategies. Gender parity 95.8% remains a focus across the Group. EMPLOYMENT EQUITY AND GENDER EQUALITY IN AUSTRALIA Both Country Road Group and David Jones are committed to equal opportunity in the workplace for all regardless of age, career status, disability, industrial activity, physical features, political belief or activity, pregnancy, race, religion, gender, or sexual HDSA breakdown of Woolworths preference. The two companies adhere to the Workplace Gender Equality Agency compliance-based report, based on the permanent employees 2012 Gender Equality Act of Australia, and have submitted annual reports detailing female representation in the workplace for FY2019 as: TRANSFORMATION, DIVERSITY, AND INCLUSION IN SOUTH AFRICA In South Africa, we are all tasked with implementing a Proportion of women: workplace Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) strategy, in response to the national Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) legislation, including the application of the BEE Codes of Good Practice of 2013. Within this context, in Woolworths South Africa, the focus from a people perspective is on human capital transformation, specifically Employment Equity and Skills Development. Compliance with BEE legislation ensures that Woolworths continues to contribute meaningfully towards national priorities to transform the industries in which we operate, to make the economy more inclusive. For the 2018 financial year, Woolworths 36% male 64% female 88% Country Road Group 77% David Jones attained a Level 7 contributor level as independently assessed in September 2018 (assessment conducted in arrears). See 2018 BEE Certificate See Group Employee Information See Group Employee Information WHL 23 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 24 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT We recognise that our people CASE STUDY are one of our key stakeholders in building a sustainable business and, DAVID JONES RECONCILIATION as such, our strategic intent is to ACTION PLAN (RAP) build a culture of ongoing leader-led engagement. In addition, in each As one of Australia’s oldest companies, David Jones has recognised of the entities we regularly conduct the role they can play in promoting reconciliation between company-wide employee opinion Australia’s First Nations peoples and the broader community. surveys to inform our understanding The David Jones Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) was launched to of how our people experience inform the strategic and operational management framework for working for us, how we measure their approach to bridging actual and perceived gaps between against their expectations, and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and non-indigenous where we can improve. In this past employee and customer communities. The core tenants of this plan financial year, Country Road Group are focused on: and David Jones launched the Shape • Nurturing mutually beneficial relationships with Aboriginal Our Culture regional survey. The and Torres Strait Islander communities, peoples and participation rate was 58% with an organisations, to ensure that our contribution towards overall engagement score of 66%. reconciliation is made in a culturally safe manner that helps to create meaningful change UNION MEMBERSHIP • Promoting and celebrating the richness of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander cultures, values, and histories in a manner As a signatory to the United Nations that respectfully connects our employees and customers with Global Compact, we subscribe to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to • Ensuring that Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and collective bargaining. This is also businesses have access to the same opportunities as nontranslated in our Supplier Codes indigenous people and businesses of Conduct across the Group. In • Tracking progress and reporting with the goal of establishing a 2019, Woolworths union membership solid baseline and then reporting how we are tracking against was 2.86% (2018: 3.33%). our RAP commitments to ensure that the same discipline and governance that applies to our Good Business Journey applies to the management of our RAP A RAP working group has been established to implement the various elements of the plan. This plan is the foundation for a future regional plan, inclusive of WHL Australia, and going forward, we will be rescoping to regionalise it for increased scale and impact. See David Jones Reconciliation Action Plan 2018 – 2020 Children celebrating the richness of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander cultures, values and histories. WHL 25 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 26 TRANSFORMATION IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN SUPPLY CHAIN TRANSFORMATION As a contribution to the broader country vision of inclusive economic growth and a Woolworths’ CASE STUDY commercial imperative of building a diverse supplier base, Woolworths has a Supplier HEADBYTE RETAIL and Enterprise Development (SED) programme. In June 2018, in a focused initiative to build local skills and support the development of a small-to-medium The programme intent is to remove barriers enterprise, Woolworths entered into a three-year Supplier Development agreement with Headbyte Retail. for emerging black and black women-owned businesses to enter into our supplier base. At the Headbyte Retail is a 100% black-owned company which offers expert skills and services specialising in heart of it is the unlocking of market opportunities enterprise application and technology solutions. They aim to help people grow and businesses to succeed, for small and medium black and black womenand consist of a group of senior technical resources who have a proven track record of providing specialist owned enterprises and further providing capital skills and support in technologies that Woolworths relies on to do day-to-day business. The ethos and motto and relevant capacity building to deliver to of Headbyte Retail resonates with Woolworths’ values and the IT strategic objective of building a retail supplier expectations. Woolworths is on a technology centre of excellence. 46 R2.7BN purpose-led journey to transform entrepreneurial The Woolworths team, spanning Transformation Office, Governance, IT Leadership and Management, passion and energy into sustainable, local, black Finance, Legal, and HR supported Headbyte by facilitating partnership agreements with best-of-breed businesses absorbed in our supply chain. In the partners, helping define the business operating model, and constituting a steering committee to mentor financial year under review, suppliers on the in revenues contributed and guide Headbyte’s business development. • We contributed over R2 billion towards Supplier and Enterprise to black and black Headbyte Retail is a proud BBBEE Level 1 contributor to South African businesses with a strong CSI presence revenues of small and medium enterprises Development programme women owned suppliers through various academic and developmental initiatives. participating in our supplier base Thanks to the partnership agreement, Headbyte Retail was able to secure international work • We contributed R2.7 billion in revenues to opportunities and to offer similar services to other retailers, thereby supporting the joint vision of local black and black women-owned suppliers skills development. in our supplier base Over the past year, Headbyte Retail has grown by 62.5% with respect to headcount and over the coming • The 46 beneficiaries of our SED programme years aims to employ up to 50 people. have grown from a total revenue of R246 million at the beginning of the period to R293 million by year end as a result of tailor-made support provided by Woolworths and its partners After more than 10 years on this journey, Woolworths prides itself in ongoing learnings from the successes and failures of small businesses in different sectors of the economy. All these learnings are being consolidated LOOKING AHEAD: PEOPLE AND TRANSFORMATION into a future programme that will step up our contribution to inclusive and sustainable economic growth through small, medium and It is important for us a Group to continue to focus on our transformation initiatives and evolve these so that we are R2BN+ R60.5M micro enterprises (SMME) development in the experienced as a truly transformed employer. new year. Within this context, the Group will continue to embed our shared values and focus on leadership development to enable an inclusive culture that is appreciative of diversity. In addition, as a Group, we will continue to support the regions to identify towards revenues of non-cash grant to transformation opportunities and implement region-specific transformation strategies, with a particular focus in South Africa See 2018 BEE Certificate participating SMEs The Clothing Bank being the new BEE codes. WHL 27 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 28 Q U I C K ACC E S S TO S ECTI O N S SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 31 SUMMARY OF RESULTS 32 STRATEGY & MANAGEMENT APPROACH “Collaboration is key to social development. It is important for us to work together to address the complex issues facing society, rather 33 37 than to work in silos. As the African proverb goes: when spiders EDUCATION FOOD SECURITY unite, they can tie down a lion.” – Zinzi Mgolodela, Director of Corporate Affairs, Woolworths 39 41 COMMUNITY RESILIENCE EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT On the Living Soils Community Learning Farm launched in March 2019. WHL 29 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT From left to right are AgroEcology Academy interns Phutuma Mgu,Thandiwe Mtyingizani and Vuyolwethu Zicina with their mentors, Spier Farm Manager Orlando Filander (middle) and local farmer Eric Swarts (right). 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 30 SUMMARY STRATEGY AND OF RESULTS MANAGEMENT APPROACH STRATEGY We aim to make a meaningful difference in our communities through our social development programme. We focus on four pillars that are aligned to our overall business strategy and that are relevant to the national development priorities in the markets in which we operate: R64M Education Food Security Community Resilience Employee Involvement to MySchool (2018: R63M, 2017: R62M) We can only grow In an environment in Key to the success of Employee involvement and sustain long-term which an estimated our business is a thriving allows us all to live our R8M profit in an inclusive, 30% of food produced and healthy community corporate values. It R852M WHL total corporate social to MyVillage (2018: R7M, 2017: R6M) R611M worth of surplus equitable, growing economy that has a sufficiently goes to waste, while at the same time millions of people are food insecure, and workforce. enables employees to make a difference to their communities and investment contribution skilled society and we are aware as a food their environment while food donated R11M educated workforce. retailer of the role we need to play in working enhancing our Employee Value Proposition. 2018: R817M to MyPlanet 2018: R570M 2017: R757M (2018: R10M, 2017: R9M) towards a food secure 2017: R556M future for all. MANAGEMENT APPROACH Our approach to social development is based upon activities in this region and acknowledge that the countries meaningful collaboration with key partners. The complex in which we operate have different social contexts challenges facing us require deep insights and a collective and, therefore, require different approaches to making effort to make a difference. To this end, each programme meaningful contributions to the communities we impact. or initiative we embark on is a collaboration between As a Group, we aim to have contributed R3.5 billion in ourselves and one or more partners. monetary donations and sponsorship and surplus food Our approach also leverages our operating footprint and clothing donations to our communities by 2020. and our loyal customer base. In South Africa, social A$391K 2 908 A$1.7M development activities are overseen by The Woolworths Trust in line with our corporate social investment policy. Established in 2003, this legal entity is managed David Jones schools supported Witchery donation to Ovarian by a Board of Trustees and reports on its activities to IMPACT IN THE VALUE CHAIN donation to through Woolworths Cancer Research Foundation from the WHL Social and Ethics Committee. Our Australian the Rose Clinics Educational programmes the annual White Shirt Campaign businesses manage their own strategic partners, Communities WHL relationships, and campaigns, with a focus on community operations Environment Economy 2018: A$933K 2018: 2 662 2018: A$1.0M resilience and physical and mental health and wellness. 2017: A$933K 2017: 2 638 2017: A$1.5M We continue to expand our social development WHL 31 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 32 EDUCATION The primary aim of the education pillar is to support the improvement of educational outcomes in schools. There are three focus areas to this pillar: CASE STUDY Fundraising to Positively impacting Improving the health and 21 YEARS OF GIVING CAMPAIGN support schools the education ecosystem wellbeing of learners at school In October 2018, MySchool MyVillage MyPlanet celebrated its 21st birthday. We wanted to acknowledge our supporters and beneficiaries who helped us to reach this milestone by giving back towards a variety of worthy causes in the communities we serve. As part of the celebration, the 21 Years of Giving campaign was launched. MySchool supporters were asked to nominate a cause that makes a difference in their communities to which R100 000 would be donated. The aim was to assist exceptional organisations (schools, pre-schools, or charities) that are working at FUNDRAISING TO SUPPORT SCHOOLS grassroots level and doing very impactful work, but who are under-funded and who traditionally would not be raising significant funding through the MySchool programme. MYSCHOOL MYVILLAGE MYPLANET growth of educare centres into successful, self-sufficient, From over 11 500 nominations received, 21 organisations were chosen by an independent panel, with the total independent businesses able to provide quality education. donation amounting to R2.1 million. Partners: Other retailer partner stores, • The awarding of 10 new scholarships in 2019 through our customers the MySchool Dream2Teach scholarship programme, which aims to support talented individuals who dream Key Outcomes: R583 million donated of becoming teachers but who lack the financial means (2018: R500 million) since inception to access high-quality teaching education. • The installation of rainwater-harvesting systems with filtration at various schools through the Woolies Water Fund. MySchool MyVillage MyPlanet is a longstanding multipartner loyalty programme aimed at fundraising for education. It leverages the national footprint of Woolworths Read more on the Woolies Water Fund in the to bolster the investment made in education, enabling Water chapter customers to use their shopping and loyalty cards to support schools and charities. Currently, 8 347 causes (2018: 8 272) are being supported by 1.3 million customers (2018: 1.2 million) and 415 partner stores (2018: 408) through the programme. The causes supported include 7 264 schools (2018: 7 329), 858 charities that support people and their communities (2018: 739), and 225 charities that support animal and Funded by MySchool, the Thuso Fund for environmental-related causes (2018: 204). Schools supports the School Leadership Forum programme, which is building the leadership KEY MY SCHOOL MYVILLAGE MYPLANET ACTIVITIES capacity of school principals and teachers in DURING THE PAST YEAR WERE: more than 200 schools in South Africa. • The launch of 10 Early Childhood Development Centres in partnership with Grow Educare, an organisation that uses a unique social franchise model to facilitate the See more information on MySchool WHL 33 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 34 POSITIVELY IMPACTING THE All theoretical materials are conveniently downloadable EDUCATION ECOSYSTEM from the internet. The learning is taken beyond the pages of the textbook through a portfolio of experiential learning activities, ranging from class lessons offered by CASE STUDY N ATI O N A L E D U C ATI O N CO LL A B O R ATI O N professionals and dietitian-led learner talks, events, and TRU ST ( N ECT ) campaigns that promote health and sustainable living, to LITERACY IS FREEDOM tours of stores, suppliers, and distribution centres. In addition, In April and May 2019, David Jones collaborated During National Reconciliation Week, David Jones Partners: Government, business, labour, schools are provided with a Tuck Shop Guide to assist with various Australian brands, including Viktoria released a podcast recorded in their Bourke Street civil society schools, teachers, and parents with promoting healthier and Woods, Camilla, and the Academy Brand, to store window, with Danzal Baker (Baker Boy) and eating choices. raise funds for literacy programmes for Aboriginal Don Bemrose. Baker Boy is an indigenous musician Key Outcomes: R2 million donated and Torres Strait Islander communities through the who raps in the Yolngu Matha language and is the annually (R12 million to date), 4 000 schools sale of limited edition t-shirts. 100% of the profits 2019 Young Australian of the Year. Don Bemrose is an supported annually See Tuck Shop Guide were donated to support these programmes, run accomplished opera singer and an ALNF educator through the Australian Literacy and Numeracy with a focus on preserving Australia’s First Languages. The partnership with the NECT is long-established and Foundation (ALNF). The campaign was endorsed by They shared their amazing stories and insights to Woolworths was recognised as one of the top 10 corporate K E Y WO O LWO RTH S E D U CATI O N A L an ambassador and influencer network and was mark National Reconciliation Week and the ANLF’s contributors in the 2017 NECT Annual Report. NECT’s aim P RO G R A M M ES ACTI V ITI ES D U R I N G TH E so successful that the tees online sold out in just Literacy is Freedom Campaign. is improving learning outcomes, with a particular focus on YEAR WERE: two weeks. Profits from sales of five selected classic ensuring that 90% of learners pass mathematics, science, • 7 529 class lessons educated learners about good children’s paperback books were also donated to and languages with a mark of at least 50% by 2030. the cause. The full donation totalled A$76 982. Get the Podcast nutrition and the environment, 9 000 learner talks were hosted in partnership with our network of dietitians, over 30 000 learners visited our distribution centres, IMPROVING THE HEALTH AND stores and suppliers, and over 5 000 parents were WELLBEING OF LEARNERS AT SCHOOL provided access to professional dietitian advice WO O LWO RTH S E D U C ATI O N A L P RO G R A M M E S Partners: Department of Basic Education, various subject matter experts Key Outcomes: Spend R3 million (2018: R3.2 million), number of learners reached 251 455 (2018: 106 667) 12th This programme is one of the key ways we aim to support annual coastal clean-up hosted the upliftment of education and the health and wellbeing as part of the International of children at schools in South Africa. Our expertise on Coastal Clean-up Day with National Reconciliation Week Literacy is Freedom campaign celebrations at David Jones & Country Road Group head office. good food, healthy living and sustainability is shared participating schools through the development and production of educator resources and by offering teaches, learners and parents Other education-related initiatives that also support the food security pillar of our social development strategy, are EduPlant a range of experiential learning activities that promote • The annual Woolworths Teacher’s Day competition, and the UNICEF WASH and nutrition pilot programme. healthy nutrition and exercise for Life Skills (Grades 4 and which aims to recognise the good work teachers have 5); Social Sciences – Geography (Grade 4); and Natural done, received over 30 0000 entries, a 177% increase Science and Technology (Grade 6). from the prior year Read more on these initiatives in the food security section of this chapter WHL 35 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 36 FOOD SECURITY The primary aim of the food security pillar is to improve access to food and healthy nutrition. COMMUNITY-BASED SOLUTIONS There are two focus areas to this pillar: UNITED NATIONAL INTERNATIONAL CHILDREN’S in schools. The produce grown can be used to supplement EMERGENCY FUND SOUTH AFRICA (UNICEF) WASH their school feeding schemes or sold to generate income. Alleviation of hunger and Community-based solutions & NUTRITION PILOT Training is provided to the schools and learners on topics connecting surplus food to need to address food insecurity such as soil maintenance and water harvesting. Partners: UNICEF, Gauteng Department During 2019, the EduPlant National School Gardening and of Education Greening competition was successfully implemented. Over 60 schools from across the country participated in the event, Key Outcomes: Funding R4 million over three where they were recognised for their food gardens. years, no. of children to be reached: 50 000 ALLEVIATION OF HUNGER AND CONNECTING SURPLUS FOOD TO NEED During the 2019 financial year, a new partnership was LIVING SOILS COMMUNITY FARM SURPLUS FOOD DONATIONS their MySchool MyVillage MyPlanet cards. More of our food entered into with UNICEF and the Gauteng Department suppliers will, furthermore, be encouraged to redirect their of Education, with the aim of improving child health, Partners: Spier Wine Farm, The Sustainability surplus to FoodForward SA. education, and nutrition outcomes as well as alleviating Institute Partners: Local charity organisations, hunger among primary school learners. R4 million in funding FoodForward SA, OzHarvest in Australia Key Outcomes: This project is breaking ground. will be provided over three years for a water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) and nutrition pilot programme reaching Outcomes will be reported in 2020 Key Outcomes: Surplus food donated approximately 50 000 children at 50 under-resourced R611 million (2018: R570 million), surplus food Gauteng-based schools that participate in the National In 2019, Woolworths partnered with Spier Wine Farm collected by OzHarvest 3 872kg School Nutrition Programme. The pilot programme will train (Spier) and the Sustainability Institute (SI) to launch a community members who volunteer as food handlers to community learning farm near Stellenbosch. The intent is to To contribute towards the alleviation of hunger in the safely and hygienically prepare balanced meals for the test a concept, an extension of the Farming for the Future communities near to stores, as well as reducing food waste school children. Learners will also be taught about good programme, on a community farm basis. The objective is to to landfill, Woolworths has for many years diverted surplus hygiene practices, including the importance of washing create a self-sustaining learning farm that showcases the food from every Food store. Stores give this food to needy their hands with soap before eating. To further assist, production of nutritious food through sustainable farming communities via structured charity organisations. In the last Woolworths is building handwashing stations at 30 of methods for the benefit and development of long-term year, the company donated over R611 million worth of food these schools. food security in the local community, incorporating training to these needy causes. Handover of cheque from Woolworths to FoodForwardSA after the and development for youngand emerging farmers and A key partnership in this regard was launched recently, Christmas One Small Spoon Campaign. the broader community while helping to address youth with FoodForward SA, a non-profit organisation that From left to right are: Andy Du Plessis from FoodForward SA, EDUPLANT PROGRAMME Zinzi Mgolodela from Woolworths and Pieter Twine from MySchool. unemployment as well. This community farm encompasses recovers edible surplus food at various stages of the food both focus areas of the food security pillar. value chain and redistributes it to communities in need Partners: Food & Trees for Africa across the country, thereby reducing food waste to landfill David Jones recently started working with OzHarvest, one and also improving access to food. Key Outcomes: R34 million donated since of Australia’s leading food rescue organisations, which inception (2018: R32 million), schools reached 336 Other initiatives we are involved in with the aim of improving Woolworths committed R3 million in funding over a three collects quality excess food from commercial outlets and (2018: 450), learners reached 872 (2018: 1 044) food security are the Woolworths Educational Programme year period. This enables the facilitation of 1.2 million meals delivers it directly to more than 1 300 charities, supporting and Farming for the Future. Read more about them in the: per year reaching those in need. Having been selected as people in need across the country. Since David Jones’ our Christmas charity for 2018, FoodForward SA received Malvern Central store started donating to OzHarvest in The EduPlant programme uses education and awareness R2 million (equivalent to 2.5 million meals) from the sale of early February 2019, 3 872kg of surplus stock (equivalent to to assist schools and communities to grow their own food Education section of this chapter specific products, recyclable bags, and customers swiping 11 616 meals) has been donated. through the establishment of permaculture food gardens Sustainable Farming chapter WHL 37 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 38 COMMUNITY RESILIENCE The primary aim of our community resilience pillar is to improve outcomes in the areas of physical and mental health CASE STUDY WITCHERY WHITE SHIRT CAMPAIGN A number of engagement activities were undertaken to help 10 YEARS OF REDKITE raise awareness, including through the MAYEIGHT activation. This year, we celebrated ten years of partnership with Redkite, an The latter was the main event for Movember, where Politix fully Australian charity that provides essential support to children and Partners: Ovarian Cancer Research Foundation hosted a night of comedy and inspirational talks for over a young people who have been diagnosed with cancer, and their hundred influencers and media professionals to raise awareness families. Each year at head office, we pack and donate Redkite Key Outcomes: Donation A$1.7 million about the benefits of talking about mental health with friends. Red Bags to give to families at the time of their child’s diagnosis. (2018: A$1.0 million) In addition, funds from the sale of chinos and specially These bags are full of practical items, such as toiletries, vital designed lapel pins and pocket squares in the month of information about support services, and a teddy bear to cuddle. Witchery runs an annual White Shirt campaign to raise November were donated to Movember, raising over A$90 000. awareness and vital funds for the Ovarian Cancer Research Foundation (OCRF) in support of the development of an early 5 000+ detection test for ovarian cancer. For every white shirt sold, families supported through Redkite 100% of the sale price is donated to the OCRF. A$391 000 To celebrate the ten-year milestone, we redesigned the Red Bag A$1.7 million support provided by David Jones to its six with family feedback in mind; increasing its capacity, improving the base, adding internal pockets but retaining the iconic red stripe donated to the Witchery White Shirt campaign Rose Clinics in 2019, where complimentary that allows families to recognise and connect with one another breast screening services are conducted for in the hospital. We also designed a brand-new Red Bear, the women over 40. The six Rose Clinics scan first time that the teddy has been designed by Country Road During the 2019 campaign, Witchery also launched the over 35 000 women a year. exclusively for the children who receive it. White Shirt Design Award, where one design student from the Whitehouse Institute of Design was awarded Together, Redkite and Country Road have supported more than the opportunity to have their winning shirt design go into production and be sold across Australia and New Zealand, A$253 997 5 000 families and raised vital funds through an in-store gift wrap service and customer donations collected at point of sale. Country Road and Redkite celebrate 10 years with 100% of the gross proceeds donated to the OCRF. worth of clothing donated by of partnership at David Jones and Country Road David Jones to The Smith Family clothing Group head office. recycling programme. POLITIX MOVEMBER Partners: Movember Foundation A$887 487 WOOLWORTHS DISASTER RELIEF BLANKETS raised to date in our partnership with Our The Woolworths Trust has worked closely with Gift of the Givers over a number of years and has donated much-needed Watch, through the proceeds from the sale of funding to assist them in carrying out their relief efforts. In 2018, in discussion with Gift of the Givers, Woolworths became Key Outcomes: Donation A$90 000 Mimco X Our Watch products and additional aware of an opportunity to do more, and briefed their technical team to design a customised blanket for use in disaster cash donations. The proceeds from this relief. The result is a specially designed blanket made out of multi-functional fabrics – a windand waterproof outer layer for In November 2019, Politix launched its partnership with the collaboration continue to fund education tools protection from the elements and a soft, warm, fleecy inner layer to trap body heat and keep the user warm. The blanket is Movember Foundation, becoming a premium partner and and resources to drive nationwide change in also multi-functional – it can be wrapped around someone and worn like a poncho or used as a ground sheet or a simple making a commitment to them and to our customers to raise the cultures and behaviours that can lead to shelter. It also has reflective strips, making it visible in the dark. The blankets went into production at a local clothing supplier awareness and vital funds in the support of men’s health. violence against women. and the first 400 were handed out to people impacted by flooding in KwaZulu-Natal in April 2019. WHL 39 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 40 EMPLOYEE WE HAVE RAISED OVER R8.8 MILLION INVOLVEMENT THROUGH THE SALE OF CAUSE-RELATED BAGS AND BRACELETS THIS YEAR. The primary aim of our employee involvement pillar is to encourage our employees to give back to their communities through multiple platforms in order to foster a culture of giving. KEY EMPLOYEE CAUSE-RELATED MARKETING INVOLVEMENT ACTIVITIES Our cause-related marketing initiatives create awareness and raise funds DURING THE YEAR WERE: for important conservationand sustainability-related issues. Through the • Expanding employee involvement in sale of certain products, funds are collected and donated to nominated meaningful and sustainable community organisations. Included in this during the past 12 months was the ‘One programmes across our stores in Africa Small Spoon’ campaign in December for which FoodForward SA was the beneficiary, as well as the UNICEF cause-related marketing bags released • Teaming up for ‘Just a Cause’, an initiative in June 2019. In the past year, we raised over R8.8 million (2018: R6.3 million) where staff are invited to pick a charity to through the sale of cause-related bags and bracelets. support. Each cause selected receives R10 000 in seed funding to get them started. Over and above that, The Woolworths Trust commits that, for every team that reaches its fundraising target, it will match the funds up to R40 000. This initiative not only raises funds for worthy causes but also enables teambuilding within the business. • Hosting of Mandela Day celebrations in South A$51 398 Africa, where teams of store and distribution centre employees, in order to build on their relationships with local communities, were able to nominate a charity of their choice. raised by David Jones (A$1 from every lipstick and lip 67 charities were selected and R5 000 was gloss sold, donated during the Look Good Feel Better Month) donated to each charity. Teams supported a variety of causes including children, animals, and the elderly. • Continuing participation by employees in workplace giving programmes: 112 employees (2018: 125) at Country Road took their annual volunteering leave day during 2019, amounting to A$45 000 worth of time donated (2018: A$42 000) LOOKING AHEAD: SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT A$20 240 Employees at Country Road and David Jones participated in the employee giving programme on the Good2Give platform. From a social development perspective, we will continue to progress our existing programmes and initiatives as well as The total Country Road and David Jones raised for the National Breast Cancer Foundation seek out and drive collaboration with other like-minded stakeholders towards enhancing delivery against our key social contribution for 2019 was A$61 225 through the sale of David Jones pink ribbons development pillars, enabling wider impacts and the creation of shared value. WHL 41 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 42 Q U I C K ACC E S S TO S ECTI O N S HEALTH AND 45 46 WELLNESS SUMMARY STRATEGY AND OF RESULTS MANAGEMENT APPROACH Customers want us to do more, not only to benefit the community 47 49 and the environment but also to help them to be better. WELLNESS FOR WELLNESS FOR OUR CUSTOMERS OUR EMPLOYEES 51 PRODUCT SAFETY AND INTEGRITY WHL 43 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 44 SUMMARY STRATEGY AND OF RESULTS MANAGEMENT APPROACH STRATEGY MANAGEMENT APPROACH Our vision to be one of the world’s most responsible Through our nutrition commitment, we are dedicated retailers reflects our deep commitment to doing good to promoting a holistic approach by providing business for our customers, our employees, and our delicious, nutritionally balanced food solutions to our planet. Our Group purpose of adding quality to life for our customers through: customers and our people is, therefore, reflected by the • Inspiring healthy lifestyles by making healthy eating fact that health and wellness is a key people focus across satisfying, delicious, and convenient the Group. As a food business, we are clear that we want • Innovating to improve the nutritional quality of our foods to lead and own health in the context of providing a wide by always considering the nutrient profile of products variety of healthy food options as well as encouraging • Promoting healthy and informed nutritional choices through 6.7 1.2 100% healthy lifestyles. In 2017, we launched the Woolworths Health Manifesto as part of our strategy for creating an customer communications with clear nutrition information integrated world of wellbeing with a focus on reinforcing • Continually reviewing our list of restricted ingredients, tonnes of salt removed tonnes of sugar removed of all Woolworths private the objectives of our Good Food Journey, our ongoing, e.g. no tartrazine, azo-dyes, MSG or glutamate flavour from Woolworths from Woolworths label food (including pet food) comprehensive plan to offer food that’s better for our enhancers; minimal use of additives and preservatives; no private label food private label food is currently GMO free customers, better for the environment, and better for the added trans fats or hydrogenated vegetable oils; minimal people who produce it. sugar and salt; and reduced saturated fats. As part of this 2018: 11.0 2018: 43.3 2018: 98% As an employer, we know that there are many different ongoing nutrition commitment, we are continually working 2017: 1.9 2017: 29.3 2017: 98% aspects to our employees’ lives; therefore, providing them towards reducing the sugar and salt content of our with relevant and accessible wellness programmes that private label food products. allow them to take the best care of themselves, is part of how we deliver on our Group mission of adding quality to life. Regional focuses include a well-established operational occupational health and wellness model and service in Under the Australian government’s Woolworths South Africa, David Jones and Country Road ‘Health Star Rating’, David Jones Group. This model is based on three pillars: movement, applies a nutrition information panel nutritional, and mental wellbeing. Across our regions, we to all relevant David Jones products. continue to monitor the usage of wellness services and the success of our programmes, and evolve and refine our offerings based on this feedback. Across the Group, we continue to ensure that we partner with a network of service providers to provide assistance to our employees. To this end, David Jones and Country IMPACT IN THE VALUE CHAIN Road are consolidating their supplier base for Employee Assistance programmes to improve the total wellbeing Communities proposition for our people. In South Africa, we continue to Environment WHL A$20K 17 operations Woolworths WBeauty range review and refine our offerings based on feedback received Economy of beauty products is now and the success rate of our current initiatives. We are also 100% in the process of developing a Group executive wellness raised for MOVEMBER by Country Health and programme, as we believe that leaders who take care of Customers Road Group and David Jones Wellness Practitioners themselves are more likely to create a culture of employees vegan through employee participation for WHL staff to access who take care of themselves. WHL 45 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 46 WELLNESS FOR OUR CUSTOMERS THE GOOD FOOD JOURNEY VITALITY HEALTHYFOODTM South Africa is ranked as the unhealthiest country in the to ensure that we avoid additives like tartrazine and all Woolworths’ ongoing partnership with the Discovery Vitality HealthyFoodTM world by the Indigo Wellness Index. This index tracks the other azo-dyes, MSG, and non-nutritive sweeteners such programme incentivises and rewards customers for making healthy food world’s healthiest countries across ten key measures: obesity, as aspartame, saccharine and cyclamate in our foods, purchasing decisions. The programme helps customers to avoid buying depression, happiness, alcohol use, tobacco use, healthy life switching to natural colourants and flavourants, never using foods that are linked to dietary practices that cause non-communicable 332 289 expectancy, blood pressure, blood glucose (diabetes risk), mechanically deboned meat, labelling ingredients from diseases such as diabetes, high cholesterol and high blood pressure. inactivity (too little exercise), and government spending on potentially GM crop sources and offering more organic Customers who have linked their Woolworths loyalty cards to Vitality can healthcare. We received positive feedback from the South and free range choices, as well as caring for the welfare receive up to 25% cash back when they purchase Vitality HealthyFood™ African National Department of Health for the removal of of animals and promoting healthy eating as part of a linked products. We currently have 332 289 customers (2018: 319 559) who customers on sweets from our checkout lines, and continue to report our healthy lifestyle. have linked their Woolworths loyalty cards to Vitality. Vitality HealthyFood™ progress towards achieving the agreed targets to improve the healthfulness of our food products in South Africa. DAVID JONES HEALTH AND WELLBEING STRATEGY The Good Food Journey is our plan to inspire a healthy lifestyle The principles of the Good Food Journey also sit at the by making healthy eating satisfying, delicious, and convenient heart of David Jones’ Food business. The David Jones Health across our product ranges while also innovating and improving and Wellbeing strategy, informed by industry engagement nutritional quality through reformulation. In doing this, we HEALTHY NUTRITION AT SCHOOLS and consultation, was released this year. As part of this assist customers in making informed dietary choices through Through the Woolworths Educational Programmes, we promote healthy strategy, David Jones aims to make it easier for customers transparent product ingredient and nutritional labelling. nutrition and exercise at schools, starting as early as possible. The to choose healthy food options through clear, on-pack intermediate phases of basic education provide a crucial window of As part of this journey, we aim to reduce the sugar and salt labelling and nutrition information. On-pack labelling for opportunity to establish healthy behaviours from a young age. In the last content of our private label food products, and in the last a range of products that contain no artificial flavours, no year, 78 071 class lessons were provided to educate learners on good year, we removed 6.7 tonnes of salt and 1.2 tonnes of sugar artificial colours and no added preservatives has also been nutrition. We provide curriculum-based resources for schools, including from our private label food products. We also have a list of developed. David Jones has also started to incorporate the learner talks focusing on where food comes from, as well as on healthy restricted ingredients for our private label food products Health Star Rating system onto their packaging. 78 071 living, learner visits to our stores, and dietitian-led store tours for parents focusing on child nutrition. Read more on the Woolworths Educational Programmes in the class lessons provided Social Development chapter on nutrition PLANT-BASED FOOD Woolworths wants to lead and drive sustainable nutrition. We have seen a fundamental shift in customers’ habits towards plant-based eating, a concept that appeals to a diverse range of customers, including meat-eaters, sustainable farming supporters, and health advocates alike. Woolworths has created a range that celebrates delicious vegetable options by introducing plant-based products that encompass a spectrum of eating patterns that focus on eating whole plants, including VEGAN BEAUTY vegetables, fruits, whole grains, nuts, seeds, and legumes, and eating fewer or no animal products. The plant-based food During the year under review and in response to the growing number of ranges cover all kinds of lifestyle choices. Through the years, we have gradually introduced ranges of plant-based food products customers looking for animal-free products or products without animalsuch as non-dairy yoghurts, drinks, snacks, and desserts; dairy-free cheeses; vegan mayonnaise; salads; salad dressings and derived ingredients, Woolworths converted its WBeauty range to be a deli options, in addition to our ready-made meals and meal accompaniments. We are also inspiring our customers through 100% vegan. This range includes skincare, colour cosmetics, fragrances, recipe solutions that include plant-based kitchen staples like whole grains, legumes, nuts and seeds, and everyday vegetables. nail polishes, cosmetic bags and beauty accessories as well as bath and We also partnered with the Humane Society International Africa to develop a plant-based eating guide for customers. body ranges. The products are less likely to cause skin issues because the ingredients are plant-based or synthetic. The products are also made from Watch the video ethically sourced ingredients and are endorsed by Beauty Without Cruelty. WHL 47 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 48 WELLNESS FOR OUR EMPLOYEES Ensuring that our wellness offering is accessible to all our WELLBEING AT OUR BOTANICA a company-wide HIV/AIDS and TB policy, last reviewed in people is a key challenge. Our focus continues to be to HEAD OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA June 2015. In respect of employees living with HIV and AIDS, engage with service providers that are able to reach our Woolworths treats the disease no differently than other Country Road Group and David Jones employees life-threatening or chronic diseases. Woolworths provides CASE STUDY employees not just at head office but throughout our based at the Botanica head office have the benefit of an a supportive environment that minimises the impact of the wide network of stores. on-site gym facility, biometric health checks for employees disease on both the employee and our business through WORKPLACE MENTAL HEALTH WHL is committed to providing a safe and healthy working environment for all employees. Prevention is an and weekly yoga classes. Other event-orientated activities sustainable interventions focusing on prevention and AND WELLBEING TRAINING such as seated massages, Pilates classes, mindfulness addressing risk. important aspect of our health and safety procedures; Through our Employee Assistance Programme, practices, Bike ‘n Blend juicing machines, and lunchtime hence, all our buildings are designed within stringent HIV-positive employees receive the requisite treatment Woolworths offers psychosocial support walking groups all contribute to enhancing the physical health and safety guidelines and with employee and via the Woolworths Clinical Management programme run services such as free and confidential and mental health of our people. Our retail teams also customer wellbeing as a primary consideration. As per by Momentum Health, the ‘HIV Your Life Programme’, and counselling to employees and their immediate enjoy occasional yoga classes in Brisbane, Melbourne, legislative requirements, health and safety representatives if they do not have access to a medical aid, they are family members to help improve mental and Sydney and receive regular health and wellbeing are appointed in each part of the business, and health eligible for all employee benefits. health and personal resilience. There has also promotional information in-store. and safety committees are in place. At our South African been an appetite for mental health training distribution centres, compliance and health and safety at Country Road Group, and, in partnership legislation are covered in a collective agreement with a with the Black Dog Institute, CRG provided trade union. Across the Group, we aim to deliver six workplace mental health training courses comprehensive occupational health and safety for area managers and human resource programmes that meet the needs of our employees in MOVEMBER PARTNERSHIP personnel to assist them in identifying staff the context of their country of operation and local who may be experiencing mental health County Road Group and David Jones launched their legislation. This work is supported by our teams of issues and facilitating conversations with Movember campaign this year in collaboration with the occupational health practitioners employed across our them. A total of 100 employees took part in Movember Foundation to raise awareness around issues of operations in South Africa and Australia. the training. men’s health such as prostate and testicular cancer as well as men’s suicide. Employees were encouraged to sign up We provide free voluntary HIV/AIDS/TB A clinical psychologist provided the training, and grow a Mo (Moustache) or join the ‘MOVE’ campaign to screening and counselling to all employees. which also focused on building confidence walk or jog for 60 km in November (at 2 km per day for the In addition, we ensure the distribution of within teams, promoting mental wellbeing month of November). Collectively, A$20 000 was raised for condoms in all our facilities. in the workplace, addressing factors that impact mental health, and supporting EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE the Movember Foundation through employee participation. employees through their recovery process. PROGRAMME The next step will be to introduce mental Each operating company within the Group offers an health first aid training to offer an additional Employee Assistance Programme (EAP), open to all layer of support for employees exposed to employees, consisting of professional and confidential INJURIES AND ABSENTEEISM mental health issues in the workplace. counselling services and designed to assist with HIV/AIDS/TUBERCULOSIS (TB) MANAGEMENT WHL has very clear policies on absenteeism from work. personal concerns that may or may not impact on Woolworths is committed to aligning with the applicable All employees are entitled to paid sick leave in accordance productivity or work performance. These concerns include, national legislation which informs our HIV/AIDS and TB policy. with legislation. Extended absenteeism due to incapacitation but are not limited to, health (including mental health), We recognise that HIV/AIDS/TB could potentially affect of any sort is dealt with on a case-by-case basis. relationships and family, financial and legal, alcohol and our workforce, and consequently business productivity, substance misuse, grief and bereavement, trauma, and and recognise our role as an employer to assist in the critical incidents. management and monitoring of HIV/AIDS/TB through We currently have 17 health and wellness practitioners leadership, strategic planning, and implementation of cost (2018: 17) across WHL and our employees continue to effective and sustainable measures. To address some of the make use of this programme. challenges that come with HIV/AIDS/TB, we have adopted See Group Employee Information WHL 49 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 50 PRODUCT SAFETY AND INTEGRITY PRODUCT SAFETY, FOOD SAFETY, AND INTEGRITY Woolworths is committed to maintaining the highest possible levels of product safety throughout the business. Mechanisms are in place to ensure that consumers are offered product which has undergone thorough testing and rigid process control to ensure it is as safe as possible. All factories producing products for Woolworths are audited independently by various inspection services and are visited regularly by the Woolworths technical teams to ensure that the highest standards are maintained. Food products are date marked to indicate until when the product can safely be consumed. All Woolworths food labels contain detailed information on ingredients, nutritional values, and allergens. FOOD RECALLS Woolworths has a robust product recall process in place, whereby products posing a safety risk are removed from the shelf within two hours of the respective executive being made aware of the risk. In July last year, we had one product recall – for our frozen savoury rice mix. The product is imported from a factory in Hungary that was linked to a Listeria outbreak in that country. Customers who had any of the listed products were asked to return the products to their local store for a full refund. CHILD SAFETY Woolworths is committed to maintaining the highest possible levels of product safety through the design and manufacturing of our baby and children’s clothing. We do our utmost to ensure that our baby and children’s clothing is safe through practices such as: • Running all clothing through metal detectors before it leaves a factory to ensure no pins and needles are left in the clothes • Putting a bartack behind all the draw cords of children’s clothing to ensure they cannot be pulled out • Putting a protective flap over the zippers of baby rompers to avoid skin getting caught by the zipper • Putting anti-slip silicone prints on baby socks to avoid slipping • Designing selected school items with fabric that has built-in UV protection • Putting reflective strips on school bags, rain jackets, and shoes to make children more visible. LOOKING AHEAD: HEALTH AND WELLNESS The Good Food Journey will continue to place emphasis on all new products to ensure they align with the health manifesto GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS for an integrated world of wellbeing for our people, communities, and planet. The focus will be on making health not only Woolworths has been working to reduce the number of our private label foods containing ingredients derived from more tangible for our customers but less complicated, by offering the widest variety of products with healthy credentials. GM crop sources. We are pleased to report that Woolworths private label foods (including pet food) are currently 100% Wellness and overall wellbeing will remain a key focus area across all levels in the Group. We will continue to build GMO-free. partnerships to leverage an enhanced benefit portfolio that will contribute to the total Employee Value Proposition. WHL 51 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 52 Q U I C K ACC E S S TO S ECTI O N S ETHICAL SOURCING 55 SUMMARY OF RESULTS 56 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT APPROACH “In light of increasing stakeholder focus on the ethics of the products they purchase, how raw materials have been farmed and sourced, how ethically products are being manufactured and how 57 58 transparent we are about our supply chain, ethical sourcing has WHERE WE HUMAN RIGHTS become a business imperative.” SOURCE FROM AND ETHICS – Scott Fyfe, Chief Executive Officer, Country Road Group 61 65 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING REDUCING AND TRACEABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS WHL 53 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 54 SUMMARY STRATEGY AND OF RESULTS MANAGEMENT APPROACH PERCENTAGE OF PR IVATE LABEL PRODUCTS WITH SUSTAINABILIT Y ATTR IBUTES OUR STRATEGY 2. MONITORING OF SUPPLIERS AND ETHICAL AUDITS The diverse and often complex supply chains involved We monitor our suppliers’ performance through in producing the food, fashion, beauty, and homeware various programmes on which they are required to products we sell can have some significant social and report. We are members of SEDEX, a web-based platform environmental impacts. Continuously strengthening our for sharing responsible sourcing data on supply chains. value chains through our ethical sourcing strategy is thus We are working on converting our suppliers to SEDEX non-negotiable. Awareness regarding the transparency Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA), one of the most of supply chains and the traceability of products is also widely used ethical audit formats in the world. We also on the rise, and we are working actively to enhance our continue to audit those who have not yet made the programme to address this. switch against our own, independently verified ethical audit protocols. 91% 91% 50% 68% Ethical and responsible sourcing for us means the procurement of products as well as raw material commodities from sources, be they farms or factories, which 3. PARTNERING WSA Food WSA FBH DJ Food CRG FBH apply environmental and social best practice and are We partner with best-in-class organisations, standards, accredited to applicable best-in-class third-party standards. and certification schemes to tackle complex and systemic It is our intention that, by 2020, through our ethical sourcing issues to further strengthen our responsible sourcing as 2018: 83% 2018: 76% 2018: 34%, 2017: NR* 2018: 56% strategy, all of our key commodities will be responsibly well as our relationships with our suppliers. 2017: 69% 2017: 69% *not measured and reported in 2017 2017: 44% sourced and all directly sourced products will have at least one sustainability attribute. 4. BUILDING AWARENESS AND CAPACITY We ensure ongoing training of our staff and, where possible, our suppliers, in human rights, ethics, and responsible commodity sourcing to drive progress in PERCENTAGE OF SUPPLIERS MEETING SOCIAL AND ETHICAL COMPLIANCE STANDARDS MANAGEMENT APPROACH our ethical sourcing commitments. Ethical sourcing requires us to build meaningful and long-term value-sharing relationships with our suppliers and other key stakeholders in the supply chain. See WHL Group ethical trade position statement Our primary focus is on our private label suppliers and supply chains. This is where we can exert the greatest influence for positive change and more easily monitor performance. Where possible, we also engage with branded suppliers to ensure that our standards are understood and upheld. IMPACT IN THE VALUE CHAIN 13% 95% 95% 99% OUR APPROACH TO ETHICAL SOURCING COMPRISES: Suppliers & Agriculture Processors 1. SUPPLIER CODES OF CONDUCT of WSA Food supply WSA FBH DJ CRG We expect our suppliers to share our vision for ethical Communities base converted to SEDEX Environment sourcing. This is laid out in our Supplier Codes of Conduct Economy 2018: 10%, 2017: NR* 2018: 94% 2018, 2017: NR* 2018: 96% and various ethical-sourcing-related position statements *not measured and reported in 2017 2017:96% *not measured and reported in 2018 and 2017 2017: 96% to which suppliers are required to adhere. WHL 55 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 56 WHERE WE HUMAN RIGHTS SOURCE FROM AND ETHICS SUPPLIER CODES OF CONDUCT continue working with our suppliers to resolve audit findings, we do reserve our right to seek an alternative supplier or to Over All WHL Group suppliers and service providers, whatever reconsider our continued trading relationship if we do not 1 400 their location, are bound by our company Codes of see reasonable progress over time. Conduct (codes), all of which are aligned with the International Labour Organisation’s conventions in relation There is an expectation that branded suppliers have their suppliers globally to ethical trade and the Ethical Trade Initiative base code. own policies and systems in place to ensure that their own The codes outline our requirements for labour and safety supply chains are in compliance with those requirements. In standards, environmental stewardship, animal welfare, recent years, over 1 000 of David Jones’ branded vendors and our zero tolerance for bribery and corruption, and were engaged with using a self-assessment questionnaire, are supplemented by a number of supporting policies and to understand what systems and policies they have in place, Over position statements. Suppliers undergo regular compliance where they are producing, and where they are sourcing 50 checks against the codes, conducted by independent key inputs. auditors, or are required to supply audit reports from David Jones has used this data to implement various independent auditors. capacity-building activities, including webinars, workshops, countries and training sessions, that would directly address their brands’ needs. See Country Road Group’s Code of Labour Practice See more information on David Jones’ Supplier Code of Conduct The WHL Group continues to work on improving traceability through the supply chain. In 2019, the Country Road Group published its factory list and David Jones its private label products supplier map, SEDEX AND ETHICAL AUDITS providing a level of transparency to customers on where our products are made. Since 2013, the WHL Group has been rolling out SEDEX for the purpose of supplier audits against the Codes of Conduct. SEDEX helps companies manage ethical supply chain risk See Country Road Group’s factory list See David Jones’ supplier map and streamline the challenge of engaging with multi-tier supply chains by providing a single platform for ethical audit performance transparency, enabling greater efficiency DAVID JONES’ FASHION and consistency. A business-wide process is underway to REVOLUTION CAMPAIGN: convert our supply base from our existing social and ethical compliance audit protocol to SMETA, which reports against MINDFULLY MADE 31% SEDEX’s four pillars of labour, health and safety, environment, David Jones supported Fashion Revolution Week and business ethics. Woolworths Food has converted an 2019 (April 22-28) by sharing the unique supply additional 25 suppliers during the past year (13% of its supply chain stories of eight Australian brands making of Woolworths branded base to date) to SEDEX, while 91% of Woolworths fashion a positive impact in the global fashion industry fashion, beauty and suppliers from Southern Africa have been converted. David through their ethical supply chain practices and homeware locally sourced Jones has 100% of its suppliers registered on SEDEX, and responsible commodity sourcing programmes. Country Road, 14%. For any critical findings that arise from the LA Included in the scope of EY’s limited assurance audits, we work with our suppliers to assist them in aligning See more information on the Mindfully Made campaign engagement. The basis of measurement of this indicator with our requirements and conduct follow-ups to ensure can be found on www.woolworthsholdings.co.za that corrective actions have been taken. While we aim to Watch the video WHL 57 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 58 HUMAN RIGHTS TRAINING THE AUSTRALIAN BAPTIST WORLD AID ETHICAL FASHION REPORT During the year, the Woolworths Food MODERN SLAVERY ACT This is Australia’s most prominent and high-profile report detailing ethical performance among the country’s largest business partnered with Stronger fashion brands. This year, Country Road Group maintained its Ascore while David Jones improved from a Bto a B. The Modern Slavery Act (Act) in Together, a multi-stakeholder business Australia came into effect on 1 January led initiative aiming to reduce modern See 2018 Baptist World Aid Ethical Fashion Report 2019. The Act requires organisations slavery, on an awareness and training with a consolidated revenue of A$100 programme in South Africa. This million and above to report annually on programme’s goal is to support modern slavery risks in their operations South African fruit and wine suppliers and supply chains, the action they to address the risk of forced labour have taken to assess and address During the year, both within their direct operations and those risks, as well as the effectiveness Country Road Group and supply chains. The intention is to roll out of their responses. Both Country Road David Jones signed the similar workshops to all Woolworths Group and David Jones will soon be Bangladesh Accord on Fire Food suppliers and to host workshops CASE STUDY required to submit their first report and Building Safety (the for internal Woolworths’ teams in the in accordance with this Act by Accord). The Accord is an near future. EMPOWERING 31 December 2020, covering the independent and legally period 1 July 2019 30 June 2020. binding agreement between MARGINALISED Ethical sourcing training is included in brands and trade unions COMMUNITIES WITH the David Jones stores and support centre induction programme, and, in to work together towards MIMCO X ETHICAL 2018, in-store training was provided to a safe and healthy garment FASHION INITIATIVE 1 300 existing staff on ethical sourcing and textile industry Country Road Group is committed to as well sustainability attributes in Bangladesh. promoting ethical sourcing beyond assigned to products. Furthermore, to compliance and supports organisations that date, 91% of David Jones merchandise empower marginalised artisans through fair teams have completed ethical sourcing work opportunities. awareness training on the risks In the last year, Mimco produced three and issues encountered in modern handcrafted ranges in partnership with supply chains. David Jones also has the Ethical Fashion Initiative (EFI) to support an extensive resource library for the To ensure preparedness to implement marginalised communities in Kenya. buying teams to support them when and report, Country Road Group and Unfortunately a number of challenges were engaging with suppliers on the topic David Jones have been involved in encountered with two of the collections, though of ethical sourcing. various industry engagements with the happily, 1 460 pieces handcrafted for the ‘Life In May 2019, the Country Road Group Australian government on the Act and The WHL Group is a Line’ collection were sold, providing work to 28 and David Jones hosted a full-day have set up a modern slavery cross signatory to the UN Global artisans, 57% of whom were women. 64% of ethical sourcing workshop in Shanghai functional team. A full-day workshop Compact. Being a signatory them saved their earnings, and 82% invested in for their offshore suppliers. External was also hosted for Country Road means that we operate in education, health, housing, and small business. subject matter experts presented Group and David Jones teams as ways that, at a minimum, In July 2018, the Mimco design team visited on relevant topics, including worker well as their local Australian suppliers meet fundamental Kenya to gain a better understanding of how empowerment, use of SEDEX, making on modern slavery in order to build responsibilities in the areas we can design for the greatest social impact. the transition to Better Cotton Initiative awareness about it. Speakers included of human rights, labour, (BCI) cotton, and social insurance and government representatives and environment, and Irene Olweny, Store Manager for the Mimco X Fashion Initiative (Initiative). grievance mechanisms. modern slavery experts. anti-corruption. She has been with the Initiative for five years. WHL 59 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 60 Photo by Tim Mossholder on Unsplash RESPONSIBLE SOURCING We are on a journey to responsible sourcing across our key commodities. With this journey, we aim to contribute to creating the demand for responsible production methods AND TRACEABILITY – methods that ensure that commodities are produced in ways that environmental impacts are managed and that are good for the farmers and suppliers themselves as well as their local communities. HOW WE MANAGE COMMODITY SOURCING IN FOOD MANAGEMENT APPROACH UPDATE ON PROGRESS Woolworths was the first South African company to become a member of the global Roundtable on Twenty of Woolworths’ supplier sites are now RSPO members and are bound by the RSPO Code of Conduct, which includes public reporting of Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) and has been working with suppliers and local refineries to create demand progress to achieving 100% certified sustainable palm oil. Just under 60% of the volume of palm oil that Woolworths uses in Food each year PALM OIL 60% and develop the market for sustainable palm oil since 2011. Based on an updated detailed baseline assessment, Woolworths uses just over 3 000 tonnes of palm oil across Food (0.004% of the total palm is certified as sustainable by the RSPO through supply chain audits, and a number of key lines, including rusks and pies, now bear the RSPO logo. Woolworths continues to purchase PalmTrace ‘Book and Claim’ RSPO certificates to offset the remainder of our use to help increase the of palm oil sourced oil market). However, since unregulated palm oil production has the potential to result in tropical forest production of and demand for sustainable palm oil. 1 000 tonnes of PalmTrace credits were purchased from smallholder farmers in Johor, West for Woolworths deforestation, climate change, habitat destruction, and loss of livelihoods for indigenous communities, Malaysia, during this year. private label products we believe it is important to avoid the use of unsustainable and untraceable palm oil. certified by the RSPO As such, in terms of volume, we estimate 98% of all private label food lines and 72% of all private label beauty lines containing palm oil are See Woolworths’ position statement on palm oil sourcing RSPO (mass balance) palm oil. Woolworths has been working with UTZ since 2012. The UTZ certification programme provides assurance that Currently, 98% of all cocoa sourced for private label products that Woolworths sells that contain cocoa or chocolate is responsibly sourced (2019 cocoa is grown and harvested responsibly. However, due to being a very small player in the global and local target: 100%). cocoa market, it is not always feasible to source UTZ for cocoa ingredients. As a result, the cocoa sourcing COCOA 96% strategy was expanded to refer to ‘responsibly sourced’ cocoa, including UTZ, Fairtrade, and Cocoa Life. 96% of David Jones private label confectionery currently uses 100% sustainably sourced cocoa. of all cocoa sourced for David Jones private David Jones Food has engaged with UTZ as well as other preferred certification standards, including label confectionery Rainforest Alliance (with whom UTZ is currently merging), Fairtrade, and Cocoa Horizons (Forever responsibly sourced Chocolate) to advance its sustainable cocoa agenda. See David Jones’ position statement on sustainable cocoa Woolworths is one of the largest coffee retailers in South Africa, with about 300 tonnes of coffee sourced For our WCafés and Woolworths coffee carts, we source 100% organic African coffee from Tanzania and Ethiopia directly from co-ops that COFFEE 100% for WCafés and Woolworths’ coffee carts each year. Our initial responsible sourcing strategy for coffee was to source Fairtrade coffee. However, due to persistent challenges with the cost and consistency of support in excess of 60 000 smallholder farmers. organic and African the supply of Fairtrade coffee beans, the focus was changed during the 2016 financial year to organic Woolworths is also working towards implementing a direct trade sustainability programme in Moshi, Tanzania, together with our supplier and coffee sold at Woolworths certification and the sourcing of African beans. agent. The aim of the programme is to focus on the issues which are most pervasive across the small-scale farmers operating in this region; the cafés and coffee carts ultimate aim is to improve the yield, quality, and livelihoods of the farmers who grow our coffee. Woolworths’ packaged sugar supplier is working towards BONSUCRO certification. BONSUCRO is an Woolworths is actively supporting the development of the SUSFARMS® framework as part of the Midlands Canegrower Initiative and An in-field learning international not-for-profit, multi-stakeholder organisation established in 2008 to promote sustainable contributed funding towards the development of small-scale grower projects in the year. SUGAR SUSFARMS® pilot sugar cane. was conducted with Furthermore, during the year, an in-field learning SUSFARMS® pilot was conducted with a key Woolworths sugar supplier. a key Woolworths sugar supplier Woolworths has also supported the development of local standards for sustainable sugar for a number of years, through the SUSFARMS® collaboration. SUSFARMS® is a sustainable sugarcane farm management framework. Woolworths became a member of the Roundtable for Responsible Soy (RTRS) in 2015. Because of For the second consecutive year, Woolworths purchased 9 750 RTRS credits, equivalent to 39% of the total soy footprint, from Brazilian growers SOY 39% considerable complexity in converting soy used in animal feeds to a responsibly sourced variety, we have started purchasing RTRS credits to promote the uptake and development of the responsible soy industry. (offsetting the use of soy in chicken, eggs, beef, and fish products). The credits are only purchased from growers who are certified as meeting the RTRS standard for responsible soy production. One credit is equivalent to one tonne of soy. In this way, we are supporting the responsible equivalent of Woolworths production of soy. soy footprint offset Woolworths uses nearly 25 000 tonnes of soy annually, but 99% is used indirectly in animal feed for our dairy with credits from the (41%), chicken (24%), pork (20%), eggs (11%), beef (2%), and fish (1%) products. Woolworths is also investigating opportunities to support and develop African soy. Roundtable for Responsible Soy WHL 61 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 62 Photo by Trisha Downing on Unsplash HOW WE MANAGE COMMODITY SOURCING IN FASHION, BEAUTY AND HOME MANAGEMENT APPROACH UPDATE ON PROGRESS With cotton being the fibre most used across our private label collections, the WHL Group is focused on supporting more sustainable Woolworths is sourcing sustainable cotton for the equivalent of 80% of all cotton garments (2019 target: 75%) cotton farming practices. In 2014, Woolworths became a member of the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI), a leading global sustainability and is on track to reach the 2020 goal of 100%. Woolworths sourced 65 tonnes of South African cotton as standard for responsibly sourced cotton that aims to create long-term change by helping small-scale and commercial farmers to grow Better Cotton in the last year, with the aim of increasing this to 850 tonnes in the next financial year. COTTON 75% cotton in a way that reduces stress on the environment and improves the livelihoods of farming communities. 75% of Country Road Group’s cotton was sustainably sourced during the past 12 months (2018: 66%). David responsibly sourced The WHL Group also supports locally grown South African and Australian cotton as well as certified organic cotton. Jones became a member of BCI in 2019. Country Road Group and David Jones private label sourced 897 cotton across Country tonnes of cotton as Better Cotton through the BCI in the last year. Road Group The SA Cotton Cluster, of which Woolworths is a member, has committed its support to the BCI, working to promote the BCI standard at the farm and producer level and help farmers to produce cotton more sustainably. Read more on sustainable cotton in the Sustainable Farming chapter In 2015, the WHL Group partnered with Canopy and 150 other brands as part of the CanopyStyle initiative to promote uptake of responsible Currently, Woolworths is sourcing 45% deforestation-free viscose, and Country Road Group 34%. CELLULOSE sourcing policies among the top 10 global producers (responsible for 70% of global supply). Our goal is to drive engagement with our suppliers FIBRES and producers of cellulose (timber) based fabric to ensure that the production of fabrics such as viscose and rayon does not result in illegal The target for 2022 is 100%. More work is required on the traceability of viscose in order for us to meet (including viscose, modal 45% forest degradation or deforestation. this target. Canopy compliant and lyocell) cellulosic fabrics See WHL Group CDP Forests disclosure in Woolworths In 2015, the WHL Group became a member of the Leather Working Group (LWG), an environmental standard that promotes best practice in 69% of Country Road Group’s products containing leather are sourced from LWG-accredited tanneries chemical management and wastewater treatment. LWG certification also assesses the ability of leather manufacturers to trace material back (2018: 40%). All of Witchery’s leather handbags are also currently LWG certified. to the slaughterhouse. The WHL Group is an active participant in the Textile Exchange Beef and Leather working group. Still in its relative LEATHER 69% infancy, this group’s objective is to bring together a diverse range of stakeholders to address issues within the leather and beef supply chain. LWG certified leather in Country The extraordinary complexities of leather sourcing due to multi-tier supply chains is a global challenge that we, along with many other brands Road Group worldwide, are seeking to solve. Woolworths signed the Vancouver Declaration in 2017, making a commitment to work towards more sustainable sourcing of forest products 85% of Woolworths Food packaging suppliers are currently FSC certified. and endorsing the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) as the supplier of choice for the certification of forest products. In time, David Jones will extend its due diligence programme to include all timber products, irrespective David Jones is committed to purchasing all timber, and products with timber inputs, from legally harvested sources. A timber due diligence of risk profile. TIMBER 85% programme was put in place to ensure the responsible sourcing of timber, including sawn timber, plywood, veneer, pulp, paper, wood furniture, and other timberand paper-based products used in a number of product categories (including books, stationery, and furniture). of Woolworths Food Where initial due diligence identifies a potentially at-risk product, evidence is sought of species and origin to inform a risk assessment. High-risk packaging suppliers products are then required to provide credible evidence from an independent third party that verifies the use of responsible forest management FSC certified practices, for example, certification from the FSC. If that evidence cannot be provided or if it is discovered that the timber has been sourced illegally, David Jones will not purchase that product. See David Jones’ position statement on illegal logging See Woolworths deforestation position statement WHL 63 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 64 REDUCING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS SUSTAINABILITY ATTRIBUTES In 2012, Woolworths developed a list of Good Business Journey sustainability attributes. These are product characteristics that contribute to minimising the social and/or environmental impacts of a product at one or more stages of the value chain. Subsequently, both Country Road Group and David Jones similarly developed their own defined sustainability attributes. The WHL Group made a public commitment in 2015 that all directly sourced products sold will have at least one sustainability attribute by 2020. See David Jones’ list of sustainability attributes CASE STUDY RSPO PALMTRACE CREDITS The Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) Principles and Criteria are applicable to all growers of palm oil, including smallholders. However, many small, individual growers find it challenging to implement these Principles and 1 000 tonnes of PalmTrace Criteria on their own due to a lack of resources and capacity and the credits purchased associated audit costs related to certification. To overcome this, the RSPO has developed a system of group certification which allows individual growers to obtain certification together under a single certificate. For the first time this year, Woolworths purchased 1 000 tonnes of PalmTrace credits as part of a group certification scheme directly from a group of 108 From LOOKING AHEAD: ETHICAL SOURCING 108 independent smallholders (with an average farm area of three hectares) and three non-corporate private In 2020, we will be extending our ethical sourcing approach to help increase visibility of our supply chain and driving estates in Johor, West Malaysia. smallholder farmers key traceability and verification projects across the Group, where necessary through industry partnerships and collaboration. We will continue to conduct training and build capacity within our teams and suppliers to equip them with the skills and knowledge needed to advance ethical sourcing across our supply chain. The Group will complete a supply chain risk assessment to inform its modern slavery action plans and future sourcing strategies. WHL 65 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 66 Q U I C K ACC E S S TO S ECTI O N S SUSTAINABLE FARMING 69 70 SUMMARY STRATEGY AND OF RESULTS MANAGEMENT APPROACH “We recognise that some fundamental shifts are required if we are to feed 10 billion people by 2050 within the limits of our planetary boundaries. We know we need to be agile and adapt in order to ensure a sustainable food future for people and the planet. This means greater focus is required on how food is grown, sourced, 71 73 SUSTAINABLE FARMING IMPROVING ANIMAL and produced. The scale of the challenge is significant. We AND FISHING WELFARE STANDARDS cannot do it alone. Partnership and industry collaboration will be key.” – Spencer Sonn, Managing Director: Food, Woolworths 75 SUSTAINABLY SOURCED FIBRES SUMMARY STRATEGY AND OF RESULTS MANAGEMENT APPROACH 52% of Woolworths private label 84% of Woolworths seafood meeting produce and horticulture lines on the our wild-caught and aquaculture Farming for the Future programme sustainability commitments 2018, 2017: NR* 2018: 80% STRATEGY MANAGEMENT APPROACH *not measured and reported in 2018 and 2017 2017: 75% Over the last few decades, it has become clear that Our management approach to sustainable farming is producing food and raw materials in a way that is at odds formalised in our Farming for the Future, Fishing for the with natural and social systems is no longer a viable option. Future, animal welfare, and sustainable fibres programmes. Given that a high proportion of the environmental impact This approach is strengthened through the partnerships we resulting from our operations is linked to the farming and have with a wide range of stakeholders and organisations. processing of products that we sell, we make it a priority To ensure that our animal welfare and sustainable seafood to work together with our suppliers on a long-term basis policies and positions are adhered to by suppliers, they are to minimise these impacts and positively influence the included in our contractual agreements with them. environmental and social outcomes of doing business. As well as monitoring and managing these impacts, we recognise our responsibility to ensure that our farmers and suppliers are meeting our exacting requirements for human rights and animal welfare. IMPACT IN THE VALUE CHAIN Working to improve farming and husbandry practices with our private label suppliers as well as with the broader network of upstream farmers, we can improve soil health, protect water 100% 99% Suppliers & supply, restore biodiversity, support rural livelihoods, help Agriculture Processors communities adapt to climate change, promote good animal welfare, and, ultimately, help ensure we produce sufficient food of David Jones eggs, chicken, and of egg ingredients in Woolworths private to meet the needs of our customers now and into the future. Communities turkey that are free range label products that are free range Through this strategy we want to ensure a sustainable Environment Economy and inclusive food system for people, communities, and the 2018: 100%, 2017: NR* 2018: 98% planet as well as to assist our customers in making informed *not measured and reported in 2017 2017: 85% purchasing choices that satisfy their values. WHL 69 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 70 SUSTAINABLE FARMING WWF CONSERVATION CHAMPIONS The WWF Conservation Champions continue to support FISHING FOR THE FUTURE In 2012, Woolworths became one of the first retailers in AND FISHING best practice and long-term conservation in the wine industry South Africa to set time-bound seafood commitments and transfer learnings through farmer information days, joint that all wild-caught seafood sold in store would be in-field workshops on areas of key environmental risks such either WWF-SASSI green listed, caught from Marine as wastewater, water stewardship, alien clearing, and fire Stewardship Council (MSC) certified fisheries, or management. There are currently nine Woolworths wine sourced from fisheries that were undertaking credible suppliers that are Conservation Champions. improvement projects by 2015. Further to this, Woolworths made the commitment that by 2020, all farmed fish species sold by Woolworths FARMING FOR THE FUTURE will be either WWF SASSI green-listed, Aquaculture Woolworths’ pioneering approach to growing food in a (2018: 90%) against the programme criteria. If newcomers Stewardship Council (ASC) or equivalent certified, or from sustainable, harmonious way will be celebrating its 10th who underwent their first assessment are excluded from aquaculture operations that are engaged in a credible CASE STUDY improvement project. Woolworths remains deeply anniversary at the end of 2019. Farming for the Future this calculation, the pass rate increases to 92%. manages the entire farming process from the ground up, committed to procuring all seafood from sustainable DRONE TRIAL fisheries and responsible aquaculture operations. with soil quality at the heart of the programme. Healthy soil requires fewer chemical inputs and less water, resulting The pace of digital disruption over the last two Of the volume (tonnage) of farmed species sold by in reduced chemical run-off and soil erosion, with positive decades has been remarkable, transforming Woolworths, 85% (2018: 80%) overall meet our 2020 every sector of the global economy, including biodiversity impacts. The related auditing and certification scheme works with the farmers to continually improve In order to reduce food agriculture. Woolworths has partnered with commitments. A challenge faced during the past 12 months has been securing the supply of ASC-certified their performance through the development of individual waste to landfill, we are Aerobotics, an agri-tech start-up focused on salmon all year round. Work is underway to address this enhancement programmes based on the farmers’ individual providing crop protection to farmers through the needs and audit results, at no extra cost to the customer. working with our farmers and use of innovative drones and other technology, for both for fresh and frozen salmon. While many of our primary suppliers are already processing facilities through allowing for the early problem detection and issuing of alerts, using drones, sensors, and digital extremely well advanced, our secondary supplier base is the Farming for the Future and imaging capabilities. increasingly being brought onto Farming for the Future, with a particular focus on our top selling product suppliers. In the green factories programme to last twelve months, the programme has been expanded to understand their food waste certain of our long-life milk, fruit juice, and frozen fruit and vegetable suppliers. management practices. During the last 12 months, we increased the focus on water and water-use efficiency in the Farming for the Aerobotics aero view platform combines Future programme, including through the Water Footprint weekly satellite data, drone imagery, and scout 84% Index (WFI) tool. information to track farm performance on a per Going forward, we are looking at how to integrate our tree or per-field basis, allowing farmers to take 52% of Woolworths private label supply chain vertically to enable the use of Farming for the Future ingredients in our range of private label prepared foods as well as how to expand the Farming a data-driven approach to optimising the health of their farm. The software uses machine learning to identify early stage problems, automatically of Woolworths’ seafood meets our wild-caught and acquaculture for the Future standard to incorporate the social aspects detect pests and diseases, and can guide farmers sustainability commitments produce and horticulture lines on the related to farming. to these problematic locations. Farming for the Future programme Woolworths has trialled this technology at one of our suppliers, and so far has seen an We continue to work with a range of partners, including Watch the video improvement in quality and yields, enhanced WWF-SA and the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC), to Of the 483 (2018: 331) suppliers that were engaged in water use efficiency, decreased weed and ensure that we meet our 2020 commitments by focusing the year, 304 were secondary suppliers. In total 179 Read more on the green factory programme disease-related losses, and a reduction of inputs (2018: 136) of our primary suppliers and 304 (2018: 195) on key strategic species. Woolworths is also an advisory in the Energy and Climate Change chapter such as fertiliser. of our secondary supplier base were assessed against board member of Fish4Good, which is mapping the the Farming for the Future standard during the year. fisheries landscape in South Africa and assisting them in Overall, these farmers achieved a 60% pass rate Read more on the WFI tool in the Water chapter preparing for MSC certification where relevant. Photo by Daniel Fazio on Unsplash WHL 71 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 72 IMPROVING ANIMAL ANIMAL WELFARE IN FASHION, BEAUTY AND HOME WELFARE STANDARDS We support the following principles for animal welfare across the WHL Group: RESPONSIBLE WOOL STRATEGY Country Road Group and David Jones are ANIMAL TESTING developing a responsible wool strategy We do not permit the testing of our products on animals. that will transition them away from the Since 2008, Beauty Without Cruelty has approved the practice of mulesing in the wool industry. entire Woolworths private label range of cosmetics and Mulesing is a painful surgical procedure, We believe it is our ethical obligation to ensure that our suppliers treat the animals in our supply chain with toiletries. David Jones’ entire private label beauty range is which is common practice in Australia, respect and in the most humane way possible, and are committed to a journey of continuous improvement, also accredited by PETA as cruelty free. involving the removal of strips of woolworking with our suppliers in all aspects of animal welfare. bearing skin from around the breech of ANGORA a sheep to prevent the parasitic infection We do not support live plucking in any form. The WHL known as flystrike. Group ceased ordering products containing angora in A further aim of the strategy is to support ANIMAL WELFARE IN FOOD higher animal welfare standards and January 2014. improved land management more broadly FREE RANGE From 2016, we were able to source Kinder to Sows pork across the wool supply chain. Farmers will FUR Woolworths stopped selling whole eggs from caged hens in in our fresh pork products and introduced on-product be encouraged to adopt more regenerative messaging to this effect. Thereafter, we expanded our We are a proud member of the Fur-Free Alliance. We farming practices, which will be measured 2004 and was the first South African retailer to do so. Today, Kinder to Sows offering to include easy-to-cook ranges, do not permit the use of any natural or farmed fur in our via leading industry standards. all whole eggs and 99% (2018: 98%) of egg ingredients sold and all bacon and gammon lines. products. While our definition of fur includes any fur from in Woolworths private label products are free range. We As part of the development of the animals bred and farmed purely for their skins, including are committed to supporting initiatives which enable a shift Suppliers on the programme are regularly audited strategy, various animal-welfare-related, mink, sable, chinchilla, fox, muskrat, racoon dog, rabbit, away from caged systems in South Africa, and have started by independent bodies to ensure compliance with industry and internal stakeholders have astrakhan, and karakul, it excludes by-products of the to engage collaboratively with other retailers around this. the requirements. been engaged with, including the RSPCA, meat industry, such as shearling and sheepskin. Woolworths continues to sell extensive lines of free-range Four Paws, Humane Society International, chicken, beef, and lamb, which means the animals eat a Australian Wool Innovation, Textile natural diet and are not given routine antibiotics or growth OUTCOME-BASED MEASUREMENT PROGRAMME FEATHERS & DOWN Exchange, and New Merino. promoters. Suppliers are regularly audited by independent We are in our third year of working with FAI (Food Animal We do not permit live plucking of duck and goose down bodies to ensure compliance with our free-range standards. Initiative), on our outcome-based measurement programme. and aim to source from suppliers that are Responsible THE STRATEGY FEATURES THREE KEY David Jones only sells fresh free range hen eggs and all We regularly collect outcome measurement data from Down Standard (RDS) compliant. We are also looking at COMMITMENTS REGARDING ANIMAL David Jones own-label packaged and meat counter fresh our chicken and laying hen, pork, duck, dairy, and free synthetic alternatives in our products, including recycled WELFARE STANDARDS AND SUSTAINABLE chicken and turkey is certified free range or RSPCA approved. range beef and lamb farms, and have data relating to PET in pillows, duvets, and jackets. FARMING PRACTICES: the lives and welfare of over 64 million animals. This data is trended and tracked on our bespoke Woolworths web • By the end of 2021, all pure wool WOOL products (100% wool composition) rBST FREE MILK portal and results are reported back to our suppliers along with guidance on best practice to help drive continual We support local wool industries in South Africa and will be verified non-mulesed or BST is a naturally occurring protein hormone produced Australia, and take a proactive approach to sourcing ceased-mulesed improvement to animal welfare within our supply chains. by dairy cows to regulate their milk production. rBST is a non-mulesed wool where possible. Country Road Group This year, we launched our Ayrshire dairy farm web portal. • By the end of 2023, all wool-rich synthetic version of BST, often given to cows to increase and David Jones are working on a responsible wool The farms where our Ayrshire milk is produced submit their products (>30% wool composition) their milk production. Since 2002, Woolworths has not strategy that will see them transition away from mulesed outcome measurement data directly via this portal. These will be verified non-mulesed or administered any rBST to any of their Ayrshire dairy cows. wool over time. results are then displayed and benchmarked against ceased-mulesed Dairy suppliers are regularly audited by independent bodies to ensure compliance with our requirements. other dairy farms, so that best practice and areas for • By the end of 2025, all pure wool and improvement can be identified. Information is shared and See Woolworths animal welfare position statement wool-rich products will be fully traceable, reported at our dairy farmer meetings. non-mulesed or ceased mulesed and KINDER TO SOWS FAI have also undertaken welfare review visits of our poultry certified by a credible third party to See David Jones animal welfare policy and The Woolworths Kinder to Sows programme was launched supply chains from breeder farms through to abattoirs, ensure high animal welfare standards fur, faux fur and angora position statements in 2014. The aim of the programme is to source pork from assessing and sharing knowledge on international best and sustainable farming practices farms that no longer use sow stalls to restrain pregnant practice with our suppliers. These visits are helping to shape sows for prolonged periods, reducing the time adult sows our future farming standards and ensure that we continue See Country Road Group’s animal spend in gestation crates from 16 weeks to under one week. to deliver on our commitments around animal welfare. welfare principles Photo by Annie-Spratt on Unsplash WHL 73 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 74 SUSTAINABLY SOURCED FIBRES SUSTAINABLE COTTON Cotton is one of the main fibres used across the WHL Group in private label clothing. In recognition of the CASE STUDY “There is a strong impact that cotton farming has on global land, soil, and story about traceability water resources, we continue to drive the use of fibres COUNTRY ROAD TRACEABLE in fashion, and the produced in a more responsible way and those that AUSTRALIAN MERINO COLLECTION Country Road customer support sustainable farming practices. We have set an Country Road is committed to supporting Australian farmers is increasingly keen to ambitious Group target that by 2020, all our private label and now, in a southern hemisphere first, every fibre of Country know the origin of their cotton products will be sustainably sourced, including Road’s 2019 traceable merino knit range can be verified as being purchase,” Country certified organic and Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) cotton. sourced from Australian farms through its partnership with scientific Road Managing Woolworths currently uses sustainable cotton across 80% traceability company, Oritain. With a commitment to transparency, Director Elle Roseby (2018: 60%) of fashion items and Country Road Group 75% Oritain takes a scientific approach to verifying where the merino said. “At Country (2018: 66%). During the last year, Politix launched its first wool in each garment originates from based on the origin Road, we value the range of products made with cotton sourced as Better fingerprint of the fibres. Mother nature embeds all things with a provenance of our Cotton, with the aim that by the end of 2020, 100% of its unique code based on where in the world they were produced. products and strive for cotton ranges will be manufactured using BCI cotton. This natural code is created from the exact geochemistry of visibility of where and Over the past year, we continued to roll out training the product’s environment: some environments are nutrient-rich, how our raw materials internally, to empower our teams to source BCI cotton some are poor; some are high in elements, some are low. These are farmed. For the and share appropriate messaging with our customers. differences are what Oritain measures, using the results to create an first time in Australian Country Road Group and David Jones also invited the ‘origin fingerprint’ that they then use to scientifically verify where a history, we’re proud BCI to run a training session on BCI cotton as part of a product has originated. to not only be able to supplier workshop held in Shanghai in May 2019. Plans are underway to expand this initiative in the next year, as trace every fibre of this Country Road is committed and is continuously working to improve range to local farms, traceability through the supply chain. but to verify that every Read more on sustainable cotton in the garment is made of Ethical Sourcing chapter 100 percent Australian See more information on the traceable merino knit range merino wool.” LOOKING AHEAD: SUSTAINABLE FARMING 80% In the next year, we will celebrate 10 years of the Farming for the Future programme and will continue to build on it along with redeveloping the Fishing for the Future programme to outline our plans for post-2020. We will continue to grow our outcome-based measurement programme across beef, lamb, and farmed fish and also by gathering critical data and of Woolworths cotton information from more of our suppliers and developing solutions to tackle some of the challenges identified. We will further Country Road, Winter 2019, Traceable Australian Merino collection sustainably sourced explore alternative and recycled fibres in our move to reduce the environmental impacts associated with fast fashion. WHL 75 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 76 Q U I C K ACC E S S TO S ECTI O N S WASTE 79 SUMMARY 80 STRATEGY AND OF RESULTS MANAGEMENT APPROACH “We recognise that we cannot solve the packaging and waste issue on our own. It is for this reason that we have taken a holistic approach and are engaging with key partners across the value chain to walk this journey with us.” 81 83 WASTE AND PACKAGING AND – Feroz Koor, Group Head of Sustainability PACKAGING TIMELINE CONSUMABLES 85 89 WASTE AND ADDRESSING RECYCLING SURPLUS PRODUCT WHL 77 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 78 Photo by Pawel Czerwinski on Unsplash SUMMARY STRATEGY AND OF RESULTS MANAGEMENT APPROACH STRATEGY MANAGEMENT APPROACH PLASTIC-BAG-FREE At the beginning of our Good Business Journey in 2007, Our approach to waste is dependent on cross-industry we identified waste (including packaging) as one of three collaboration to not only improve the available infrastructure key projects, together with water and energy, to drive for recycling but also for the development of more sustainability across Woolworths. Our aim is to work across innovative packaging solutions. We also work internally our value chain to minimise waste through reducing and with product technologists to encourage improvements enabling the recycling of our packaging. We recognise that to existing packaging by: packaging will always have a role to play in sustainability. It • Driving packaging efficiencies by reviewing is probably one of the most complex issues we continue to innovation opportunities for alternative sustainable grapple with as a business. packaging options Packaging also remains high among the concerns of our • Identifying where the troublesome packaging is and 14.8Mhangers recycled 4 Woolworths stores that 2.4M Number of reusable customers and they routinely communicate this to us. They are particularly concerned about over-packaging and the use of non-recyclable packaging. While Woolworths removing it from our product offering. Troublesome packaging refers to packaging with characteristics that are not in line with our sustainable packaging vision understands that most used packaging becomes waste, at Woolworths are plastic-bag-free bags sold • Reducing the amount of waste sent to landfill from our our approach is aimed at achieving the right balance by own operations taking into account a number of important considerations 2018: 12M 2018: 1.9M such as food safety, product labelling, maintaining product • Making it easier for customers to recycle by 2017: 13.8M 2017: 1.8M quality, as well as minimising waste. In our quest to create communicating recycling options on product packs as the perfect package, it is inevitable that trade-offs well as providing recycling facilities where we operate between environmental, social, and commercial factors may sometimes occur. WE HAVE EMBEDDED A SYSTEMATIC APPROACH TO PACKAGING AND WASTE WITH A STRATEGY THAT AIMS TO: PACKAGING • Design packaging to enable a circular economy HIGHLIGHTS • Minimise the need for non-renewable resources in packaging FOR 2019 • Encourage the recycling of our packaging -8.7% Removal of plastic IMPACT IN THE VALUE CHAIN 0.74 straws, earbuds, cutlery change in plastic bag sales per transaction (2019 vs. 2018) Communities Our approach is, therefore, that of Environment WHL Plastic-bag-free Economy operations Average number of plastic ensuring a balance between optimising store introduction bags sold per transaction the protective role of packaging for 26% Introduction of low-cost (Woolworths Food) our products while using packaging as sustainably as possible. Customers Suppliers & Processors change in reusable bag sales reusable bag 2018: 0.82 (in units) (2019 vs. 2018) 2017: 0.83 WHL 79 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 80 WASTE AND PACKAGING TIMELINE In 2018, we celebrated World Environment Day by announcing our zero packaging waste to landfill commitments. This was not the start of our journey, though. We had been working on it prior to WHL becomes the first African formalising our sustainability strategy. Below is a timeline of some of our key milestones to date. Woolworths launches milk bottles made using company to sign The Ellen MacArthur 30% bioplastic which is sourced from sugar cane Foundation’s New Plastics Economy waste. The packaging is 100% recyclable and Global Commitment. reduces the use of crude-oil-based packaging. Woolworths’ plastic bag recycled Woolworths, Engen, and Nampak OUR JOURNEY begin customer recycling trial. content increases from 55% to 75%, TO DATE harvested from postindustrial waste. Woolworths Woolworths joins the Woolworths unveils eco voluntary retail industry trials plasticmannequins made initiative facilitated by bag-free store Formalisation of the GBJ with Woolworths launches from up to 55% WWF-SA to develop and introduces a commitment to reducing Woolworths becomes the first major biodegradable industry-wide, on-pack low-cost packaging while ensuring we reusable fabric shopping South African retailer to begin using postnatural plant fibres recycling labels. reusable bags. still protect our products as well bags, currently made from consumer recycled plastic in foods packaging. and bio-resins. as inform our customers about 85% recycled material. disposal options for the packaging. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2005 Woolworths introduces Woolworths SA sets clear First cause-related Woolworths initiates and introduces a new Woolworths signs the shopping baskets and trolleys waste minimisation targets. reusable shopping on-pack recycling label (OPRL), intended to Vancouver Declaration, David Jones starts made of recycled plastic. bag launched for assist recycling efforts in South Africa by a public promise selling reusable animal conservation. making it easier for customers to recycle made by companies bags at its stores. correctly. This has now been adopted by across the globe to most major retailers in SA. work towards more sustainable sourcing of forest products. New Packaging Commitments Country Road Country Road launches a Sustainable Packaging Woolworths becomes the first major South African ALL OUR PACKAGING 2004 Woolworths hangers becomes a signatory to the Australian Policy and Guide retailer to use post-consumer recycled milk and juice plastic bottles in packaging by introducing 30% recycled Woolworths becomes the first South African TO BE REUSABLE OR made of 50% recycled Packaging Covenant which aims to integrate High Density Polyethylene (rHDPE) into the packaging of company to remove plastic microbeads from RECYCLABLE BY 2022* material and collected and (APC). sustainable principles into selected Woolworths cleaning products. private label personal care products. *Private label packaging reused via Hangerman. packaging design. WHL 81 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 82 PACKAGING AND CONSUMABLES A strong component of our packaging and waste strategy speaks to the need for us to engage with customers and other stakeholders around this issue, balancing the role that packaging plays, as well as working with suppliers, other retailers, and the recycling sector to develop collaborative solutions. Phasing out single-use plastic bags CASE STUDY To date, we have removed single-use cutlery and straws from our stores and cafés. We have also successfully introduced a low-cost reusable bag to selected stores as part of a phased roll-out of single-use plastic bags. All our plastic-coated fish PLASTIC BAG FREE finger boxes are now widely recycled and turned into new carton board. We have started transitioning our avocado and Woolworths has started phasing out chicken packaging made from polyvinyl chloride (PVC) to a fully recyclable substrate, polyolefin. single-use shopping bags from its stores. In November 2018, a six-month trial was initiated to test whether, given a choice of a more affordable reusable bag, consumers PRODUCT PACKAGING for packaging, they are sourced from sustainably managed will make the shift away from buying forests and certified by the Forest Stewardship Council single-use plastic shopping bags. We made The majority of materials (85%) used by Woolworths for (FSC). This year, the paper used for our till slips became FSC a low-cost reusable shopping bag available packaging are technically recyclable, but many are not certified and in 2020, all our paper board will be certified. at four stores across the Western Cape, recycled in South Africa. The light, flexible containers (bags, with one of the stores going completely wraps, and films), often contaminated with food, hold very plastic bag free. During the trial, over little value for recyclers and are not yet widely collected 100 000 single-use bags were saved from and recycled. REUSABLE & SINGLE-USE PLASTIC BAGS going out into the environment as customers Woolworths has been continuously making packaging opted for affordable, reusable shopping In the last year, we have seen more and more customers improvements and reductions across product offerings bags. This trial has been extended to an sharing their concerns with regards to single-use plastics. For and supply chain. Through life cycle assessments of some additional 15 stores across the country, Woolworths, the use of plastic bags at till points has long of our products, we have identified various packaging with an additional three stores becoming been a concern. Since 2007, we have offered reusable bag areas for concern and have put systems in place to ensure completely plastic bag free. alternatives to meet the concerns of our customers, and we that we tackle them. To help us address these areas, continue to promote the use of reusable bags across our The reusable bags are made locally out of we have introduced an internal initiative called ‘bad Replacing with low-cost reusable bags store network. As part of our commitments, we have started recycled plastic bottles and are recyclable. ambassadors’ that allows us to treat packaging and phasing out single-use plastic bags from our stores. This is To date, the production of the low-cost waste using a product stewardship approach where not an easy task and has come with a myriad of challenges, reusable bag has resulted in over 129 000 the entire life cycle of a product is established to identify but we have taken learnings from initial trials to help in rolling plastic bottles being removed from South its environmental impacts through the different stages out more widely. We sell a wide range of reusable bags, African waste streams to be recycled and of production. including, in the past year, a low-cost alternative to make it made into the bag’s fabric. This figure will In the last year, a packaging baseline for David Jones easier for our customers to access reusable bags. This will increase significantly with the roll-out to 15 foods products was established by quantifying the types replace the currently used single-use bag at our food shops. more stores. The project also supports a of materials by volume used in David Jones packaging. The This low-cost, reusable shopping bag consists of 80% postSouth African black-owned supplier, which results will be used to set clear targets for packaging and consumer PET waste from plastic bottles. We also continue has been supplying Woolworths with waste reduction for David Jones. to offer our colourful fabric bags made from 85% postreusable bags for over 10 years. The supplier consumer PET waste from plastic bottles. In line with our goal currently employs 130 people, and 17 new to remove single-use bags from our stores by 2020, we will jobs were created during the first phase of be focusing our efforts on rolling out these low-cost reusable the trial. The ongoing roll-out of the low-cost DEFORESTATION-FREE PACKAGING shopping bag to more stores across the country. reusable bag will enable them to grow their We continue to work towards using only sustainably sourced In Australia, David Jones started selling reusable bags in the business and employ more people. or recycled wood products throughout our operations. last year. Politix, a Country Road Group brand, transitioned Where we use forest products like wood, paper, and board from their single-use plastic bag to recyclable paper bags. WHL 83 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 84 WASTE AND RECYCLING DIRECT OPERATIONS Woolworths has various recycling initiatives and trials at HEAD OFFICE DISTRIBUTION CENTRES stores, corporate offices, and distribution centres. We have, Woolworths has recently partnered with a new A lot of work is going into improving in recent years, experienced a variety of challenges with recycling company to assist us in implementing a more waste management at our distribution regards to recycling at these facilities, especially at the head accurate process of measuring our waste streams. We centres to reduce waste to landfill. The office, with regard to an increase in contaminated waste have also upgraded our internal recycling bins to make distribution centres manage waste, which reduced the recyclability of our waste. separation at source easier for staff. To prevent the especially transit packaging, which contamination of clean paper, we introduced separate comes via reverse logistics from stores paper recycling bins. In addition, we have rolled out as well as waste generated on site. coffee cup recycling bins across the head office. We are Both the Midrand and Montague now able to track waste streams on a ‘real-time’ basis Gardens Food distribution centres using an online dashboard and identify where challenges have recycling facilities equipped still exist. with baling equipment to compress recyclables on site before transporting David Jones and Country Road are also working on to our recycling partners. quantifying waste and packaging impacts in order to At Country Road Group’s Omni-channel 2 400 kg develop waste management strategies for their operations. Fulfilment Centre in Melbourne, 85.5% of waste is currently recycled (2018: 80.6%). organic waste from the David Jones Bourke Street store diverted from landfill HANGER RECYCLING in January 2019 Woolworths has a 34-year relationship with Hangerman, the hanger supplier and recycler that helps in rescuing STORES and reusing hangers. In the last year, 14.8 million hangers were rescued and All Woolworths’ secondary and tertiary packaging used in recycled (2018: 13.8 million). Last year, we our operations, such as cardboard cartons and protective launched a reverse logistics initiatives for packaging, is collected, managed, and recycled from stores hangers from the Eastern Cape and we using existing logistics operations, or utilising reverse logistics are now recovering more than 80% of within our existing network. We manage this waste directly hangers in that area. A project team has from our distribution centres, where we sort and bale been established to manage the roll out recyclables. Challenges persist, especially for David Jones and of reverse hanger logistics countrywide. Country Road, where at shopping centres, the bulk of the waste management solutions are provided by third parties. The David Jones Bourke Street store recycles organic waste on site by taking food offcuts from food halls and converting them to fertiliser, which is sent to farmers. In January of 2019, 2 400 kg of organic waste was diverted from landfill, and this produced 192 kg of fertiliser. Country Road Group currently recycles 39.8% of waste from stores (2018: 40.1%); this excludes 71M waste from Politix stores. In-store take home packaging is hangers rescued and The top of our coffee cup recycling unit. Hanger sorting at Montague Gardens distribution centre, Cape Town. 99% recyclable. reused to date WHL 85 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 86 CUSTOMER RECYCLING Recycling is a shared responsibility. We CASE STUDY aim to make it easier for our customers to separate their waste at source and WOOLWORTHS WINNING dispose of it responsibly. In 2018, in CHRISTMAS WINDOW line with the zero-packaging-wasteIn a first for Woolworths, the Christmas window display for 2018 to-landfill commitments, Woolworths at selected stores was made from recycled plastic bottles, plastic was the first retailer to trial in-store cutlery, and hangers collected from the Woolworths head office recycling ‘reverse vending machines’ and neighbouring schools. With a Christmas theme in mind, we at two of our stores. The machines partnered with a small local empowerment project, Essay Gifts, accept plastic, glass, and tin containers a project that helps artists and crafters from disadvantaged up to 2.25 litres in size and work on a communities find opportunities for earning an income. barcode recognition system. There are currently two of these machines in the Women from these communities handcrafted these recyclables Western Cape. We also have recycling into 3-D flower artworks featuring iconic Proteas and Pincushions. bins in our stores where customers Each King Protea was made from 20 used plastic bottles and 20 can drop off batteries and light bulbs. hangers. After Christmas, the flowers were sent to local recyclers In addition, we also currently have to be reused in products such as duvets, pillows, shopping clothing take-back facilities in selected bags, packaging, and T-shirts. The aim was not only to create a stores for customers to donate their WILDLANDS recycling village at Quarry Centre in Hilton, Pietermaritzburg. representation of Woolworths’ zero-packaging-to-landfill journey used clothing for reuse. over the holiday season but also to raise awareness of the importance of recycling plastics waste. ON-PACK RECYCLING LABELS (OPRL) CASE STUDY Woolworths introduced On-Pack RECYCLING PARTNERSHIP WITH WILDLANDS Woolies’ Christmas window displays received a Recycling Labels (OPRL) three years ago. Creative Retail award for Best Sustainable Display These are labels on product packaging To celebrate World Environment Day in 2019, Woolworths announced a partnership with WILDLANDS in London, June 2019 indicating what can actually be aimed at increasing recycling rates in South Africa. The partnership is a trial that will see the upgrade of two WILDLANDS recycling villages and the opening of an additional three villages in KwaZulu-Natal recycled in metropolitan areas in shopping centres. WILDLANDS recycling villages are part of a well-established WILDTRUST programme. The South Africa. WILDTRUST is an environmental non-profit organisation that works to safeguard threatened species though By making recycling information conservation and restorative action while also uplifting people and communities. It does this through two key clearer, we hope that much programmes WildLands and WildOceans. more waste will be recycled, less The partnership covers not just upgrades to infrastructure, but vital public messaging to raise awareness of contamination will occur in recycling what substrates are recyclable. Other partners include Dow, Nedbank, and YES (Youth Employment Service). streams, and that more investment will This partnership aims to make it easier for customers to recycle and also facilitate a culture of recycling in be made in recycling infrastructure. those communities. The partnership also supports the YES initiative to bring much-needed work experience to A key development has been the disadvantaged communities. Nedbank has sponsored three WILDLANDS recycling on-site ambassadors from formation of the OPRL Working Group the YES programme as part of this pilot. They will be on-site to help customers with sorting their recycling into through WWF-SA – a forum for major the correct bins. SA retailers to agree a standardised way of communicating recyclability on packaging. WHL 87 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 88 ADDRESSING SURPLUS PRODUCT SURPLUS FOOD CIRCULAR FASHION INDUSTRY COLLABORATION According to WWF-SA, a third of all food produced never PARTNERING TO ADDRESS FOOD WASTE In the context of increased attention on climate change, Woolworths has partnered with a variety of stakeholders reaches our plates; it ends up in landfill. In a country where Woolworths participates in a dialogue under the partnership water scarcity, and resource constraints, we have also (including WWF-SA, PETCO, POLYCO, Plastics SA as well as one in five people are food insecure, it is important that of the Consumer Goods Council of South Africa (CGCSA) and increased our focus on the need to move towards a circular the Consumer Goods Council of South Africa and government) we work to minimise food waste in our supply chain. An the Department of Trade and Industry (dti), co-funded by the approach, reducing dependence on natural and virgin to help manage packaging waste and support increased on-going initiative of Woolworths ensures that surplus food South Africa-European Union Dialogue Facility (SA-EU DF) to resources, using recycled raw materials, and revaluing waste recycling rates in South Africa. Other partners include other from stores that has not been sold and would otherwise increase sustainability in the food supply chain by reducing within the supply chain. The WHL Group continues to review retailers in order to build scale to strengthen the business case go to landfill is donated to charities in the communities food waste and food loss. This dialogue aims to help South opportunities for innovation in this regard. for increasing and improving the infrastructure in South Africa. surrounding the stores. This is food that has passed its African consumer goods companies to contribute and benefit Woolworths Holdings is also the first and only African ‘Sell By’ date but is not beyond its ‘Use By’ date. In the last from healthy, sustainable ecosystems in Africa while reducing PROGRESS MADE DURING THE PAST YEAR INCLUDES: company to sign The Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s New year, Woolworths donated food to the value of R611 million food insecurity and assisting the government in achieving its Plastics Economy Global Commitment, launched in October (2018: R570 million), providing much-needed relief to • Development of a holistic circular fashion strategy for Sustainable Development Goal 12.3, which aims to reduce 2018. This puts us on a platform with over 250 other charities also working to alleviate the scourge of food Country Road Group and David Jones as well as circular global food loss and waste. The outcome of the process will organisations working together towards defining what insecurity in South Africa. design training for Country Road Group teams result in the development of a voluntary agreement (including a global plastics economy looks like and also to enable a targets and road map) for signatories to achieve the goal • Continued use of TENCEL™ x REFIBRA™ (fibres made from a circular economy for plastics, a concept that is endorsed of halving food waste at the retail and consumer levels and blend of recycled cotton scraps and wood pulp sourced by the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and the World Read more on surplus food in the from responsibly managed forests) in Country Road’s reducing food losses along production and supply chains, Economic Forum. Social Development chapter denim garments including post-harvest losses. In Australia, David Jones and Country Road Group • Use of regenerated cashmere, made from recycled pre are signatories to the Australian Packaging Covenant and post-industrial cashmere waste in the Country Road, Organisation (APCO), a federal government initiative focused Trenery and David Jones private label collections on reducing the amount of used packaging that reaches • Continued use of recycled polyester in Woolworths landfill. For the most recent rating period, both Country private label clothing; currently 13% of Woolworths Road Group and David Jones improved their rating from SURPLUS CLOTHING 23% (Country Road Group) and 26% (David Jones) to 48%, private label clothing sold contains recycled polyester All of our Group companies support the collection and distribution of surplus or pre-loved clothing to charity. Across the (2022 target: 25%). classified as ‘advanced’. Group, we have three partner organisations – The Clothing Bank (Woolworths), the Red Cross (Country Road Group) and The Smith Family (David Jones). The Clothing Bank operates in six major metropoles across South Africa and aims to empower unemployed women and men from disadvantaged areas in South Africa through a programme of life skills and financial and career development to start sustainable clothing micro-businesses. In Australia, Country Road customers can donate their pre-loved clothing at Country Road to support the humanitarian work of the Red Cross. The funds generated through The Smith Family for David Jones support educational outcomes for Australian children from disadvantaged backgrounds. LOOKING AHEAD: WASTE In the last year, we have donated to our partners as follows: We continue to set ourselves ambitious targets for the next few years towards meeting our packaging and waste commitments. With regards to ensuring that our packaging is from sustainable sources, we have set a target to have all our paper board packaging FSC certified by 2020. This means we distance ourselves from deforestation, unfair labour practices and slavery, often associated with illegal deforestation. R60.6M worth of clothing for A$3.8M worth of clothing for A$253K worth of clothing for The Woolworths ‘to-go’ food packaging will also be repositioned. We will see 6.1 million plastic sticker labels and 4.3 million plastic containers being removed from this sector. Additionally, as part of our partnership with WWF-SA, we are also completing a plastics life cycle analysis on the supply The Clothing Bank The Red Cross The Smith Family chain for cucumbers and raspberries to understand the issues associated with plastics used all along the value chain of (R51.1M in 2018) (A$5.3M in 2018) (A$36K in 2018) these two types of produce. WHL 89 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 90 Q U I C K ACC E S S TO S ECTI O N S WATER 93 SUMMARY OF RESULTS 94 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT APPROACH We have a responsibility to promote water conservation and ecosystem protection beyond our own operations. We are committed to working in partnership with government, NGOs, 95 97 and the private sector to advance sustainable water policies WATER EFFICIENCY IN OUR OPERATIONS WATER RESILIENCE IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN across the industry. 99 101 WATER STEWARDSHIP PUBLIC POLICY ALIGNMENT IN OUR COMMUNITIES AND TRANSPARENCY WHL 91 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 92 Photo by Mrjn Photography on Unsplash SUMMARY STRATEGY AND OF RESULTS MANAGEMENT APPROACH OUR STRATEGY MANAGEMENT APPROACH Percentage water reduction per square metre at Percentage of real-time Water is central to everything we do. We rely on a steady Water is critical to keeping our facilities, especially stores, Woolworths stores against a 2007 baseline water monitoring (stores) and clean supply of water across our entire value chain running. Over 60 percent of all water consumed by our direct to grow, process and manufacture our clothing and food operations in South Africa can be attributed to stores alone. products, as well as to ensure the wellbeing and safety Using our internal green building protocol to facilitate the of our employees and the running of our stores. With our incorporation of water-efficient measures at all our facilities, operations largely in areas where water remains a key risk we continue to drive new innovations across our business, in respect of availability and quality, we are continuously including water-efficient design, rainwater harvesting, and implementing innovative ways of ensuring that we can use of alternate water supplies, such as groundwater, across proactively mitigate against some of the negative impacts our operations. We also continue to implement air cooling 90% 14% associated our operations. technology for refrigeration and air-conditioning systems as well as dual flush ablution facilities and timer-taps on basins. 55.6% Woolworths David Jones OUR FOCUS WITH REGARDS TO WATER IS LARGELY ON: Where possible, we have installed greywater systems that help to retain as much water as possible on site for reuse. In preparing for the likely event that we do run out of water, 1. Reducing water consumption and managing we have focused on the installation of back-up water tanks 2018: 54% 2018: 89% 2018, 2017: NR* wastewater across our own operations as well as in at stores where the risk is high. 2017: 56% 2017: 75% *not measured and reported in 2018 and 2017 our supply chain Water availability and quality also impact the sourcing 2. Partnering for collective action, research and education of our raw materials. Through various water stewardship 3. Creating awareness among our employees, suppliers, programmes, we work with our value chain stakeholders customers and schools to ensure water is managed efficiently, especially in the supply chain. Our goal is to establish at least one water stewardship programme a year to increase collective action The fashion industry uses a large amount of water around water conservation in priority areas. WHL received a and chemicals throughout the value chain, from the farming and production of raw materials to the wet processing, dyeing, and manufacturing of garments. To address chemical pollution, we have implemented a chemical detox strategy in which 11 priority chemicals will be removed from the manufacturing of our products. IMPACT IN THE VALUE CHAIN We also have environmental codes of practice which promote best practice for our suppliers at their facilities. Agriculture Suppliers & We continue to explore opportunities to improve the 66% 12% Processors monitoring, management, and efficiency of water use across our stores, warehouses, offices, and distribution centres. In the Western Cape last year, Cape Town Communities WHL Percentage of relative water Percentage improvement Environment operations faced the very real threat of running out of water. Economy consumption shift to greywater against water footprint index for CDP Water Disclosure for Spurred on by this, we are working with key in SA corporate buildings for Woolworths food suppliers the 2017 calendar year water stakeholders on implementing business continuity footprint; this is higher than the strategies to deal with possible disruptions in water Customers 2018: 55% sector average of C, and equal 2018: 12% supply, not only in the Western Cape but across our 2017: 60% to the regional average 2017: 12% entire value chain. WHL 93 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 94 WATER EFFICIENCY IN OUR OPERATIONS DIRECT OPERATIONS WATER USAGE (KILOLITRES) CONTEXT-BASED WATER TARGETS Our direct operations offer us a significant Through the United Nations Global Compact CEO Water Mandate, Woolworths has become a participant in a pilot opportunity to test innovative technologies 2019 2018 % CHANGE project for setting context-based targets for water. These are targets which are informed by science and take into account for water efficiency. With every new facility, sustainable thresholds or limits of a given basin based on the basin’s environmental, economic, and social needs, and current we evaluate the opportunities for water WOOLWORTHS 595 522 604 562 -1.5% and future conditions. They are also aligned to public sector objectives such as Sustainable Development Goal Six which efficiency by considering factors such as the speaks to water quality, availability, and governance. This pilot project will also assist us in reframing our global water target possibility of installing rainwater collection, STORES 417 062LA 422 505 -1.3% (saving 500 billion litres of water by 2020) into a more contextual target. This will help in not only enhancing the existing greywater and recycling systems, using water stewardship work we are engaged in but to also frame our work within a more holistic view in addressing the unique indigenous shrubs or ground covers for DISTRIBUTION CENTRES 163 659LA 162 873 0.5% challenges and needs of those areas in managing water resources. landscaping, installing real-time metering technology as well as other water-efficient HEAD OFFICE 14 801 LA 19 184 -22.8% fixtures and fitting. As part of monitoring the results of our ongoing effort to reduce water DAVID JONES 72 528* 77 352 -6% consumption in Woolworths stores we note that the recorded water consumption (per Woolworths water usage for 2018 and 2019 is measured and reported on a calendar year basis square metre) for a selection of Woolworths (1 July-30 June), not on a 53 week basis. stores monitored between 2019 and 2007 LA Included in the scope of EY’s limited assurance engagement. The basis of measurement of this indicator (the baseline measurement year) show an can be found on www.woolworthsholdings.co.za * Restated due to change in reporting periods and availability of data aggregate 55.6% reduction in consumption for those stores. We have 77.6% of our operations monitored on a real-time basis. David Jones has achieved a 6% water reduction per square metre in the last year. At Country Road Group, 20.8% of the water at the Omni-channel Fulfilment Centre currently is supplied via rainwater harvesting (2018: 2.7%). At our distribution centres, we have focused primarily on installing rainwater 163 m3 of water produced by Montague Gardens harvesting technology to increase the Food DC reverse osmosis plant reuse of rainwater. Woolworths has put reverse osmosis systems into operation at its Montague and Racecourse Gardens distribution centres in Cape Town. Using a three-step purification process, rainwater stored in reservoirs at the centres is filtered and used for ablution and tray washing. The reverse osmosis plant at the Montague 55.6% Gardens food distribution centre produces 163 m3 of water per day. We also continue replacing cooling towers at our distribution Tray washing facility using recycled water at the Montague Gardens Food Distribution Centre, Cape Town. centres with air-cooling technology. relative water reduction at SA stores since 2007 WHL 95 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 96 of South Africa’s already scarce water resources. With funding from Woolworths, an alien clearing coordinator was WATER RESILIENCE appointed to manage this project and work in partnership with farmers, government agencies, and water-use associations. The CASE STUDY coordinator managed to secure an additional R8.3 million from COUNTRY ROAD LOW IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN the Department of Environmental Affairs (DEA) Natural Resources Management (NRM). Additional funds of US$300 300 were raised WATER WASH DENIM via other donor sources to aid in the expansion of the alien The production of denim is often clearing programme. synonymous with water waste. Country Road has introduced a range of men’s ‘Low Water Wash Denim’ as part of their commitment to making the manufacture of their denim more sustainable. The process of washing ADVANCING BEST PRACTICE denim, in particular, uses thousands Our direct operations account for only a small portion of WATER STEWARDSHIP WITH SUPPLIERS of litres of water, and to address this Woolworths has been engaging 15 Farming for the Future suppliers our overall water footprint and are relatively straightforward issue, Country Road is working to Water stewardship is embedded in how we manage to understand their overall water risk and footprint in addition to to manage. The bulk of our water footprint is associated identify innovative measures that water resources where we grow our products. Through other parameters such as energy efficiency and waste as well as with the farming and manufacture of our products. Longcan reduce water use in making our strategic partnership with WWF-SA, we committed to social and ethical compliance. Using a questionnaire sent to the term collaboration with the stakeholders in the value chain their denim. establishing one water stewardship project a year. We suppliers, opportunities to link with other deliverables on water becomes a critical component of implementing efficiency efficiency, such as water stewardship, are explored for those have two water stewardship projects to date, one in the initiatives for water reduction as well as best practice in that are not currently on the programmes. The outcomes of these Ceres region with our stone fruit suppliers and the other in the supply chain. Onwards to 2020, our goal is to questionnaires will help us understand the issues on the ground and, Mpumalanga, where a majority of our tropical fruit, sugar, significantly upscale the work we are doing in the supply ultimately, will be translated into a guidance document to support and citrus suppliers operate. Our work in the Ceres valley chain to reduce water usage and manage wastewater. other farmers in implementing best practice in water conservation with our fruit suppliers has been used as a blueprint on how Various programmes on how we engage with our supply on their farms. to implement best practice in other areas when instituting a chain are discussed below. water stewardship project. In the last year, we focused our efforts on bringing on board the Breede River fruit suppliers Country Road has worked with who are part of the Farming for the Future programme onto Jeanologia® to develop a low-impact the Ceres water stewardship project. washing process for their men’s denim range. All of Country Road men’s DETOX JOURNEY main range of denim scores ‘Green’ In 2011, Greenpeace launched a water detox campaign to expose on water usage according to the 2 the links between global clothing brands, their suppliers, and water Jeanologia® Environmental Impact pollution around the world. In response to this, in 2016, Woolworths Measuring (EIM) system. The EIM made a commitment to eliminate 11 key priority chemicals from software analyses the environmental FARMING FOR THE FUTURE WATER water our clothing supply chain. We also finalised the chemical detox impact of denim washing and FOOTPRINT INDEX stewardship roadmap that aligns us to global best practice by removing these processing, which determined that in Water availability and quality is a key component of the projects chemicals as well as finding safer alternatives. Additionally, we making the jeans using a low water Farming for the Future programme and directly impacts the to date recognise that discharging hazardous chemicals through our washing process, Country Road used sustainability of our fresh produce suppliers as well as the processes has huge negative impacts on the environment and 50% less water compared with the cost of food. Woolworths uses a risk-based approach to human health. Our intent is, therefore, to have these chemicals global standard. Focusing production identify where the critical hotspots are in the food supply removed from production by 2020 using the Oeko-Tex® standard in factories that have embraced these chain to address the risks associated with water availability Country Road Group and David Jones are exploring progressive technologies has allowed as the benchmark for ensuring compliance. We have thus far and quality. Various methods are used to assess a farmer’s initiatives to further promote water stewardship within Country Road to start developing eliminated hazardous chemicals from 57% of our products, performance when it comes to water management using a their supply chain. denim with more sustainable which is below our target of 60%. Instead of tackling one custom measurement tool called the Water Footprint Index chemical at a time, we have taken the approach of tackling all attributes without compromising on (WFI) that takes into account 116 parameters linked to water11 chemicals simultaneously. quality. This is just the start of Country use efficiency, wastewater, alien vegetation, and soil quality, All Country Road Group manufacturers must sign the Environmental Road’s responsible denim journey. The among others, and helps to track an individual supplier’s Code of Practice for the dyeing, printing, and finishing of team will also be introducing denim progress year on year. In the last year, supplier efficiency REHABILITATING WATER CATCHMENTS merchandise supplied. This code aims to ensure that within existing made using recycled yarns, focusing against this index showed a 12% improvement. technology, no dye or chemical used in the production of garments, on the fabrication as well as the Woolworths invests annually in WWF-SA’s Water Balance fabrics, leather, and/or textile-related products presents an processing impacts. project, which aims to protect some of South Africa’s most Read more on Farming for the Future in the important water source areas through the removal of alien unacceptable health or environmental risk during manufacturing, Sustainable Farming chapter (invasive) vegetation that is estimated to capture up to 7% use or disposal. WHL 97 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 98 Photo by Samuel Scrimshaw on Unsplash WATER STEWARDSHIP IN OUR COMMUNITIES We remain committed to water conservation – especially in assisting to educate customers, school learners, and community groups around water conservation. EDUCATIONAL INITIATIVES THE WOOLIES WATER FUND The Woolworths Educational Programme has, over the Many schools across the country are adversely affected last four years, presented water conservation lessons by drought, poor access to fresh water, and frequent to over 300 000 learners in 572 primary schools across water cuts. For hygiene issues, schools close during water the country. Additionally, Water Month is used annually cuts, repeatedly disrupting the education of scores of to raise awareness around the importance of keeping South African learners. In order to support affected schools freshwater resources clean. This is done through by improving access their access to clean water for campaigns such as coastal clean-ups with schools as well day-to-day use, food gardens and sanitation as well as as using media channels to communicate how communities addressing water shortages in the communities under focus, can be part of the journey of water conservation. we launched the Woolies Water Fund last year. This is a collaboration between MySchool MyVillage MyPlanet, Thirsti, Urban Harvest, and the Department of Basic Education. The initiative is a ‘swipe to give’ drive to raise Water educational funds for much-needed rainwater harvesting tanks for programme reached under-resourced schools in the drought-stricken areas 162 schools this year of South Africa. In the last year, we installed water harvesting tanks at 21 schools in the Western and Eastern Cape. In total, 42 projects have been completed in the last year in KwaZulu-Natal, Western Cape, and Eastern Cape. Rainwater harvesting tanks with a storage capacity of teaching 10 000 litres, as well as associated filtration equipment where 3 640 water conservation lessons this year required, were installed. These systems provide high-quality fresh water for use in drinking, cooking, and when there is surplus, to irrigate food gardens and use in ablution facilities at the schools. With this intervention, we are able to impact not only the learners at the schools but the surrounding communities as well. and reaching 145 600 learners 42 water tanks installed to date Read more on Educational Initiatives in the A Woolies Water Fund installation supplies clean, potable water at Haig Primary School in KwaZulu-Natal. Social Development chapter Watch the Woolies Water Fund video WHL 99 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 100 PUBLIC POLICY ALIGNMENT AND TRANSPARENCY We support clear and decisive policies on water strategy and implementation planning and maintenance to ensure the preservation of South Africa’s scarce water resources and are committed to working in partnership with government, NGOs, and the private sector. We continue to engage through membership of the United Nations CEO Water Mandate and the National Business Initiative to advance sustainable water policies and management across the industry. WE MEAN BUSINESS Woolworths is a signatory to the ‘We Mean Business’ coalition, a global coalition that supports the transition to a low-carbon economy. Through this, we have committed to: • Analysing water-related risks and implementing collaborative response strategies • Measuring and reporting water use data • Reducing impacts on water availability and quality in direct operations and along the value chain We report transparently on our water management performance and material risks posed by water resources in our business through various voluntary reporting mechanisms. We voluntarily report our performance through the CDP Water Disclosure as well as our annual Good Business Journey Report. See WHL Group CDP Water disclosure LOOKING AHEAD: WATER Woolworths aims to improve data collection for water initiatives to unlock further opportunities for driving efficiency as well as tracking progress against targets. We will be exploring options to increase the share of greywater use in our operations. In the farming space, we will be intensifying work with Farming for the Future suppliers on the Water Footprint Index as well as use some of the biggest water users as case studies in knowledge sharing initiatives. The Green Factory Assessment provides us with useful information to identify where hotspots are in the supply chain, and we will continue to expand this to additional suppliers. Through the Woolies Water Fund, we will focus on providing rainwater harvesting tanks to schools in the Northern Cape and expand our efforts to other areas of the country when the need arises. WHL 101 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 102 Q U I C K ACC E S S TO S ECTI O N S ENERGY AND CLIMATE 105 SUMMARY 106 STRATEGY AND CHANGE OF RESULTS MANAGEMENT APPROACH 107 109 ENERGY CARBON We need to allow for incremental improvements over PRODUCTIVITY FOOTPRINT time, not try to achieve the impossible immediately. 111 LOW CARBON TRANSITION Solar PV installation at Montague Gardens Distribution Centre, Cape Town SUMMARY STRATEGY AND OF RESULTS MANAGEMENT APPROACH STRATEGY MANAGEMENT APPROACH The focus on energy and climate change continues to Our approach to managing our energy footprint as be embedded in our business strategy and remains a well as the impacts of climate change across our business strategic pillar of our Good Business Journey. To drive this is to ensure that we implement the best innovation focus operationally, we have made a commitment to available to enable efficiency. From this, we are able to halve our energy impact by 2020, as well as source all generate energy and financial savings and these gains our energy from renewable sources by 2030. continue to help us build the business case to increase our energy efficiency. WE FOCUS ON THREE PILLARS TO MEET OUR ENERGY Over the years, we have continued to roll out online AND CLIMATE CHANGE GOALS: metering to all our facilities to ensure the accurate 1% 5% measurement and monitoring of our electricity use. A new energy reporting platform was approved for ENERGY PRODUCTIVITY Country Road Group and David Jones which will Change in absolute reduction carbon emissions We are working to maximise our energy productivity enable better monitoring of energy data. We also WHL emissions per general letting area (m2) while reducing our environmental impact. We have put continue to transition some of our facilities to green (2017: -3%, 2016: 5%) year-on-year for WHL systems in place for the active monitoring and control buildings by either using our internal green building of our energy usage at all our facilities. rating protocol or requesting a third-party rating agency for certification. REDUCING OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT Woolworths has also continued to build relationships Understanding our carbon footprint is vital to enabling with industry bodies for collective action in responding our energy and climate change strategy. We do this by to the challenges of energy and climate change. calculating the carbon footprint annually and evaluating Disclosure and transparency of our energy footprint where within our operations we can implement energy remains a key focus of these industry bodies; Woolworths reduction initiatives to ensure that we not only reduce continues to voluntarily respond annually to organisations our carbon footprint but are also reducing it in line such as the CDP (formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure with science. Project) as well as meet all mandatory reporting obligations in the areas where we operate. LOW CARBON TRANSITION Our low carbon transition strategy centres around the following key initiatives: 5 renewable energy WHL received a B R742M worth of electricity saved to 1. Applying an in-house green building protocol to ensure that our facilities have the most up-to-date and energy efficient equipment as possible IMPACT IN THE VALUE CHAIN installations across for carbon disclosure date through energy efficiency 2. Working with logistics partners to ensure that WHL operations Suppliers & Processors WHL to date in the CDP initiatives (2018: R608M) our distribution fleet continues to offer us a sustainable solution for the distribution of our products 3. Working with our suppliers to understand Customers the opportunities within the supply chain for energy efficiency Please note, we have changed our reporting timeline for our carbon footprint from calendar year to financial year. The carbon footprint in this report is therefore for the financial year which runs from July 2017 June 2018. 4. Sourcing renewable energy for our direct operations WHL 105 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 106 ENERGY PRODUCTIVITY ENERGY EFFICIENCY INITIATIVES ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION As a retailer, we are an energy intensive business, with WHL trades across an area of 2 226 328 m2. In the 92% of our electricity usage attributed to stores; these last financial year (July 2018 June 2019), our total electricity facilities have become our main focus. Distribution centres consumption across the business was 503 971 981 kWh use 6% of our total electricity and corporate offices 2%. (2017: 492 261 073 kWh). This represents a 3% increase from We have, therefore, focused a great deal of our initiatives the previous year. Woolworths South Africa continues to at a store level. Over the years, guided by our internal be the biggest user of electricity across the Group and green building protocol, we have implemented innovations accounts for 77.5% of our electricity consumption. This is for energy reduction. In the last year, we: due to the high energy requirements of the refrigeration • Continued to roll out real-time energy monitoring at across Woolworths’ Food business. David Jones accounts all new facilities as well as upgrading equipment at for 18.8% and Country Road Group accounts for 3.7%. existing facilities • Approved a new reporting system for Country Road Group and David Jones businesses. This will ensure accurate measuring and monitoring of energy across all their facilities Our relative electricity intensity per square metre of • Expanded the roll out of clear acrylic door refrigeration general letting area (kWh/m2) for this year is 226.4 kWh/m2 equipment to an additional 25 stores to further (2017: 226.8 kWh/m2), a reduction of 0.2% compared to the improve cold chain and reduce energy consumption. previous year. This figure is the measure of our We have completed 37 stores to date energy efficiency at store level – the average electricity • Ensured that all new facilities as well as refurbishments used will continue to increase as we expand, but the average used per square metre should decrease as we Closed door refrigeration messaging at Woolworths Palmyra store, Cape Town. are fitted with LED lighting improve efficiency and productivity. Given the significant focus on this area over the past decade and a half, primarily in the Woolworths business, we are reaching a Overall electricity usage WHL electricity usage breakdown 25 plateau in respect of our efficiency trajectory. in kWh by operating company Having maximised the opportunities available, we expect to see lower year-on-year increases in efficiency additional stores with closed door going forward. refrigeration, bringing the total to 37 Electricity intensity per kWh 94.2% stores on real time monitoring 226.4kWh/m2 503 971 981 in 2018 226.8 kWh/m2 in 2017, 235 kWh/m2 in 2016 which See more information on our internal green is a 0.2% reduction year on year on electricity 2017: 492 261 073 building design features consumption for WHL 2016: 488 448 252 WSA: 77.5% DJ: 18.8% CRG: 3.7% WHL 107 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 108 CARBON FOOTPRINT The overall WHL total Scope 1 and 2 Greenhouse Gas emissions decreased by 0.4% (2017: 2%) and increased by 1% (2017: 2.45%) with Scope 3 included. For the first time, WHL included downstream transportation and distribution of products purchased online. WHL’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions were calculated for the period 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018 – independently verified by Global Carbon Exchange (GCX). As mentioned in the 2018 Good Business Journey Report, we have changed our carbon footprint reporting timeline Scope 1: 7% Scope 2: 68% from calendar year to align to our financial year. This means that the current carbon footprint timeline overlaps Scope 3: 21% Outside of scopes: 4% with the previous one by six months. Going forward, our carbon footprint will always be reported a year in arrears. See Carbon Footprint Verification Statement for the 2018 Financial Year EMISSIONS BREAKDOWN Total WHL Scopes 1, 2, and 3 emissions WSA: 82% DJ: 15% CRG: 3% (including non-Kyoto) WHL intensity (emissions per m2 GLA including non-trading area) 0.228 2018 681 836 CO2e 2018 2017: 0.24 2016: 0.24 Montague Gardens Food Distribution Centre, Cape Town. 2017: 649 498 CO2e This figure represents a 5% improvement in efficiency 2016: 660 482 CO2e year on year. See WHL Group CDP Climate disclosure See Carbon Footprint Overview WHL 109 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 110 LOW CARBON TRANSITION GREEN BUILDING INNOVATION SUSTAINABLE JOURNEY TO 100% RENEWABLE BY 2030 The inherent uncertainties associated with the cost of doing business in TRANSPORT STRATEGY In 2015, we made public commitments to source all our light of continuous changes in energy policy regulation, as well as the The distribution of our products accounts for energy from renewable sources by 2030. This will be CASE STUDY cost of energy itself, has driven Woolworths to continuously seek 7% of our overall emissions across WHL. In the biggest investment from an energy management innovative solutions to future-proof its buildings. Woolworths’ overall partnership with Imperial Logistics, we continue perspective that we will have to make in order to meet SOUTH AFRICA’S FIRST FIVE-STAR approach to greening of the property portfolio has to date focused to ensure that we are transporting our the target. One of the challenges in this space is that we ECO-FRIENDLY INDUSTRIAL SITE primarily on utilising its own green building certification programme. products using the most energy efficient do not own most of our facilities and, therefore, are very In April 2019, Woolworths’ largest fresh and This certification involves rating and classifying buildings into three equipment possible. We have established a limited in terms of what we can and cannot do with prepared food supplier, In2Foods, opened the categories (Platinum, Gold and Silver) in accordance with the green Logistics Integration Centre (LIC) which gives those facilities. largest fresh food manufacturing facility in the design features they possess. With a large part of our energy usage us the ability to analyse distribution patterns With stores accounting for the majority of our energy southern hemisphere. In2Foods has been a partner attributed to our stores and distribution centres, we have focused and results continually to help us optimise usage and mainly housed in shared premises (malls), we and supplier to Woolworths for over 28 years. many of our energy efficiency initiatives on ensuring we continue to delivery footprints. need to find innovative ways to engage with the facility Developed to Woolworths’ specifications for a reduce our energy usage and seek renewable energy alternatives in managers on those premises and collaborate on feasible green building, the new In2Foods facility also line with our 2030 goal on renewable energy. ways of investing in renewables for those facilities. We received a 5-star rating from the Green Building are, however, increasing our use of renewable energy Council South Africa using the Green Star Industrial at our owned facilities and currently have five solar rating tool. This makes it the first industrial site of its photovoltaic (solar PV) systems across the Group, with kind in South Africa to achieve this rating. Five Green Building-rated facilities across WHL: GREEN FACTORIES four in South Africa – two at the Woolworths Head Office The facility boasts eco-friendly features such as Given that a large proportion of environmental precinct, one distribution centre in Montague Gardens in sustainable waste management systems, four and social impacts associated with our Cape Town and one distribution centre in Johannesburg. boreholes, a water recycling and storage system, products occur in our supply chain, Woolworths We also have a solar PV installation at Country Road 8000m2²of solar panels which produce about 25% Food launched its Green Factory assessment Group’s Omni-channel Fulfilment Centre in Melbourne, of the total energy requirement for the facility, in 2017. In this, suppliers are asked to complete Australia. This currently constitutes 0.4% of our overall which also uses natural gas for running its boilers, a holistic assessment taking into account renewable energy needs, putting us a long way from staff kitchens, and ablution geysers. In addition, it sustainability management, water, energy, our 2030 target to source all our energy from renewable is the largest Transcritical Refrigeration System waste, human rights, employee wellbeing, lean sources. If we were to put solar PV systems on all owned with Carbon Dioxide (CO2) in South Africa. This manufacturing, transformation, and responsible facilities, we would be able to meet just less than 5% of CO2 refrigeration installation has a cooling capacity sourcing. Suppliers are ranked according to our target. A process of identifying the right energy mix of 3 MW and includes a heat recovery system that their performance with a Red, Bronze, Silver for our business, therefore, continues to enable us to meet will deliver about 18 000 litres of hot water per or Gold rating. During the past 12 months, the our long-term target. We have seen our energy efficiency hour. The benefits of this installation are that the Woolworths Country Road Group questionnaire was updated to incorporate progress plateauing over the years and we know that refrigeration processes on the site will have a low additional reporting on climate change metrics the next big step is to be very deliberate on renewable environmental impact and also contribute to the and related targets as well as water efficiency energy if we are to see any big gains. phasing out of refrigerant greenhouse gases with and management. Of the 91 suppliers (covering high global warming potentials. 80% of Woolworths Food procurement), who completed the assessment this year (2018: 67 The site is situated at the OR Tambo Special The Midrand distribution centre’s solar Economic Zone within the Gauteng Industrial Woolworths Woolworths suppliers), 11 were classified as ‘Silver’ (2019 PV system is our biggest installation to date Development Zone, which is designed to drive target: 10). A trial is currently underway with the and generates over inclusive growth and industrialisation in South National Cleaner Production Centre through 10% the Department of Trade and Industry to assist Africa. In2Foods plans to open an additional suppliers who completed the questionnaire to three factories around the country. identify opportunities to improve energy, water, David Jones waste, and circular economy thinking. of the total energy consumed on site. WHL 111 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 112 INDUSTRY COLLABORATION IMPROVING WATER SECURITY Read more on water security in the Water chapter THROUGH THE WE MEAN BUSINESS COALITION WE PUBLICLY COMMITTED TO: 1. Eliminate deforestation within our supply chain by focusing on the sustainable sourcing of commodities such as soy, palm oil, beef, timber and pulp 2. Double our energy productivity by 2020 through working with the Energy Productivity 100 (EP100) 3. Continue to disclose our climate change information via the CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) 4. Setting science-based targets via the Science-Based Targets Initiative 5. Improve our water security for resilience across the value chain REMOVING DEFORESTATION Read more on deforestation in the Ethical Sourcing chapter EP100 In 2017, we became the first major retailer to sign up to EP100, The Climate Group’s corporate leadership initiative for energy smart companies doing more with less to lower emissions and accelerate the clean economy. Woolworths set a target to double our energy productivity by 2020 from a 2005 baseline. This year, as reported by The Climate Group, we are pleased to share that we met our commitment to double our energy productivity in 2011, nine years ahead of the 2020 target we set ourselves. TRANSPARENCY AND DISCLOSURE We voluntarily report WHL’s performance through the CDP Climate Change programme for climate change, deforestation, and water. We also report our energy usage in the areas we operate in line with the prevailing national requirements. David Jones and Woolworths continue to report in accordance with the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act (NGER) in both Australia and South Africa. See WHL Group CDP Climate disclosure SETTING SCIENCE-BASED TARGETS LOOKING AHEAD: ENERGY AND CLIMATE CHANGE In 2015, we committed to ensuring that our energy reduction is in line with the global average threshold of 2 °C. In 2018, we submitted Woolworths has made a public commitment to set emissions reductions targets in line with science via the We Mean our proposed targets to the Science-based Targets Business Coalition. We will continue to work on this, especially with regard to our value chain emissions, to finalise this Initiative. These targets were not approved as they did not fully commitment. We will also be rolling out closed door and CO2 refrigeration to an additional 300 stores in the next three address Scope 3 emissions across the value chain. We are in the years. In addition, we will continue to focus on our business in the rest of Africa where we have a footprint of 76 stores that process of addressing this in order to finalise this commitment. presents an opportunity to improve on the progress made thus far. Water retention dam at Montague Gardens Food Distribution Centre, Cape Town. WHL 113 / 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 114 To find out more about what we’re doing, visit We appreciate any feedback on our Good Business Journey Report. Please contact GoodBusinessJourney@woolworths.co.za WOOLWORTHS HOLDINGS LIMITED 2019 Glossary START GLOSSARY ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING SUITE A D G (Continued) N ANLF: Australian Literacy and Numeracy Foundation, an DC: Distribution centre GMO: Genetically modified organisms: a plant, animal, NECT: National Education Collaboration Trust, an organisation organisation dedicated to raising language, literacy, and numeracy DJ: David Jones Proprietary Limited, a trading subsidiary of microorganism or other organisms whose genetic makeup has dedicated to strengthening partnerships within civil society and standards in Australia and raising funds to develop, implement and Woolworths Holdings Limited been modified in a laboratory using genetic engineering or between civil society and government in order to achieve South sustain innovative projects for individuals, families, and communities transgenic technology Africa’s national goals for basic education dti: Department of Trade and Industry APCO: Australian Packaging Covenant Organisation, a coNGER: National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act, an regulatory, not-for-profit organisation that partners with Australian national framework for corporations to report government and industry to reduce the harmful impact of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, energy consumption, and packaging on the Australian environment E H energy production HDPE: High Density Polyethylene, a thermoplastic polymer ASC: Aquaculture Stewardship Council, an independent, non-profit EAP: Employee Assistance Programme, an employee benefit produced from the monomer ethylene organisation and labelling organisation that establishes a protocol programme that assists employees with personal and/or workon farmed seafood while ensuring sustainable aquaculture related problems that may impact their job performance, health, HDSA: Historically Disadvantaged South Africans and mental and emotional wellbeing O ASX: Australian Securities Exchange, Australia’s primary OCRF: Ovarian Cancer Research Foundation securities exchange EE: Employment Equity OPRL: On-pack Recycling Labelling, a simple and clear system of EEO: Compulsory Equal Employment Opportunity J indicating recyclability of product packaging EFI: Ethical Fashion Initiative, a programme that acts as a JSE: Johannesburg Stock Exchange, South Africa’s primary B bridge, connecting marginalised artisan communities with global securities exchange BBBEE: Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment lifestyle brands BCI: Better Cotton Initiative, a non-profit organisation that promotes EP100: Energy Productivity 100, an initiative of The Climate Group to P help companies double their energy productivity PET: Polyethylene terephthalate, a plastic resin and a form of better standards in cotton farming and practices K polyester BEE: Black Economic Empowerment EY: Ernst & Young Inc. KPI: Key Performance Indicator PETCO: The trading name of the PET Recycling Company NPC, BONSUCRO: An international not-for-profit, multi-stakeholder a company incorporated in 2004 to represent the South African organisation established in 2008 to promote sustainable sugar cane PET plastic industry’s joint effort to self-regulate post-consumer BST: A naturally occurring hormone produced by dairy cows to F L polyethylene terephthalate (PET) recycling regulate their milk production FBH: Fashion, Beauty and Home LWG: Leather Working Group, a collection of member brands, POLYCO: The Polyolefin Responsibility Organisation NPC, a notFSC: Forest Stewardship Council, an international non-profit, retailers, product manufacturers, leather manufacturers, for-profit industry body that was established in 2011 to focus multi-stakeholder organisation which aims to promote responsible chemical suppliers, machinery suppliers, technical experts, on reducing the amount of polyolefin waste going to landfill by C management of the world’s forests and other service providers that work together to maintain increasing the sustainable collection, recycling, recovery, and CGCSA: Consumer Goods Council of South Africa, a non-profit environmental stewardship protocols specifically for the leather beneficiation of polyolefin plastics FY: Financial Year organisation representing the interests of more than 12 000 manufacturing industry PVC: Polyvinyl chloride, a synthetic plastic polymer member companies engaged in the manufacture, retail, wholesale, and distribution of consumer goods CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project): A not-for-profit G organisation that supports companies and cities to disclose their GBCSA: Green Building Council of South Africa, an organisation M R environmental impacts. It aims to make environmental reporting and overseeing green building in South Africa. The GBCSA developed MSC: Marine Stewardship Council, an independent, non-profit RAP: Reconciliation Action Plan risk management a business norm and drives disclosure, insight, and the Green Star SA rating tools to provide the property industry organisation which sets a standard for sustainable fishing rBST: A synthetic version of BST, often given to cows to increase action towards a sustainable economy with an objective measurement tool for green buildings and MSG: Monosodium glutamate their milk production CPC: Connected People Council: A collective forum of Woolworths’ to recognise and reward environmental leadership in the RDS: Responsible Down Standard, an independent, voluntary property industry MySchool MyVillage MyPlanet: One of South Africa’s biggest senior executives from across the business. It is chaired by the community fundraising programmes. Funds are raised for schools, global standard which aims to ensure that down and Woolworths SA CEO, and its purpose is to improve the employee GBJ: The Good Business Journey, Woolworths Holdings Limited’s charities and environmental organisations through a card system feathers come from animals that have not been subjected to experience across all aspects – physical, emotional, and programme to assist it in achieving its vision of becoming one of that allows supporters to raise funds for their beneficiary (school or unnecessary harm technological the world’s most responsible retailers charity) every time they shop at Woolworths or our partner stores. rHDPE: Recycled High Density Polyethylene CRG: Country Road Group Proprietary Limited, a trading subsidiary GCX: Global Carbon Exchange, a boutique sustainability Partners make a contribution on behalf of the supporter/cardholder RSPCA: Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, of Woolworths Holdings Limited advisory firm to the beneficiaries the supporters have selected. a charity that promotes animal welfare R (Continued) W RSPO: Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil, a non-governmental WASH: Water, sanitation, and hygiene organisation whose objective is to promote the growth and use WFI: Water Footprint Index, a customised water tool for farmers of sustainable oil palm products through credible global standards on Woolworths Farming for the Future programme to track water and engagement of stakeholders use, efficiency, and wastewater RTRS: Roundtable for Responsible Soy, an initiative formed by WFS: Woolworths Financial Services Proprietary Limited, a joint multiple parties, including soy producers, retailers, and civil society venture between Woolworths and Absa Bank that supports the organisations, to promote sustainable soy production and trade on Woolworths retail business by providing financial services to a global level Woolworths’ customers WHL/WHL Group: Woolworths Holdings Limited, a southern hemisphere retail Group that has been listed on the S Johannesburg Stock Exchange Limited (JSE) since 1997. It is one SA-EU DF: South Africa-European Union Dialogue Facility of the top JSE-listed companies. The Group trades through three operating subsidiaries, including Woolworths Proprietary SAICA: South African Institute of Chartered Accountants Limited (Woolworths or WSA), Country Road Group Proprietary SETA: Sector Education and Training Authority Limited (Country Road Group or CRG), and David Jones SI: Sustainability Institute, an international living and learning centre Proprietary Limited (David Jones or DJ). Woolworths Financial providing learning experiences in ecology, community, and spirit Services Proprietary Limited (WFS) is a joint venture with Absa Bank, which holds the controlling interest SIZA: Sustainability Initiative of South Africa, a membership-based, freestanding, non-profit company designed to assist farmers with WIETA: Wine and Agricultural Ethical Trade Association, an ethical labour and environmental practice compliance. It is a association that drives a sustainable ethical trade programme South African standard – developed, owned and operated in for the South African wine industry and aligned sectors. WIETA South Africa but aligned to global best practices is also a globally recognised ethical auditing body registered with the Global Social Compliance Programme (GSCP) SMETA: SEDEX Members’ Ethical Trade Audit, an ethical audit format which reports on Sedex’s four pillars of Labour, Health Woolworths/Woolworths SA/WSA: Woolworths Proprietary and Safety, Environment, and Business Ethics Limited, a trading subsidiary of Woolworths Holdings Limited SUSFARMS®: A sustainable sugarcane farm management WRAP: A not-for-profit organisation dedicated to promoting framework safe, lawful, humane, and ethical manufacturing around the world through certification and education. The WRAP certification programme mainly focuses on the apparel, footwear and sewn products sectors T WWF-SA: Worldwide Fund for Nature South Africa, a nonTVET: Technical and Vocational Education and Training governmental organisation that is dedicated to protecting South Africa’s natural heritage. This includes plant and animal species and people U UNGC: United Nations Global Compact, a voluntary initiative based on company CEO commitments to implement universal Y sustainability principles and to take steps to support UN goals YES: Youth Employment Service, an organisation aimed at UNICEF: United National International Children’s Emergency Fund, benefitting one million South African youth, launched by the a charity working to improve the lives of children and their families President of the Republic of South Africa in March 2018 UN SDGs: United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, a call for action by UN member states to promote prosperity while protecting the environment in order to achieve a better world for people and our planet by 2030 GLOSSARY OF TERMS USED IN THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING SUITE B F (Continued) M S (Continued) Bangladesh Accord on Fire and Building Safety: An independent Fishing for the Future: Woolworths’ approach to procuring Mass balance: The purchase of 100% certified sustainable Secondary suppliers: An indirect supplier to Woolworths, i.e., and legally binding agreement between brands and trade unions responsibly sourced seafood as part of its Good Business Journey commodity equivalent to the volume of commodity needed for a supplier who supplies to a Woolworths supplier to work together towards a safe and healthy garment and textile a certain product (range). The certified commodity physically SEDEX: A not-for-profit membership organisation for businesses industry in Bangladesh enters the supply chain but is not necessarily physically separated committed to the continuous improvement of ethical performance (segregated) from non-certified commodity throughout the whole within their supply chains G chain. This process minimises logistical barriers related to sustainable commodity uptake and means that certified farmers still fully benefit SEDEX Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA): An ethical audit GHG Protocol Corporate Standard: A standard that C provides requirements and guidance for companies and other from the better conditions format which reports on SEDEX’s four pillars of Labour, Health and Safety, Environment, and Business Ethics Canopy: A non-profit environmental organisation dedicated to organisations preparing a GHG (greenhouse gas) emissions Mulesing: A painful surgical procedure involving the removal of strips protecting the world’s forests, species, and climate inventory (carbon footprint) of wool-bearing skin from around the breech of a sheep to prevent Sustainability attributes: A product characteristic that contributes the parasitic infection known as flystrike to minimising the social and/or environmental impacts of a Carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e): A measure used to compare Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standard: A widely adopted Woolworths Holdings Limited private label product at one or more the emissions from various types of greenhouse gases (GHG) based global standard for sustainability reporting stages of the value chain on their global warming potential (GWP) Green factories programme: A Woolworths’ supplier selfSustainable fibres: Fabrics produced in a responsible way, derived Carbon footprint: The total amount of greenhouse gas emissions assessment covering sustainability management, water, energy, P from sustainable sources and supported by good farming practices released into the atmosphere as a result of the activities of a climate change, waste, food waste, human rights, employee particular individual, organisation, or community wellbeing, packaging, transformation, and responsible sourcing. Plant-based: Plant-based products encompass a spectrum of Based on the score, suppliers are ranked according to their eating patterns that focus on eating whole plants, including Commodity: A raw material or primary agricultural product that can vegetables, fruits, whole grains, nuts, seeds, and legumes, and be bought and sold, for example, cotton or palm oil performance with a red, bronze, silver or gold rating eating fewer or no animal products T Context-based water target: A specific, time-bound objective that Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions: Emissions of gases, both TencelTM/Lyocell: A biosynthetic fibre made from rapidly growing natural and anthropogenic, that trap heat in the atmosphere Primary suppliers: A supplier that supplies Woolworths directly sets the desired outcome to include both a component that speaks eucalyptus tree pulp to the company’s water performance and a component that speaks and cause the greenhouse effect Private label products: Goods that are manufactured or produced to the water basin’s conditions for and sold under the name of one of Woolworths Holdings Limited’s trading subsidiaries V I Vancouver Declaration: A public promise made by companies D Internal green building protocol: A Woolworths specification across the globe to work towards more sustainable sourcing Detox: A programme championed by Greenpeace for the removal for the design of new stores which stipulates various eco-friendly R of forest products. It also acts as an endorsement of Forest of hazardous chemicals from the production of clothing garments requirements, with an internal rating of platinum, gold or silver Responsible sourcing: The process of procuring key raw Stewardship Council (FSC) as the supplier of choice for certification awarded depending on which requirements are met by each commodities that are produced in ways that benefit the people of forest products new store that grow and harvest them and minimise environmental impacts International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC): The IIRC is a E global coalition of regulators, investors, companies, standard setters, Energy productivity: An indicator of the amount of economic output the accounting profession and NGOs. The coalition is promoting W that is derived from each unit of energy consumed communication about value creation as the next step in the evolution S Water resilience: The ability to resist, absorb, accommodate, and of corporate reporting Science-based targets: Reduction targets adopted by companies recover from water-related hazards in a timely and efficient manner ETI base code: The ETI Base Code is founded on the conventions of to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in line with the latest the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and is an internationally International Labour Organisation (ILO) conventions: International Water stewardship: The use of freshwater that is socially equitable, climate science in order to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement – recognised code of labour practice labour standards and legal instruments drawn up by the ILO’s environmentally sustainable, and economically beneficial, achieved to limit global warming to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels constituents (governments, employers, and workers) setting out basic through a stakeholder-inclusive process that involves siteand principles and rights at work Scope 1 emissions: Greenhouse gas emissions from sources that catchment-based actions are owned or controlled by the reporting company We Mean Business Coalition: A global non-profit coalition F Scope 2 emissions: Greenhouse gas emissions from the generation working with the world’s most influential businesses to take action Farming for the Future: A holistic and scientific farming approach of electricity, heat, or steam that has been purchased by the on climate change developed as part of Woolworths Good Business Journey to K reporting company WWF-SA’s Water Balance project: A project that aims to protect produce quality food, improve soil quality, save water, and reduce King IVTM Report on Corporate Governance in South Africa, 2016: Scope 3 emissions: This includes all other indirect greenhouse gas some of South Africa’s most important water source areas through dependence on synthetic fertilisers, herbicides and pesticides while South Africa’s code of corporate governance emissions that occur in a company’s value chain the removal of alien (invasive) vegetation protecting natural resources To find out more about what we’re doing, visit www.woolworthsholdings.co.za We appreciate any feedback on our Good Business Journey Report. Please contact GoodBusinessJourney@woolworths.co.za WOOLWORTHS HOLDINGS LIMITED 2019 Good Business Journey Assurance Criteria START GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY KPI CRITERIA THE CRITERIA AGAINST WHICH THE ASSURED KPIs WERE MEASURED IN THE 2019 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT IS AS FOLLOWS: 1. WATER USAGE AT HEAD OFFICE: Total water usage (in kilolitres) for the period 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 of the South African head office buildings based on the metering online system. 2. WATER USAGE AT DISTRIBUTION CENTRES: Total water usage (in kilolitres) for the period 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 of the South African distribution centres based on the metering online system. 3. WATER USAGE AT STORES: Total water usage (in kilolitres) for the period 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 of the South African corporate stores based on the metering online system. 4. PERCENTAGE OF WOOLWORTHS BRANDED FASHION, BEAUTY AND HOMEWARE (FBH) LOCALLY SOURCED: The total number of locally sourced FBH GRN units expressed as a percentage of total FBH GRN units (excluding non-Woolworths branded beauty and homeware and beauty services) for the 53-week period ended 30 June 2019. Locally sourced refers to any product that is assembled in South Africa for which raw materials were either locally produced or imported. WOOLWORTHS HOLDINGS LIMITED 2019 Assurance Summary START ASSURANCE SUMMARY All Good Business Journey focus areas and related key performance indicators (KPIs) are subject to internal line and senior management reviews and reporting processes. Certain aspects of these focus areas are then further subjected to either an internal or external assurance process. Currently, the following combination of verification or assurance is obtained on information and programmes that are part of the Good Business Journey: TYPE OF ASSURANCE SCOPE RELATED GBJ FOCUS AREA SERVICE PROVIDER CRITERIA Woolworths stores and distribution centre effectiveness Occupational health and safety at stores and INTERNAL AUDIT Woolworths Internal Audit reviews based on the risk and control matrix (RACM) / distribution centres audit programme Health & Wellness • Specified KPIs in the 2019 GBJ Report: The water usage for Woolworths head office, stores, Ernst & Young Inc. (EY South Africa), a multinational professional Woolworths management-defined criteria for the internal and distribution centres services firm. It provides assurance (including financial audit), tax, measurement and reporting of KPIs Percentage of Woolworths branded fashion, beauty consulting and advisory services to companies. and homeware locally sourced Ethical Sourcing Water • David Jones greenhouse gas emissions data used in Ernst & Young (EY) Australia, a multinational professional reporting to the National Greenhouse and Energy services firm. It provides assurance (including financial audit), National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act in Australia Reporting Act in Australia tax, consulting and advisory services to companies. Energy & Climate Change Global Carbon Exchange (GCX), a boutique sustainability • WHL Group carbon footprint data GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard advisory firm Energy & Climate Change EXTERNAL VERIFICATION OR ASSURANCE Farming for the Future standard, covering management of • Woolworths Farming for the Future programme An independent specialist agronomy firm soil quality, water, waste and wastewater, biodiversity, pest and plant, substrate and run-off and energy use Sustainable Farming Various social and ethical audit and certification service Various global audit and certification standards, including: • WHL Group suppliers’ compliance to the Group Codes providers across the globe, including: IBL, Intertek, Bureau WRAP, SMETA, SIZA, WIETA, IBL Ethical Audit, SA 8000, of Conduct Veritas, SGS, SAI Global, Partner Africa, and TUV BSCI, Betterwork Ethical Sourcing An independent organisation specialising in food safety • Food safety and hygiene at all Woolworths stores, Woolworths Food Safety and Quality Guidelines, management systems auditing and technical support distribution centres (DCs) and suppliers incorporating relevant legislative requirements services for retail clients Health & Wellness TYPE OF ASSURANCE SCOPE RELATED GBJ FOCUS AREA SERVICE PROVIDER CRITERIA • Woolworths free range beef, lamb, and Woolworths Free Range and Kinder to Sows Guidelines, SAMIC, DAFF assignee Kinder to Sows pork incorporating relevant best practice and legislative requirements Sustainable Farming An independent service provider of quality, health and safety, Woolworths Free Range Broiler and Egg Production Guidelines, • Woolworths free range chicken and eggs environmental and food safety solutions for various industries incorporating relevant best practice and legislative requirements Sustainable Farming EXTERNAL VERIFICATION An independent laboratory and agency, charged with • Woolworths rBST-free milk Woolworths specifications, incorporating industry requirements OR ASSURANCE promotion of compliance Sustainable Farming An independent, international food sustainability research, • Animal welfare at selected Woolworths farms International best practice data and consultancy business Sustainable Farming Mazars, an international, integrated and independent firm, Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Act Codes of • WHL Group BBBEE score specialising in audit, accountancy, advisory and tax services Good Practice People & Transformation Social Development LOOKING AHEAD STARTING IN THE 2020 FINANCIAL YEAR: • Selected Good Business Journey KPIs tracked and reported by business units throughout the Group will be included in internal audit’s multi-year audit plan on a rolling basis • The Good Business Journey Report will be subjected to an AccountAbility AA1000 assurance process, in which the Group’s adherence to the AA1000 principles will be assured along with selected specified KPIs. The AA1000 principles are: inclusivity, materiality, responsiveness, and impact WOOLWORTHS HOLDINGS LIMITED 2019 Awards, Recognition, Highlights, and Achievements START EXTERNAL REVIEWS OF SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE AND REPORTING THIS YEAR, THE GROUP’S SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE AND REPORTING AWARDS AND RECOGNITION RECEIVED THEREON ACHIEVED THE FOLLOWING ACCOLADES: THE FOLLOWING EXTERNAL AWARDS AND RECOGNITION RELATED TO THE GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY WERE RECEIVED DURING THE YEAR: STOCK EXCHANGE INDICES Woolworths Holdings was included in the FTSE/JSE Responsible The FTSE/JSE Responsible Investment Index assesses the environmental, social Investment Top 30 Index for 2018/2019 and governance (ESG) performance of all companies with a full listing on the WOOLWORTHS main board of the JSE. • Woolworths was highlighted as one of the top two African companies in the GlobeScan-SustainAbility Survey The FTSE/JSE Responsible Investment Top 30 Index comprises the 30 top• Woolworths was a finalist at the 16th Annual National Business Awards for the National Business of the Year Award scoring companies included in the FTSE/JSE Responsible Investment Index. • MySchool MyVillage MyPlanet won three awards at the 2018 Loyalty Magazine Awards for these categories: Regional Loyalty Champions of the Year: Middle East and Africa Best Corporate Social Responsibility Initiative Linked to Loyalty Woolworths Holdings was included in the FTSE4Good Emerging Index The FTSE4Good Emerging Index Series comprises companies achieving an Best Long-term Loyalty Programme Series for 2018/2019 overall ESG (environment, social and governance) rating of 2.5 or more out of 5 when the FTSE4Good criteria are applied to the companies included in the • The Woolworths Human Resources (HR) Learning and Development team was awarded the Institute of People FTSE Emerging Index. The FTSE Emerging Index includes companies from over Management (IPM) Team of the Year Award. IPM is the largest professional membership body for HR in Southern Africa 20 emerging countries, including South Africa. • Woolworths won a Legends of Empowerment Award at the 2019 Top Empowerment Awards. These awards celebrate success and honour those who have made a major or significant contribution to transformation in South Africa • Woolworths won Best Sustainable Display at the annual Creative Retail Awards in London for the Christmas 2018 window Woolworths Holdings was included in the 2018/2019 Dow Jones The starting universe of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) is the S&P displays entitled ‘Magical botanical gifting window: plastic waste’. It incorporated 3-D flower artworks featuring striking, Sustainability Index for the eighth year in succession Global Broad Market Index. All companies in this universe are assessed oversized models of iconic proteas that were handcrafted by South African women using recycled plastic bottles, plastic against the DJSI criteria, and only those that perform in the top 10% are cutlery and plastic hangers. 2-litre milk bottles, 5 and 1.5-litre water bottles, as well as many common single-use plastic ultimately included in the DJSI. items such as cutlery and hangers, were cleverly incorporated into the beautiful designs. As one of the top-scoring companies, Woolworths Holdings qualified for • Woolworths won the Best Use of Social Media at the Content Council’s Pearl Impact Award, presented in New York, for inclusion in The Sustainability Yearbook 2019 and received the Bronze Class distinction for excellent sustainability performance. the digitally led ‘Bring It Home’ Christmas campaign. The ‘Bring it Home’ campaign gave customers the chance to bring their loved ones home to share in their Christmas celebrations. 100 lucky winners were selected from the nominations received, and these festive homecoming stories were shared via video and social media OTHER • In the 15th Sunday Times Generation Next Awards, Woolworths won the Coolest Grocery Store category In the 2018 Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), Woolworths Holdings The CDP assesses companies’ reporting of their environmental impacts was ranked as follows: with regards to water, climate change, and deforestation, including the governance and risk management thereof. Submission to the CDP is on a • B in CDP Climate voluntary basis. • Bin CDP Water • In CDP Forests: The assessment is based on companies’ responses to a set questionnaire DAVID JONES C in Timber developed by the CDP and companies are ranked from A to D-. B in Palm oil • David Jones was announced as one of 12 leading representatives on the Australian Packaging Covenant Organisation C in Cattle products (APCO) Collective Action Group, charged with overseeing the progress of Australia’s 2025 National Packaging Targets C in Soy In the 2019 Baptist World Aid and Ethical Fashion Report Baptist World Aid (BWA) is a Christian aid and development organisation that • David Jones was awarded a B partners with Australian Christians to end poverty. BWA assesses companies • Country Road Group was awarded an Ausing a set questionnaire. COUNTRY ROAD GROUP The annual Ethical Fashion Report grades companies from A+ to F, based on • Country Road Group was announced as one of 12 leading representatives on the Australian Packaging Covenant the strength of their systems to mitigate against the risks of forced labour, Organisation (APCO) Collective Action Group, charged with overseeing the progress of Australia’s 2025 National child labour, and exploitation in their supply chains. Packaging Targets SELECTED GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY HIGHLIGHTS AND ACHIEVEMENTS FOR THE YEAR Jul • At the International Loyalty Magazine Awards • Woolworths’ Human Resources (HR) Learning and • David Jones and the Country Road Group • David Jones celebrated Fashion Revolution held in London, MySchool MyVillage MyPlanet Development team was awarded the Institute hosted the first Australian Packaging Week by sharing the stories of eight Australian (MySchool) received three awards: of People Management (IPM) Team of the Year Covenant Organisation (APCO) Clothing brands making a positive impact in the global • Regional Loyalty Champions of the Year: Middle Award. IPM is the largest professional membership Fashion and Footwear Industry Roundtable, fashion industry East and Africa body for HR in Southern Africa aimed at finding industry collaborative solutions • Politix launched a campaign showcasing their to reduce packaging impacts on support of the Better Cotton Initiative and the • Best Corporate Social Responsibility Initiative the environment global transformation of the cotton industry Linked to Loyalty Nov • Woolworths trialled a plastic bag free Food • Best Long-term Loyalty Programme store and rolled out low-cost reusable bags to four stores Mar • Woolworths’ WBeauty joined forces with May • Politix removed plastic bags from stores and • Witchery donated A$1.7 million to the Ovarian make-up maestro to the stars, Sir John, to switched to recyclable paper bags Aug • Mimco celebrated ‘Sustainability Week’ launch a limited edition makeup line, Volume 1, Cancer Research Foundation from the 2018 White • Woolworths rolled out three additional plastic highlighting their efforts in designing more a curated, 10-piece, cruelty-free and 100% Shirt Campaign bag free Food stores across South Africa sustainable products and auctioned a limited vegan make-up collection edition jewellery collection made from upcycled • Politix launched its partnership with the Movember • Country Road Group launched a collection Foundation to raise awareness and funds for • Mimco launched a new collection and components from the Mimco archives made from traceable and verifiable Australian some of the biggest health issues faced by men: campaign in support of Our Watch and the merino wool and introduced a range of men’s prostate cancer, testicular cancer, mental health, prevention of violence against women ‘Low Water Wash Denim’ Sept • Woolworths’ Waterstone store received a and suicide prevention 4-star rating from the Green Building Council of Apr • Woolworths won a Legends of South Africa (GBCSA) Jun • Woolworths removed plastic cutlery and Dec • Woolworths’ Palmyra store received a 6-star Empowerment Award at the 2019 Top • MySchool celebrated its 21st birthday and straws from stores and replaced them with rating from the GBCSA, the highest rating possible Empowerment Awards. These awards reached the milestone of having given back wooden cutlery and paper straws celebrate success and honour those who over R500 million to beneficiaries have made a major or significant contribution • David Jones celebrated National Reconciliation • Woolworths launched a new plant-based Jan • Woolworths removed plastic-stemmed earbuds to transformation in South Africa Week, raising over A$55 000 for the Australian protein range of foods from stores • An on-site gym facility opened at David Jones Literacy and Numeracy Foundation • Woolworths launched 10 MySchool Grow Educare and Country Road Group head office for • Country Road celebrated 10 years of partnering Early Childhood Development Centres employees to attend free of charge with Redkite, raising over A$1.5 million to date Oct • David Jones launched its Reconciliation • David Jones and Country Road Group became for young children diagnosed with cancer Action Plan, a two-year strategic and operational management framework Feb • David Jones’ Malvern Central store started signatories to the Bangladesh Accord on Fire • David Jones and Country Road Group approach to bridging actual and perceived donating surplus food to OzHarvest and Building Safety were announced as two of 12 leading gaps between Aboriginal and Torres Strait • Woolworths’ largest fresh and prepared food representatives on the Australian Packaging • Woolworths was recognised as a key partner Islander and non-indigenous employee and supplier, In2Foods, opened the largest Covenant Organisation (APCO) Collective and contributor to the education sector by the customer communities ultra-fresh food manufacturing facility in the Action Group, charged with overseeing National Department of Education (Directorate of southern hemisphere. It received a 5-star rating the progress of Australia’s 2025 National • Woolworths’ ready-made, frozen and hot Care and Support) from the GBCSA and will create 600 new jobs Packaging Targets counter pies became the very first South • David Jones and Country Road Group held a African-made food products containing palm Good Business Journey focus week at head • In the Baptist World Aid Fashion Report, oil certified as sustainable by the Roundtable office to increase employee awareness and Country Road Group maintained its Ascore, for Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) engagement through a range of activities, while David Jones improved from a Bto a B • MyPlanet Rhino Fund handed over a FoxBat including documentary screenings, a river clean• Country Road Group and David Jones aircraft and hanger to the Kruger National Park up, hosting of mindfulness sessions, making published their supplier lists as part of their to support the rangers in their efforts to fight available free health checks, and 10-minute commitment towards increasing transparency rhino poaching seated massages with customers WOOLWORTHS HOLDINGS LIMITED 2018 Carbon Footprint Overview START CARBON FOOTPRINT OVERVIEW Note: This current report is for 2018, which represents the Woolworths financial year from July 2017 WHL EMISSIONS YEAR ON YEAR to June 2018. We have changed our carbon footprint reporting timeline from calendar year to align to our financial year. This means that the current carbon footprint timeline overlaps with the previous SCOPE 1* 2018 ( tCO2e) 2017 (tCO2e) 2016 (tCO2e) one by six months and has affected our figures. Mobile fuel 1 867 1 762 2 098 Stationary fuel 3 334 3 224 2 437 The carbon footprint report was prepared using the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. Air-conditioning and refrigerant gases 41 633 43 488 47 364 SCOPE 2** BOUNDARY Purchased electricity 460 243 460 527 466 896 Using the operational boundary method, the WHL carbon footprint is calculated for facilities across 14 countries, although the bulk of stores are located in South Africa and Australia. SCOPE 3*** Business travel flights 14 856 13 964 12 953 WOOLWORTHS Business travel car rental 128 125 132 South Africa, Namibia, Botswana, Ghana, Kenya, Zambia, Mozambique, Tanzania, Uganda, Swaziland, Lesotho, and Mauritius Business travel – accommodation 1 815 604 562 Employee commuting 22 823 22 449 21 997 COUNTRY ROAD GROUP Contracted solid waste disposal 2 770 2 607 2 785 Australia, New Zealand and South Africa 3rd party distribution 47 457 46 305 44 929 DAVID JONES Downstream distribution 2 702 Not reported Not reported Australia and New Zealand Water 1 179 1 167 1 198 Office paper 239 252 242 Cardboard packaging 4 498 11 206 11 206 Plastic bags 3 349 3 271 3 836 FACILITIES COVERED Fuel and energy related activities 44 777 38 547 41 847 TOTAL SCOPE 1, 2, 3 653 669 649 498 660 482 DISTRIBUTION CORPORATE GENERAL LETTING AREA BUSINESS STORES CENTRES BUILDINGS (INCLUDING NON-TRADING, M2) Fugitive emissions (non-Kyoto) 28 167 26 386 34 775 Woolworths 466 16 8 1 388 140 TOTAL WHL 681 836 675 885 695 257 Country Road Group 365 3 2 122 077 TOTAL WOOLWORTHS SA 558 493 565 699 580 628 TOTAL COUNTRY ROAD GROUP 21 045 14 409 16 427 David Jones 47 1 2 716 111 TOTAL DAVID JONES 102 298 95 777 98 202 TOTAL WHL 878 20 12 2 226 328 * Emissions from sources owned and controlled by WHL (generators, refrigeration, and air-conditioning units) We have changed our carbon footprint reporting timeline from calendar year to align to our financial year. This means that the current carbon footprint timeline overlaps with the ** Emissions associated with the generation or consumption of electricity previous one by six months and has affected our figures. *** Emissions from sources not directly owned by WHL but relevant, excluding electricity WHL EMISSIONS BREAKDOWN BY SCOPE 7% 4% Scope 1 46 834 (7%) 21% Scope 2 460 243 (68%) SCOPE Scope 3 146 592 (21%) Outside of Scopes 28 167 (4%) 68% WHL INTENSITY FIGURES YEAR ON YEAR These figures below show WHL progress per unit measure for Scope 1 and 2 emissions only. This measure is a measure of efficiency; the average emissions should decrease per unit measure over time as we become more efficient. INTENSITY FIGURES 2018 2017 2016 PROGRESS FROM (FINANCIAL YEAR) (CALENDAR YEAR) (CALENDAR YEAR) LAST YEAR Emissions per full time equivalent 12.03 12.09 12.56 -1% employee (tCO2e/FTE) Emissions per square metre GLA 0.23 0.24 0.24 -5% including non-trading area (tCO2e/m2) Emissions per million turnover 7.39 7.42* 7.98 -0.4% (tCO2e/turnover) in rands *This intensity figure has been restated from last year because turnover in years 2014-2017 was restated in 2018 due to reclassification of trunking revenue from turnover and concession sales to cost of sales. WOOLWORTHS HOLDINGS LIMITED 2019 GRI Content Index START GRI CONTENT INDEX Our 2019 Good Business Journey references various disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. The disclosures referenced are listed in the table that follows. To find the information in our report relating to each of the GRI disclosures, download our full Good Business Journey Report and accompanying additional documents that form part of our sustainability and integrated reporting suite. For a detailed explanation of the GRI disclosures, visit the Global Reporting Initiative website. ABBREVIATIONS THE FOLLOWING ABBREVIATIONS ARE USED FOR CHAPTERS IN THE GBJ REPORT: THE FOLLOWING COMPANY ABBREVIATIONS ARE USED: • GBJ-MS: Managing Sustainability • WHL: Woolworths Holdings Limited • GBJ-PT: People and Transformation • WSA: Woolworths SA • GBJ-SD: Social Development • CRG: Country Road Group • GBJ-HW: Health and Wellness • DJ: David Jones • GBJ-ES: Ethical Sourcing • GBJ-SF: Sustainable Farming THE FOLLOWING ABBREVIATIONS ARE USED FOR VARIOUS SOURCES OF INFORMATION: • GBJ-WS: Waste • GBJ: Good Business Journey Report for WHL Group 2019 • GBJ-WR: Water • GBJ: Group Employee Information • GBJ-EN: Energy and Climate Change • GBJ: Stakeholder Engagement • GBJ: Carbon Footprint Overview THE FOLLOWING ABBREVIATIONS ARE USED FOR CHAPTERS IN THE IR: • GBJ: Carbon Footprint Verification Statement • IR-GO: Our Governance Report • GBJ: Glossary • IR-RR: Our Remuneration Report • GBJ: Assurance Summary • IR-SEC: Social and Ethics Committee Report • GBJ: Position statements, Guidelines and Policies • GBJ: Awards, Recognition, Highlights and Achievements THE FOLLOWING ABBREVIATIONS ARE USED FOR CHAPTERS IN THE AFS: • AFS: Annual Financial Statements of the WHL Group 2019 • AFS-FDR: Group Finance Director’s Report • IR: Integrated Report for WHL Group 2019 • AGM: Annual General Meeting notice for WHL Group 2019 • Web: Pages on our www.woolworths.co.za/goodbusinessjourney website INDICATOR DISCLOSURE REFERENCE OMISSION REASON FOR OMISSION GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 102-1 Name of the organisation. Woolworths Holdings Limited a. A description of the organisation’s activities. GBJ-MS: p. 7 102-2 b. Primary brands, products, and services, including an explanation of any products or services that are banned in certain markets. IR: p. 3-4 Cape Town, South Africa 102-3 Location of organisation’s headquarters AFS: p: 141 www.woolworthsholdings.co.za/overview/whl/ GBJ-MS: p. 7 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries where it has significant operations and/or that are relevant to 102-4 GBJ: Carbon Footprint Overview the topics covered in the report. IR: p. 3-4 GBJ-MS: p. 7 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form. IR: p. 3-4 Markets served (including geographic breakdown where products and services are offered, sectors served and types of customers/ GBJ-MS: p. 7 102-6 beneficiaries) IR: p. 3-4, 75-76, 91-92, 105-106 Scale of the reporting organisation, including: • Total number of employees. GBJ-PT: p. 17 • Total number of operations. GBJ: Group Employee Information 102-7 • Net sales (for private sector organisations) or net revenues (for public sector organisations). IR: p. 3-4, 56, 60, 75-76, 91-92, 105-106 • Total capitalisation broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organisations). AFS: 9, 34, 43, 85-95 • Quantity of products or services provided. The organisation shall report the following information: Due to the diversity of our a. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by gender. operational geographies, b. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by region. DJ and CRG breakdown by employment consolidating our People reporting c. Total number of employees by employment type (full-time and part-time), by gender. GBJ-PT: p. 17 contract by gender, by employment has been a challenge and we are 102-8 d. Whether a significant portion of the organisation’s activities are performed by workers who are not employees. If applicable, a description GBJ: Group Employee Information type and WHL seasonal variation in working to find better ways of of the nature and scale of work performed by workers who are not employees. employment numbers. aligning reporting methodologies e. Any significant variations in the numbers reported in Disclosures 102-8-a, 102-8-b, and 102-8-c (such as seasonal variations in the tourism or alongside differing legislative agricultural industries). prescripts. f. An explanation of how the data have been compiled, including any assumptions made. GBJ-MS: p. 13 a. A description of the organisation’s supply chain, including its main elements as they relate to the organisation’s activities, primary brands, GBJ-ES: p. 53-66 102-9 products, and services. GBJ-SF: p. 67-76 IR: p. 13-18 Significant changes to the organisation’s size, structure, ownership or supply chain, including: i. changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions; 102-10 No significant changes ii. changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organisations); iii. changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination. 102-11 Whether and how the organisation applies the Precautionary Principle or approach. GBJ: Inside front cover (Our Good Business Journey Report) List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or 102-12 Listed throughout GBJ Report and appendices which it endorses. 102-13 A list of the main memberships of industry or other associations, and national or international advocacy organisations. Listed throughout GBJ Report and appendices Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of GBJ-MS: p. 1 102-14 sustainability to the organisation and the organisation’s strategy for addressing sustainability. IR: p. 41-54 INDICATOR DISCLOSURE REFERENCE OMISSION REASON FOR OMISSION GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES (Continued) IR: p. 5 102-16 Organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour. IR-GO: p. 115-152 a. Governance structure, including committees of the highest governance body. GBJ-MS: p. 2 102-18 b. Committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social topics. IR-GO: p. 127, 133-134 GBJ-MS: p. 14 102-40 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. GBJ: Stakeholder Engagement IR: p. 13-20 102-41 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. GBJ: p.26 (for WSA) GBJ-MS: p. 14 102-42 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. GBJ: Stakeholder Engagement IR: p. 11-20 GBJ-MS: p. 14 The organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an This has not been publically 102-43 GBJ: Stakeholder Engagement Frequency of engagement. indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. reported to date. IR: p. 11-20 GBJ-MS: p. 2, 14 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, including how the organisation has responded to those key 102-44 GBJ: Stakeholder Engagement topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. IR: p. 11-20 GBJ-MS: p. 7 a. List all entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. 102-45 IR: p. 1, 3-4 b. Whether any entity included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. AFS: 132-134 WHL subscribes to the principles of stakeholder inclusiveness, materiality, sustainability context and completeness when defining report content. These principles have been incorporated into the development of the 2019 reporting suite. The value chain is disclosed on p. 13 of the GBJ Report, and the impact of each GBJ focus area is explained in the relevant sections of the report a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the topic Boundaries. GBJ-MS: p. 9-10, 13 102-46 b. Explain how the organisation has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. GBJ-PT: p. 18 GBJ-SD: p. 32 GBJ-HW: p. 46 GBJ-ES: p. 56 GBJ-SF: p. 70 GBJ-WS: p. 80 GBJ-WR: p. 94 GBJ-EN: p. 106 GBJ-MS: p. 9-10 102-47 a. A list of the material topics identified in the process for defining report content. IR: p. 23-24 GBJ-WR: p 95 (restated David Jones water figure due to change in reporting periods and availability of data) GBJ: Carbon Footprint Overview (restated intensity figure: 102-48 The effect of any restatements of information given in previous reports and the reasons for such restatements. (Emissions per million turnover) due to a reclassification of trunking revenue from turnover and concession sales to cost of sales) AFS: p13, 27, 42, 44, 61, 64, 136 INDICATOR DISCLOSURE REFERENCE OMISSION REASON FOR OMISSION GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES (Continued) GBJ: Carbon Footprint Overview (Changed carbon footprint reporting timeline from calendar year to align to financial year. 102-49 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the list of material topics and topic Boundaries. This means that the current carbon footprint timeline overlaps with the previous one by six months and has affected our figures.) 102-50 Reporting period for the information provided. 53 weeks ended 30 June 2019 102-51 Date of most recent previous report. 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle. Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. GoodBusinessJourney@woolworths.co.za a. The claim made by the organisation, if it has prepared a report in accordance with the GRI Standards, either: 102-54 i. ‘This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option’; or N/A – the report is GRI referenced. ii. ‘This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option’. a. The GRI content index, which specifies each of the GRI Standards used and lists all disclosures included in the report. b. For each disclosure, the content index shall include: 102-55 i. the number of the disclosure (for disclosures covered by the GRI Standards); www.woolworthsholdings.co.za/sustainability/reports ii. the page number(s) or URL(s) where the information can be found, either within the report or in other published materials; iii. if applicable, and where permitted, the reason(s) for omission when a required disclosure cannot be made. a. A description of the organisation’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. If the report has been externally assured: GBJ: Inside front cover (Our Good Business Journey Report) i. A reference to the external assurance report, statements, or opinions. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability GBJ: Assurance Summary report, a description of what has and what has not been assured and on what basis, including the assurance standards used, the level of 102-56 assurance obtained, and any limitations of the assurance process; Assurance reports: ii. The relationship between the organisation and the assurance provider; www.woolworthsholdings.co.za/sustainability/reports iii. Whether and how the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking external assurance for the organisation’s sustainability report. INDICATOR DISCLOSURE REFERENCE OMISSION REASON FOR OMISSION GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH GBJ-MS: p. 9-14 Each material topic is included in its relevant GBJ focus area. For each focus area, a strategy and management approach For each material topic, the reporting organisation shall report the following information: is disclosed along with the impact in the value chain: a. An explanation of why the topic is material. b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes a description of: GBJ-PT: p. 18 103-1 i. where the impacts occur; GBJ-SD: p. 32 ii. the organisation’s involvement with the impacts. For example, whether the organisation has caused or contributed to the impacts, GBJ-HW: p. 46 or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. GBJ-ES: p. 56 c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. GBJ-SF: p. 70 GBJ-WS: p. 80 GBJ-WR: p. 94 GBJ-EN: p. 106 Each material topic is included in its relevant GBJ focus area. For each focus area, a strategy and management approach is disclosed along with the impact in the value chain: GBJ-PT: p. 18 GBJ-SD: p. 32 For each material topic, the reporting organisation shall report the following information: GBJ-HW: p. 46 a. An explanation of how the organisation manages the topic. GBJ-ES: p. 56 b. A statement of the purpose of the management approach. GBJ-SF: p. 70 c. A description of the following, if the management approach includes that component: GBJ-WS: p. 80 i. Policies; GBJ-WR: p. 94 103-2 ii. Commitments; GBJ-EN: p. 106 iii. Goals and targets; iv. Responsibilities; Furthermore, throughout the whole GBJ Report, information v. Resources; is provided on: vi. Grievance mechanisms; i. Policies; vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programmes and initiatives. ii. Commitments; iii. Goals and targets; iv. Responsibilities; v. Resources; vi. Grievance mechanisms; vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programmes and initiatives. GBJ-MS: p. 9-10 For each material topic, the organisation should report: a. An explanation of how the organisation evaluates the management approach: In addition, the key performance indicators (KPIs) under each high103-3 i. The mechanisms for evaluating the management approach; level goal are disclosed throughout the GBJ Report and are used ii. The results of the evaluation of the management approach; to evaluate the management approach and inform management’s iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. decision-making. INDICATOR DISCLOSURE REFERENCE OMISSION REASON FOR OMISSION GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE a. Risks and opportunities posed by climate change that have the potential to generate substantive changes in operations, revenues, or expenditure, including: GBJ-MS: p. 9-12 i. a description of the risk or opportunity and its classification as either physical, regulatory or other; GBJ-EN: p. 103-114 201-2 ii. a description of the impact associated with the risk or opportunity; iii. the financial implications of the risk or opportunity before action is taken; Also in our CDP climate response found here: iv. the methods used to manage the risk or opportunity; www.cdp.net/en v. the costs of actions taken to manage the risk or opportunity. GRI 202: MARKET PRESENCE GINI as an indicator is inconsistently applied across the world as no a. When a significant proportion of employees are compensated based on wages subject to minimum wage rules, report the relevant ratio of clear guidelines are available on the the entry level wage by gender at significant locations of operation to the minimum wage. inclusion of total reward elements, b. When a significant proportion of other workers (excluding employees) performing the organisation’s activities are compensated based on Ratios of standard entry level i.e., guaranteed pay, benefits and GBJ-PT: p. 22 202-1 wages subject to minimum wage rules, describe the actions taken to determine whether these workers are paid above the minimum wage. wage by gender compared to variable pay. On this basis, WHL IR-RR: p. 159, 172 c. Whether a local minimum wage is absent or variable at significant locations of operation, by gender. In circumstances in which different local minimum wage. does not use GINI and has instead minimums can be used as a reference, report which minimum wage is being used. developed a barometer for fair and d. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. responsible pay which is aligned to the internal remuneration strategies of the Group. Due to the diversity of our operational geographies, consolidating our People reporting has been a challenge and we are working to find better ways of a. Percentage of senior management at significant locations of operation that are hired from the local community. aligning reporting methodologies GBJ-PT: p. 23 b. The definition used for “senior management”. alongside differing legislative 202-2 GBJ: Group Employee Information Proportion of local hires for CRG and DJ. c. The organisation’s geographical definition of “local”. prescripts. At Woolworths South d. The definition used for “significant locations of operation”. Africa, our transformation strategy continues to focus on retaining, developing, and growing our talent from within. This means also hiring from the local pool of talent in South Africa. GRI 203: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS a. Extent of development of significant infrastructure investments and services supported. GBJ-PT: p. 27-28 203-1 b. Current or expected impacts on communities and local economies, including positive and negative impacts where relevant. GBJ-SD: p. 29-42 c. Whether these investments and services are commercial, in-kind, or pro-bono engagements. IR-SEC: p. 147, 150 GRI 204: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES a. Percentage of the procurement budget used for significant locations of operation that is spent on suppliers local to that operation (such Percentage of the procurement budget We report publicly on GBJ-PT: p. 27 as percentage of products and services purchased locally). used for significant operations that is Woolworths SA procurement 204-1 GBJ-ES: p. 57 b. The organisation’s geographical definition of “local”. spent on suppliers local to David Jones spend with enterprise IR-SEC: p. 144 c. The definition used for “significant locations of operation”. and Country Road Group. development beneficiaries. INDICATOR DISCLOSURE REFERENCE OMISSION REASON FOR OMISSION GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION All of our operations are bound by our corporate policies. We have a zero tolerance policy towards fraud, theft, corruption or any similar illegal behaviour. These are covered in the induction programmes. We GBJ-ES: p. 56-60 a. Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption. have a consolidated WHL whistle205-1 IR: p. 33 Total number and % of operations. b. Significant risks related to corruption identified through the risk assessment. blowing reporting which now IR-GO: p. 132, 133, 136-137, 148 supports quarterly reports to the Board on alleged fraud incidences and investigations across the Group. We will continue to reinforce the governance of ethics throughout our business and our value chain. GRI 206: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR a. Number of legal actions pending or completed during the reporting period regarding anti-competitive behaviour and violations of anti-trust N/A. No legal actions for anticompetitive behaviour, anti-trust, and 206-1 and monopoly legislation in which the organisation has been identified as a participant. monopoly practices b. Main outcomes of completed legal actions, including any decisions or judgements. GRI 301: MATERIALS Due to the sheer number of products a. Percentage of reclaimed products and their packaging materials for each product category. A general description of the approach to 301-3 GBJ-WS: p. 77-90 and customers that Woolworths b. How the data for this disclosure have been collected. packaging innovation is provided. services. this is not deemed feasible. GRI 302: ENERGY a. Total fuel consumption within the organisation from non-renewable sources, in joules or multiples, and including fuel types used. b. Total fuel consumption within the organisation from renewable sources, in joules or multiples, and including fuel types used. c. In joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: i. electricity consumption; ii. heating consumption; GBJ-EN: p. 103-114 iii. cooling consumption; GBJ: Carbon Footprint Overview iv steam consumption. 302-1 d. In joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: Also in our CDP climate response found here: i. electricity sold; www.cdp.net/en ii. heating sold; iii. cooling sold; iv. steam sold. e. Total energy consumption within the organisation, in joules or multiple. f. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. g. Source of the conversion factors used. GBJ: Carbon Footprint Overview a. Energy consumption outside of the organisation, in joules or multiples. Full reporting on energy and carbon emission data (scope 3) in our 302-2 b. Standards, methodologies, assumptions and/or calculation tools used. CDP climate response found here: c. Source of the conversion factors used. www.cdp.net/en GBJ-EN: p. 103-114 a. Energy intensity ratio for the organisation. GBJ: Carbon Footprint Overview b. Organisation-specific metric (the denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio. 302-3 c. Types of energy included in the intensity ratio, whether fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, steam or all. Also in our CDP climate response found here: d. Whether the ratio uses energy consumption within the organisation, outside of it, or both. www.cdp.net/en INDICATOR DISCLOSURE REFERENCE OMISSION REASON FOR OMISSION GRI 302: ENERGY (Continued) a. Amount of reductions in energy consumption achieved as a direct result of conservation and efficiency initiatives, in joules or multiples. GBJ-EN: p. 103-114 b. Types of energy included in the reductions; whether fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, steam or all. 302-4 c. Basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption, such as base year or baseline, including the rationale for choosing it. Also in our CDP climate response found here: d. Standards methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. www.cdp.net/en GRI 303: WATER a. Total volume of water withdrawn, with a breakdown by the following sources: GBJ-WR: p. 91-102 i. Surface water, including water from wetlands, rivers, lakes, and oceans; (Woolworths uses limited borehole water as well as harvested ii. Ground water; rain water) 303-1 iii. Rainwater collected directly and stored by the organisation; iv. Waste water from another organisation; Also in our CDP water response found here: v. Municipal water supplies or other public or private water utilities. www.cdp.net/en b. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. GRI 304: BIODIVERSITY a. Nature of significant direct and indirect impacts on biodiversity with reference to one or more of the following: i. Construction or use of manufacturing plans, mines, and transport infrastructure; ii. Pollution (introduction of substances that do not naturally occur in the habitat from point and non-point sources); iii. Introduction of invasive species, pests and pathogens; v. Habitat conversion; GBJ-ES: p. 53-66 304-2 vi. Changes in ecological processes outside the natural range of variation (such as salinity or changes in groundwater level). GBJ-SF: p. 67-76 b. Significant direct and indirect positive and negative impacts with reference to the following: GBJ-WR: p. 91-102 i. Species affected; ii. Extent of areas impacted; iii. Duration of impacts; iv. Reversibility or irreversibility of the impacts. a. Size and location of all habitat areas protected or restored, and whether the success of the restoration measure was or is approved by independent external professionals. GBJ-ES: p. 53-66 b. Whether partnerships exist with third parties to protect or restore habitat areas distinct from where the organisation has overseen and 304-3 GBJ-SF: p. 67-76 implemented restoration or protection measures. GBJ-WR: p. 91-102 c. Status of each area based on its condition at the close of the reporting period. d. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. GRI 305: EMISSIONS a. Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. b. Gases included in the calculation, whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3 or all. c. Biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. GBJ-EN: p. 103-114 d. Base year for the calculation, if applicable, including: GBJ: Carbon Footprint Overview i. the rationale for choosing it; 305-1 ii. the emissions in the base year; Also in our CDP climate response found here: iii. the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. www.cdp.net/en e. Source of the emission factors and the GWP rates used, or a reference to the GWP source. f. Consolidation approach for emissions, whether equity share, financial control or operational control. g. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. INDICATOR DISCLOSURE REFERENCE OMISSION REASON FOR OMISSION GRI 305: EMISSIONS (Continued) a. Gross location-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. b. If applicable, gross market-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. c. If available, the gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all. GBJ-EN: p. 103-114 d. Base year for the calculation, if applicable, including: GBJ: Carbon Footprint Overview i. the rationale for choosing it; 305-2 ii. emissions in the base year; Also in our CDP climate response found here: iii. the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. www.cdp.net/en e. Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used, or a reference to the GWP source. f. Consolidation approach for emissions; whether equity share, financial control, or operational control. g. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. a. Gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. b. If available, the gases included in the calculation, whether: CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3 or all. c. Biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. GBJ-EN: p. 103-114 d. Other indirect (scope 3) GHG emissions categories and activities included in the calculation. GBJ: Carbon Footprint Overview e. Base year for the calculation, if applicable, including: 305-3 i. the rationale for choosing it; Also in our CDP climate response found here: ii. emissions in the base year; www.cdp.net/en iii. the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculation of base year emissions. f. Source of the emission factors and the GWP rates used, or a reference to the GWP source. g. Standard, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. GBJ-EN: p. 103-114 a. Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity. GBJ: Carbon Footprint Overview b. Organisation-specific metric (the denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio. 305-4 c. Types of GHG emissions included in the intensity ratio; whether direct (Scope 1); energy indirect (Scope 2); and/or other indirect (Scope 3). Also in our CDP climate response found here: d. Gases included in the calculation, whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all. www.cdp.net/en a. GHG emissions reduced as a direct result of reduction initiatives, in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. GBJ-EN: p. 103-114 b. Gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all. GBJ: Carbon Footprint Overview 305-5 c. Base year or baseline, including the rationale for choosing it. d. Scope in which reductions took place; whether direct (Scope 1); energy indirect (Scope 2); and/or other indirect (Scope 3), Also in our CDP climate response found here: e. Standards, methodologies, assumptions and/or calculation tools used. www.cdp.net/en GBJ-EN: p. 103-114 a. Production, imports and exports of ODS in metric tons of CFC-11 equivalent. GBJ: Carbon Footprint Overview b. Substances included in the calculation. 305-6 c. Source of the emission factors used. Also in our CDP climate response found here: d. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. www.cdp.net/en a. Significant air emissions, in kilograms or multiples, for each of the following: i. NOx; ii. SOx; iii. POP; iv. VOC; Not deemed material to our operations as we do not have any 305-7 v. HAP; significant point source emissions. vi. PM. vii. Other standard categories of air emissions identified in relevant regulations. b. Source of emission factors used. c. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. INDICATOR DISCLOSURE REFERENCE OMISSION REASON FOR OMISSION GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE a. Total weight of hazardous waste, with a breakdown by the following disposal methods where applicable: i. Reuse; ii. Recycling; iii. Composting; iv. Recovery, including energy recovery; v. Incineration (mass burn); vi. Deep well injection; vii. Landfill; viii. On-site storage; ix. Other (to be specified by the organisation). b. Total weight of non-hazardous waste, with a breakdown by the following disposal methods where applicable: i. Reuse; No hazardous waste disposal disclosed. Waste is tracked and reported 306-2 GBJ-WS: p. 77-90 ii. Recycling; Weight of waste. internally. iii. Composting; iv. Recovery, including energy recovery; v. Incineration (mass burn); vi. Deep well injection; vii. Landfill; viii. On-site storage; ix. Other (to be specified by the organisation). c. How the waste disposal method has been determined: i. Disposed of directly by the organisation, or otherwise directly confirmed; ii. Information provided by the waste disposal contractor; iii. Organisational defaults of the waste disposal contractor. GRI 307: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE a. Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and/or regulations in terms of: i. total monetary value of significant fines; N/A. No significant fines and total number of nonii. total number of non-monetary sanctions; 307-1 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental iii. cases brought through dispute resolution mechanisms. laws and regulations b. If the organisation has not identified any non-compliance with environmental laws and/or regulations, a brief statement of that fact is sufficient. GRI 308: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT We report on total supplier base. A business-wide process is underway to convert our supply base from our existing social and ethical GBJ-ES: p. 56-60 308-1 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria. compliance audit protocol to the GBJ-SF: p. 67-76 SEDEX Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA), which is one of the most widely used ethical audit formats in the world. GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT Due to the diversity of our operational geographies, consolidating our People reporting GBJ-PT: p. 21 Turnover by age and gender. Number 401-1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region. has been a challenge and we are GBJ: Group Employee Information and rates of new employee hires. working to find better ways of aligning reporting alongside differing legislative prescripts. INDICATOR DISCLOSURE REFERENCE OMISSION REASON FOR OMISSION GRI 402: LABOUR MANAGEMENT RELATIONS a. Minimum number of weeks’ notice typically provided to employees and their representatives prior to the implementation of significant operational changes that could substantially affect them. 402-1 Not publicly reported, part of standard terms of employment. b. For organisations with collective bargaining agreements, report whether the notice period and provisions for consultation and negotiation are specified in collective agreements. GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY a. Types of injury, injury rate (IR), occupational disease rate (ODR), lost day rate (LDR), absentee rate (AR), and work-related fatalities, for all employees, with a breakdown by: Due to the diversity of our i. region; operational geographies, ii. gender. consolidating our People reporting 403-2 b. Types of injury, injury rate (IR), and work-related fatalities, for all workers (excluding employees) whose work, or workplace, is GBJ: Group Employee Information. Data broken down by gender. has been a challenge and we are controlled by the organisation, with a breakdown by: working to find better ways of i. region; aligning reporting alongside differing ii. gender. legislative prescripts. c. The system of rules applied in recording and reporting accident statistics. GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION Due to the diversity of our operational geographies, Average hours of training per year per consolidating our People reporting GBJ-PT: p. 21 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. employee by gender, and by employee has been a challenge and we are GBJ: Group Employee Information category for CRG and DJ. working to find better ways of aligning reporting alongside differing legislative prescripts. GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY a. Percentage of individuals within the organisation’s governance bodies in each of the following diversity categories: Due to the diversity of our i. Gender; operational geographies, ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old; IR-GO: p. 115-152 consolidating our People reporting iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as minority or vulnerable groups). Percentages are not disclosed for 405-1 GBJ: Group Employee Information has been a challenge and we are b. Percentage of employees per employee category in each of the following diversity categories: age groups. working to find better ways of i. Gender; aligning reporting alongside differing ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old; legislative prescripts. iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as minority or vulnerable groups). GINI as an indicator is inconsistently applied across the world as no clear guidelines are available on the inclusion of total reward elements, i.e., guaranteed pay, benefits and variable pay. On this basis, WHL a. Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. does not use GINI and has 405-2 IR-RR: p. 159, 172 Ratio of basic salary to gender. b. The definition used for “significant location of operation”. instead developed a barometer for fair and responsible pay which is aligned to the internal remuneration strategies of the Group. The barometer for fair and responsible pay can be found in IR (RR): pp. 147, 155-156 INDICATOR DISCLOSURE REFERENCE OMISSION REASON FOR OMISSION GRI 407: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING All our suppliers and service a. Operations and suppliers in which workers’ rights to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining may be violated or at providers, whatever their location, significant risk either in terms of: GBJ-PT: p. 26 are bound by the WHL Group i. type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and supplier; GBJ-ES: p. 53-66 We do not report on individual operating company supplier codes 407-1 ii. countries or geographic areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk. GBJ: Position statements, guidelines and policies suppliers/ operations. of conduct. All our suppliers are b. Measures taken by the organisation in the reporting period intended to support rights to exercise freedom of association and IR-GO: p. 115-152 regularly assessed against it. This collective bargaining. means that all WHL suppliers must adhere to the principles set out. GRI 408: CHILD LABOUR All our suppliers and service a. Operations and suppliers considered to have a significant risk for incidents of: providers, whatever their location, i. child labour; GBJ-ES: p. 53-66 are bound by the WHL Group ii. young workers exposed to hazardous work. GBJ: Position statements, guidelines and policies We do not report on individual operating company Supplier Codes 408-1 b. Operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of child labour either in terms of: IR-GO: p. 115-152 suppliers / operations. of Conduct. All our suppliers are i. type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and supplier; regularly assessed against it. This ii. countries or geographic areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk. means that all WHL suppliers must c. Measures taken by the organisation in the reporting period to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour. adhere to the principles set out. GRI 409: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOUR All our suppliers and service providers, whatever their location, a. Operations and suppliers considered to have a significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour either in terms of: are bound by the WHL Group GBJ-ES: p. 53-66 i. type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and supplier; We do not report on individual operating company supplier codes 409-1 GBJ: Position statements, guidelines and policies ii. countries or geographic areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk. suppliers / operations. of conduct. All our suppliers are IR-GO: p. 115-152 b. Measures taken by the organisation in the reporting period to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. regularly assessed against it. This means that all WHL suppliers must adhere to the principles set out. GRI 411: INDIGENOUS RIGHTS a. Total number of identified incidents or violations involving the rights of indigenous peoples during the reporting period. b. Status of the incidents and actions taken, with reference to the following: No known incidents or violations involving rights of indigenous i. Incident reviewed by the organisation; 411-1 peoples and actions taken. ii. Remediation plans going forward; GBJ-PT: p. 24, 25 (David Jones Reconciliation Action Plan) iii. Remediation plans that have been implemented, with results reviewed through routine internal management review processes; iv. Incidents no longer subject to action. GRI 412: INVESTMENT We do not yet report this consistently for the WHL Group. We have embedded good governance GBJ-ES: p. 53-66 Number of operations practices throughout our operations, GBJ: Position statements, guidelines and policies 412-1 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments, by country. policies and procedures as per IR-GO: p. 115-152 the requirements of the national Employment Equity Act, the Labour Relations Act, and our Supplier Codes of Conduct. INDICATOR DISCLOSURE REFERENCE OMISSION REASON FOR OMISSION GRI 413: LOCAL COMMUNITIES a. Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and/or development programmes, including the use of: i. social impact assessments, including gender impact assessments, based on participatory processes; Although almost all of our operations ii. environmental impact assessments and ongoing monitoring; engage in some form of community GBJ-PT: p. 27-28 Percentage of operations iii. public disclosure of results of environmental and social impact assessments; engagement, we do not report this 413-1 GBJ-HW: p. 48 iv. local community development programmes based on local communities’ needs; specifically as a percentage. GBJ-SD: p. 29-42 v. stakeholder engagement plans based on stakeholder mapping; vi. broad-based local community consultation committees and processes that include vulnerable groups; vii. works councils, occupational health and safety committees, and other worker representation bodies to deal with impacts; viii. formal local community grievance processes. GRI 414: SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT We report on total supplier base. A business-wide process is underway to convert our supply base from our existing social and ethical GBJ-ES: p. 53-66 compliance audit protocol to the 414-1 a. Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using social criteria. SEDEX Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA), which is one of the most widely used ethical audit formats in the world. Currently, Woolworths Food has converted 13% of its SA supply base to SEDEX. GRI 415: PUBLIC POLICY a. Total monetary value of financial and in-kind political contributions, made directly and indirectly by the organisation by country and by N/A. No political donations were made during the 2019 415-1 recipient/beneficiary. financial year. b. If applicable, how the monetary value of in-kind political contributions was estimated. GRI 416: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services within the reporting period by: i. incidences of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty; 416-2 ii. incidences of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning; GBJ-HW: p.51 iii. incidences of non-compliance with voluntary codes. b. If the orgnanisation has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes, a brief statement of that fact is sufficient. GRI 417: PRODUCT SERVICE LABELLING a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by: i. incidences of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty; 417-2 N/A. No incidents of non-compliance. ii. incidences of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning; iii. incidences of non-compliance with voluntary codes. b. If the orgnanisation has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes, a brief statement of that fact is sufficient. INDICATOR DISCLOSURE REFERENCE OMISSION REASON FOR OMISSION GRI 417: PRODUCT SERVICE LABELLING (Continued) a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, sponsorship and promotion, by: N/A. No incidents of non-compliance. i. incidences of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty; 417-3 ii. incidences of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning; iii. incidences of non-compliance with voluntary codes. b. If the organisation has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes, a brief statement of that fact is sufficient. GRI 418: CUSTOMER PRIVACY a. Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy categorised by: i. complaints received from outside parties and substantiated by the organisation; 418-1 ii. Complaints from regulatory bodies. N/A. No substantiated complaints received. b. Number of identified leaks, thefts or losses of customer data. c. If the organisation has not identified any substantiated complaints, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. GRI 419: COMPLIANCE a. Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and/or regulations in the social and economic area in terms of: i. total monetary value of significant fines; ii. total number of non-monetary sanctions; 419-1 N/A. No significant fine or noncompliance. iii. cases brought through dispute resolution mechanisms. b. If the organisation has not identified any non-compliance with laws and/or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. c. The context against which significant fines and non-monetary sanctions were incurred. WOOLWORTHS HOLDINGS LIMITED 2019 Group Employee Information START GROUP EMPLOYEE INFORMATION GROUP EMPLOYEE INFORMATION GROUP EMPLOYEES BY GENDER PERMANENT TEMPORARY TOTAL HEADCOUNT1 HEADCOUNT2 HEADCOUNT WSA 31 944 238 32 182 Africa (countries outside of South Africa) 1 335 104 1 439 WSA TOTAL 33 279 342 33 621 CRG 2 596 3 005 5 601 WSA CRG DJ 5 437 2 172 7 609 WHL TOTAL 41 312 5 519 46 831 1 Permanent headcount = Permanent employees including limited period employees with service duration of more than one year. 2 Temporary headcount = Limited period employees (LPE) with service duration of less than one year. Female: 66% Male: 34% Female: 88% Male: 12% GROUP LABOUR TURNOVER AVERAGE SUM OF LABOUR PERMANENT TERMINATIONS2 TURNOVER HEADCOUNT1 RATE3 WSA 31 015 6 383 20.6% Africa (countries outside of South Africa) 1 333 293 22.0% DJ WHL WSA TOTAL 32 348 6 676 20.6% CRG 2 480 538 21.7% DJ 5 730 1 400 24.4% WHL TOTAL 40 558 8 614 21.2% 1 Average permanent headcount = Sum of permanent headcount over a period of 12 months / 12. 2 Sum of terminations = Sum of permanent headcount who terminated over a period of 12 months. 3 Labour turnover rate = Sum of terminations including LPE 1 Year+ during the previous 12 months / average permanent headcount including LPE 1 Year+ during the previous 12 months. Female: 77% Male: 23% Female: 70% Male: 30% GROUP TRANSFORMATION DATA TRAINING AND SKILLS DEVELOPMENT SPEND 2019 2018 2017 Total (R million) R121.60 R110.65 R115.50 Average spend per employee (R) 3 745 3 224 3 529 EMPLOYMENT EQUITY Percentage spend for black employees 96% 95% 96% In South Africa, we are required to comply with the Employment Equity Act that compels us to put in place systems to Number of learning interventions 114 509 115 150 99 376 enable a diversified and equitable workplace that continues to reflect national priorities. Historically disadvantaged South Africans (HDSA) represent 95.8% of the total number of Woolworths permanent employees, of whom 62.1% are in TRAINING BENEFICIARIES management (middle to top management) positions. Women represent 64% of the HDSA permanent employees. Number of employees trained (includes employees that have since left the business) 32 485 34 316 32 742 Number of black employees trained 31 319 32 924 31 415 EMPLOYMENT EQUITY PROFILE FOR WOOLWORTHS SA Number of female employees trained 21 400 22 649 21 367 LEARNERSHIP BENEFICIARIES % HDSA* GENDER BREAKDOWN OF PERMANENT EMPLOYEES Total number of learners 1 803 1 568 1 573 Male 36% Total number of black learners 1 784 1 548 1 547 Female 64% Total number of learners with disabilities 107 109 21 % RACIAL BREAKDOWN OF PERMANENT EMPLOYEES Total number of unemployed learners 180 155 107 MALE FEMALE Total number of unemployed absorbed 74 50 52 22% BLACK 47% 8% COLOURED 15% EMPLOYEE HEALTH INDICATOR 1% INDIAN 2% INDICATOR WSA DJ CRG 2% WHITE 2% 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 0% FOREIGN NATIONALS 0% LOST TIME INJURIES (LTI) 449 515 40 38 22 33 TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURY 0.01%* 0.01%* 13%** 12.4%** 9.8%** 19.01%** % HDSA* ACROSS OCCUPATIONAL LEVELS FREQUENCY RATE (TRIFR) MALE FEMALE LOST TIME INJURY 0.04%* 0.05%* 4.2%** 3.7%** 3.3%** 10.7%** FREQUENCY RATE (LTIFR) 27% TOP MANAGEMENT 27% GROSS ABSENTEEISM RATE (GAR) 3.3% 3.4% 2.4% NR NR NR 22% SENIOR MANAGEMENT 19% CONFRIMED FATALITIES IN DUTY 0 0 0 0 0 0 30% MIDDLE MANAGEMENT 34% PRIMARY HEALTHCARE CASES 0 NR 0 NR NR NR 39% JUNIOR MANAGEMENT 51% (ACUTE AND CRONIC CARE) 21% SEMI-SKILLED AND UNSKILLED 78% INJURIES ON DUTY 615 724 1 595 1685 175 308 * Historically Disadvatanged South Africans NR – Not reported at present. * calculation per FTE work days. ** calculation per million hours worked WOOLWORTHS HOLDINGS LIMITED 2019 EY Independent Limited Assurance Report START INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT FOR SELECTED KEY PERFORMANCE Management’s criteria for these selected KPIs and techniques which can result in materially different related disclosures are available on Woolworths’ measurements and can impact comparability. The precision INDICATOR INFORMATION IN THE WOOLWORTHS HOLDINGS LIMITED GOOD website: www.woolworthsholdings.co.za of different measurement techniques may also vary. BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT Qualitative interpretations of relevance, materiality and the accuracy of data are subject to individual assumptions and The scope of our work was limited to the selected KPIs judgements. In particular, where the information relies on TO THE DIRECTORS OF WOOLWORTHS HOLDINGS LIMITED presented in the GBJ Report, and did not include coverage factors derived by independent third parties, our assurance of data sets or information unrelated to the data and work has not included examination of the derivation of information underlying the selected KPIs and related those factors and other third party information. disclosures; nor did it include information reported outside of the GBJ Report, comparisons against historical data, or management’s forward-looking statements. OUR INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL OUR CONCLUSION Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our We have complied with the Code of Ethics for Professional attention that causes us to believe that the selected key performance indicators (selected KPIs) and related disclosures DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards as presented in the Woolworths Holdings Limited Good Business Journey Report for the 53-week period ended Board for Accountants as well as the Code of Professional You are responsible for selection, preparation and 30 June 2019 (GBJ Report), are not prepared and presented, in all material respects, in accordance with managements’ Conduct for Registered Auditors issued by the Independent presentation of the selected KPIs and related disclosures internally defined measurement and reporting criteria for reporting the selected KPIs and related disclosures. Regulatory Board for Auditors, which includes independence in accordance with the criteria that management has and other requirements founded on fundamental principles specified as the basis for reporting that information, and for of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due ensuring those criteria are made available to the GBJ Report care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. users (disclosed on the Woolworths website). You are also responsible for the identification of stakeholders, stakeholder In accordance with International Standard on Quality information requirements, material issues and commitments Control 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits Ernst & Young Inc. (EY) with respect to sustainability performance; for selection and Reviews of Financial Statements, and other Assurance has undertaken a limited MANAGEMENT’S INTERNALLY DEFINED MEASUREMENT SELECTED KPIs of appropriate criteria as the basis for reporting those and Related Service Engagements, we maintain a AND REPORTING CRITERIA assurance engagement selected KPIs and related disclosures; and for the design, comprehensive system of quality control including for the selected KPIs and implementation and maintenance of effective internal controls documented policies and procedures regarding compliance Total water usage (in kilolitres) for the period 1 July 2018 to related disclosures described Water usage at sufficient to enable preparation and presentation of the with ethical requirements, professional standards and 30 June 2019 of the South African head office buildings based below presented in the head office on the metering online system. selected KPIs and related disclosures in the GBJ Report free applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Woolworths Holdings Limited from material misstatement whether due to fraud or error. (Woolworths) Good Business Total water usage (in kilolitres) for the period 1 July 2018 to Journey Report for the Water usage at OUR RESPONSIBILITY 30 June 2019 of the South African distribution centres based 53-week period ended distribution centres INHERENT LIMITATIONS on the metering online system. Our responsibility is to perform our limited assurance 30 June 2019 (GBJ Report). Inherent limitations of assurance engagements include use engagement to express our conclusion on whether anything This engagement Total water usage (in kilolitres) for the period 1 July 2018 to of judgement and selective testing of data, which means has come to our attention that causes us to believe that Water usage was conducted by a 30 June 2019 of the South African corporate stores based that it is possible that fraud, error or non-compliance may the selected KPIs and related disclosures as presented in at stores multidisciplinary team on the metering online system. occur and not be detected in the course of performing the the GBJ Report are not prepared, in all material respects, in including environmental engagement. Accordingly, there is some risk that a material accordance with management’s criteria for those KPIs. The total number of locally sourced FBH GRN units expressed and assurance specialists Percentage of misstatement may remain undetected. Further, our limited We have performed our limited assurance engagement in as a percentage of total FBH GRN units (excluding nonwith relevant experience in Woolworths branded assurance engagement is not designed to detect fraud or accordance with the terms of reference for this engagement Woolworths branded beauty and homeware and beauty sustainability reporting. fashion, beauty and services). Locally sourced refers to any product that is error that is immaterial. agreed with Woolworths, including performing the homeware (FBH) There are additional inherent risks associated with engagement in accordance with the International Standard assembled in South Africa for which raw materials were locally sourced on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised), Assurance either locally produced or imported. assurance engagements performed for non-financial SUBJECT MATTER information given the characteristics of the subject matter Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Our limited assurance and associated with the compilation of source data using Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing engagement was performed definitions and methods for determining, calculating, and Assurance Standards Board. This Standard requires that for the selected KPIs listed These selected KPIs and related disclosures, prepared and presented in accordance and estimating such information that are developed we plan and perform our engagement to obtain limited in the table to the right with management’s internally defined measurement and reporting criteria internally by management. The absence of a significant assurance about whether the selected KPIs and related and related disclosures as (management’s criteria), are marked with an ‘LA’ on the relevant pages of the GBJ body of established practice on which to draw, allows disclosures as presented in the GBJ Report are free from presented in the GBJ Report. Report where they appear. for the selection of different but acceptable measurement material misstatement. A limited assurance engagement undertaken in accordance Management’s processes for reporting progress on OTHER MATTERS with ISAE 3000 (Revised) involves assessing the suitability Woolworths’ sustainability issues to the Woolworths’ Information relating to prior reporting periods has not been subject to assurance procedures. Our report does not extend in the circumstances of Woolworths’ use of the criteria Board and internal assurance applied, including for the to any disclosures or assertions relating to future performance plans and/or strategies disclosed in the GBJ Report. specified as the basis of preparation used for the selected selected KPIs and related disclosures; KPIs and related disclosures presented in the GBJ Report, The maintenance and integrity of Woolworths’ website is the responsibility of Woolworths’ management. Our procedures The basis of preparation used for reporting the selected did not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly we accept no responsibility for any changes to the selected assessing the risks of material misstatement thereof, whether KPIs and related disclosures, including criteria, and due to fraud or error, responding to the assessed risks as KPIs and related disclosures, the GBJ Report or to our independent limited assurance report that may have occurred since reporting definitions applied; and the initial date of presentation on the Woolworths’ website. necessary in the circumstances, and evaluating the overall presentation of the selected KPIs and related disclosures in The control environment, information systems and the GBJ Report. relevant control activities applied to compiling information from relevant data sources for reporting RESTRICTION OF USE AND LIABILITY A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in the selected KPIs and related disclosures, and for Our work has been undertaken to enable us to express a limited assurance conclusion on the matters stated above in our scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in monitoring the integrity of the information presented in report provided to the directors of Woolworths in accordance with the terms of our engagement, and for no other purpose. relation to both risk assessment procedures, including an the GBJ Report (but not for the purpose of evaluating Our report is intended solely for the directors of Woolworths and should not be used by any other parties. understanding of internal control, and the procedures the design of particular control activities, obtaining To the fullest extent permitted by the law, we do not accept or assume liability to any party other than the directors of performed in response to the assessed risks. evidence about their implementation or testing their Woolworths, for our work, for this report, or for the conclusion we have reached. We agree to the publication of this The procedures we performed were based on our operating effectiveness); assurance report in Woolworths’ GBJ Report for the 53-week period ended 30 June 2019, provided it is clearly understood professional judgement and included inquiries, observation • Inspected supporting documentation on a sample basis by recipients of the GBJ Report that they enjoy such receipt for information only and that we accept no duty of care to of processes performed, inspection of documents, analytical to corroborate the statements of management and senior them whatsoever in respect of this report. procedures, evaluating the appropriateness of quantification executives in our interviews; methods and reporting policies, and agreeing or reconciling with underlying records. • Performed analytical procedures to evaluate the relevant data generation and reporting processes against management’s criteria; Given the circumstances of the engagement, we • Evaluated the reasonableness and appropriateness completed the following procedures as part of the work of significant estimates and judgements made by the we performed as the basis for our assurance statement: directors in the preparation of the selected KPIs and • Reviewed Woolworths’ activities, processes and related disclosures; documents at group-level that support the • Evaluated whether the selected KPIs and related assertions and claims made in the GBJ Report, disclosures as presented in the GBJ Report are including in respect of the selected KPIs and consistent with our overall knowledge and related disclosures; experience of sustainability management and • Interviewed management and senior executives to performance at Woolworths. obtain an understanding of the following matters as ERNST & YOUNG INC. relevant to the Woolworths’ external reporting on Director: Johanna Cornelia De Villiers material sustainability issues: The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature from, and are less in extent Registered Auditor Governance and accountability arrangements for than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. As a result Chartered Accountant (SA) reporting the selected KPIs and related disclosures, the level of assurance obtained in our limited assurance including adoption of governance practices aligned engagement is substantially lower than the assurance to the King IV Code Principles and recommended that would have been obtained had we performed a 3rd Floor, Waterway House practices for ensuring the integrity of external reports; reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not 3 Dock Road Governance oversight of management’s process to express a reasonable assurance opinion about whether V&A Waterfront identify Woolworths’ material sustainability issues, and the selected KPIs and related disclosures presented in the Cape Town to establish performance targets for Woolworths’ GBJ Report have been prepared, in all material respects, in material sustainability issues and monitor progress accordance with management’s criteria for those KPIs and made to achieving those targets; related disclosures. 27 September 2019 WOOLWORTHS HOLDINGS LIMITED 2019 Position Statements, Guidelines, and Policies START POSITION STATEMENTS, GUIDELINES, AND POLICIES We have various publicly available position statements that guide us in our Good Business Journey: 1. SUSTAINABLE FARMING GENETICALLY MODIFIED ORGANISMS (GMOs) SUSTAINABLE PALM OIL Our preference is to avoid the use of GMOs in Woolworths-branded foods. We are continuously investigating sustainable As the first South African company to become a member of the global Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), and commercially viable alternatives, and remain committed to reducing the number of products that contain ingredients Woolworths is helping to promote and raise awareness of the need for sustainable palm oil. Palm oil is a versatile raw from GM crop sources. As at 30 June 2019, 100% of Woolworths’ private label food products and pet food are GMO-free. material used for food and non-food industries and contributes to economic development. See Woolworths’ GMO position statement See Woolworths’ palm oil position statement ANIMAL WELFARE CLOTHING We believe it is our ethical obligation to ensure that our suppliers treat all the animals in our supply chain with respect and in Most of us don’t fully understand the environmental impact of our clothes. From their production to the materials that make the most humane way possible. We believe animals should have lives worth living. them, all the way to transportation and washing, clothes can have a significant impact on the environment. See Woolworths’ animal welfare position statement See Woolworths’ sustainable clothing position statement See David Jones’ animal welfare policy and fur, faux fur, and angora position statements See Country Road Group’s Environmental Code of Practice for dyeing, printing, and finishing See Country Road Group’s animal welfare principles ETHICAL TRADING We have embarked on a journey to better manage our ethical supply chain and to take more responsibility for 2. ENERGY AND CLIMATE CHANGE improving the lives of workers in our South African and global supply chains. In doing this, we partner with credible organisations and standards to increase transparency and to encourage more sustainable practices. Woolworths recognises that climate change is a major issue that the retail sector contributes to through our operations and our supply chains. We have concentrated efforts to mitigate and adapt to climate change. See Woolworths Holdings’ ethical trade position statement See Country Road Group’s Code of Labour Practice See Woolworths’ climate change position statement See David Jones’ Supplier Code of Conduct DEFORESTATION 3. ETHICAL SOURCING Woolworths recognises the environmental and social importance of safeguarding the world’s last remaining ancient and endangered forests, as well as the role of reducing deforestation and forest degradation in mitigating climate SUSTAINABLE COCOA change. As part of our Good Business Journey, we are dedicated to selling products that cause minimum harm to the We support responsible cocoa farming by sourcing more and more certified sustainable cocoa. natural environment, help maintain biodiversity, and help improve the lives of workers in the supply chain. See Woolworths’ cocoa position statement See Woolworths’ deforestation position statement See David Jones’ position statement on sustainable cocoa See David Jones’ position statement on illegal logging 4. WASTE WE ALSO HAVE SOME MORE DETAILED INFORMATION ON SPECIFIC TOPICS AVAILABLE ON OUR WEBSITE: FOOD WASTE According to the South African National Policy on Food and Nutrition Security, approximately 9 million tonnes of food is SUSTAINABLE FARMING: FREE RANGE wasted in South Africa each year. We have committed to reducing the amount of food wasted across our supply chain Woolworths continues to sell extensive lines of free-range chicken, duck, beef, and lamb, which means the animals are as well as finding ways to promote food security. allowed to roam freely, eat a natural diet, and are not given routine antibiotics or growth promoters. See Woolworths’ food waste position statement See more information on Woolworths’ free range chicken and duck See more information on Woolworths’ free range beef PACKAGING See more information on Woolworths’ free range lamb We try to ensure our products remain protected in transit so that additional waste is not created. In the case of food, we also want it to remain safe and hygienic, and to extend its shelf life for as long as possible so that additional food waste is SUSTAINABLE FARMING: rBST not created. BST is a naturally occurring hormone produced by dairy cows to regulate their milk production. rBST is a synthetic version of BST, often given to cows to increase their milk production. Since 2002, Woolworths has not administered rBST to any of our See Woolworths’ packaging position statement Ayrshire dairy cows. See more information on rBST-free milk 5. WATER SUSTAINABLE FARMING: KINDER TO SOWS We’re doing all sorts of things to reduce water consumption, from harvesting rainwater at some of our stores to working Woolworths has reduced the period sows are confined from the full 16-week pregnancy down to just seven days to allow with our suppliers to reduce water use through our Farming for the Future programme and our Water Stewardship Project for easier handling of the sow during artificial insemination and until pregnancy is confirmed. in the Western Cape. See more information on Kinder to Sows pork See Woolworths’ water position statement WE HAVE A VARIETY OF INTERNAL POLICIES, CODES, AND GUIDELINES COVERING VARIOUS TOPICS, INCLUDING: • Good food • Free range • Antibiotic use Since 2009, Woolworths has been • Sustainable seafood a signatory to the United Nations • Detox Global Compact • Sandblasting • Packaging • Product safety and recall • Human resources WOOLWORTHS HOLDINGS LIMITED 2019 Stakeholder Engagement START OUR STAKEHOLDERS The programme of stakeholder engagement helps the Group better navigate through a complex regulatory, legislative, and political landscape; provides ongoing macro-environmental insights; develops goodwill ambassadors; and, ultimately, ensures our continued social licence to operate. The Board is committed to stakeholder engagement with the interactions, monitoring and implementation of stakeholder engagement being the responsibility of respective management teams in the Group. The Social and Ethics Committee annually reviews the Group’s self-assessment of stakeholder engagement. The WHL Group’s stakeholder universe includes a myriad of stakeholder groupings impacted and affected across our entire value chain. They are listed in the table that follows, together with their material needs, expectations, and concerns and how we create value for them. OUR WHO OUR STAKEHOLDERS ARE AND HOW WE THE NEEDS, EXPECTATIONS, AND HOW WE CREATE RELATED GBJ STAKEHOLDERS WHY WE ENGAGE WITH THEM ENGAGE CONCERNS OF OUR STAKEHOLDERS VALUE FOR THEM FOCUS AREA The over 11 million customers in sub-Saharan Africa Issues which are material to our customers are • Quality, safe, and responsibly sourced products • Delivering quality, appealing, safe, innovative, and more than 4 million customers in Australia and identified through daily interactions in our physical • Convenience and responsibly sourced products that are New Zealand, are our largest stakeholder base stores and our digital and social media platforms. • Value readily, seamlessly and conveniently available, and their purchases are the main source of revenue Customer focus groups and surveys provide clear • Good service at great value and with excellent service we earn. input to identifying their requirements, interests, • Giving back to the community • Providing opportunities to give back to Health & Sustainable and concerns. • Access to credit their communities Wellness Farming • Packaging and plastic • Offering them access to responsible and • Animal welfare affordable credit CUSTOMERS • Transparency in the supply chain • Resource efficiency Ethical Social Sourcing Development It is the dedication, talent, and knowledge of our Employee engagement occurs on a daily basis in • Employment • Providing employment in the regions in which 46 831 employees across the Group, along with the normal course of business, and formal one-on• Remuneration we operate and additional opportunities as our efficient value-creating strategies and operations, one engagements are undertaken through biannual • Diversity and inclusion Group grows that allow us to meet our customers’ wants and performance assessments, regular training, and • Training and development • Rewarding our employees for the value they add needs and contribute materially towards the career and personal development discussions. • Employee community involvement with fair and responsible remuneration Health & communities in which we operate. Business and strategy updates, roadshows, • Employee wellness • Recognising all forms of diversity, through Wellness electronic staff communication, employment equity equal work for equal pay, and by ensuring forums, and employee magazines keep employees transformation of our workforce informed about general business issues and • Continuing to train and develop our priorities. Annual employee satisfaction surveys are staff, enabling a more specialised and a key tool for employees to voice their concerns knowledgeable workforce People & and expectations. • Providing employees with opportunities to Transformation EMPLOYEES participate in employee volunteering and Each business unit has a diversity committee workplace giving programmes to engage staff on issues of diversity in the • Provide employee wellness offerings and on-site workplace as well as corporate culture. The occupational health and safety assistance diversity committees are chaired at national level by the Director of Transformation and Corporate Social Development Affairs as well as the Director of Human Resources for Woolworths. OUR WHO OUR STAKEHOLDERS ARE AND HOW WE THE NEEDS, EXPECTATIONS, AND HOW WE CREATE RELATED GBJ STAKEHOLDERS WHY WE ENGAGE WITH THEM ENGAGE CONCERNS OF OUR STAKEHOLDERS VALUE FOR THEM FOCUS AREA We acknowledge the importance of our We actively engage with members of the relevant • Community involvement and contribution • Enriching the lives of the vulnerable members relationships with the communities in which we communities, and continue to deepen and expand • Economic growth contribution of the community, and, specifically in South operate, as they create an enabling business our relationships with them. We continue to Africa, supporting the need to address the environment as well as the pipeline of future monitor the socio-economic impact we have in transformation of the previously disadvantaged customers and employees. our communities, and we engage experts and • Assisting in driving economic growth by investing interest groups where possible, to ensure that we capital in the regions in which we operate use our business strengths to provide a meaningful Social People & COMMUNITIES contribution in the regions in which Development Transformation we operate. Our relationships with over 500 Fashion, Beauty The interests and concerns of suppliers are • Fair and ethical sourcing • Assisting our suppliers to contribute positively and Home (FBH) direct suppliers and over 900 Food identified in the normal course of business and at • Timely payment and favourable terms towards the environment and communities direct suppliers are a key competitive advantage annual supplier conferences. Suppliers are expected • Supplier and enterprise development in which they operate through various for our Group, as they provide us with exceptional to adhere to codes of conduct, including our sustainability initiatives and often exclusive products. Good Business Journey principles. Regular reviews • Continuing to strengthen our mutually Ethical Sustainable Sourcing Farming We are also committed to supporting the and assessments of suppliers are also conducted beneficial supplier relationships and integrate development of small, black-owned businesses in through supplier audits against supplier scorecards. closely with them South Africa, and artisans globally. • Supporting small and emerging suppliers, SUPPLIERS providing them with access to the market by sourcing products and services from them People & Transformation Our equity and debt investors are the sources We provide regular trading updates and • Consistent returns on their investments • Responsibly investing capital including of capital for the Group and enable business notifications to our shareholders and debt • Strong corporate governance strategic investments, considering Good Business continuity and growth. funders, and address their key issues and • Management of economic, social, and Journey impact where appropriate concerns through announcements, presentations, environmental risks • Ensuring adequate funding to meet financial and meetings. We interact with and receive obligations and business objectives feedback from investors, analysts, and debt • Actively managing the level of debt and liquidity, funders by participating in broker-hosted refinancing interest rates, and counterparty risks SHAREHOLDERS AND conferences and roadshows, and through • Paying regular dividend income and interest ALL GBJ DEBT FUNDERS ongoing interactions including face-toFOCUS AREAS face meetings, telephone calls, and email correspondence. In the current year, we have engaged with our shareholders with an independent investor perception survey. The incoming Chairman and Lead Independent Director will also be hosting a roadshow for investors. Further interaction with shareholders is facilitated at the Annual General Meeting. We hold memberships and participate in various Through our membership and engagement with • Policy development Through industry partnerships, we are able to industry bodies, to discuss and contribute to issues industry bodies, we provide commentary and • Retail-sector-related issues provide commentary and input on emerging issues, of mutual concern and optimise opportunities for advice on emerging issues. • Key sustainability issues programmes, and best practice. the Group. INDUSTRY ALL GBJ ORGANISATIONS FOCUS AREAS OUR WHO OUR STAKEHOLDERS ARE AND HOW WE THE NEEDS, EXPECTATIONS, AND HOW WE CREATE RELATED GBJ STAKEHOLDERS WHY WE ENGAGE WITH THEM ENGAGE CONCERNS OF OUR STAKEHOLDERS VALUE FOR THEM FOCUS AREA We are passionate about the role we play in We have a dedicated function that ensures • Legislation and regulation adherence, both We go beyond regulatory compliance to adhere building a thriving society. We do this by that we are active corporate citizens, including in spirit and intent to the intent of legislation on our Good Business engaging with the governments and regulators enabling proactive government relations in the • Contribution towards inclusive economic growth Journey. We use our core competencies to in the markets in which we operate, enabling countries in which we operate, and managing (including, but not limited to, job creation and contribute to solving social problems such as regulation to allow for a trustworthy business participation in industry affairs. We share insights skills development, enterprise development, food security. We actively engage government environment and contributing towards business and concerns with government, and also gain and local procurement) and industry on policy matters. sustainability by fostering societal growth invaluable information which allows the Group GOVERNMENT AND and aligning our efforts with the sustainable to mitigate risks, explore opportunities and ALL GBJ REGULATORS FOCUS AREAS development goals. partner with the relevant stakeholders on the different countries’ socioeconomic and environmental initiatives. We want to contribute towards research and share We participate in postgraduate and other • Corporate sustainability We have opened ourselves to contributing towards our industry expertise and case studies. research and surveys, offer experiential learning • Reporting and governance academic research. This not only gives us an opportunities for students, and participate in the opportunity to improve on our processes but it also Network for Business Sustainability, an association allows us to contribute to the sharing of knowledge that brings academia and business together to in sustainability issues. shape the future of sustainability. ACADEMIC ALL GBJ INSTITUTIONS FOCUS AREAS We want to raise the profile of key sustainability We engage with media via press releases, • Retail and consumer issues Growing our customer engagement and education issues in the regions within which we operate in TV appearances and interviews as well as • Product information around sustainability issues allows customers to order to influence stakeholder perceptions and contributions to publications and opinion pieces. • Key sustainability issues make informed purchasing decisions. differentiate the WHL Group. ALL GBJ THE MEDIA FOCUS AREAS The group supports freedom of association and We participate in CCMA, Nedlac, and other labour • Wages and conditions of employment Engagement provides a platform to better the right to collective bargaining and engages market institutions. • Retail and textile-sector issues understand and respond to employee concerns. with unions on collective employment issues in the supply chain. People & Transformation UNIONS To find out more about what we’re doing, visit www.woolworthsholdings.co.za We appreciate any feedback on our Good Business Journey Report. Please contact GoodBusinessJourney@woolworths.co.za
