UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018~2019 Statement of continuing support It is with great pleasure that I reaffirm LPS BOSSARD’s continued commitment to the UN Global Compact and its principles. Our day-to-day business activities are focused on serving our prestigious customers through our product and services. Our actions are always customers focused to built longlasting connections with customers, recognizing the value of our highly committed employees, while respecting environmental limitations and investing in communities. We understand that the quality of our relationships is the foundation of our long-term success as a business and that is reflected in our ongoing support for the UN Global Compact principles of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. There has never been a more important time to demonstrate that our business is sustainable and committed to the long term. At LPS BOSSARD, we know how important it is that we play a positive role in the communities we serve and that we meet or surpass the expectations of society, our customers, regulators and investors. We recognize that ultimately we are defined and judged by our behavior towards and within the communities we serve. In 2018, on top of 120 days contributed by nearly 110 employees, we donated $182000 to community initiatives. Focused mainly on environmental and educational, helping poor girl children projects. We are proud of the investments we make in this area. In particular, during the past year we have extended our commitment to support disadvantaged and vulnerable young people who are not able to get proper education, employment or training. We have Launched various programs in our BP Jain Skill Development center to further promote skill development initiative. We are proud to work with these organizations, who are leaders in their field. We will continue to report on its progress – and that of our other projects and goals – in the years ahead. Rajesh Jain Managing Director April 2019 LPS Bossard Communication on Progress 2018-2019 UN Global Compact Principals GRI Indicators Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and LPSB/IMS-001 LPSB/SCM-007 Policies: LPS BOSSARD Code of Conduct for Suppliers, LPS BOSSARD IMS Manual LPS BOSSARD also supports the Equator Principles, the Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative. LPS BOSSARD’s Values are; to be open to different cultures; connected with our customers, communities, regulators and each other, and dependable and doing the right thing. This includes our commitment to ethical and sustainable business practice and taking responsibility for the social and environmental impacts. Progress: LPS BOSSARD continues to build a culture which values and respects all employees and their opinions. We remain committed to meritocracy, which requires a diverse and inclusive culture. Throughout 2018, education on LPS BOSSARD’s values continued across all levels of employees, through induction, strategic programs, and leadership and professional skills programs. Our senior leaders always keep utmost focus on these values and demonstrate through actions. In 2018, 100% employees went through values training, in addition to the rest of employees who were trained in 2017. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human LPSB/HR-01 rights abuses. Policies: LPS BOSSARD HR Manual, PS BOSSARD Code of Conduct for Suppliers LPS BOSSARD’s Businesses are required to develop a Code of Conduct which includes, among other elements, a commitment to comply with the letter and spirit of all laws and regulations; a commitment to comply with the letter and spirit of all laws and regulations; a commitment to truth and fair dealing; conduct of personal affairs includes rules governing the acceptance or offering of gifts, favors, services, hospitality, loans or fees, or anything of monetary value; and whistleblowing procedures. LPS BOSSARD has a public ‘Code of Conduct’ with which all suppliers have to comply. This Supplier Code of Conduct requires suppliers to respect the human rights of their employees, specifically those related to the freedom of association and collective bargaining, prohibition of child or forced labour, and non-discrimination at work. It also states that suppliers must comply with LPS BOSSARD’s environmental, social and ethical standards for our supply chain, which includes respecting the human rights of the communities in which they operate. LPS BOSSARD retains the right to audit suppliers’ adherence to the Code. Any LPS BOSSARD employee who becomes aware of matters of concern, including the health and safety of an individual being endangered or the environment being damaged. Assessing the environmental and social impacts of providing goods and services to our customers, including human rights issues, has been firmly embedded into our overall risk management. Progress: We regularly review our policies to ensure they reflect the latest risks and developments in certain sectors. For example, in 2018, we updated our policies in bilingual (English & Hindi) format, for better understanding of people. 2018, we launched an employee hand book and make mandatory policy to go through it for existing and new employees. LPS Bossard Communication on Progress 2018-2019 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to LPSB/HR-01 collective bargaining; LPSB/IMS-001 Policies: LPS BOSSARD IMS Manual, LPS BOSSARD Code of Conduct for Suppliers LPS BOSSARD employees are made aware of their rights through written contracts, the employee handbook and the staff websites. LPS BOSSARD engages with recognized institutions through well-developed communications and consultation programs. Progress: In 2018, trainings were provided to all the employees for regarding their rights. Our suppliers are now also evaluated for Conformance to labour laws. The policies & Code of conduct has been translated to bilingual formats (English & Hindi) for better understanding of employees for the rights and policies of company. Regular review meetings are conducted to check any violation of labour laws is not done Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; LPSB/IMS-001 LPSB/SCM-007 Policies: LPS BOSSARD IMS Manual, LPS BOSSARD Code of Conduct for Suppliers, All LPS BOSSARD employees have contracts which clearly indicate the voluntary nature of their employment and procedures for ceasing employment. Our Code of Conduct for Suppliers states that they must prohibit the use of forced labour and give workers, whether local or migrant, the right and the ability to leave employment when they choose. We recognize that businesses can have an impact on the environment and communities around them. For over ten years, we have been developing, implementing and refining our own approach to working with our business customers to Understand and manage these issues. Progress: We assess customers according to their level of compliance with our policies and rank them into four categories: ‘leader’, ‘compliant’, ‘near-compliant’ and ‘non-compliant’. We meet our customers frequently and make agenda of discussion on these topics as a set agenda We have established our policies for not entertaining forced labour of any form. The same has been flown down to suppliers. LPS Bossard Communication on Progress 2018-2019 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and LPSB/IMS-001 LPSB/IMS-007 Policies: LPS BOSSARD IMS Manual, LPS BOSSARD Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Child labour is not considered to be a material issue for LPS BOSSARD’s own operations which are office and branch-based LPS BOSSARD’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers states that they must ensure that child labour is not used and that the employment of young workers adheres to International Labour Organization standards and local regulations Progress: Our community investment program has a focus on education and environmental issues. In 2018, as with previous years, LPS BOSSARD conducted 84 man days training on above subject to its employee. We have strict monitoring over employee selection and proper documentation verification is done to ensure child labour free environment. LPS Bossard also has an initiative to help the underage people in education and skill development with the help of its B.P. Jain Skill Development Center. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of LPSB/HR-001 employment and occupation. Policies: LPS BOSSARD HR Manual LPS BOSSARD’s employment policies, detailed in the Global Standards Manual, prohibit discrimination on the basis of gender, race, sexuality, nationality, age, disability, ethnic origin, religion or status. The LPS BOSSARD Code of Conduct for Suppliers states that they must treat all employees fairly and not discriminate against any group in its employment practices. We believe in providing equal opportunities for all employees. The employment of disabled persons is included in this commitment and the recruitment, training, career development and promotion of disabled persons is based on the aptitudes and abilities of the individual. Should employees become disabled during their employment with us, efforts are made to continue their employment and, if necessary, appropriate Training is provided. Progress: Education on LPS BOSSARD’s values has continued throughout 2017 and 2018 across all levels of employees, through induction, strategic programs, and leadership and professional skills programs. Our focus on values and courageous integrity has been instilled at every level of the company. For example, the values of being open, dependable and connected are an important first part of every appraisal for employees, including senior managers. Senior managers have had external input through twoday training sessions on values run by reputed institutions. Throughout 2018, an area of continued focus is gender Representation, particularly at senior levels of our organization. We are addressing any residual bias in hiring, promotions and talent identification. In 2018, women accounted for 32 per cent of our workforce. Female representation at senior levels has also rose. LPS Bossard Communication on Progress 2018-2019 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; LPSB/IMS-001 Policies: LPS Bossard IMS Manual LPS BOSSARD has stated its commitment to the principles of sustainable development. The LPS BOSSARD Code of Conduct for Suppliers states that they should consider the principles of EHS. Progress: In 2018 focus was put on supplier development by keeping above points incorporated in the supplier qualifications. LPS Bossard has been successfully completed its subsequent assessments for ISO 14001:2015 and improved its system with risk assessments. LPS Bossard also successfully installed 184 kvA capacity solar panel to fulfill the electricity requirements. In year 2018 around 8000 new trees planted and are being maintained all across the city and campus. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater LPSB/IMS-001 Environmental responsibility. Policies: EHS Policy, 2020 goals The LPS BOSSARD Code of Conduct for Suppliers states that suppliers must have a written environmental / sustainability policy appropriate to the size and nature of their operations that addresses raw material usage, greenhouse gas emissions, water, waste, energy and wood & paper management and that suppliers should work actively to improve the environment in the communities in which they operate and pursue initiatives to bring about such improvement. In 2017, we launched our ten sustainable operational goals for 2017 – 2020. Progress: We are making significant progress towards our 2020 goals In 2018, over 25 senior managers attended sustainability leadership programs. We have developed our innovative and sustainable ways of working with our suppliers and in-house. In 2018, our recycling initiative gave us following results. Saving Carbon :31240 Kg. Water :216857 Ltr. Electricity :31000 Units Tree : 156 LPS Bossard Communication on Progress 2018-2019 Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. EHS Policy Policies: EHS Policy LPS BOSSARD’s EHS policy states that, consistent with our approach to managing our direct impacts and risk, our corporate sustainability strategy seeks to develop commercially viable business opportunities that have a positive environmental and social impact. Progress: LPS BOSSARD took a leading role in some of the biggest local initiatives in climate business deals in 2018. LPS BOSSARD is a part of EV developments in current industrial scenario. In 2018, LPS Bossard has been associated with many Electronic vehicle manufacturing programs and has focused on its involvement towards such projects. LPS Bossard has conducted many plantation drives, and awareness event to spread awareness for environmental protection. In 2018, LPS Bossard has also helped local educational institutes to implement solar power cells to reduce the power consumption from conventional methods and save environment. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. LPSB/HR-001 LPSB/IMS-001 Policies: LPS BOSSARD IMS Manual, LPS BOSSARD HR Policy. LPS BOSSARD’s Business Principles for Countering Bribery give practical effect to such initiatives as the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development. LPS BOSSARD’s policy covers both the bribery of public officials, and commercial transactions and relationships, providing a minimum Group-wide standard consistent with our business values. We work closely with experts on these issues, including sitting on Transparency International’s Business Principles for Countering Bribery Steering Committee. We require our suppliers to comply with our Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Progress: Frequent internal audits covers above issues also checking with supplier. Third party hiring for internal company wide audits and report presented to management. Employees have received training to ensure they have a sound and up to date understanding of sanctions, money laundering, bribery and corruption risks. Additionally, by the end of 2018, all employees had received training on LPS BOSSARD’s values. Subject matter experts help and advice is always incorporated in management action to support above principle. Reviews have been conducted and regular audit are conducted to ensure smooth working of all the functions w.r.t SOPs. LPS Bossard Communication on Progress 2018-2019
