The Novozymes Report 2018 Whe In 20 re we m 1 ake peop 8, an es a le us tima differen our e t e ce solu d produ d 5.6 bi tion c ts m l l i on s on a we ade wit ekly h basi s. Rethink tomorrow Our purpose Contents Together we find biological answers for better lives in a growing world – Let's rethink tomorrow The big picture Accounts and performance 4 2018 in brief 72 Performance and consolidated  018 in brief: 2018 was 2 16 Five-year summary financial statements a satisfactory year for 17 Letter from the Board of 80 Performance and Novozymes. We grew in most of our markets and across Directors environmental data most geographies. 19 Letter from the CEO 82 Performance and social Customers Using Novozymes’ solutions, our customers can make their production processes more Partners As part of our “Partnering for Impact” strategy, we form partnerships with other eﬃcient and sustainable. inﬂuential industry players. 22 This is Novozymes & governance data Distribution Novozymes’ products are delivered Novozymes 24 Novozymes and the SDGs 84 Notes to customers in diﬀerent ways, depending on the industry. Novozymes is the global market leader in biological solutions. Monetary 154 Statements streams Novozymes’ revenue comes from sales of enzymes and microorganisms. 13% of our Commercial revenue is reinvested in R&D. Our business 160 Financial statements for execution Together we ﬁnd biological In-depth understanding of customer needs and operating environanswers for better lives Innovation Business model: Novozymes' 28 Business model Novozymes A/S ments, enables us to market and sell impactful solutions. in a growing world Novozymes innovates and patents unique biological business is about turning science solutions to meet our customers’ needs. 35 Strategy – Let’s rethink into sustainable biological tomorrow Production solutions. Our business model 37 Risk management An eﬀective global production setup enables us to produce high-quality enzymes and enables us to cater to many microorganisms. 42 Targets Technical services different industries. Novozymes’ technical service teams help our customers adopt innovations smoothly to ensure the expected value Quality Suppliers 49 Outlook for 2019 and eﬀects. Our trusted suppliers must Novozymes’ quality culture, balance reliability, quality and capabilities and systems ensure that we eﬃciency with a passion for deliver high-quality biological solutions. sustainability and innovation. Governance 53 Corporate governance Explore the online version of 58 Board of Directors The Novozymes Report 2018 at report2018.novozymes.com 62 Executive Leadership Team 65 Remuneration report 69 The Novozymes stock ence a k e a differ Where we m such as s ' e n zymes seNovozy m e e lacto e lp c reate th o o ds a® h m” f Sapher t h e r “ free-fro a n d do dem free an in c reasing e in that ar ide. worldw The big picture Financial highlights Key figures 2018 2018 realized outlook1 DKK Sales growth, organic 4% 4-6% 28.3% 3% EBIT margin 28.3% ~28.0% Net profit growth 3% ~0% EBIT margin Net profit growth Net investments excl. (2017: 27.9%) (2017: 2%) acquisitions, DKKbn 1.4 1.3–1.5 The EBIT margin was 28.3%, 0.4 Net profit grew by 3% to DKK 3,227 Free cash flow before percentage point higher than in million in 2018, up from DKK 3,120 acquisitions, DKKbn 2.3 2.3–2.6 2017. Excluding the one-time million in 2017. This was driven by ROIC (including costs incurred in 2017 relating to both a lower tax rate and lower net goodwill) 24.2% 24-25% organizational changes and the financial costs. divestment of Albumedix, the EBIT Avg. USD/DKK 632 600 margin in 2018 was 0.7 percentage point lower than in 2017. 1. Outlook guided as of February 7, 2018. 4% Organic sales growth (2017: 4%) Total sales in 2018 were DKK 14,390 million, an increase of 4% organically and a decrease 24.2% of 1% in DKK. Bioenergy and ROIC (2017: 25.6%) Food & Beverages were the main contributors to organic sales Return on invested capital (ROIC) including goodwill was growth. 24.2%, compared with 25.6% at year-end 2017. The lower Outlook 2019 ROIC was mainly due to higher net invested capital. See more details on performance in Accounts and performance Novozymes A/S The big picture 2018 in brief 4 Sustainability highlights Key figures 2018 2018 realized target 88,000,000 Estimated reduction in CO2 emissions through our customtons of CO2 emissions saved ers’ application of our products, in million tons 88 ≥ 80 In 2018, our customers saved an estimated 88 million tons of CO2 emissions by applying Novozymes’ products. The savings achieved are < organic equivalent to taking approximately 37 million cars off the road. Growth in absolute sales water usage 1% growth < organic Growth in absolute sales energy usage 1% growth ≤ organic Growth in absolute sales CO2 emissions 7% growth 78 30% Renewable energy 23% 23% 23% Renewable energy Employee development (New in 2018) Women in senior management (2017: 26%) Occupational accidents1 2.4 ≤ 1.5 Employee absence 2.1% ≤ 2.0% (2017: 24%) In 2018, we implemented TunedIn, In 2018, we exceeded our target Women in senior management 30% ≥ 27% Energy from renewable sources a new employee survey and of 27% for women in senior accounted for 23% of our total dialogue tool. The survey is used management (directors or higher). Employee energy consumption in 2018. in conjunction with team talks This is a result of our continued development 78 ≥ 75 In Denmark and Brazil, we throughout the company about focus on improving diversity. purchase our electricity from how we work and grow together. Customer satisfaction2 50 ≥ 40 renewable sources. The survey shows an employee RobecoSam rating3 n.a. Medal development score of 78, which meets our target of 75 or above. 1. Per million working hours. See more details in 2. Defined as Net Promoter Score. Accounts and performance 3. Novozymes canceled this target in 2018. Novozymes A/S The big picture 2018 in brief 5 Sales by geography 34% 36% North America Europe, the Middle East & Africa North America was solid overall with Organic sales growth in 2018 compared of sales of sales 5% organic sales growth in 2018 with 2017 was soft across most compared with 2017. Bioenergy and industries. Partly due to weak markets Agriculture & Feed were the main in the Middle East, Household Care was growth drivers. particularly soft, and Food & Beverages posted low growth. 5% 1% Organic sales growth Organic sales growth 10% 20% Latin America Asia Pacific Organic sales growth in Latin America Food & Beverages and Household of sales of sales was 6% in 2018 compared with 2017, Care were the main drivers of the driven by Bioenergy and Food & 5% organic sales growth in 2018 Beverages, whereas Household Care compared with 2017. was lower. 6% 5% Organic sales growth Organic sales growth Novozymes A/S The big picture 2018 in brief 6 Sales by industry Household Care 6% 32% of sales of sales (2017: 7%) (2017: 32%) Food & Beverages 14% of sales (2017: 15%) Bioenergy 19% Agriculture & Feed of sales (2017: 18%) Technical & Pharma Three out of five of Novozymes’ industries grew Organic sales growth 29% in 2018. Bioenergy delivered strong growth, of sales and Food & Beverages and Agriculture & Feed (2017: 28%) also delivered growth. Household Care was flat, and sales declined in Technical & Pharma. Novozymes holds an estimated 48% share of 0% 5% 12% 3% -6% the global enzyme market. Novozymes A/S The big picture 2018 in brief 7 % of total sales Product launches Household Care 32% Licheninase – A new enzyme launched for automatic dishwashing, targeting dried-in cereals Lipex® Evity 200 L – New premium liquid Whe Our e re we mak lipase for the removal of grease stains nzy ea to pro mes enable differenc duce ma e produ laundry a nufacturer cts th nd cle s perfo a a rman t offer bet ning enviro ce with re ter nmen d tal im uced pact. Key industry trends 0% Organic sales growth • Growth in the liquid and unit dose market, driven by consumer convenience and stronger commercial focus on these categories 2019 outlook • Rising demand for Household Care Organic sales growth is expected to solutions tailored to emerging-market be supported by a broader rollout for needs, such as hot and humid conditions the freshness platform and increased and mild handwashing alternatives penetration in emerging markets, where we tap into consumer trends with our • Strong interest in freshness and odor innovative enzymes for both liquid and reduction technologies and claims powder detergents. The development of 2018 results The emerging markets delivered solid the freshness platform is tracking according performance driven by local customers. to plan, and we expect to ship to more Sales to the Household Care industry In China, penetration with enzymatic emerging markets through the year and to SDG impact were flat organically and down 2% in DKK solutions for laundry detergents continues as Europe in late 2019. The dose reductions compared with 2017. Sales were a bit softer the demand for liquid detergent formulations at some of our large customers are likely to than initially expected due to challenging continues to grow. continue, although at a lower level. This puts Middle Eastern markets in the second half of a dampener on growth. We expect low-singlethe year, as well as a truck strike in Brazil and As expected, some of our global customers digit organic sales growth for Household a customer’s North American distribution continued to reduce enzyme dosing during Care, including annualization of the Middle Our solutions contribute to issues in the second quarter of the year. 2018, particularly in the developed markets. Eastern impact. reducing aquatic pollution, among other things. Sales to local customers maintained their The rollout of the first product from the good momentum throughout the year, and freshness platform is tracking according to Read more about our sales of enzymes for dishwashing solutions plan although, as expected, the contribution contributions to the SDGs Read more about our Household Care continued to deliver strong performance. from the platform was minor in 2018. solutions on Novozymes.com Novozymes A/S The big picture 2018 in brief 8 % of total sales Key industry trends Food & Beverages 29% • Consumer focus on health, wellness and natural products • Increase in raw material costs and focus on production process optimization • Customers consolidating operations in order to increase overall efficiency • Consumer focus on brands using local Wh Enz ere w produce and/or catering to specific local div ymes e mak 5% Organic sales growth taste, tradition and cultures er en e and sify th able a diff dev e ir p prod erenc sta elop p roduc ucers e y fr t t esh roduc rang o lon ts th es ger at . 2019 outlook “The world needs to produce 70% more food by 2050 than today to feed a growing Organic sales growth is expected to be global population. Our enzymes can reduce driven by continued step-up in commercial food waste, replace food additives, and presence, especially in the emerging markets, improve the quality and nutritional value of as well as by ramp-up of newly launched food,” says Andrew Fordyce, Executive Vice innovations, such as Frontia® and Palmora®. President, Food & Beverages. There is a modest positive expectation for baking, including planned price decreases in the US coming to an end in the first quarter. Food & nutrition is expected to continue its good momentum, supported by the SDG impact enduring health awareness trends. We expect 2018 results slight decline. This decline was caused by two continued solid growth across all industries main factors: the planned price decreases in with mid-single-digit organic sales growth, Food & Beverages sales grew by 5% the North American freshkeeping market and including annualization of the Middle Eastern organically and by 2% in DKK. loss of business in the Middle East. However, impact. sales of baking enzymes to the European Our solutions contribute to making Food & Beverages delivered solid and and African markets performed well, almost food production systems more wide-ranging growth. Both emerging and offsetting the negatives. sustainable. developed markets posted growth in 2018 compared with 2017. Food & nutrition and Read more about our beverages were the most significant growth contributions to the SDGs Read more about our Food & Beverages contributors, while baking experienced a solutions on Novozymes.com Novozymes A/S The big picture 2018 in brief 9 % of total sales Product launches Bioenergy 19% Innova® Drive – Novozymes’ first launch within yeast for conventional biofuels. Innova® Drive is aimed at ethanol plants with short fermentation times Innova® Lift – The second product from our yeast platform. Innova® Lift is aimed at ethanol plants with longer fermentation times 12% Organic sales growth Key industry trends Whe re • Growing calls for lower CO2 emissions in Our we mak max new ye e a diff 2019 outlook the transportation sector, driving demand imiz ast p eren e ro ce for ethanol etha the effic ducts nol ienc Organic sales growth is expected to be plan y of ts. driven mainly by increased penetration • Political push in favor of biofuels from innovation as well as volume growth in more regions outside the US market. We expect US ethanol production in 2019 to be slightly • Volatility in commodity prices, affecting lower than in 2018, with ethanol inventory customer margins levels remaining high into 2019. As such, we 2018 results US and global ethanol production is expect first-quarter US ethanol production to estimated to be up ~1% in 2018 compared decline, before improving for the rest of the Sales to Bioenergy grew by 12% organically with 2017. Ethanol producer margins year. We expect high-single-digit growth in SDG impact and by 6% in DKK compared with 2017. were under pressure, and inventory levels Bioenergy for the full year. elevated. The strong growth within enzymes for conventional biofuels continued throughout “Our products for Bioenergy convert plant the year, driven by broad technology materials and waste to biofuels. Using these offerings and tailored customer solutions. biofuels reduces CO2 emissions by Novozymes promotes the Our newly launched yeast products, Innova® 50-90% compared with conventional development and deployment of Drive and Innova® Lift, posted good growth in gasoline,” says Tina Sejersgård Fanø, low-carbon transportation fuels. the second half of the year, albeit from a low Executive Vice President, Agriculture base. Latin America continued to perform & Bioenergy. Read more about our well, supported by new starch-based ethanol contributions to the SDGs Read more about our Bioenergy production capacity. solutions on Novozymes.com Novozymes A/S The big picture 2018 in brief 10 % of total sales Product launches Agriculture & Feed 14% Acceleron® B-360 ST – A biological seed treatment that promotes symbiosis between microbes and corn plants, strengthening root systems and increasing plants’ access to nutrients Balancius™ – A novel enzyme that Whe improves digestion and nutrition r Our e we m s a in chickens in fa olutions ke a diff rmin imp eren dige g r c stibi and en ove yiel e valu l i t y an h ance ds e of d t anim nutritio he 3% Organic sales growth al fe nal ed. Key industry trends • Consumer focus on health, wellness 2019 outlook and natural products Sales to the agriculture-related markets are • Sensitivity to fluctuations in commodity subject to uncertainty, due primarily to global prices among farmers farm economics and trade-related concerns. We are negotiating with Bayer regarding the • Consolidation of large agricultural future setup of the BioAg business, which is companies to increase overall scale and also a source of uncertainty. Feed sales are efficiency expected to grow modestly for the year. We expect a low-single-digit decrease to a midsingle-digit increase in organic sales. 2018 results Sales to the feed industry declined during SDG impact 2018, as challenging feed enzyme markets, Novozymes expects to recognize roughly DKK In Agriculture & Feed, sales increased by especially in Latin America, put pressure on 113 million of the deferred income in BioAg 3% organically and were down 3% in DKK volumes. Animal health sales developed well as revenue in 2019. compared with 2017. across the major geographies. BioAg performed very well in 2018. While During 2018, Novozymes recognized DKK Our solutions support sustainable agricultural markets in general were 169 million of deferred income as revenue, food production and resilient challenged by low crop prices and poor farm compared with DKK 202 million in 2017. agricultural practices. economics, growth in Novozymes’ BioAg Deferred income does not impact the business was driven mainly by the combined calculation of organic sales growth rates; it Read more about our Acceleron® B-300 SAT/B-360 ST corn product impacts realized sales growth in DKK but has contributions to the SDGs Read more about our Agriculture & Feed for the US market. no cash flow impact. solutions on Novozymes.com Novozymes A/S The big picture 2018 in brief 11 % of total sales Product launches Technical & Pharma 6% BioSec® – Novozymes’ first product for sludge dewatering. BioSec® is aimed at municipal wastewater treatment Cellusoft® Cold – Low-temperature cellulase for liquid denim abrasion and Whe re w garment biopolishing Our e make proc solutio a diffe ess ns ren such es acro improve ce as te ss in wast xtiles, dustries ewa leat and ter, fore her, phar s -6% ma. t Organic sales growth Answering the world’s call for cleaner water Key industry trends Solving the world’s water problems presents a monumental challenge • Continuous focus on process for society. As part of its Sustainable optimization and cost reduction Development Goals (SDGs), the United Nations has identified Clean • Water scarcity driving demand for Water & Sanitation as Goal 6, solutions that reduce water consumption, recognizing that water is the key to improve water quality and clean unlocking progress in several of the wastewater other SDGs. 2018 results 2019 outlook One of the ways in which Novozymes SDG impact is contributing to this goal is through Sales to Technical & Pharma declined by 6% The business was impacted by the our wastewater solutions. Novozymes organically and by 22% in DKK in 2018. The challenging markets in the Middle East has produced and sold microbial divestment of Albumedix late 2017 impacted during the second half of 2018, a situation solutions for wastewater treatment revenue negatively by DKK ~150 million. The that is expected to continue in the first for a number of years. In 2018, divestment has no impact on organic sales half of 2019. We expect low-single-digit with the launch of BioSec®, we took growth. organic sales growth for the year, including another step toward cleaner, greener Our solutions contribute to reducing annualization of the Middle Eastern impact. wastewater for the world. aquatic pollution and improving Performance was weak across the various wastewater treatment. technical industries, as well as in Pharma. Read more about BioSec® in the Sales to the textile industry were below Read more about our article Every drop counts expectations, following weak performance in contributions to the SDGs the Middle East. Novozymes A/S The big picture 2018 in brief 12 In 2018, Novozymes generated value of Economic contribution DKK 14,480 million. 87% of this amount was returned to society. The remaining 13% was reinvested in Novozymes to develop the company, and ensure competitiveness and future value generation for distribution among Sales DKK 14,480 million Financial & other income key stakeholders. 99% 1% In addition to the 10% returned to capital providers, Novozymes bought back shares Generated worth DKK 2 billion in 2018. value A positive tax contribution Novozymes’ overall tax strategy and Capital Reinvested in transfer-pricing policy support a positive tax Suppliers providers Community Novozymes Employees contribution to society and governments in Distributed the countries in which Novozymes operates. value Novozymes continuously works to fulfill its tax obligations in the countries where it operates. We seek to obtain a competitive tax level in a fair and responsible way, and with full regard to national and international laws and regulations. Besides taxes, our economic contributions include duties, VAT, employee taxes, employee pension and benefit programs, procurement from local vendors and job creation. In 2018, Novozymes incurred corporate income taxes and other taxes and duties that came to 43% used to purchase goods and DKK DKK DKK 9% returned to the community by 25% used for employee wages, approximately DKK 1,250 million. In addition, Novozymes collected and withheld tax contributions on dividends and wages totaling services from our suppliers paying corporation tax, other pensions, etc. approximately DKK 1,250 million. Novozymes’ 10% in financial costs and taxes and duties 13% reinvested in Novozymes for total tax contribution therefore amounted to approximately DKK 2,500 million, compared with approximately DKK 2,750 million in 2017. dividends for our capital future value generation providers Novozymes A/S The big picture 2018 in brief 13 Key events 2018 February • N  ovozymeslaunchesInnova®Drive,the 2018 first product from our yeast platform. Innova® Drive is aimed at ethanol plants with short fermentation times May • Alterion®isapprovedforuseinEurope. The probiotic for poultry codeveloped with Adisseo is now available globally January • Henkel recognizes Novozymes with its BestSupplyPerformanceAward for2017 • A  geofBiology opens an art installation at Berlin Hauptbahnhof, Germany, using fungi provided by Novozymes April June • NovozymesopenstheInnovation& • KalundborgSymbiosisreceivestheWINWINGothenburg TechnologyCenterinIstanbul,Turkey. SustainabilityAwardforsustainableproduction. The center will cater to customers in the The Symbiosis is a partnership between Novozymes and Middle East and Africa seven other manufacturers in Kalundborg, Denmark Novozymes A/S The big picture 2018 in brief 14 October • Novozymes launches Innova® Lift, the second product from our yeast platform. Innova® Lift is aimed at ethanol plants with long fermentation times • The Prime Minister of Denmark, Lars Løkke Rasmussen, visits Novozymes' headquarters in the lead-up to the Partnering for Green Growth and the Global Goals 2030 (P4G) environmental summit in Copenhagen • For the third year in a row, Science Magazine ranks Novozymes among the top 3 science employers in the world December • Balancius™ receives DSM’s Innovation Award 2018 • Novozymes launches our first product for sludge dewatering, BioSec®, aimed at municipal wastewater treatment facilities September • DSM and Novozymes launch November Balancius™, a transformative • A new partnership is formed with Elanco innovation to improve nutritional Animal Health Inc. to develop nutritional uptake in poultry. Balancius™ health products for beef and dairy cattle enables farmers to use less feed to raise an animal Novozymes A/S The big picture 2018 in brief 15 Five-year summary DKK million 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Income statement Key ratios Revenue 14,390 14,531 14,142 14,002 12,459 Revenue growth, DKK % (1) 3 1 12 6 Gross profit 8,255 8,413 8,126 8,129 7,149 Revenue growth, organic % 4 4 2 4 7 EBITDA 5,158 5,114 4,960 5,011 4,400 R&D costs (% of revenue) % 13.0 13.2 13.2 13.5 14.8 Operating profit / EBIT 4,070 4,047 3,946 3,884 3,384 Gross margin % 57.4 57.9 57.5 58.1 57.4 Financial items, net (117) (157) (34) (257) (84) EBITDA margin % 35.8 35.2 35.1 35.8 35.3 Net profit 3,227 3,120 3,050 2,825 2,525 EBIT margin % 28.3 27.9 27.9 27.7 27.2 Effective tax rate % 18.0 19.5 21.4 22.0 23.0 Balance sheet Equity ratio % 58.1 61.3 62.9 65.2 61.2 Total assets 19,697 18,373 18,659 17,791 18,426 NIBD/EBITDA x 0.5 0.3 0.2 0.1 (0.2) Shareholders’ equity 11,438 11,267 11,745 11,593 11,280 Return on equity % 28.4 27.1 26.1 24.7 22.6 Invested capital 13,953 12,880 12,584 11,891 10,535 ROIC including goodwill % 24.2 25.6 25.1 25.9 23.1 Net interest-bearing debt 2,535 1,642 990 437 (716) WACC after tax % 6.6 6.5 6.5 5.3 3.7 Earnings per share (EPS), diluted DKK 11.03 10.49 10.06 9.12 8.02 Investments and cash flows Dividend per share (2018 proposed) DKK 5.00 4.50 4.00 3.50 3.00 Cash flow from operating activities 3,679 4,063 3,840 3,339 4,525 Key ratios have been prepared in accordance with The Danish Finance Society’s “Recommendations & Financial Ratios 2015 Nordic Edition” while certain key figures for the Novozymes Group has been Purchases of property, plant and equipment 1,332 1,593 1,076 968 703 prepared as described in the Glossary. Net investments excluding acquisitions* 1,388 1,665 1,188 1,015 715 Free cash flow before net acquisitions and securities 2,291 2,398 2,652 2,324 4,229 Environmental and social data Business acquisitions, divestments and purchase of financial assets 4 3 161 242 14 Total number of employees No. 6,427 6,245 6,441 6,485 6,454 Free cash flow 2,287 2,395 2,491 2,082 4,215 Rate of employee turnover % 8.8 11.9 10.4 9.1 8.1 * Excluding The BioAg Alliance impact in 2014. ​ requency of accidents with absence per F million working hours 2.4 1.6 2.2 2.5 1.7 Women in senior management % 30 26 25 24 23 Estimated CO2 reductions from customers’ Mill. application of Novozymes’ products tons 88 76 69 60 60 Novozymes A/S The big picture Five-year summary 16 Letter from the Board of Directors We have an obligation Some companies have the ability to transform industries and truly impact people’s lives. Novozymes is one such company. 2018 was a satisfactory year during which we made significant progress on our strategic journey. Novozymes A/S Letter from the Board of Directors As the world becomes increasingly politically Novozymes spends 13% of revenue on R&D. In 2018, the Board continued to support One of Novozymes’ top priorities for 2019 and polarized and some governments abandon As a Board, we support the decision to substantial investments in Novozymes’ future. beyond is to drive excellence in commercial sustainable initiatives, consumers look reinvest substantial amounts in the company In Lyngby, Denmark, we are building an execution and dialogue with customers. We to innovative companies to spearhead to ensure the development of more impactful innovation campus, which will be inaugurated want to improve our speed to market and sustainability. Novozymes produces and sells innovations such as Balancius™. Bringing new in summer 2019. In India, we look forward explore optimal routes to market in both biological solutions that enable customers innovations to market also drives revenue and to inaugurating our new production facilities emerging and developed markets. Together, to produce more from less. In essence, earnings growth. near Mumbai very shortly. We are also making the Board and the Executive Leadership every product we sell makes the world more improvements to production facilities in other Team will increasingly focus on and drive this sustainable. Satisfactory performance locations, to ensure that they remain up to agenda. We believe in the importance of being In 2018, we delivered on the financial outlook date and can continue delivering at very high led by science and of demonstrating that good With our extensive knowledge about parameters set out at the beginning of the capacity. business and sustainability can complement sustainable solutions, we see it as our year. Bioenergy delivered strong growth, and one another to benefit the planet and all our obligation to make sure that these solutions Food & Beverages was solid. Agriculture & Feed We want Novozymes to continue to be a stakeholders. reach as many industries and people as also contributed to growth, whereas sales to leading, growing and profitable bioinnovator possible. By expanding the reach of our the Household Care industry were flat. Overall, for many years to come. In 2019, Novozymes Thank you solutions, we can ensure that we achieve we delivered 4% organic sales growth and solid will launch a new strategy, and together with The Board would like to thank all of the sustainable impact we seek. At the same earnings and cash flow. This is satisfactory, the Executive Leadership Team, the Board Novozymes’ employees for their achievements time, we can grow our company and provide especially considering the negative impact looks forward to presenting our revised and dedication during the year. We look attractive returns for our shareholders. from challenging Middle Eastern markets. priorities in June. forward to making an even greater impact in 2019. When sustainability and business Events such as those relating to the Middle 2019: focus on commercial execution go hand in hand East are difficult to foresee, but nevertheless In 2019, we expect Novozymes to deliver In 2018, Novozymes brought several impactful impact the business. What is important is to 3-6% organic sales growth, an EBIT margin On behalf of the Board of Directors, innovations to market, enabling our customers remain vigilant regarding our surroundings and of 28-29% and an ROIC of around 23%. to increase the quality or consumer experience to take action when possible. Our guidance for 2019 reflects geopolitical of their products or processes, reduce their uncertainty such as the one in the Middle East, environmental footprint and increase their Investing in Novozymes’ future the future setup of the BioAg business as well profitability. Some of our new solutions even The Board actively engages in dialogue as volatile agricultural markets. have the potential for transformative change. regarding Novozymes’ strategy and how Jørgen Buhl Rasmussen this evolves, to ensure that the company In 2019, growth will come from more impactful Chairman To give just one example, Novozymes launched successfully achieves its targets and delivers innovation across businesses and a stronger Balancius™ in the fall of 2018 as part of our on its purpose. presence, especially in the emerging markets. feed alliance with DSM. Balancius™ is a novel These game-changing innovations will not only enzyme that improves gut functionality in Strategy was one of the key topics of our Board contribute to Novozymes’ topline, they will also broiler chickens. The product is so effective meeting in Bangalore, India, in June 2018, make the world more sustainable. Although that poultry farmers need 3% less feed to where we had the opportunity to meet with our outlook reflects uncertainties, our view on raise a chicken. Balancius™ not only benefits employees and gain insights into their work 2019 is positive. farmer economics, it also saves on the use of and the environment in which they operate. raw materials and energy, thus reducing CO2 emissions. Novozymes A/S The big picture Letter from the Board of Directors 18 Letter from the CEO Building sustainable growth during times of rapid change 2018 was a satisfactory year for Novozymes. Despite challenges in certain parts of the world, particularly the Middle East, we grew most of our markets and delivered 4% organic sales growth. This is in line with our guidance. We delivered solid earnings and satisfactory cash flow, and launched significant innovations that will contribute to future growth. In 2019, we plan to further strengthen our commercial execution power. Novozymes A/S The big picture Letter from the CEO 19 Letter from the CEO Novozymes performed well in 2018, once again We set ambitious sustainability targets performance. However, the current political Emerging markets bring opportunities for demonstrating the impact our solutions have accordingly. In 2018, our customers avoided and economic climate makes it challenging to growth on the world. Our innovation pipeline is strong, an estimated 88 million tons of CO2 emissions achieve a global consensus on solving broader To support growth in the years to come, we are and we are commercializing products from by applying our solutions. That corresponds societal challenges. continuing to step up our activities in emerging most of our priority innovation platforms. We to taking approximately 37 million cars off the markets. These markets hold significant support our innovations with solid investments road. In 2018, I joined the Board of Directors of potential, particularly within Household Care in commercial activities and an increased Partnering for Green Growth and the Global and Food & Beverages. presence in growth markets such as Southeast We met most of our operational sustainability Goals 2030 (P4G), a global network of leaders Asia and Africa. targets set for 2018; however, we did not meet and innovators from government, business and Driving growth in emerging markets requires a our CO2 emission reduction target due to civil society seeking breakthrough solutions good understanding of customers in the region We grew organic sales by 4% during the year product mix changes and an inability to source for green economic growth. I take part in such and of their consumers. In 2018, we opened and delivered strong earnings. The EBIT margin renewable energy for some of our production forums because we cannot change the world offices in Thailand, Indonesia, the Philippines came in at a solid 28.3%, and net profit grew sites. by ourselves. and Kenya. With these offices in place, we are by 3%. All these results were in line with the building more commercial execution power in financial outlook parameters set out at the Regrettably, we were unable to maintain last 2018: innovation for increased impact Southeast Asia and Africa. beginning of the year. This is satisfactory, year’s record-low number of occupational In 2018, we brought a total of eight impactful especially considering the negative Middle accidents with absence. 27 of our employees innovations to market across several We also opened the Novozymes Innovation Eastern impact. were injured at work in 2018, which translates innovation platforms. Let me briefly mention & Technology Center in Istanbul, Turkey. This to 2.4 accidents with absence per million a few of these. In animal health & nutrition, center will enable us to develop solutions Most of our industries contributed to growth, working hours. The wellbeing of employees is a we launched Balancius™ to help farmers tailored to the specific needs, trends and demonstrating the robustness of a business top priority, and we in the Executive Leadership produce more meat per chicken using less production processes of customers in the that spans several industries and geographies. Team will do our utmost to ensure that the feed. In BioAg, we launched Acceleron® B-360 Middle East and Africa. It features state-ofBioenergy performed particularly well, number of accidents is substantially reduced ST, a new corn inoculant for higher and more the-art facilities, including an industrial-scale supported by new innovations launched in going forward. sustainable yields. flatbread line, enabling customers to taste, feel 2018. Food & Beverages delivered solid growth, and smell flatbread baked with our solutions. Agriculture & Feed also grew, while sales to The world takes notice We added solutions for water to our list Household Care were flat. In 2018, the Executive Leadership Team spent of top-priority innovation platforms and In 2018, our freshness solution for Household time traveling the world meeting employees, subsequently launched an enzymatic product Care was launched in emerging markets. “Our innovation pipeline is strong, customers, investors, politicians, NGOs and for sludge dewatering, which is an important This is our most significant Household Care and we are commercializing other stakeholders, all of whom are important part of the wastewater treatment process. innovation in years and offers a whole new to Novozymes. And it was worth every minute. This new solution helps wastewater treatment dimension in clean. The feedback shows that products from most of our priority From these meetings, it is clear that, despite plants to reduce their chemical usage, energy this solution stands out and holds a great deal innovation platforms.” the challenges we are seeing in some of our consumption and overall disposal costs. of potential for the future, both in emerging markets, Novozymes has a very strong platform and developed markets. Novozymes’ key growth driver is delivering for future growth – and a purpose that We also launched two yeast solutions for innovative quality solutions that enable resonates with all of our stakeholders. Bioenergy. I am proud to see that these “Driving growth in emerging customers to increase the quality of their solutions are helping ethanol producers and markets requires a good products and their consumers’ experience It is exciting to work for a company where every have already had a positive impact on sales in understanding of customers in the using them, produce more from less and single product sold brings value to customers Bioenergy. improve their sustainability performance. and partners and improves their sustainability region and of their consumers.” Novozymes A/S The big picture Letter from the CEO 20 Letter from the CEO More innovation and supply perspectives Looking ahead We want to remain the undisputed leader in Over the past three years, Novozymes has In summary, I am pleased that our impactful bioinnovation for many years to come. We will identified and leveraged important synergies innovations are reaching markets with revise our priorities during the first half of 2019 between Research & Technology and Supply attractive value propositions and strong and look forward to launching a new strategy in Novozymes holds Operations. Innovation pipeline management sustainability impact, helping our customers June in connection with a Capital Markets Day. more than and investment allocation in our production to improve their processes and products facilities are becoming more complex. and produce more from less. Overall, we delivered within our guidance for 2018, despite Thank you On a final note, I would like to thank 6,500 To ensure that our innovation and supply challenging external factors. Novozymes’ employees for their dedication active and pending perspectives are represented to an even and passion for this company. patents greater extent within the Executive Leadership In 2019, we expect to increase sales organically Team, Claus Crone Fuglsang, Senior Vice by between 3 and 6%. Growth comes from Our employees want Novozymes to do well and President, Research & Technology, and Graziela innovation and increased market penetration, are strongly motivated to deliver sustainable Chaluppe dos Santos Malucelli, Senior Vice particularly in the emerging markets. New biological solutions. It is their ability to “rethink In 2018, total sales President, Supply Operations, will take part in game-changing solutions, such as freshness tomorrow” that makes us who we are. Their came to DKK million meetings. Furthermore, Claus Crone Fuglsang in laundry, Balancius™ for feed and yeast for hard work ensures that we are able to deliver has taken on the title of Chief Science Officer (CSO), reflecting the important role that Bioenergy, will make strong contributions to our topline – and make the world more incredible innovations and reach even more people around the world with our sustainable 14,390 Research & Technology plays in ensuring sustainable. Although the outlook reflects solutions. Every single day they go to work, that Novozymes delivers truly impactful uncertainties, our view on 2019 is positive. they contribute to creating better lives and innovations. setting the right direction for our world. In 2019, we will focus on increasing our Sales in emerging and This is testimony to the great work and results commercial execution power to show our developed markets that both Claus Crone Fuglsang and Graziela customers that we deliver the products, 35% Chaluppe dos Santos Malucelli have achieved service, quality, reliability and expertise that over the past few years. they expect and that make them stand out in Peder Holk Nielsen their markets. In addition, we will continue President & CEO Delivering on our ambitious targets to strengthen our commercial presence in Creating sustainable value for our key emerging markets. Only by being present stakeholders is what drives me and my in these markets can we engage with and colleagues to deliver every day. In 2018, enhance direct dialogue with our customers we made further progress on our long-term and build knowledge about the trends and sustainability targets. These targets are rooted needs our innovations must satisfy. We also in the UN Sustainable Development Goals continue to build digital competencies and (SDGs) and ensure that we always work toward increasingly use digital tools and new ways of 65% fulfilling our purpose of creating better lives in working, spanning R&D, production, routes to a growing world. market, administration and other functions. Developed markets Emerging markets Novozymes A/S 21 As a global market leader in biological solutions, we produce industrial This is Novozymes enzymes and microorganisms for a broad range of industries. An estimated 5.6 billion people use products made with our solutions on a weekly basis. From the clothes you wear to the food you eat and the ethanol that powers your car, Novozymes is there. Here are some examples of where Novozymes’ Where is Novozymes? We are everywhere – with natural, solutions make an impact. sustainable solutions to make lives better. Our enzymes remove tough stains and enable low-temperature washing, at the same time as protecting the Our solutions save fibers in clothes time, water and energy and reduce use of Our enzymes improve chemicals in textile e.g. softness and production freshness in bread production Novozymes’ wastewater portfolio makes wastewater treatment more efficient and In agriculture, our enzymes reduces use of chemicals increase crop yields, reduce use of chemicals and improve animal health, growth and feed utilization Laundromat Clothing 4 u Bakery Novozymes A/S The big picture This is Novozymes 22 With more than 6,400 employees 2/3 of worldwide investment on six continents, Novozymes is in enzyme development comes Since 2000, we have Our enzymes help create truly a global company. Here are from Novozymes brought more than 100 new the lactose-free and other “free-from” foods, among some facts you might not know molecules to market other things, that are in about Novozymes. increasing demand around Novozymes is headquartered in the world Denmark, and we have production More than 7% of employees sites in Denmark, the US, Brazil, have a PhD China, India, Argentina, Canada, and Germany Novozymes’ solutions improve the filtration and flavor of beer as well as optimizing the brewing process Our enzymes make the process of preparing, degreasing and tanning leather more efficient and sustainable Our enzymes improve efficiency in paper mills and help reduce use of chemicals Novozymes’ bioenergy solutions help fuel your car with biofuels from renewable sources, reducing CO2 emissions compared with gasoline The Brewing Bar Newsstand e Groc ries Shoes Novozymes A/S The big picture This is Novozymes 23 Novozymes and the Sustainable Development Goals Novozymes is the global market leader in biological solutions, producing a wide range of industrial enzymes and microorganisms. The intrinsically sustainable nature of Novozymes’ products enables us to contribute to many of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the UN General Assembly in 2015. Novozymes’ purpose and long-term targets are inspired by the SDGs. The sustainable nature of our solutions means that we contribute to achieving the SDGs every day. We assess the potential impact on the SDGs of all the projects in our innovation pipeline. This enables us to advance solutions that have the potential to have a high impact on the SDGs. In 2018, Novozymes set up the SDG Governance Board to build a shared understanding of SDG opportunities and risks, and to ensure that this knowledge is embedded in corporate strategy and targets. Below are six examples where Novozymes’ technology and actions can deliver significant contributions to the SDGs. See also “Novozymes and the global goals” for more details about how we contribute to the SDGs Novozymes A/S The big picture Novozymes and the Sustainable Development Goals 24 GLOBAL GOAL 2: ZERO HUNGER GLOBAL GOAL 7: AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY Many of Novozymes’ solutions contribute to enabling sustainable food production and resilient Novozymes supports the development of and actively promotes the increased use of agricultural practices. Together with our partners, we help farmers around the world to make renewable energy. Our solutions enable the development of low-carbon fuels in transportation, their production more sustainable and increase their productivity. Through The BioAg Alliance, which represents a significant share of the global energy mix. Novozymes is an active member Novozymes works to improve crop harvests using products containing naturally occurring of the UN Sustainable Energy for All (SE4All) initiative. In collaboration with WBCSD and other microbes. partners, we helped launch below50 – a partnership to promote the use of more sustainable low-carbon transportation fuels. We also provide animal health and nutrition products that enable the world’s poultry and swine farmers to produce more from less in a sustainable way. Many of our Food & Beverages Our vision is to bring together green technologies in a synergistic energy matrix. Read more solutions address specific food and nutrition challenges, for example lactose intolerance and about our vision and pathway for a global green energy matrix in the sustainability report. nutritious infant foods. In 2018, through our engagement with the Brazilian Association of Industrial Biotechnology (ABBI), we provided input for RenovaBio – a program designed to stimulate biofuel production and use in Brazil to help meet the country's commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Novozymes is committed to increasing the use of renewable energy in our own operations. In 2018, 23% of our energy came from renewable sources. GLOBAL GOAL 4: QUALITY EDUCATION GLOBAL GOAL 13: CLIMATE ACTION Education is a high priority for Novozymes. We believe that raising awareness about biology, Novozymes’ solutions help address climate change by enabling our customers to reduce their biotechnology and the environment will lead to more people adopting and developing CO2 emissions. We have set a target of saving 100 million tons of CO2 in 2020 through the sustainable solutions in the future. Novozymes aims to educate 1 million people about the application of our solutions. In 2018, our customers avoided an estimated 88 million tons of potential of biology by 2020. Since 2015, Novozymes has educated more than 612,000 CO2 emissions by applying our products – equivalent to taking approximately 37 million cars people about biology and how it enables a sustainable future, by engaging with local schools, off the road. universities and communities. Novozymes invests in increasing the share of renewable energy in our energy mix. We have In 2018, we conducted several educational activities aimed at external audiences. One said goodbye to coal-based energy at our largest production plant in Kalundborg, Denmark. In example is the Mobile Science Lab, which was set up by Novozymes as a step toward making addition, we have set an internal carbon price to evaluate our global portfolio of operational quality education accessible to remote schools and communities in the vicinity of Bangalore, eco-efficiency projects and drive decarbonization in our operations. India. GLOBAL GOAL 6: CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION GLOBAL GOAL 17: PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS Many of Novozymes’ solutions help customers to save water and reduce wastewater, for As part of our strategy Partnering for Impact, we partner with global and regional influencers, example in the production of textiles, leather and pulp & paper. We develop biological policymakers, industry organizations, academia and NGOs to promote the development solutions for wastewater treatment and sludge reduction for municipal and industrial of sustainable solutions. One of our long-term sustainability targets is to catalyze 5 global applications. partnerships for change. This means that we aim to form five high-impact partnerships by 2020 with public or private organizations that share our agenda and support Novozymes’ Through our open innovation platform HelloScience, Novozymes and pump manufacturer commercial activities. Novozymes also actively engages in other partnerships aimed at Grundfos explore the development of new solutions and partnerships to address water developing sustainable solutions, for example the Partnering for Green Growth and the Global challenges. Goals 2030 (P4G) initiative and the Bio-Based Industries partnership in Europe. In 2018, Novozymes launched BioSec®, which targets sludge dewatering in wastewater In 2018, Novozymes joined heads of state and leaders from business and civil society for the treatment. inaugural P4G summit convened to promote partnerships delivering inclusive growth and measurable progress on the SDGs. Novozymes A/S The big picture Novozymes and the Sustainable Development Goals 25 In the spotlight Enzymes catering An estimated 65% of the world’s population has to health trends some degree of lactose intolerance. Consumers are increasingly interested in foods that are healthier and more natural without compromising on taste. A t Novozymes, we believe that by “People perceive products with low levels of researching and anticipating trends in lactose and sugar to be better for them,” says the food and beverage industry, we can Andrew Fordyce, Executive Vice President, create solutions for the consumer concerns of Food & Beverages. “Saphera® helps producers In 2007, we introduced Acrylaway®, which “Enzymes can help producers make healthier today – and tomorrow. meet the lactose-free and reduced-sugar trends reduces the acrylamide content of foods fats without the use of harsh chemicals. Right at the same time.” commonly processed at high temperatures by now, Novozymes has a well-proven enzymatic This strategy has delivered on three key food as much as 95%. Legislation is now catching solution that producers are picking up on,” trends: the desire to reduce lactose, acrylamide Attacking acrylamide up with science and, in 2018, the European continues Andrew Fordyce. and trans fats. Many of the food products we eat every day, Union tightened regulations on acrylamide from cornflakes and biscuits to french fries, in food and beverages. Acrylaway® is used in Trend trackers Lowering lactose contain the substance acrylamide, which forms more than 30 countries today across a range of Macroand industry trends impact Novozymes According to the US National Laboratory of naturally when starchy foods are processed at industrially produced foods. and highlight the need for innovation and Medicine, an estimated 65% of the world’s high temperatures. strong positioning of our solutions. To ensure population has some degree of lactose Tricking trans fats long-term success, Novozymes monitors and intolerance. Novozymes has the solution. Despite occurring naturally, acrylamide has Who can resist crispy fries, crumbly cookies tracks macroand industry trends with the a dark side – it is a suspected carcinogen. or crunchy popcorn? But many fried foods potential to drive or hinder growth in each of In 2016, we launched Saphera®, an innovative Fortunately, Novozymes predicted the need and baked goods contain trans fats and, while our end markets. lactase that gives dairy product producers the to find solutions to the acrylamide problem we may crave them, they are unfortunately versatility to create high-quality, lactose-free several years ago. bad for our health. Legislation against trans products at the same time as cutting back on fats is catching up with food manufacturers. Read more about macrotrends in added sugar. Fortunately, there is a solution: enzymes. the Business model section Novozymes A/S The big picture In the spotlight 26 Our business Where Novoz we ma ymes’ ke a d solutio ifferen to sav ns con ce ing an tribute estima d tons o te f CO2 w d 88 million orldwid in 201 e 8. Macrotrends Business model that impact our business model Customers Partners Using Novozymes’ solutions, our customers As part of our Partnering for Impact can make their production processes more strategy, we form partnerships with other eﬃcient and sustainable. inﬂuential industry players. Distribution Transition to sustainable Novozymes’ products are delivered agriculture to customers in diﬀerent ways, Novozymes depending on the industry. Novozymes is the global market leader in biological solutions. Monetary streams Novozymes’ revenue comes from sales of enzymes and microorganisms. 13% of our Energy transition Commercial revenue is reinvested in R&D. execution Together we ﬁnd biological answers for better lives In-depth understanding of customer needs and operating environments enable us to market Innovation and sell impactful solutions. in a growing world Novozymes innovates and patents unique biological solutions to meet our Shifting demographics and – Let’s rethink tomorrow customers’ needs. urbanization Production An eﬀective global production setup enables us to produce high-quality enzymes and microorganisms. Water scarcity Technical services Novozymes’ technical service teams help our customers adopt innovations smoothly to ensure the expected value Quality and eﬀects. Suppliers Our trusted suppliers must Novozymes’ quality culture, balance reliability, quality and capabilities and systems ensure that we eﬃciency with a passion for Digitalization of the deliver high-quality biological solutions. sustainability and innovation. global economy Novozymes A/S Our business Business model 28 Our business is about turning science into sustainable biological solutions in a growing world. We use enzymes and microorganisms to unlock business opportunities. From enabling farmers to feed animals more efficiently to giving ethanol producers better control over difficult production processes, our innovations are paving the way for a better tomorrow. Our business model and our strategy form the Customers Innovation Fermentation is a core part of our production framework for how we use our resources to live Because we work so closely with our customers With R&D facilities in multiple regions and process. After recovering enzymes or microbes up to our purpose, meet our long-term goals and know that our products often have a commercial teams with strong insights into from the fermentation process, we prepare and develop meaningful partnerships. tremendous impact on their production different markets, we are able to identify them for use by our customers, either in the processes, we see them as partners. enzymes and microorganisms capable of form of liquids or granulates. We produce A model for sustainability meeting global and regional needs. More our enzymes and microbes at 16 plants on The very nature of our products means that By using Novozymes’ enzymatic and microbial than 23% of our employees work in R&D. four continents, and continuously endeavor sustainability is in our DNA as well as being solutions, our customers can save on costs and Every year, our researchers screen thousands to optimize and innovate our production a key part of both our value proposition and reduce the environmental footprint of their of microorganisms to track down the one processes to ensure that we get the most out business model. products and processes. Our solutions have the that produces the enzyme with the exact of our production capacity. Thanks to these potential to lower the need for raw materials, characteristics we need for a specific product. efforts, our capacity utilization is very high. We believe that it is important to optimize our conserve resources and improve product Most of our products take between two and use of resources and minimize our footprint, quality and effectiveness. five years to progress from idea to market. Suppliers which is why we set targets for reducing By using an efficient supplier management resource consumption and CO2 emissions. Excellent results are achieved by working We have anchored our specialized application system, we support and encourage our From the moment we enter into agreements closely with our customers to gain a deeper development units in the commercial side of suppliers to apply the same rigorous standards with our suppliers and partners through to the understanding of their needs and those of their our organization within the Household Care & to their processes as we do. We work closely production process and beyond, sustainability consumers. That is how we develop solutions Technical Industries, Agriculture & Bioenergy with them to innovate and implement is a key priority. that enable customers to enhance their impact. and Food & Beverages divisions. This creates responsible and sustainable solutions. a strong connection between the commercial And our customers appreciate this. Combining Partners side and R&D. The result is a solid pipeline of Quality our innovative products with a strong Our Partnering for Impact strategy drives us impactful products with the characteristics our At Novozymes, we pride ourselves on our highsustainability ethos creates the kind of to seek out and build meaningful partnerships customers are looking for. quality solutions, services and processes. Our differentiator that our customers value. with other influential industry players, for close relationships with our customers allow us example Monsanto (now Bayer) as part of A Portfolio Board manages the R&D pipelines to anticipate and understand their needs and, We also demonstrate our commitment to green The BioAg Alliance, and DSM and Adisseo in and prioritizes funding across Novozymes’ consequently, deliver the quality expected of solutions by estimating the annual impact Animal Health & Nutrition. divisions. This board ensures that the us. savings from our customers’ applications of innovations we bring to market have strategic our products. These partnerships enable Novozymes to and financial impact, and that they help us to Continuous monitoring and improvement are explore and enter new business areas faster deliver on the SDGs. an integral part of our quality system and a From the moment they were established in and more efficiently by combining our strong cornerstone of how we advance the products 2015, the UN Sustainable Development Goals innovation know-how and manufacturing Production and services we offer our customers. (SDGs) have been integral to our business. expertise with our partners’ strong skills In order to produce large quantities of These goals guide our purpose and our longin areas such as screening, testing, data enzymes, we use fermentation techniques term targets. processing and commercialization. that enable our microorganisms to multiply. Novozymes A/S Our business Business model 29 Technical services presenting new products to existing and new Our technical service teams set us apart from markets. the competition because they optimize product use and make the necessary adjustments Traditionally, we market most of our products tailored to the needs of individual customers. in direct interaction with customers, but This ensures that our customers realize the digital go-to-market strategies are becoming value they expect. increasingly important, and we are constantly looking to optimize how we make customers Our service does not come to an end when aware of the benefits of our products and our teams leave the customer’s plant. The knowledge our teams gain from working closely services. We are available and open for dialogue through social media, at trade events Novozymes’ SDG with customers feeds back into our product and via our owned digital channels such as Governance Board pipeline and goes into improving future Novozymes.com. In 2018, Novozymes established the SDG innovations. In this way, our relationships with Governance Board to build a shared customers are key to measuring our progress Distribution understanding of the opportunities and risks and helping us to rethink tomorrow. Distribution of Novozymes’ products differs associated with the UN Sustainable Development from one industry to the next. In Bioenergy and Goals (SDGs) and to translate this knowledge Commercial execution Household Care, most products are dispatched into corporate priorities and targets. The SDG Every interaction we have with our customers is directly from Novozymes to our customers. Governance Board consists of an Impact Board an opportunity to learn more about their needs Within Agriculture & Feed, distribution is and a Foundation Board. and engage in dialogue about our solutions. carried out by our industry partners. Food & We leverage this in-depth understanding of our Beverages and Technical markets are more customers’ products and production processes fragmented, with a mixed distribution setup. when selling our enzymes and microorganisms, because we know exactly how our solutions Monetary streams can make a difference to the customer. Take Novozymes’ revenue comes from sales of Bioenergy as an example. Here we provide enzymes and microorganisms. Product prices tailored solutions to ethanol plants where include the cost of technical services. Impact Board Foundation Board we supplement the technology we sell with technical know-how, bringing additional value Around 13% of our sales revenue is reinvested The Impact Board sets Novozymes’ The purpose of the Foundation Board to the customer. in R&D, benefiting both product innovation and strategic global direction and ambition is to provide the internal foundation for production economy. Novozymes’ largest costs in respect of the SDGs. The board also ensuring that Novozymes’ sustainability With facilities such as our Innovation are direct production costs and R&D. develops and executes a strategy for performance in our operations, supply and Technology Center in Turkey and our integrating sustainability into business chain and other functions allows us to Detergent Design Center in India, we are able When it comes to shareholder returns, we strategies and management processes. build on and maintain our sustainability to showcase to customers exactly how our have a target dividend payout ratio of around leadership position. products work for their specific product or 50%. We also conduct regular share buyback The Impact Board consists of the Executive industry. The close proximity to customers in programs to provide returns for investors. Leadership Team as well as a number of The Foundation Board consists of these regions is also a great advantage when SVPs and VPs from different areas of the SVPs and VPs representing a variety of business. Novozymes’ functions. Novozymes A/S Our business Business model 30 Macrotrends that impact our business Novo z five g ymes has lobal ident macr i the p oten otren fied tial t ds w o ith busin impact ou ess. r Novozymes’ growth and long-term success are influenced by developments around the world that translate into global macrotrends. Some Transition to sustainable agriculture Energy transition of these trends present potential opportunities while others present potential risks, all of which inform and shape our innovation and operational strategies. A growing population, shifting consumer preferences Rapid urbanization and a growing population are driving and climate change-related supply chain disruptions up demand for electricity, heat and transportation. The are putting increased pressure on global food supplies. global movement toward a low-carbon economy and Description At the same time, agriculture is in competition for land the fight against climate change are triggering a major with other uses (e.g. urbanization). For these reasons, shift in the global energy system. The cost of renewable the agricultural sector is seeing growing demand for new energy is falling, and the world is increasingly exploring and innovative sustainable food production solutions. low-carbon alternatives to fossil fuels. Many of Novozymes’ solutions are making a significant Novozymes’ response to the global energy transition contribution to the transition to sustainable agriculture, is supported by our commitment to increase the share Our response and this remains a key focus area for innovation. of renewables in our energy mix as well as by our Bioenergy solutions, which address the need for lowto the trend carbon alternatives in the transportation sector, which is still heavily dependent on fossil fuels. Balancius™: A natural biological solution developed below50: Novozymes is a founding member of Example by Novozymes in partnership with DSM for improved this global campaign to reduce emissions in the chicken gut health, reducing the amount of feed transportation sector by increasing demand for required to raise an animal by 3%. sustainable fuels. Novozymes A/S Our business Business model 31 Shifting demographics and urbanization Water scarcity Digitalization of the global economy The global economy is currently driven by three key Global demand for clean water is expected to outstrip Digitalization is transforming the world we live in – from demographic factors: rapid urbanization, a growing supply by 2030, aggravated by climate change-related the fabric of society to markets and businesses. This middle class in emerging economies and an aging weather crises and severe pollution. Several regions disruptive technology enables companies to adopt new Description population in most developed economies. Patterns of the world are experiencing severe water crises. ways of manufacturing, boosts production efficiencies of consumption are also becoming more varied and Governments are responding with stricter regulation and increases the agility and customization of their complex, particularly with the widening socioeconomic and surveillance of water management practices, products and solutions. gap. Consumer-based markets are looking for which is driving demand for solutions that reduce sustainable solutions that can keep pace with these water consumption, increase efficiencies and improve shifts. wastewater quality. Novozymes is partnering with our customers to develop Novozymes is exploring the feasibility of using Novozymes is focused on meeting customer needs tailor-made solutions to address these changing biotechnological solutions to address key challenges better, faster and in a more impactful way through Our response consumer needs effectively. within water and wastewater treatment. We already industry-leading digital capabilities. have a number of wastewater solutions in our portfolio, to the trend with more expected from our innovation pipeline. Progress® In: Novozymes’ first product designed HelloScience: An open innovation platform, launched DigiPro: A project that uses data analytics to improve Example specifically for the broad market of unpenetrated in partnership with UNICEF and pump manufacturer yields, particularly from our fermentation and recovery detergents and to help detergent producers in emerging Grundfos, with the purpose of finding new answers to processes – which are vital stages in the production of markets develop better detergents. some of the world’s most pressing water challenges. enzymes. Novozymes A/S Our business Business model 32 Innovation pipeline update Area Innovation Feasibility Discovery Development Launch Commercial successfully together with DSM. The Household Care Freshness solutions for laundry detergents development with Bayer of new transformative microbes for corn, soybeans and wheat Household Care Tailored emerging-market solutions resulted in the launch of the Acceleron® B-360 ST (BioRise 2) corn inoculant. Food & Beverages Vegetable oil processing Food & Beverages Grain milling In Bioenergy, the market for second-generation ethanol has not developed as expected over Agriculture & Feed Animal health the past years, but we remain positive about the future and the potential for Novozymes to Agriculture & Feed New transformative BioAg solutions contribute to a more sustainable world through Bioenergy Biomass conversion second-generation ethanol. Our enzymatic technology for biomass conversion is ready to Technical Solutions for water be commercialized as soon as the market for second-generation ethanol is ready. Arrows denote progress over the past 12 months. In Technical, we were able to launch the first Novozymes’ innovation pipeline features In 2018, progress was made across most In Food & Beverages, we saw good product from the water platform as early as in more than 120 research projects across the programs – three of which resulted in product development within the grain-milling program the fourth quarter of 2018, despite only adding business, with many more active leads. Our launches. with the continued rollout of Frontia®, a “solutions for water” as a new innovation divisional structure is enabling us to bring new solution enabling grain-milling processors to program in 2017. Our new enzyme technology innovation to the market at a higher rate than In Household Care, the first product from obtain significantly more starch and gluten enables wastewater plants to reduce the ever, at the same time as leveraging significant the freshness platform is now available on during the grain fiber-milling process, yet water content of their sludge – a by-product cross-segment R&D synergies. supermarket shelves in the Philippines as well with lower water and energy consumption. In of wastewater cleaning. This helps plants to as in other markets. Our freshness solution vegetable oil processing, we ramped up our reduce chemical usage, energy consumption The table shows the eight priority innovation delivers completely new functionality, meaning trialing activity for Palmora®, which improves and overall disposal costs. This technology platforms, each with revenue potential that consumers can experience cleaner and yield and process performance in palm oil brings significant benefits to wastewater of DKK 500 million or more. These areas fresher clothes. Available exclusively to one production by reducing viscosity and improving operators and to the environment. We are represent significant market-expanding growth of our largest customers, this is only the first the separation of oil from the palm fruit pulp. exploring the feasibility of biotechnological opportunities, most with the potential to product to emerge from this platform. The solutions that target key challenges within impact the world in a sustainable way, enabling overall potential of the freshness platform is In Agriculture & Feed, both innovation water and wastewater treatment, as we see us to live up to our purpose of delivering expected to be in the region of DKK 1 billion, platforms progressed according to plan. The the water treatment space as an exciting biological answers for better lives in a growing and we are already off to a very good start. animal health platform covers a broad portfolio opportunity for Novozymes to leverage our world. of projects – including Balancius™ for improved core technologies to help address one of the chicken gut health, which we launched world’s most pressing challenges. Novozymes A/S Our business Business model 33 In the spotlight Every drop counts You are in the shower. Probably for a little longer than you would like to admit. You are enjoying the hot water and just cannot seem to muster up the resolve to step out of the shower. Ever wonder what happens to the water after it disappears down the drain? M ost likely, it ends up in a municipal In December 2018, Novozymes launched wastewater treatment facility to be BioSec® to help wastewater facilities improve cleaned and then released into a their sludge dewatering, reducing their nearby river, bay or ocean. chemical usage, energy consumption and overall disposal costs. From sludge to clean water Technical Industries. “The first results are “BioSec® was developed in close collaboration The process of cleaning our wastewater results The magic of enzymes very promising, and we’re receiving positive with a number of potential customers, and in a by-product called sludge. Municipalities Enzymes have a natural ability to transform one feedback from the plant. In an industry that we’re grateful for their willingness to test need to dispose of large volumes of sludge substance into another. In the case of sludge, focuses on cost reduction and sustainability, an it and share the results with us, so that we every year, but it still holds a lot of water at enzymes work to break down particles in the innovative biological dewatering solution can could optimize it along the way,” continues this stage. This makes disposal more expensive water that make it difficult for chemicals to make a profound difference.” Jens Kolind. “While initial sales are expected and also means that significant resources are bond with the sludge solids. As a result, facilities to be limited, we’re excited about the launch, needed to transport and dispose of it. are able to use fewer chemicals, making the Working with customers for as it brings significant benefits to wastewater process less energy intensive. The volume of a successful launch operators and to the environment.” Dewatering sludge in wastewater treatment sludge also decreases, lowering disposal costs. When Novozymes prepares for the launch facilities can be an expensive affair, and of a new product such as BioSec®, close today’s dewatering solutions are not very “We’ve conducted some trials of our new collaboration with customers that are willing effective. Energy consumption, disposal costs product with a large treatment facility in to test the new solution at full scale is key to Read more about Novozymes’ and the use of chemicals all add up. Denmark,” says Jens Kolind, Vice President, success. wastewater solutions on Novozymes.com Novozymes A/S Our business In the spotlight 34 Strategy Novozymes’ four strategic focus areas At Novozymes, we are committed, together with our partners, to building a more sustainable future – and making an impact on our customers, consumers and the world. To reinforce this Rally for change commitment, we have defined a purpose and a strategy that We will form partnerships and networks with customers, consumers, governments, suppliers, academia and others guide us in a clear direction as the market leader in biological around us to make a sustainable difference. solutions. Taking on global challenges is the one we have with our customers. Our As the world grows, so do the needs of the solutions are often an integral element of people living in it. But how can we improve the their production processes. Enzymes and Lead innovation living standards of a growing population with microorganisms enable more sustainable We will inspire and excite our customers by delivering more limited resources? At Novozymes, our business and efficient production, and are often the significant innovation, tailored to their local markets. is about turning science into sustainable ingredients that allow our customers to stand biological answers in a world with growing out from the competition. needs. By working with the environmental and Our purpose – “Together we find biological economic realities facing us and our partners, answers for better lives in a growing world we can help create tangible and sustained – Let’s rethink tomorrow” – is engrained in impacts, including optimized processes, Focus on opportunities how we work and innovate, and it serves as breakthrough products, improved profitability We will prioritize the customers, markets and activities the foundation for our collaboration with and reduced environmental footprint. that hold the biggest opportunities for creating impact. customers, governments, academia and other institutions. With partnerships at its center, our strategy sets out the four focus areas that enable us to All in it together fulfill our purpose. We call our strategy “Partnering for Impact.” Partnerships are key to our success. Only by “Together we find biological engaging in deep-rooted collaborations with Grow people answers for better lives in a others can we make a profound impact on the We want to be better at enabling our employees to growing world – Let’s rethink world. develop their professional and leadership skills. tomorrow.” As far as Novozymes is concerned, mutual benefits and obligations are essential for successful partnerships. One such partnership Novozymes A/S Our business Strategy 35 Rally for change Lead innovation Focus on opportunities Grow people In 2018, Novozymes continued to work 2018 saw Novozymes flex its innovation muscle Novozymes’ strategy has helped us to In 2018, we continued to build on successful with like-minded organizations to promote with diverse and remarkable solutions tailored strengthen our presence in key markets and initiatives from 2017. Teach for Tomorrow, a sustainable growth. Novozymes was invited to our customers’ needs. focus on regional innovation. In 2018, we program encouraging Novozymes’ employees to participate in the UN General Assembly for opened the Innovation and Technology Center to teach biology lessons in local elementary the fifth time. Novozymes’ CEO, Peder Holk In Bioenergy, we launched two products from in Istanbul, Turkey, ensuring that we stay close schools, entered its second year. This time Nielsen, took this opportunity to engage in our new yeast platform: Innova® Drive and to our customers in the region and develop round, our employees shared their knowledge dialogue with key influencers and reinforce our Innova® Lift. For decades, the yeast strains solutions based on a deep understanding of of good bacteria to ignite a passion for science commitment to achieving the UN Sustainable used in the starch-based ethanol industry have their needs. in young children. Development Goals (SDGs). remained broadly unchanged. The majority of ethanol plants face operational problems The 700 m2 center focuses on baking Innovation is the fuel that drives us, and we As part of his leadership role in supporting related to yeast, which is negatively impacted technologies and features state-of-thewant to ensure that our employees adopt the SDGs, Peder Holk Nielsen was the lead by high temperatures, infections and organic art, locally relevant facilities, including an healthy practices that leave space for them business delegate at the P4G – Partnering acids. With the Innova® platform, Novozymes industrial-scale flatbread line. The center gives to grow and for ideas to flourish. Our new for Green Growth and the Global Goals 2030 has introduced a brand new yeast strain never customers and partners in the Middle East initiative, Brain Space, provides employees meetings in October 2018. seen before in the ethanol industry. The yeast and Africa easier access to our regional R&D with inspiration and tools to care for their brain has the characteristics plant operators have and marketing expertise, allowing us to build health and thrive in a fast-paced digital work The Kalundborg Symbiosis received the WIN been calling for, such as robustness, without on these partnerships even more and improve environment. Among other things, employees WIN Gothenburg Sustainability Award 2018 the need for major process changes. our commercial execution power in growth are encouraged to rethink the meeting culture for sustainable production. The Symbiosis is markets. and their smartphone habits. a partnership between Novozymes and seven In Agriculture, we launched Balancius™ other public and private companies involved together with our partner DSM. Balancius™ We also opened our Textile Application Our Lead the Way leadership program has in manufacturing in Kalundborg, Denmark. is a natural biological feed additive that will Center in Bangalore, India, to support the inspired other companies, and in May we were The companies share their production waste help chicken farmers raise flocks that absorb growing textile industry in the region. We pride delighted to welcome 70 guests from leading so that others in the partnership can use nutrients better and grow more efficiently. ourselves on our technical service offering to Danish companies, all wanting to learn how them as resources in their own manufacturing Balancius™ belongs to the enzyme class called local customers, and the center will enhance we use the program to support our leaders processes. muramidases and is the world’s first enzyme to our technical service capabilities and near-toto live our values and drive engagement and improve gut functionality in broiler chickens. market innovation. performance at work. HelloScience, Novozymes’ open innovation The product is being launched in the US and initiative, took another step forward in terms Latin America to begin with, and a global of collaboration. In October 2018, HelloScience rollout is expected in 2019-2020. announced that Novozymes, Grundfos and NX Filtration BV would be joining forces to We also launched BioSec® for sludge develop a new solution to remove pesticides dewatering in wastewater treatment. BioSec® from drinking water using enzymes, water is the first product from our “solutions for technology and membranes. water” innovation platform. Novozymes A/S Our business Strategy 36 Risk management Key risks 2019 This report shows five key risks that may impact Novozymes in 2019. The risks are: Competition and market consolidation; Volatility of agriculture-related business; Cyberattacks; Disruption of The BioAg Alliance; and Global political and Novozymes faces a diverse range of risks and uncertainties. economic instability. Some can materialize within a short space of time, whereas others could emerge more gradually. Continuously strengthening risk management is key to Novozymes’ operations and plans Risk assessment heat map for profitable growth. Our risk management process reduces and the likelihood of that risk materializing. uncertainty and keeps us on track to achieve The most significant risks are reviewed and Disruption of our ambitions and deliver value to our assessed by the Executive Leadership Team The BioAg stakeholders. Our aim is to identify and and the Board of Directors, who are also Volatility of Global political Alliance mitigate all risks as early as possible in order to responsible for reviewing the effectiveness agricultureand economic reduce their likelihood and impact. of the risk management and internal control related business instability processes throughout the year. Novozymes’ The Board of Directors has overall Risk Management & Controls department responsibility for overseeing risks and for is responsible for identifying risks. The Probability maintaining a robust risk management and department also ensures that the senior Competition internal control system. The Board recognizes management promotes risk awareness, Cyberattacks and market the importance of identifying and actively engagement and ownership across the consolidation monitoring all of the most pressing risks as organization. Our vice presidents are well as the longer-term threats, trends and responsible for mitigating all risks relevant to challenges facing our business. their respective areas of responsibility. Risk management framework Risk assessment Novozymes operates an Enterprise Risk Four of the key enterprise risks for 2019 are Management (ERM) process whereby the identical to those identified for 2018. The risk key risks facing the company are identified, regarding Loss of knowledge has been changed assessed and mitigated at different levels to Cyberattacks to reflect the importance of of the organization. We monitor most risks the latter. In addition, “Global political and by means of half-yearly reviews. However, economic instability” has been added as a risk at times, some risks require more frequent for 2019. This was previously identified as an Potential impact updates. emerging risk. Risks are assessed based on a two-dimensional heat map rating system that estimates the impact of a risk on financials and reputation, See Note 5.1 for information on financial risk factors and risk management Novozymes A/S Our business Risk management 37 Risk management Key enterprise risks for 2019 Competition and market consolidation Volatility of agriculture-related business Cyberattacks Disruption of The BioAg Alliance Novozymes’ market-leading position could Agriculture-related markets are inherently It is extremely important to Novozymes to Bayer’s acquisition of Monsanto continues to be challenged by competition from existing volatile on account of weather conditions, safeguard sensitive business information entail uncertainty for The BioAg Alliance, in and potential new competitors. Consolidation harvest quality, commodity prices, political and critical assets against the global threat which Novozymes and Monsanto are partners. among competitors creates larger-scale mandates for ethanol blends and so on. In of theft. The risk of collateral damage from The uncertainty relates to the future of the players. addition, the ongoing geopolitical uncertainty cyberwarfare or targeted attacks from Alliance model. could add to the volatility of the industry. cybercriminals is on the rise, due to rapid Potential impact digital advancements, the geopolitical situation Potential impact Increased competition could come from Potential impact and a lack of regulations and laws. A merged Bayer–Monsanto could expand enzyme manufacturers offering new solutions Agricultural markets remained somewhat the reach of The BioAg Alliance and the or from new players with broader technology uncertain in 2018. If the volatility of the Potential impact opportunities available to it. However, there platforms. With increased digitalization, agricultural markets and poor global farm Business opportunities with new or existing is an element of uncertainty and risk if competition could also relate to how solutions economics persist, this could challenge our customers could suffer greatly if information Bayer is not committed to, and successful in, are implemented in customer production. value proposition and profitability in the about Novozymes’ unique technologies or driving and prioritizing this business area to Although consolidation can make the market industry. Without political support, the ethanol production strains is stolen. Cybercrime and reach its full potential. There could also be a more stable, it could also increase competitors’ industry could be further challenged, putting hacker attacks could also negatively impact risk if business is transitioned to a different financial strength and bargaining power. pressure on Novozymes’ profitability. In terms Novozymes if systems or privileged accounts collaboration model, although this would of geopolitical uncertainty, higher import tariffs are inaccessible for a long period. probably unlock other opportunities as well. Mitigation on agricultural crops, for example, could lead We continuously compete with other enzyme to acreage being further reduced, particularly Mitigation Mitigation manufacturers through enhanced go-to-market in North America, where there is relatively high Our more than 6,500 granted or pending Novozymes’ shorter-term focus is to ensure strategies and tactics. We are accelerating dependency on exports. patents act as our defense against successful launches of biological solutions regional innovation and establishing infringement by competitors. In addition on Bayer’s (Monsanto’s) corn seed, starting in stronger local commercial teams. Introducing Mitigation to the new security initiatives implemented 2019. transformative innovations ensures that our We are mindful of the ongoing geopolitical in 2018, we will continue our efforts to product portfolio stands out. uncertainty and, as we move through 2019, mitigate cyberrisks through our updated Novozymes is engaged in close dialogue we will keep a close watch on US ethanol security strategy, strengthened IT enterprise with Bayer on exploring the best possible We are also increasing investments in inventories and prices as well as on certain architecture and stronger focus on IT collaboration model for both companies for the digitalization projects linking areas such as crop prices. Substantial R&D investments governance. future. R&D, production, sales and finance, with the enable us to develop even better solutions for aim of further strengthening our competitive improving yield and profitability. Our animal profile and profitability. health portfolio is continuing to grow, and we now have two yeast products that will cement our position as a technology leader in biofuels. Novozymes A/S Our business Risk management 38 Global political and economic instability The risk of political and economic instability Mitigation was categorized as an emerging risk going into Novozymes closely monitors political 2018. However, with developments during the developments and macroand microeconomic year, we now see a high risk of continued and indications so as to be able to respond quickly potentially greater instability in 2019. 2018 to any adverse developments. also saw rapidly changing trade conditions, for example the imposition of tariffs, making it We actively engage in global forums on difficult to mitigate risks. sustainability to maintain focus on the benefits of globalization and shared commitments, Potential impact and we continuously remind the world of the Growing volatility in the global economy and importance of safeguarding a sustainable political instability could impair business future. growth, not only for Novozymes but also in general. Polarization and trade protectionism can make it more difficult for leaders to agree and work to strengthen global and regional institutions and networks. They also work against globalization generally and pose a risk to the global consensus on climate change and sustainable development. Adverse economic conditions, such as those seen in the Middle East in 2018, may result in reduced consumer demand and increased price sensitivity among customers and consumers, while political changes may disrupt our operations and, ultimately, our sales. There is also a risk of exchange rate fluctuations and insolvency of customers, partners and suppliers. Novozymes A/S 39 Risk management Mitigating actions taken related to the key risks identified for 2018 Competition and market consolidation Volatility of agriculture-related business Loss of knowledge Disruption of The BioAg Alliance In 2018, Novozymes defended our marketIn 2018, we continued our substantial R&D In 2018, safeguarding knowledge and ability The BioAg Alliance, Novozymes’ partnership leading position by launching new innovations investments that enable us to develop new and to operate, especially against cyberattacks, with Bayer (Monsanto) continued to progress in and optimizing go-to-market strategies for even better solutions for improving yield and remained critical. 2018. The Alliance’s third codeveloped product, products that had already been launched, to profitability, aimed at the agriculture-related Acceleron® B-360 ST, was launched under the ensure uptake by a wider group of customers. businesses. Novozymes continued our efforts to mitigate brand BioRise 2. In addition, Novozymes further optimized our cyberrisks through our updated security legal track for potential intellectual property Through The BioAg Alliance, we launched strategy, a strengthened IT enterprise In 2018, Novozymes’ key priority was to ensure rights infringement, particularly in emerging Acceleron® B-360 ST, which promotes architecture, cyberthreat quick fixes and the continued success of The BioAg Alliance, markets. symbiosis between microbes and corn plants stronger IT governance. especially in a period of uncertainty and to strengthen root systems and increase plants’ change for our partner. Bayer’s acquisition of In 2018, Novozymes launched a new, access to nutrients. Under the brand name We also continued our active patent strategy Monsanto closed in the summer of 2018, and transformative innovation, Balancius™. BioRise 2, this technology will be used in by protecting discoveries, production strains, we are in close dialogue with Bayer exploring Transformative innovations set Novozymes combination with Acceleron® B-300 SAT. formulations and relevant know-how. Actions how to best reap mutual benefits from apart from our competitors, as they have a continued to be taken to secure Novozymes’ continued collaboration within the BioAg area. profound impact on industries and, often, on In Bioenergy, we launched two products from assets through a global information security people’s lives. As the first-ever enzyme for our new yeast platform: Innova® Drive and strategy, perimeter protection, access control poultry gut health, Balancius™ pushes industry Innova® Lift. For decades, the yeast strains and so on. boundaries. used in the starch-based ethanol industry remained largely unchanged. The majority of Throughout the year, advancements in our all ethanol plants face operational problems freshness platform also helped mitigate threats related to yeast, which is impacted by high from competitors in Household Care. Our temperatures, infections and organic acids. efforts to speed up our innovation pipeline and get closer to customers also paid off, with the In animal health, we expanded our offerings launch of new, tailored solutions. within natural growth promotion, for example through our alliance with Boehringer In 2018, we further prioritized and invested in Ingelheim. In addition to ensuring that our digitalization. A Digital Transformations team offerings were competitive, we also monitored was set up. competitor pricing in the industry to ensure that our products delivered an optimal price/ performance ratio. We partnered with some of the key players in the agriculture-related markets, such as DSM in the feed alliance and Bayer (Monsanto) in The BioAg Alliance. Novozymes A/S Our business Risk management 40 Risk management Looking beyond 2019 In addition to short-term risks, Novozymes Concerns about new technology Water-constrained future identifies emerging risks capable of affecting There is growing consumer demand for health, Global demand for water is expected to our business in the longer term (three years wellness and natural products and, conversely, outstrip supply by 2030. Rising demand, and beyond). These risks are determined tighter regulatory control on the biotechnology combined with the decline in the availability through our enterprise risk management and chemical sectors. Over the coming years, of clean water, is exacerbating the water process and integrated trendspotting exercise. we expect to see an acceleration in technology situation. Many parts of the world are We evaluate and monitor these long-term and further significant innovation in these experiencing, or expecting, extreme water risks and assess their potential to impact areas. crises in the form of severe droughts, floods our business and growth. To help us prepare and declining water quality caused by for addressing these risks, we engage with Consumers are more health conscious and pollution. Governments are responding with relevant key stakeholders to develop long-term vocal in expressing growing concerns about stricter regulation, and companies are driving strategies. the intended and unintended consequences action through various corporate-led initiatives of biotechnology and genetic engineering (e.g. the CEO Water Mandate and AgWater In an evolving risk landscape, one of our on society. Governments are increasingly Challenge). emerging risks from 2018 – Global political and scrutinizing issues related to environmental economic instability – has become even more and human health risks, bioethics, gene Novozymes is committed to sustainable water pertinent in the short term, and this risk has technology and intellectual property rights. management within our own operations and therefore been moved to our list of key risks across the value chain. We invest in improving for 2019. Novozymes recognizes the need to improve our water efficiency. Investments are being the general level of knowledge about made to develop a more comprehensive We are currently closely monitoring a number biotechnology and genetic engineering. We overview of water consumption at all of our of emerging risks, among which the following find safe and sustainable answers to some of sites, and this will enable us to improve water two have been assessed to be of greatest the planet’s most pressing challenges – and as efficiency. Besides the risk that this issue poses relevance for Novozymes. Some emerging we explore the increased use of biotechnology, to our operations, increasing demand for clean risks also pose opportunities for a business we will continue to engage in and push for water solutions also serves as an opportunity such as Novozymes, due to our strong focus open dialogue about the consequences of for our business. Clean Water & Sanitation is on sustainability and innovative solutions, for biotechnology with stakeholders. one of Novozymes’ core contributions to the example within the food & nutrition space and SDGs. wastewater treatment. Novozymes A/S 41 Targets Our long-term sustainability targets We measure progress on our purpose and strategic focus areas against nine long-term financial and nonfinancial targets. These ambitious targets reflect our belief that our biological solutions REACH can have a profound positive impact on the world. 6 billion people with our solutions by 2020 Our long-term targets guide us toward our the first companies to link its business targets Leases). The ROIC target excludes the impact overall goal of helping the world become more to the SDGs. The opportunity to provide of potential acquisitions. sustainable, at the same time as ensuring solutions to these global challenges translates EDUCATE Novozymes’ continued growth and value into business opportunities for Novozymes For 2019 specifically, we expect to increase 1 million people about creation. and strong partnerships with like-minded organic sales by 3-6%. Growth comes from stakeholders. innovation and increased market penetration, the potential of biology Balancing financial, social and environmental particularly in the emerging markets. New from 2015 to 2020 aspects Long-term financial targets game-changing solutions, such as freshness Novozymes seeks to generate economic, Novozymes’ long-term financial targets in laundry, Balancius™ for feed and yeast for CATALYZE environmental and social value. This is the expire at the end of 2019. They reflect our Bioenergy, will make strong contributions triple bottom line approach we have always commitment to deliver economic value to our topline – and make the world more 5 global partnerships taken and which is engrained in our purpose, through organic sales growth at an attractive sustainable. Although the outlook reflects for change from 2015 strategy and long-term targets. The triple earnings level, while investing sensibly to drive uncertainties, our view on 2019 is positive. to 2020 bottom line approach ensures that business additional long-term profitable sales growth. decisions balance financial, social and Delivering high economic value ensures that ROIC is expected at around 23% (2018: 24.2%) environmental considerations, always keeping we are able to continue investing in innovation in 2019. The average calculation of invested DELIVER in mind the best interests of our stakeholders. and driving a sustainability agenda. Growing capital now includes a higher end balance 10 transformative organic sales is a priority, because only by following the major investment programs that innovations from 2015 Long-term sustainability targets selling more of our solutions will we achieve we announced early in 2017. Adjusting for the We launched our six long-term sustainability the sustainable impact we strive for and so live implementation of IFRS 16 Leases, which has a to 2020 targets in 2015, inspired by the UN’s 17 up to our purpose. negative impact of around 1 percentage point, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The the outlook for ROIC would have been around SAVE goals form the blueprint for a better and more We continue to invest in strengthening 24% for 2019. 100 million tons of sustainable future for all. They address global our leadership position within industrial challenges such as widespread poverty and biotechnology and in leveraging the potential CO2 in 2020 hunger, inequality, climate change and water of our innovation pipeline (see Business scarcity. model). From the perspective of profitability ENABLE and return on capital, Novozymes’ other two The SDGs encourage global businesses, long-term financial targets are EBIT margin Novozymes' employees national governments and wider society to use of 26% or above and Return on invested to develop by 2020 and develop solutions that contribute toward capital (ROIC) including goodwill of 25% or sustainable growth. Novozymes was one of above (before the implementation of IFRS 16 Novozymes A/S Our business Targets 42 Our targets REACH EDUCATE CATALYZE DELIVER SAVE ENABLE Regional solutions to regional issues REACH As far back as 2000 B.C., 6 billion people with our biological solutions people living in the Middle East developed fermentation techniques that they used in baking, brewing and cheesemaking. Every time a consumer uses a product This target is closely linked to our sales that has been made using or treated with Novozymes’ technology, or contains one or more of our products, the world becomes performance. The target achievement is essentially an estimation of how many people use a product that was made using, F latbreads are hugely popular in the region, but they quickly go stale and become dry. At our new innovation center in Istanbul, Turkey, a bit more sustainable. By 2020, we want was treated with or contains Novozymes’ Novozymes is actively working to solve this and 6 billion people worldwide to be using solutions. other issues. products made with our solutions at least once a week. Achievements in 2018 Driving innovation with successful regionally sustainable supply of quality food and beverages In 2018, an estimated 5.6 billion consumers tailored solutions requires an in-depth for a growing population despite these scarce used more than one of our solutions on a understanding of customers in the region and their resources is one of the most pressing challenges weekly basis – up from 5.2 billion in 2017. consumers. One way to gain this understanding is the region faces. Enzymes are nature’s own toolkit to invite customers over to “our place,” to share our for making more from less, so regionally tailored This target relates to SDG 12 • In 2018, Novozymes took a long stride world with them and get to know theirs better. The enzymatic solutions have huge potential when it Responsible consumption and production toward achieving the 6 billion target due Novozymes Innovation & Technology Center, our comes to solving this challenge. Our solutions enable more efficient use to contributions from the laundry and new customer center in Istanbul, is a key part of of natural resources, decreased use of textile industries this approach in the Middle East and Africa (MEA) The center features state-of-the-art, locally relevant chemicals and a reduced environmental • Most of the REACH growth in 2018 region. It opened in April 2018 and will enable us facilities, including an industrial-scale flatbread line. impact. By giving more people access originated from Africa, India and China, to develop solutions tailored to the specific needs, to biological solutions, we enable all of which will continue to be major trends and production processes of customers in “Together with our customers, we’ll accelerate sustainable consumption and production. growth regions for REACH in 2019 the region. innovation through on-site baking trials, flour analyses and evaluations of aspects such as What’s next? Emerging markets such as MEA have the greatest texture and freshness,” says Andrew Fordyce, A favorable increase in REACH depends untapped potential when it comes to increasing Executive Vice President, Food & Beverages. on successful strategy execution in each the reach and associated impact of sustainable Over time, the center will also include facilities industry and expanded sales in emerging solutions. Water and arable land are scarcer relevant to other industries, including starch markets. in MEA than in any other region. Ensuring a processing, brewing, dairy and household care. Novozymes A/S Our business Targets 43 Our targets REACH EDUCATE CATALYZE DELIVER SAVE ENABLE We’re going on a bacteria hunt! EDUCATE Bacteria are all 1 million people about the potential of biology around us – and inside us. Ensuring access to quality education Examples of activities: for all is crucial for global sustainable development. At Novozymes, we believe that • In North America, various events helped the more people we educate about biology, sustainability and the environment, the more people will get involved in creating and • to teach more than 60,000 students, parents and teachers In Latin America, among other things, we I n fact, these single-celled organisms are so numerous, it is believed that there are more than a trillion different bacterial species in the Whe re w “Ba em ak using sustainable biological solutions. The partnered with educational institutions world. Yet only 20,000 have been described. reso cteria a e a diff urce re a eren activities described in this target are purely and educated teachers about scientific solv e th that ca fantast ce e bi i for educational purposes and are not related experiments to exemplify how to change In 2018, Novozymes took part in the world’s gges n be us c e to Novozymes’ sales and marketing. the world through biology biggest bacteria hunt, helping 25,000 Danish our t challe d to time nge • 25,000 children from across Denmark schoolchildren to search forests and parks for .” s of Achievements in 2018 took part in the Mass Experiment to find samples of beneficial bacteria. The hunt was part In 2018, Novozymes educated around good bacteria in nature of the Mass Experiment organized by Astra, the 302,000 people. This brings our total to more • In India, two flagship initiatives, Agastya Danish national center for education in natural than 612,000 learners since 2015. Mobile Science Labs and Hand Print, sciences. Novozymes developed this year’s educated around 80,000 people bacterial theme in collaboration with Astra in the • In China, employees got involved in hope of children being inspired by science and the Parents’ Class initiative to teach nature. After the schools had analyzed their findings, they This target relates to SDG 4 schoolchildren about biology sent the test kits – decorated with hearts, leaves Quality education By helping young people to understand • As part of our global Teach for Tomorrow “Bacteria are a fantastic resource that can be used and messages such as “I love nature. Science is the potential of biology, Novozymes is program, Novozymes employees taught to solve the biggest challenges of our time. They exciting!” – to Novozymes, so that our scientists helping them to gain the knowledge elementary schoolchildren worldwide can be used as biological fertilizer, to produce could screen and characterize the bacteria. and skills to promote sustainable about bacteria biochemicals and to develop health-beneficial development. Our program also ensures products containing live bacteria,” says Mads The results were published in January 2019 as a that we roll out new solutions to improve What’s next? Bjørnvad, Senior Department Manager, Microbe bacterial map of Denmark, showing where to find learning outcomes related to biology. In the coming year, we will build on the Technology. the various species of Lactobacillus bacteria. success of our programs across all regions. We also intend to develop new partnerships with relevant educational organizations. Only 20,000 of more than 1,000,000,000,000 Read more about our educational bacterial species in the world initiatives in Note 8.4 Community have been described. engagement Novozymes A/S Our business Targets 44 Our targets REACH EDUCATE CATALYZE DELIVER SAVE ENABLE Boosting biofuels in Brazil with CATALYZE RenovaBio 5 global partnerships for change G overnments across the world are seeking to meet the Paris Climate Agreement’s 2°C temperature increase cap and support SDG 7 Affordable and Clean Energy. One component of this is finding sustainable alternatives to To make the necessary impact on the sustainable development of the industrial traditional fossil fuels. Wanting to be ahead of the world, we need strong partners dedicated biotechnology sector in Brazil. Through our game, the government of Brazil recognized some to working with us to solve key global engagement with ABBI, we provided input time ago that in order to keep to the Paris Climate issues. By 2020, we aim to form five highfor new public biotechnology policies as well Agreement, it would need more sustainable with input and support for the creation of the impact partnerships with public or private as for sustainability programs that promote alternatives to meet the country’s growing demand national biofuel policy, the RenovaBio program, organizations that share our agenda and biotechnology in the country. This work for transportation fuels. which was approved by the National Congress on support Novozymes’ commercial activities. resulted in the approval of RenovaBio – a December 26, 2017. government program designed to stimulate Introducing RenovaBio Achievements in 2018 biofuel production and use in Brazil to help ABBI was formed to help support the move In short, the policy states that: Novozymes is a founding member of meet the country's commitment under the toward sustainable fuels, with Novozymes as a • The average carbon intensity of gasoline must the Brazilian Association of Industrial Paris Agreement to reduce greenhouse gas founding member. ABBI promotes innovation be reduced by 10.1% by 2028 Biotechnology (ABBI) – an organization emissions. In 2018, we collaborated with and sustainable development of the industrial • Fuel distributors must gradually increase that seeks to promote innovation and ABBI to help to implement the program. biotechnology sector in Brazil. the amount of biofuels they sell each year in proportion to their respective market share for Between 2015 and 2018, Novozymes “Brazil is a large and growing market for fossil fuels, thereby supporting the expansion has catalyzed two global partnerships Novozymes’ bioenergy solutions. Cofounding ABBI of the bioenergy market in Brazil. According to This target relates to SDG 17 for change: below50 (2017) and ABBI for was a great opportunity for Novozymes to engage a government study, this could double Brazil’s Partnerships for the Goals RenovaBio (2018). in dialogue with key stakeholders on securing a ethanol production by 2030 sustainable future for industrial biotechnology What’s next? in Brazil,” says Pedro Luiz Fernandes, Head of In 2018, Novozymes and ABBI continued to In 2019, we will continue to develop existing Corporate Affairs & Sustainability, Latin America. provide detailed information to assist with the partnerships and work to create promising implementation of the RenovaBio program, new partnerships. Through ABBI, along with other industry groups, including presenting new technologies for the Novozymes provided the Brazilian government production of renewable fuels. Novozymes A/S Our business Targets 45 Our targets REACH EDUCATE CATALYZE DELIVER SAVE ENABLE Balancius™: a good gut feeling DELIVER Our new game-changing poultry gut 10 transformative innovations health innovation helps farmers raise healthy flocks that grow and thrive. Our aim is to deliver 10 transformative When evaluating our innovation efforts F lashback to 1984, as Japanese Professor A. Yoneda, armed with petri dishes and ankledeep in muck, enters a pigsty on a farm outside Balancius™ is the first and only feed additive that targets the bacterial cell debris in the guts of chickens, innovations by 2020 that create significant and pipeline, we consider the financial and Tokyo, Japan. He collects some samples and says Susanne Palsten Buchardt, Vice President, impact for our customers and make the transformative potential of each innovation heads back to his lab where, a little while later, Animal Health & Nutrition Commercial. It's a world more sustainable. and measure its impact against the SDGs. his research reveals a unique fungus – from a rare game-changing technology that pushes industry class of microbes – capable of surviving in alkaline boundaries. Achievements in 2018 conditions. Together with our partner DSM, Novozymes All in the details This target relates to launched Balancius™ – the world’s first Little did he know then that this expedition would Balancius™ works by removing leftovers from dead SDGs 2, 6, 7, 9, 12 and 13 enzyme to improve gut functionality in hold the key to saving 4.2 million tons of CO2 bacteria from the chicken's gut without changing By working on transformative broiler chickens. emissions 34 years later. its natural gut flora, with the result that poultry innovations, Novozymes is enhancing farmers need 3% less feed to raise an animal. scientific research and upgrading the technological capabilities of industrial Novozymes delivered five transformative From pigsty to chicken guts sectors globally. Our innovations will innovations between 2015 and 2018. In view of the growing global population, the UN That means significant savings for the average further contribute to achieving the In addition to Balancius™, we launched has highlighted food production and climate action farmer, who spends 70% of total production SDG impacts related to agriculture, Frontia® and our freshness solution in 2017, as being among the world’s biggest challenges. At costs on feed. It means big savings for the rest water treatment, energy consumption, Acceleron® B-300 SAT in 2016 and Alterion® the same time, consumers are demanding meat of us too. If Balancius™ were used for all broilers sustainable consumption, production and in 2015. from antibiotic-free, sustainably raised animals. in Latin America and North America, the total climate change. So how can we produce more poultry, for more potential annual saving in terms of greenhouse gas What’s next? people, more sustainably? With Balancius™ – the emissions would be 4.2 million tons of CO2. An overview of some of the most promising world’s first enzyme that improves gut functionality programs in Novozymes’ innovation pipeline in broiler chickens. Poultry farmers are constantly looking for new as well as their current status can be found solutions to solve the challenges facing the in the Business model section. Several of Scientists at Novozymes developed Balancius™ industry while meeting consumer demands, these have transformative potential. based on the same rare fungus that Professor continues Susanne Palsten Buchardt. Balancius™ Yoneda discovered more than three decades ago. offers a new way for farmers to improve feed Launched this year in partnership with DSM, the conversion into meat and deliver animal-based world leader in animal nutrition, Balancius™ allows protein to feed a growing population more chickens to absorb more nutrition from their food. sustainably and naturally. Novozymes A/S Our business Targets 46 Our targets REACH EDUCATE CATALYZE DELIVER SAVE ENABLE Time to get excited about yeast SAVE In 2018, Novozymes successfully launched two 100 million tons of CO2 yeast solutions that will help Bioenergy customers to optimize their ethanol production, save on resources and achieve better yields. Our products help customers avoid CO2 emissions and improve their sustainability performance by reducing their consumption in 2018. This figure is based on life cycle assessments (LCAs) spanning raw material extraction, production use and final disposal. I n 2018, Novozymes revealed our new yeast platform for starch-based ethanol – Innova® – and introduced the first two products: Innova® hours and Innova® Lift for fermentation times over 57 hours. Both products are highly tolerant and robust, putting ethanol producers in control and of energy, raw materials and chemicals. To Drive and Innova® Lift. Developed to meet the reducing operational stress. help mitigate climate change impacts across Our products for starch-based ethanol need for reduced fermentation time and increased the value chain, we aim to save 100 million and BioAg contributed significantly to this stability, our yeast strains are totally unique. tons of CO2 in 2020 through the application target in 2018. For starch-based ethanol, “Customers trust us of our solutions. the positive effect was driven by the launch of our yeast products (Innova® Drive and Close collaboration with customers is key Yeast represents a major bottleneck in ethanol to test something new Achievements in 2018 Innova® Lift), overall sales volume growth production because it requires constant care and in their plants. In turn, We estimate that our solutions saved customers a total of 88 million tons of CO2 and a higher average CO2 reduction effect due to changes in product mix. In BioAg, attention. Bringing a new product to market can be a challenge when that product is a vital part of they get access to the our new corn inoculants made a significant the customer’s production process. Because of the latest technology on contribution to reduced CO2 emissions. close working relationship between Novozymes the market.” and our customers, our technical service teams This target relates to What’s next? were invited to test the yeasts in customers’ plants SDG 13 Climate action Delivering on the CO2 savings target is as part of the development process. By enabling low-carbon production, closely connected to the volume of enzymes Novozymes is helping to improve climate and microorganisms brought to market. “Good customer relationships are important in change mitigation capacity across several this process,” says Brian Brazeau, Vice President, industries. Solutions for starch-based ethanol, laundry Biofuels Commercial. “Customers trust us to test and agriculture have significant potential something new in their plants. In turn, they get to contribute further to the achievement of access to the latest technology on the market.” the SAVE target. We will continue to explore these and other opportunities to make even Two products for two time ranges greater CO2 savings. Our Innova® platform consists of two products: Innova® Drive for fermentation times under 57 Novozymes A/S Our business Targets 47 Our targets REACH EDUCATE CATALYZE DELIVER SAVE ENABLE Swipe right for leadership development ENABLE A new digital-based program helps Novozymes’ Novozymes' employees to develop leaders to develop their skills at the same time as staying on schedule. L ead the Way is a new leadership development program that will ensure that all of Novozymes’ leaders develop the core leadership skills needed The program also boasts a library of e-learning resources, podcasts and videos as well as featuring a two-day practical training session, enabling Our ability to grow and contribute to a better • In 2018, we implemented TunedIn, a new to live our values and drive employee engagement leaders to meet face to face to share knowledge world depends on our ability to enable employee survey and dialogue tool. and performance. Lead the Way is organized and get feedback from one another. our employees to develop, both personally The survey is used in conjunction with digitally through an app with a learning path, and and professionally. This target ensures team talks throughout the company while most leadership development programs Overall, it has been designed to focus that Novozymes builds the skills needed to about how we work and grow together. typically last just a few days, Lead the Way focuses on five core leadership skills: deliver on our strategy. It will also ensure The survey shows an employee on continuous learning. Clarify direction and purpose that all employees realize their full potential. development score of 78, which meets Empower and follow up our target of 75 or above “We use a blended learning technique where Assess and improve performance Achievements in 2018 • In 2018, we successfully enrolled more we work with a variety of on-the-job learning Coach and develop employees • By 2020, Novozymes aims to have 30% than 300 leaders (~30% of all leaders) in modules,” says Flemming Karstens Søeborg, Head Build collaborative teams or more women in senior management. Lead the Way of Leadership & Talent Excellence. In 2018, we met this target, as 30% of “If our leaders master these five skills, they’ll senior management are women What’s next? be able to drive employee engagement and In the coming years, we will work on the performance and lead with the Novozymes touch,” following focus areas to enable Novozymes' continues Flemming Karstens Søeborg. employees to develop their skills: Training on the go This target relates to SDG 8 Decent work • Unlocking the potential of talents across The Lead the Way app enables leaders to track and economic growth and SDG 5 Gender our global organization their progress and fit training modules into their equality • Further developing our leaders through work schedules. The app will prompt them when Lead the Way and other initiatives tasks need to be completed. • Promoting more agile and flexible working structures, and building the “Our leaders have busy schedules,” concludes skills required to embrace digitalization Flemming Karstens Søeborg. “That’s why we took a pocket-sized approach to this program. Everything they need is just a swipe away!” Novozymes A/S Our business Targets 48 Outlook for 2019 Sales outlook Food & nutrition is expected to continue its Feed sales are expected to grow modestly for good momentum, supported by the enduring the year. We expect a low-single-digit decrease Novozymes expects 3-6% organic sales growth health awareness trends. We expect continued to a mid-single-digit increase in organic sales for 2019. Growth is supported by strong Household Care organic sales growth is solid growth across all industries with midfor Agriculture & Feed for the year. innovation and increased market penetration, expected to be supported by a broader single-digit organic sales growth overall in Food especially in the emerging markets. The 3-6% rollout for the freshness platform and & Beverages, including annualization of the Novozymes expects to recognize roughly DKK range also reflects geopolitical uncertainty increased penetration in emerging markets, Middle Eastern impact. 113 million of the deferred income in BioAg such as the one in the Middle East (affecting where we tap into consumer trends with our as revenue in 2019. Deferred income does not Household Care, Food & Beverages and innovative enzymes for both liquid and powder impact the calculation of organic sales growth Technical & Pharma), the future setup of our detergents. The development of the freshness rates; it impacts realized sales growth in DKK BioAg business as well as volatile agricultural platform is tracking according to plan, and but has no cash flow impact. markets. we expect to ship to more emerging markets through the year and to Europe in late 2019. Bioenergy organic sales growth is expected Using current spot rates as full-year estimates to be driven mainly by increased penetration for the major currencies, and including lower The dose reductions at some of our large from innovation as well as volume growth recognition of deferred income (BioAg), customers are likely to continue, although at a outside the US market. We expect US ethanol Novozymes expects to see a positive impact of lower level. This puts a dampener on growth. production in 2019 to be slightly lower than in Technical & Pharma was impacted by the approximately 1 percentage point for growth 2018, with ethanol inventory levels remaining challenging markets in the Middle East during in DKK. Roughly DKK 113 million of deferred We expect low-single-digit organic sales growth high into 2019. As such, we expect first-quarter the second half of 2018, a situation that is income will be recognized in 2019, compared for Household Care, including annualization of US ethanol production to decline, before expected to continue in the first half of 2019. with DKK 169 million in 2018. the Middle Eastern impact. improving for the rest of the year. We expect We expect low-single-digit organic sales growth high-single-digit growth in Bioenergy for the for the year, including annualization of the The first quarter of 2019 is expected to see a full year. Middle Eastern impact. modest decline in organic sales y/y, mainly due to annualization of the Middle Eastern impact from the second half of 2018, a challenging Feed comparison and the enzyme price Food & Beverages organic sales growth is reductions in US baking coming to an end. expected to be driven by continued step-up Organic sales growth in the second half of the in commercial presence, especially in the Agriculture & Feed sales to the agricultureyear is expected to be much stronger thanks emerging markets, as well as by ramp-up of related markets are subject to uncertainty, to an easier Middle East comparison, the newly launched innovations, such as Frontia® due primarily to global farm economics and freshness platform in Household Care entering and Palmora®. There is a modest positive trade-related concerns. We are negotiating with Europe, BioAg seasonality, an easing y/y price expectation for baking, including planned price Bayer regarding the future setup of the BioAg effect in US baking and Bioenergy volume decreases in the US coming to an end in the business, which is also a source of uncertainty. growth picking up in the US market. first quarter. Novozymes A/S Our business Outlook for 2019 49 Profit outlook For 2019, we expect an EBIT margin of 28Net profit growth is expected to be 0-5%. Since October 2018, we have hedged our corporate sustainability assessment. However, 29%, including a minor positive impact from The USD currency exposure has been hedged expected USD cash flow using 12-month rolling our commitment to improving our sustainability currencies. As currencies are experiencing through forward contracts at an average contracts. 2018 was fully hedged at an average performance and disclosure remains intact. high volatility, in particular the US dollar, a exchange rate of 6.21 USD/DKK for 2019. of USD/DKK 6.18. 2019 is fully hedged at an weakening relative to what has been assumed average of USD/DKK 6.21. in the guidance for the full year could impact Net investments are expected to be DKK the EBIT margin negatively. The DKK ~60 1.0-1.3 billion (2018: DKK 1.4 billion). The The outlook is based on exchange rates for Key sustainability targets million lower deferred income expected in investment level for 2019 reflects general the company’s key currencies remaining at the 2019 2020 2019 relative to 2018 impacts EBIT, and the maintenance CAPEX, expansion CAPEX as well closing rates on January 23 for the full year. Environment target target EBIT margin, negatively. Sales growth and as the finalization of the innovation campus in Estimated ≥ 94 100 productivity improvements are expected to be Lyngby, Denmark. reduction in CO2 emissions through supportive of margins, mitigating the effects of Sustainability outlook our customers’ application of our higher input costs. Free cash flow before acquisitions is expected Novozymes remains committed to continuously products, million to be in the range of DKK 2.2-2.6 billion (2018: improving the sustainability performance tons Given the current visibility and interpretation DKK 2,291 million). The reclassification of lease of our own operations and supply chain. Growth in absolute < organic water usage* sales growth of various country-specific tax rules and levels, payments (IFRS 16) is expected to impact free Improving sustainability performance is a Growth in absolute < organic Novozymes expects an effective tax rate of 18cash flow positively by around DKK 0.1 billion. long-term undertaking, and we will continue to energy usage* sales growth 20% for 2019. pursue and prioritize opportunities to make our Growth in absolute ≤ organic Return on invested capital (ROIC) including operations more cost-effective, environmentally CO2 emissions* sales growth goodwill is expected at around 23% (2018: friendly and socially responsible. Renewable 28% 30% energy* 24.2%). The average calculation of invested capital now includes a higher end balance For 2019, we will continue with annual targets Financial outlook following the major investment programs to keep our resource consumption and CO2 People that we announced early in 2017. The emissions lower than our organic sales growth, Occupational ≤ 1.5 ≤ 1.0 2018 2019 accidents per realized outlook1 implementation of IFRS 16 Leases has a while working to define better long-term million working hours* Sales growth, organic 4% 3-6% negative impact on ROIC of approximately 1 targets in these areas. We will work to improve percentage point. the share of renewable energy in our energy Employee ≤ 2.0% ≤ 2.0% EBIT margin 28.3% 28-29% absence* Net profit growth 3% 0-5% mix to support us on our journey of decoupling Women in senior ≥ 29% ≥ 30% Net investments excl. our business growth from the impact it has on management* acquisitions, DKKbn 1.4 1.0-1.3 Currency exposure the environment. We will also sharpen focus Satisfaction and ≥ 79 ≥ 79 motivation* Free cash flow before From a currency perspective, we expect 2019 on our safety culture and continue our global acquisitions, DKKbn 2.3 2.2-2.6 Enable employee ≥ 75 ≥ 75 EBIT to be most exposed to fluctuations in the initiatives to improve our safety behavior to development* ROIC (including goodwill) 24.2% ~23%2 USD. reduce the number of accidents in 2019. Talent utilization* ≥ 38% Avg. USD/DKK 631 657 Other things being equal, a 5% movement We are seeing an increasing level of third-party 1. Assumes that the exchange rates for the Stakeholders company’s key currencies remain at the rates on in USD/DKK is expected to have an annual assessment and engagement with our investors January 23 for the rest of 2019. Customer ≥ 50 positive/negative impact on EBIT of DKK on our sustainability performance. In an effort 2. The implementation of IFRS 16 Leases has satisfaction a negative impact on ROIC of approximately 1 130-160 million, and a 5% movement in EUR/ to streamline our reporting on sustainability to percentage point. DKK is expected to have an annual positive/ various channels, we decided to discontinue * Included as Management remuneration target. negative impact on EBIT of DKK ~200 million. our participation in the RobecoSAM Novozymes A/S Our business Outlook for 2019 50 In the spotlight Feeling fresh? You have just done a load of laundry. Although your T oward the end of 2017, Novozymes cl thes may look launched our most significant Household Care innovation in years. Part of a range of products within our clean, they smell freshness platform, this solution offers a whole new dimension in clean, tackling the dirt and grime hiding beneath the surface of fabrics musty when you and removing malodors. These stains are a persistent problem for put them on. consumers worldwide. By eliminating trapped dirt and other substances, our freshness It has already started contributing to growth products have the power to prevent the and will be rolled out in more markets in 2019 malodors that tend to form on laundry. and over the coming years. The freshness range offers solutions that “We’re seeing strong interest from our Novozymes’ new freshness products can are effective at low temperatures. Just as customers and, judging by what they say, help solve the problem. importantly, these solutions also work on they’re very excited about the way these today’s synthetic textiles. solutions can tackle some of their own customers’ stickiest pain points,” says Anders In 2018, the freshness solution was Lund, Executive Vice President, Household successfully launched in the emerging markets. Care & Technical. Novozymes A/S Our business In the spotlight 51 Governance Where Novoz ymes’ improv enhan e crop ce yield more f we ma agricu produ s, ensu rom ea ke a d ifferen ltural s ction a ring w ce olution nd e get s ch acr e. Chairman’s introduction Novozymes’ Board of Directors has a collective responsibility to develop and drive company strategy, performance and accountability, to ensure that every decision lives up to our purpose and core values and is in the best interests of our stakeholders. In 2018, the Board took further steps to help Novozymes harness future opportunities. 2018 was another exciting year for the an external facilitator, as we are every three and of the midand long-term strategies how trends can be turned into competitive Board of Novozymes. We started the year years. The resulting assessment consisted of for our industries and functions. We held advantages for Novozymes. by welcoming Ms. Patricia Malarkey as a both a self-evaluation and an evaluation with three meetings outside the boardroom: at member of the Board. Patricia Malarkey is an external consultants of the composition of the Novozymes’ production site in Kalundborg, In 2018, the Board specifically focused on experienced R&D business leader with more Board and its talents. I am very pleased with Denmark, at the future Innovation Campus in understanding the new technologies and ways than 30 years in the global agrochemical the overall results, which are available to read Lyngby, Denmark, and at our site in Bangalore, of working in R&D and production as well as on industry. The Board now has 10 members: in the Governance section. India. This was a great opportunity to gain an the potential that digitalization holds for our seven elected at the Annual Shareholders’ even better understanding of the challenges business – with and for our customers. Only by Meeting and three employee representatives. Effective Nomination and Remuneration and opportunities facing Novozymes’ knowing as much as possible about the topic Committee employees as they work to grow the company. can we challenge the company’s readiness and Ensuring the right competencies and The Board believes that a proactive and ensure that Novozymes is futureproof. This is composition transparent corporate governance structure We spent a couple of days in Bangalore an exciting task, and one that will require our In the past few years, the Board has welcomed promotes sustainable business behavior and meeting employees, visiting the production constant vigilance for many years to come. some very strong, internationally experienced long-term value creation. In 2017, we set up a site and the Detergent Design Center, and people, and thereby further strengthened the Nomination and Remuneration Committee to discussing priorities, growth opportunities and These were just a few of the activities and Board’s collective executive competencies in assess the Board and its composition as well investments in India and the rest of Southeast matters covered by the Board during this such important areas as industrial biotech, as its remuneration. In 2018, the committee Asia. I was impressed by the dedication and eventful year. R&D within biotech, innovation pipeline contributed to the appointment of a new board drive of our employees, and was thrilled to management and emerging markets. member and assisted CEO Peder Holk Nielsen see for myself how Novozymes works with in developing the Executive Leadership Team, customers in emerging markets. We continuously evaluate the Board’s balance including onboarding Ms. Prisca Havranekof skills and experience, so that we have the Kosicek as the new CFO of Novozymes. Ensuring our competitive edge right people in place to ensure that the Board The committee also reviewed Novozymes’ In addition to ensuring that Novozymes is the best sparring partner for the Executive remuneration policy, salary increases and harnesses opportunities in both mature and Jørgen Buhl Rasmussen Leadership Team. The combined strength of variable pay elements to senior management, new markets in the best way possible, the Chairman of the Board of Directors all the members of Novozymes’ Board is what among other matters. Board explores current and emerging trends Novozymes A/S makes it operate so effectively. Every year, we with the potential to impact Novozymes in the conduct an internal analysis and assessment Closer to the business years to come. By building on its enhanced of the Board’s competencies and experience. In 2018, as in previous years, the Board competencies and strategic proximity to the In 2018, the Board was assisted in this task by conducted reviews of Novozymes’ business business, the Board can provide guidance on Novozymes A/S Governance Corporate governance 53 Corporate governance A proactive and transparent corporate Novozymes’ Articles of Association require Audit Committee meetings governance structure promotes sustainable the Board of Directors to have four to eight Committee member Meetings attended business behavior and long-term value members elected at the Annual Shareholders’ Lars Green creation. Meeting. The Board currently has seven elected Agnete Raaschou-Nielsen members. Individuals are elected for one year Jørgen Buhl Rasmussen Board composition and responsibilities at a time and cannot be elected or re-elected In accordance with Danish legislation, after reaching the age of 70. Nominations Novozymes has a two-tier management are based on an evaluation of factors such as Nomination and Remuneration Committee meetings system comprising the Board of Directors competencies, diversity, independence and Committee member Meetings attended and the Executive Leadership Team, with performance. Jørgen Buhl Rasmussen no individual being a member of both. The Agnete Raaschou-Nielsen division of responsibilities between the Board In accordance with Danish law, the Board Kim Stratton of Directors and the Executive Leadership of Directors also includes three employeeTeam is clearly outlined and described in elected members, who serve four-year terms. the Rules of Procedure for the Board of The Board of Directors is accountable to the combined competencies of the Board enable All three targets were met in 2018. The Directors and the Rules of Procedure for the company’s shareholders for the management it to inspire, guide and oversee the company’s required competencies are defined in a Executive Leadership Team, both available of the company. The composition of the Board development, and diligently address and competency profile that specifies various on Novozymes.com. of Directors must therefore be such that the resolve the issues and challenges facing the personal characteristics, skills and experience. company at any time. The individual competencies of the members of the Board of Directors are shown in the To ensure the right competencies and promote presentation of the Board of Directors. A year with the Board of Directors diversity, the following targets have been set for the composition of the Board of Directors: The Board’s main responsibilities are to: December January Board meetings 1. At least half of the shareholder-elected • Ensure the right management and November February board members shall be independent as organizational structure Monthly reports defined in the Danish Recommendations on • Supervise financial, social and environmental Annual Shareholders' Meeting Corporate Governance. performance, and the Executive Leadership 2. At least 40% of the shareholder-elected Team’s operational management of the October March Strategy work board members shall have substantial company Review of ﬁnancial performance international experience from the • Decide the overall management and Evaluation of collaboration management of large corporations or strategic development of the company between the Board of Directors institutions headquartered outside Denmark. September April and the Executive Leadership Team 3. One-third or more of the shareholder-elected Organizational performance board members shall be female, and onereview and succession planning third or more of the shareholder-elected August May Next year's budget board members shall be male. July June Novozymes A/S Governance Corporate governance 54 Nationality – board members elected Gender – board members elected Governance structure Charters and recommendations by the shareholders by the shareholders In accordance with the Articles of Association In laying down the management principles and the Rules of Procedure for the Board for Novozymes, the Board of Directors has Danish 43% Men 57% of Directors, the Board has a Chairmanship followed the Recommendations on Corporate Swedish 14% Women 43% consisting of two members – the Chairman Governance that form part of the disclosure British 29% and the Vice Chairman – responsible for requirements applicable to companies listed on Australian 14% assisting the Board of Directors in matters Nasdaq Copenhagen. concerning the Executive Leadership Team’s operational management of the company and These recommendations are available for reporting back to the Board of Directors. on corporategovernance.dk. A detailed The Chairmanship is also responsible for review of Novozymes’ position on all of the Tenure – board members elected Board governance structure planning and preparing meetings of the Board recommendations and a description of the by the shareholders (elected by shareholders) of Directors. internal control and risk management system relating to financial reporting can be found in 1-2 years 43% Independent The Board of Directors has two committees, the statutory report on corporate governance 3-4 years 14% board members 71% one of which is a Nomination and pursuant to section 107b of the Danish +4 years 43% Nonindependent Remuneration Committee that assists the Financial Statements Act at report2018. board members 29% Board of Directors with the nomination of novozymes.com/governancereport2018. These candidates for the Board of Directors, board recommendations require companies to explain committees and the Executive Leadership any noncompliance. The recommendations Team as well as with the remuneration of board were changed from Jan. 1, 2018. With the members, board committee members and revised recommendations, Novozymes still members of the Executive Leadership Team. In follows 45 of the 47 recommendations, the Primary experience – board members elected by shareholders (number of board members) addition, the Board of Directors has an Audit exceptions being: Committee that assists the Board of Directors 7 with monitoring aspects relating to accounting, • The remuneration policy for the Executive 6 6 6 6 auditing, internal controls and financial, Leadership Team does not contain a specific 5 5 5 5 environmental and social reporting. Further clause pertaining to the repayment of 4 information about both committees can be variable remuneration components paid 3 found on Novozymes.com. on the basis of misstated information, as Novozymes considers the rules under As part of the internal control system, all Danish law to be sufficient in such cases cases of identified fraud and all concerns (Recommendation 4.1.2) raised are investigated and reported to the • Due to the limitations imposed by the Novo General board and/or executive Financial management and investor relations Audit Committee and the Board of Directors. Nordisk Foundation’s Articles of Association management Alliance strategy and acquisitions 34 cases were investigated and reported in and Novozymes’ ownership structure, the R&D executive management Total value and supply chain management 2018. None of the investigated fraud cases Board of Directors reserves the right in B2B & industry marketing & sales Innovation and pipeline management had a material financial impact on Novozymes. certain circumstances to reject takeover Governance & risk management Emerging market strategy Further information on fraud can be found bids without consulting shareholders Stakeholder relations management Digitalization strategy and/or management (beyond customers and investors) in Note 8.3 to the Consolidated financial (Recommendation 1.3.1) statements. 1. From industrial biotech or related industries (but not pharma). 2. From industrial biotech, pharma or related industries. 3. Within or outside industrial biotech. Novozymes A/S Governance Corporate governance 55 Furthermore, under the Danish Financial Other Board-related information The purchase price must not deviate by more Novozymes is party to a number of partnership Statements Act (sections 99a and 99b), The Board of Directors held seven meetings in than 10% from the price quoted on Nasdaq contracts that can be terminated by the other it is mandatory for large companies to 2018, with an overall attendance rate of 99%. Copenhagen on the date of acquisition. This party in the event of significant changes to the report on corporate responsibility and authorization applies until April 1, 2019. In ownership or control of Novozymes. A few of equal opportunities. As a member of the Any changes to the Articles of Association addition, the Board of Directors is authorized these contracts contain provisions that restrict UN Global Compact, Novozymes prepares require that shareholders representing at least to reduce the share capital. Novozymes’ licenses to use specific forms of a Communication on Progress, which is two-thirds of the total number of votes in the technology in such situations. available under Sustainability indices company are represented at the Shareholders’ Each year, one of the responsibilities of the & data at report2018.novozymes.com/ Meeting, and that at least two-thirds of the Board of Directors is to assess whether the sustainability/engagement. Together with votes cast, as well as two-thirds of the voting capital and share structure of Novozymes Evaluation of the Board of Directors our integrated financial, environmental and capital represented at the meeting, are in is optimal. The Board of Directors remains In 2018, the annual evaluation of the Board social reporting, the Communication on favor of the proposal to change the Articles of of the opinion that the share structure with of Directors was facilitated by external Progress meets both the requirements for Association. A and B common stock is the best way to consultants and, in general, revealed a good reporting on corporate responsibility and equal safeguard Novozymes’ long-term strategy and performance by the Board of Directors opportunities, and the UN Global Compact’s The Annual Shareholders’ Meeting has development to the benefit of the company’s as well as good collaboration between advanced reporting criteria. authorized the Board of Directors to allow shareholders and other stakeholders. the Board of Directors and the Executive the company to acquire treasury stock on an Regarding capital structure, Novozymes will Leadership Team. The evaluation also Novozymes also works within the parameters ongoing basis, provided the nominal value of continue to favor a rather conservative balance resulted in increased focus on strategy of Touch the World, the company’s values the company’s total holding of treasury stock sheet, reflected by a target for net interestdevelopment, the company culture and the and commitments, and has committed to the does not exceed 10% of its share capital at any bearing debt of 0-1x EBITDA. This target was risk management review by the Board of principles of the UN Global Compact and the time, cf. section 198 of the Danish Companies met in 2018. Directors. UN Convention on Biological Diversity. Act. Audit Committee Nomination and Remuneration Board member member Committee member Nationality Board meetings attended Board tenure Election period Jørgen Buhl Rasmussen (Chairman) 1,2 Danish 2011 1 year Agnete Raaschou-Nielsen (Vice Chairman)1,2 Danish 2011 1 year Lars Green1 Danish 2014 1 year Kasim Kutay1 British 2017 1 year Patricia Malarkey 1,2,3 British 2018 1 year Kim Stratton1,2 Australian 2017 1 year Mathias Uhlén1,2 Swedish 2007 1 year Lena Bech Holskov 4 Danish 2013 4 years Anders Hentze Knudsen4 Danish 2013 4 years Lars Bo Køppler4 Danish 2010 4 years 1. Elected at the Shareholders’ Meeting. 3. Elected to the Board on March 13, 2018 4. Employee representative. 2. Independent. and attended first two meetings as observer. Novozymes A/S Governance Corporate governance 56 In the spotlight “Our brains are our greatest assets, but they need a break too.” Creating more Brain Space Novozymes prioritizes our employees and endeavors to offer the safest and healthiest workplaces possible. Our ability to grow and contribute to a better world relies on our ability to help our employees grow professionally and personally. What better way to achieve this than by encouraging and empowering employees to prioritize their brain health? In August 2018, we launched a global internal company-wide changes that encourage initiative called Brain Space. The initiative employees to adopt healthier habits at aims to sharpen focus on how our employees work, such as avoiding distractions in the care for their wellbeing, emphasizing the form of computer and phone notifications. importance of “brain breathers” and giving Furthermore, we encourage teams to discuss employees the tools and knowledge to allow their availability or nonavailability outside their minds to recharge and thrive in a fastnormal work hours. paced digital work environment. Brain Space has been very well received by “Our company is based on our collective our employees across the globe. Employees knowledge. We’re always innovating, sharing are fully engaged, and many areas are already new ideas and constantly engaged,” says working with Brain Space in their teams. Marianne Bie Frydendahl, Vice President, “The initiative aims to sharpen focus on Quality, Environment & Safety. “Our brains are “We want all employees to develop good habits our greatest assets, but they need a break too.” that stick. Brain Space is an ongoing initiative how our employees care for their wellat Novozymes to make sure employees have being, emphasizing the importance of Responsibility for taking care of their brain the support and knowledge they need to does not rest solely on the shoulders of protect their brain health,” concludes Marianne brain breathers.” each employee. We are also looking to make Bie Frydendahl. Novozymes A/S Governance In the spotlight 57 Board Novozymes’ Board of Directors has seven members who are elected at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting and of Directors three employee-elected members. The Board represents many years of global management experience, and the members’ competencies combine to ensure expert management of the company. Novozymes A/S Governance Board of Directors 58 Board of Directors Jørgen Buhl Rasmussen Agnete Raaschou-Nielsen Lars Green* Kasim Kutay* Born 1955. Chairman of the Board Born 1957. Vice Chairman of the Born 1967. Executive Vice President, Born 1965. CEO, Novo Holdings A/S. since 2017. Adjunct Professor at Board since 2017. Member of the Audit Business Services and Compliance, Member of the Board since 2017. Copenhagen Business School, Committee and of the Nomination and Novo Nordisk A/S. Chairman of the Elected for one year at a time. Denmark. Member of the Audit Remuneration Committee. Member of Audit Committee. Member of the Board Committee and chairman of the the Board since 2011. Elected for one since 2014. Elected for one year at a Board positions Nomination and Remuneration year at a time. time. Member: Novo Nordisk A/S Committee. Member of the Board since ConvaTec Plc 2011. Elected for one year at a time. Board positions Special competencies Chairman: Arkil Holding A/S In-depth knowledge of the Novo Special competencies Board positions Brdr. Hartmann A/S Group’s business, international Broad experience within biotechnology, Chairman: F. Uhrenholt A/S Danske Invest, three other experience from managing global mergers and acquisitions, strategy, and UCITS funds and two AIF funds biotechnology and biopharma financial and accounting expertise. Member: Smurfit Kappa Group companies, and financial and Advisory Board of Blazar Capital Member: Aktieselskabet Schouw & Co. accounting expertise. Danske Invest Management A/S * This board member is not Special competencies regarded as independent in the International business and Member of the audit committee: * This board member is not sense of the definition in the Danish management expertise, specifically Aktieselskabet Schouw & Co. regarded as independent in the Recommendations on Corporate within sales, marketing, branding sense of the definition in the Danish Governance that apply to Danish and acquisitions, and financial and Special competencies Recommendations on Corporate listed companies. accounting expertise. Expertise within business development Governance that apply to Danish and acquisitions, macroeconomics listed companies. and intellectual property rights, and financial and accounting expertise. Novozymes A/S Governance Board of Directors 59 Patricia Malarkey Kim Stratton Mathias Uhlén Lena Bech Holskov* Born 1965. Member of the Board Born 1962. Member of the Nomination Born 1954. Professor at the Royal Born 1967. Employee representative. since 2018. Elected for one year and Remuneration Committee. Member Institute of Technology (Sweden) and Safety Adviser. Member of the Board at a time. of the Board since 2017. Elected for at the Technical University of Denmark since 2013. Elected for four one year at a time. (DTU). Member of the Board since years at a time. Special competencies 2007. Elected for one year at a time. Broad experience within commercial Board positions agricultural research, biotechnology Member: European Federation Board positions * In accordance with Danish law, the and innovation pipeline management. of Pharmaceutical Industries and Chairman: Atlas Antibodies AB Board of Directors includes three Associations (EFPIA) Antibodypedia AB employee-elected members, who serve ScandiBio Therapeutics AB four-year terms. Special competencies Broad international commercial Vice chairman: Affibody Medical AB experience within sales and marketing, emerging markets, innovation pipeline Member: Bure Equity AB management and sustainability. Special competencies Broad experience within research and biotechnology. Novozymes A/S Governance Board of Directors 60 “The combined Anders Hentze Knudsen* Lars Bo Køppler* strength of all Born 1959. Employee representative. Senior Operator. Member of the Board since 2013. Born 1962. Employee representative. Technician. Member of the Board since 2010. Elected for four years at a time. the members Elected for four years at a time. Employee representative member of the Board of the Novo Nordisk Foundation. of Novozymes’ Board is what * In accordance with Danish law, the Board of Directors includes three employee-elected members, who serve * In accordance with Danish law, the four-year terms. Board of Directors includes three employee-elected members, who serve four-year terms. makes it operate so effectively.” Jørgen Buhl Rasmussen, Chairman of the Board of Directors Novozymes A/S Governance Board of Directors 61 Executive Our six-member Executive Leadership Team comprises broad and global management experience, Leadership Team comprehensive biotech expertise and in-depth knowledge of Novozymes’ business. Novozymes A/S Governance Executive Leadership Team 62 Executive Leadership Team Peder Holk Nielsen Tina Sejersgård Fanø Andrew Fordyce Born 1956. President & CEO. Born 1969. Executive Vice President, Born 1963. Executive Vice President, Agriculture & Bioenergy. Food & Beverages. Education Board positions Board positions Holds a PhD and an MSc in Chemical Engineering Member: DLF A/S Member: CP Kelco from the Technical University of Denmark (DTU) and a BCom in International Business Management from Education Education Copenhagen Business School, Denmark. Holds an MSc in Chemical Engineering from the Holds a PhD in Chemical Engineering from the Technical University of Denmark (DTU), as well as a University of Texas at Austin, US. Special competencies BA in Philosophy and Education from Copenhagen Novozymes’ CEO since 2013. Peder Holk Nielsen University, Denmark. Special competencies focuses on developing our organization and processes Andrew Fordyce is responsible for application research, to effectively turn market insights into product ideas Special competencies technical services, sales and marketing in the Food & and solutions that excite Novozymes’ customers. Tina Sejersgård Fanø is responsible for application Beverages division. His career has moved from pure With his background in engineering and business research, technical services, sales and marketing in the engineering to a strong focus on value generation for management, Peder Holk Nielsen drives an agenda that Agriculture & Bioenergy division. She has significant customers. Previous responsibilities include global couples market insights and research capabilities to experience in developing and managing global sales and marketing, strategic account management deliver innovation and growth. partnerships and has been instrumental in negotiating and technical service strategy. several major business deals for Novozymes over the years. Novozymes A/S Governance Executive Leadership Team 63 Prisca Havranek-Kosicek Anders Lund Thomas Videbæk Born 1975. CFO & Executive Vice President, Born 1973. Executive Vice President, Born 1960. COO & Executive Vice President, Finance, IT & Legal. Household Care & Technical. Research, Innovation & Supply. Board positions Education Board positions Member: Allianz Elementar Versicherungs-AG, Allianz Holds an MSc in Economics from Aarhus University, Member: Evolva SA Elementar Lebensversicherungs-AG Denmark. Education Education Special competencies Holds a PhD and an MSc in Chemical Engineering from Holds a PhD in Business Administration from the Anders Lund is responsible for application research, the Technical University of Denmark (DTU) and a BCom Vienna University of Economics and Business, Austria. technical services, sales and marketing in the in International Business from Copenhagen Business Household Care & Technical division. He has a strong School, Denmark Special competencies commercial and strategic background as well as Prisca Havranek-Kosicek has strong business acumen extensive experience of building and maintaining Special competencies as a result of holding positions around the world, global customer relationships. Thomas Videbæk is responsible for the Research, a thorough understanding of the various finance Innovation & Supply unit. The unit focuses on functions and knowledge of the markets in which developing new biological solutions and production Novozymes operates. optimization – from discovery to large-scale manufacturing. It also ensures the supply and quality of our products and incubation of new platforms. Thomas Videbæk has a broad knowledge of sales and customer solutions and supply chain operations. Novozymes A/S Governance Executive Leadership Team 64 Remuneration report At Novozymes, we work to promote the long-term interests of our shareholders, and the remuneration of the Board of Directors and the Executive Leadership Team supports this objective. Based on the target achievement for the short-term cash-based incentive program, the Executive Leadership Team received on average 68% of the maximum in 2018. General remuneration policy Remuneration paid to individual members of the Board of Directors Novozymes’ remuneration policy for managers and other employees is designed to both 2018 2017 2016 encourage strong individual performance and Board of ComBoard of ComBoard of Audit support Novozymes’ overall value creation. DKK '000 Directors mittees Total Directors mittees Total Directors Committee Total Remuneration consists of a base salary, Jørgen Buhl Rasmussen 1,500 250 1,750 1,417 250 1,667 917 208 1,125 pension contributions, a cash bonus and Agnete Raaschou-Nielsen 1,000 250 1,250 917 250 1,167 583 250 833 stockbased incentive programs. These Mathias Uhlén 500 0 500 500 500 500 500 components are linked to the employee’s Anders Hentze Knudsen 500 0 500 500 500 500 500 individual performance and to the level of Patricia Malarkey1 401 0 401 achievement of Novozymes’ financial, social Lars Bo Køppler 500 500 500 500 500 500 and environmental targets. Lena Bech Holskov 500 500 500 500 500 500 Lars Green 500 500 1,000 500 500 1,000 500 500 1,000 The remuneration policy aims to provide managers and other employees with a Kasim Kutay2 500 500 417 417 competitive financial package, which we review Kim Stratton2 500 250 750 417 208 625 regularly against external benchmarks. Henrik Gürtler3 250 250 1,500 1,500 Heinz-Jürgen Bertram4 219 219 500 500 Remuneration of the Board of Directors Lena Olving5 83 42 125 The remuneration of the Board of Directors Remuneration 6,401 1,250 7,651 6,137 1,208 7,345 6,083 1,000 7,083 comprises a fixed fee and is not based on incentives. 1. Joined on March 12, 2018. 2. Joined on February 22, 2017. 3. Resigned on February 22, 2017. 4. Resigned on June 8, 2017. 5. Resigned on February 25, 2016. The Board of Directors assesses the fees The disclosed remuneration for board members excludes minor mandatory social security contributions paid by Novozymes. paid to the Board annually, based on the It also excludes reimbursed expenses that board members have incurred in connection with board meetings, such as travel and accommodation. recommendations of the Nomination and Novozymes A/S Governance Remuneration report 65 Remuneration Committee. In making its committee members receive a further base fee Remuneration of the The maximum annual cash bonus is equivalent recommendations, the Committee is guided by and half a base fee respectively. However, the Executive Leadership Team to five months’ fixed base salary plus pension relevant benchmarks, including Novozymes’ Chairman and the Vice Chairman of the Board The Board of Directors seeks to incentivize contributions. The amount of the cash bonus is peers in Denmark and the rest of Europe. do not receive this additional fee if they are the Executive Leadership Team to ensure dependent on the degree of fulfillment of: elected to the Nomination and Remuneration Novozymes’ continued positive development The Board of Directors’ remuneration for the Committee. and, as a result, good value creation for • Individual targets agreed with the year is approved at the Annual Shareholders’ Novozymes’ shareholders. The Board finds Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Meeting. In 2018, Patricia Malarkey was elected as a that the best results are achieved when a not exceeding three months’ salary new member of the Board of Directors. The relatively high proportion of an executive’s Board members receive a fixed base fee. This number of board members thereby increased, total remuneration is dependent on the • The company’s annual EBIT target. If this was DKK 500,000 in 2018, the same as it has which resulted in an increase in the total fee to achievement of individual targets and on fundamental condition is met, the bonus, been since 2015. The Chairman and the Vice the Board of Directors from DKK 7.3 million in meeting Novozymes’ financial, social and which cannot exceed two months’ salary, is Chairman receive a fee that is three times and 2017 to DKK 7.7 million in 2018. environmental targets. adjusted for the achievement of targets set two times the base fee respectively. for social and environmental performance The Board of Directors has the option to grant The Executive Leadership Team’s remuneration For committee work on the Audit Committee an additional fee to individual board members comprises a base salary, pension contributions, For 2018, the cash bonus based on individual and the Nomination and Remuneration for extraordinary board work. No board a cash bonus scheme, stock-based incentive targets was on average 66% of the maximum Committee, the committee chairman and other members were granted such fees in 2018. programs and benefits (car, phone, etc.). bonus. The cash bonus related to Novozymes’ operational targets was 70% of the maximum Compared with Novozymes’ peers, the variable bonus, as the EBIT target was met while some part of the total remuneration (cash bonus and of the sustainability targets were not. stock-based incentive programs) is relatively high. This is because the Board of Directors Composition of Executive Leadership sets the base salary for members of the The following members of the current Board of Directors Team remuneration 2018 Executive Leadership Team at a level that is hold shares of stock in Novozymes A/S below the average for a sample of comparable Danish companies. In 2018, the ratio of the Shares of Purchased Sold Shares of Market Chief Executive Officer’s total remuneration to stock at during during stock at Dec. value the average remuneration for employees was Shares of stock Jan. 1, 2018 the year the year 31, 2018 DKK million 55, on par with 2017. Jørgen Buhl Rasmussen 2,000 2,000 0.6 Agnete Raaschou-Nielsen 430 430 0.1 On February 1, 2018, Prisca Havranek-Kosicek Lars Green 1,000 1,000 0.3 joined the Executive Leadership Team as Chief Mathias Uhlén 650 650 0.2 Financial Officer. Anders Hentze Knudsen 356 356 0.1 In 2018, the members of the Executive Lena Bech Holskov 1,100 1,100 0.3 Leadership Team received an average Lars Bo Køppler 360 360 0.1 increase in base salary of 3.0%. The Executive Board of Directors 4,896 1,000 5,896 1.7 Leadership Team has a defined contribution Salary 35% Members of the Board of Directors are not granted stock options or stock awards. pension scheme, with the pension contribution Cash bonus 9% However, employee-elected members hold a limited number of stock options in representing between 25% and 30% of the Deﬁned contribution plans 10% Novozymes A/S due to Group-wide employee stock option programs. base salary and the cash bonus. Expensed incentive programs 46% Novozymes A/S Governance Remuneration report 66 Remuneration paid to individual members A three-year incentive program has been set profit generated under the program is DKK of the current Executive Leadership Team up for the Executive Leadership Team, covering 5.1 billion, equaling 68% of the DKK 7.5 the period 2017-2019. The program complies billion target. Defined Expensed with the general guidelines for remuneration contribution incentive Total remuof the Board of Directors and the Executive • A total of up to 25% of the program will be DKK million Salary Cash bonus plans programs neration Leadership Team of Novozymes A/S approved allocated if Novozymes delivers 6% organic Peder Holk Nielsen1 8.5 2.3 2.8 12.5 26.1 at Novozymes’ Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. sales growth on average over the three-year See the full guidelines on Novozymes.com. period. If average organic sales growth of Anders Lund 4.6 0.9 1.2 5.7 12.4 3% is delivered, 50% of the stock and stock Andrew Fordyce 4.5 1.2 1.3 6.8 13.8 The value of the three-year program was options allocated to the sales growth pool Prisca Havranek-Kosicek 1,2 4.7 1.1 1.2 3.9 10.9 approximately DKK 162 million as of January will be awarded. Between these two points, Tina Sejersgård Fanø 4.6 1.2 1.3 5.7 12.8 1, 2017. The value of the program corresponds a proportional number of stock and stock Thomas Videbæk1 6.3 1.8 1.9 8.4 18.4 to the aggregated annual remuneration of the options will be awarded. If the average Total remuneration 2018 33.2 8.5 9.7 43.0 94.4 Executive Leadership Team in 2017-2019 (base sales growth is below 3%, no stock or stock salary, pension contributions and maximum options will be awarded under the sales Peder Holk Nielsen 8.3 2.3 2.8 12.0 25.4 cash bonus). growth pool. Anders Lund 4.3 1.0 1.2 4.9 11.4 Andrew Fordyce 4.4 1.2 1.3 6.7 13.6 Prisca Havranek-Kosicek will take part in In 2018, organic sales growth reached 4%. Benny D. Loft3 2.4 0.5 3.2 6.1 the 2017-2019 Executive Leadership Team’s The average organic sales growth under the Tina Sejersgård Fanø 4.4 1.0 1.2 4.9 11.5 incentive program on a proportional basis from program is 4%. Thomas Videbæk 6.0 1.7 1.8 8.0 17.5 February 1, 2018. Total remuneration 2017 29.8 7.2 8.8 39.7 85.5 The program is an equal stock and stock option Peder Holk Nielsen 8.2 1.1 2.4 9.1 20.8 program. Awards are dependent on accumulated Anders Lund 4.4 0.6 1.0 3.2 9.2 economic profit generated as well as the average Andrew Fordyce 5.0 0.6 1.2 6.1 12.9 organic sales growth during the period: Economic profit definition Benny D. Loft 4.8 0.6 1.2 6.1 12.7 Economic profit is defined as: • A total of up to 75% of the program will be adjusted operating profit (NOPAT) Tina Sejersgård Fanø 3.8 0.6 1.0 3.1 8.5 allocated if economic profit accumulated less (average invested capital * Thomas Videbæk 5.7 0.8 1.5 6.1 14.1 for the three years reaches DKK 7.5 billion. WACC). Per Falholt4 0.8 0.2 1.0 2.0 If economic profit of DKK 5.5 billion is Thomas Nagy4 0.8 0.2 1.0 2.0 generated over the period, 50% of the stock To calculate economic profit in Total remuneration 2016 33.5 4.3 8.7 35.7 82.2 and stock options allocated to the economic the long-term incentive program, profit pool will be awarded. Between these operating profit is adjusted for 1. Registered Executive Management. two points, a proportional number of stock hedging results to eliminate the 2. Joined on February 1, 2018. 3. Resigned on June 15, 2017. Severance pay not included in the remuneration figures. and stock options will be awarded. If the impact of currency fluctuations as 4. Resigned on February 8, 2016. accumulated economic profit is below DKK well as for any impacts from major 5.5 billion, no stock or stock options will be acquisitions and divestments. awarded under the economic profit pool. A fixed WACC of 6% is used throughout the program period. For 2018, the economic profit generated was DKK 2.5 billion. The accumulated economic Novozymes A/S Governance Remuneration report 67 The stock was allocated in January 2017 and awarded stock options have a vesting period and stock options for the Executive Leadership of notice that both parties are required to give will be released in January 2020 in accordance of three years, after which there is an exercise Team totals more than DKK 303 million on the and noncompetition clauses. If an executive with the level of target achievement, while the period of five years. date in January 2020 on which the Annual officer’s contract of employment is terminated stock option program is a three-year incentive Report for 2019 is approved. by the company without any misconduct on program with annual allocations. In 2018, The incentive program includes a maximum the part of the executive officer, the executive 497,697 stock options were granted to the clause that gives the Board of Directors the The members of the Executive Leadership officer has a notice period of 12 months. In Executive Leadership Team. The allocations for option to reduce the number of stock and Team have contracts of employment containing addition to the notice period, the executive 2017-2019 will be adjusted in January 2020 stock options allocated. The reduction can be standard conditions for executive officers of officer has a right to compensation of between to reflect the level of target achievement. The implemented if the intrinsic value of the stock Danish listed companies, including the periods one and two years’ base salary and pension contributions, depending on the position held. Remuneration of senior leadership The remuneration of Novozymes’ senior leadership (182 vice presidents and directors) The following members of the Executive Leadership Team hold shares of stock in Novozymes A/S is in line with the general remuneration policy. Shares of stock at Purchased Sold during Shares of stock at Market value Incentive programs for vice presidents and Shares of stock Jan. 1, 2018 during the year the year Dec. 31, 2018 DKK million directors have been established covering the Peder Holk Nielsen 209,269 209,269 60.9 period 2017-2019. Anders Lund 146 146 Andrew Fordyce 3,500 3,500 1.0 The program for the vice presidents largely follows the same mechanisms as the program Prisca Havranek-Kosicek for the Executive Leadership Team. Tina Sejersgård Fanø 10,178 10,178 3.0 Thomas Videbæk The program for the directors is a stock option Executive Leadership Team 219,593 3,500 223,093 64.9 program that includes the same targets for organic sales growth and economic profit as the other programs. Furthermore, awards are linked to the achievement of annual EBIT and sustainability targets set for social and The following members of the Executive Leadership Team hold stock options in Novozymes A/S environmental performance. Options at Additions during Exercised during Options at Market value Further information on the incentive programs Stock options Jan. 1, 2018 the year the year Dec. 31, 2018 DKK million for these employee groups can be found Peder Holk Nielsen 524,322 136,326 660,648 31.5 in Note 6.2 to the consolidated financial Anders Lund 171,762 69,287 241,049 12.4 statements, which also includes an overview of Andrew Fordyce 331,308 69,287 400,595 19.4 outstanding stock options. Prisca Havranek-Kosicek 62,626 62,626 2.4 Tina Sejersgård Fanø 158,310 69,287 227,597 11.1 Thomas Videbæk 349,548 90,884 (98,698) 341,734 14.8 Executive Leadership Team 1,535,250 497,697 (98,698) 1,934,249 91.6 Novozymes A/S Governance Remuneration report 68 The Novozymes stock A stock B stock Total During 2018, the Novozymes stock performed 9% below the Share capital (DKK) 107,487,200 486,512,800 594,000,000 OMXC25CAP index, with the share price contracting by 18% versus 2017. DKK 3.3 billion was returned to shareholders Number of shares 53,743,600 243,256,400 297,000,000 via a DKK 2.0 billion stock buyback program and a dividend payment of DKK 1.3 billion. A new stock buyback program Held by Novo Holdings A/S (%) 100.0% 9.0% 25.5% worth up to DKK 2 billion is planned for 2019. Number of votes 1,074,872,000 486,512,800 1,561,384,800 The Novozymes stock is listed on Nasdaq shares, equivalent to 3.2% of the total common Voting rights (%) 68.9% 31.1% 100.0% Copenhagen and included in the OMX stock. Besides Novo Holdings A/S, Baillie Copenhagen CAP 25 index. Gifford & Co. held more than 5% of Novozymes’ Held by Novo Holdings A/S (%) 68.9% 2.8% 71.7% B shares at December 31, 2018. Shareholders Novozymes’ common stock consists of two Stock performance types: A shares and B shares, both with a Novozymes’ share price contracted by nominal value of DKK 2 per share. All A stock 18% during the year. For comparison, the Share price development is held by Novo Holdings A/S, and an A share OMXC25CAP decreased by 9% in 2018. carries 10 times as many votes as a B share. Novozymes B OMXC25CAP At the end of 2018, Novo Holdings A/S held The average daily trading volume of 110 25.5% of the total common stock and, through Novozymes’ stock in 2018 was 537,229 its holding of the A stock and a proportion of shares, or DKK 173 million, making it the 13th 105 the B stock (21,991,400 shares), controlled most actively traded company on Nasdaq 71.7% of the votes. Novo Holdings A/S is Copenhagen, compared with 11th in 2018. At wholly owned by the Novo Nordisk Foundation, year-end, the total market cap of Novozymes 100 and Novozymes is therefore included in the was DKK 86.4 billion, split between DKK 70.8 consolidated financial statements of the Novo billion for the B shares and DKK 15.6 billion 95 Nordisk Foundation. for the nontraded A shares, assuming the same value per share as for the B shares. 90 At year-end, Novozymes had more than 55,000 Over the past five years, Novozymes’ stock shareholders, of whom 95% were private has generated an average annual return 85 shareholders in Denmark. Fifty institutional (compounded) to shareholders of 8%. Total investors, including Novo Holdings A/S, shareholder return in 2018 was -16%, adjusted owned approximately 50% of the B shares. for dividends. 80 Roughly 70% of the B shares were held outside Denmark. Novozymes held 3.9% of the B Dec/17 Jan/18 Feb/18 Mar/18 Apr/18 May/18 Jun/18 Jul/18 Aug/18 Sep/18 Oct/18 Nov/18 Dec/18 Novozymes A/S Governance The Novozymes stock 69 Ownership structure Dividends New stock buyback program in 2019 The Novo Nordisk Foundation is an independent Danish foundation with corporate The Board of Directors proposes that the Novozymes has decided to initiate a new stock interests. The objective of the Novo Nordisk Foundation is twofold: to provide a stable Annual Shareholders’ Meeting approve a buyback program worth up to DKK 2.0 billion basis for the commercial and research activities conducted by the companies within the dividend of DKK 5 per share for the 2018 in total, or a maximum of 20 million shares. Novo Group and to support scientific and humanitarian purposes. financial year. This will result in an expected The shares acquired within the program will be total dividend payment of approximately DKK used to reduce the common stock and meet 1,438 million, corresponding to a payout ratio obligations arising from employee stock-based of 44.6%. incentive programs. Novo Nordisk Institutional and The dividend for 2018 will be disbursed on Foundation private investors March 4, 2019, and the last trading day with right to dividend for 2018 is February 27, 2019. Financial calendar The proposed dividend payout ratio was 44.6% compared to 42.3% for the 2017 results. This Feb. 27, 2019 Annual Shareholders’ development follows the plan announced in Meeting 2019 Novo Holdings A/S the 2017 annual report to increase the payout Apr. 24, 2019 Interim report for the first 3 months of 2019 ratio to ~50% over the coming years. Aug. 8, 2019 Interim report for the first half of 2019 Stock buyback program in 2018 Oct. 23, 2019 Interim report for the A DKK 2 billion buyback program ran from first 9 months of 2019 February 14 to November 28, 2018. Under the Jan. 23, 2020 Group financial 25.5% of total shares 74.5% of total shares statement for 2019 71.7% of votes 28.3% of votes program, 6,167,092 shares were purchased and added to treasury stock. Ownership by geography (B shares) Total shareholder return, % Investor Relations Novozymes’ Investor Relations maintains an ongoing dialogue with sell-side equity analysts as well as major institutional and retail shareholders. A list of the current analysts covering Novozymes can be found at Investors.novozymes.com. • Novo Holdings A/S – 9.0% • Treasury stock – 3.9% • Denmark – 16.6% • UK – 18.0% • Rest of Europe – 16.7% • North America – 34.1% Visit our website for financial reports, current presentations, factsheets, tools • Rest of world – 1.7% and other downloads, and information for private and institutional shareholders Novozymes A/S Governance The Novozymes stock 70 Accounts and performance Sales and earnings Sales Operating costs EBIT and EBIT margin Tax Total sales in 2018 were DKK 14,390 million, an Operating costs decreased by 3% to DKK 4,228 EBIT increased by 1% to DKK 4,070 million, The effective tax rate was 18%, compared with increase of 4% organically and a decrease of million. Operating costs as a percentage of up from DKK 4,047 million in 2017. The EBIT 19.5% in 2017. In 2017 and 2018, Novozymes 1% in DKK. sales were 29%. margin ended at 28.3%, up from 27.9% in transferred intellectual property from 2017. Excluding the one-time costs incurred in Switzerland to Denmark. This had a positive “Sales to Bioenergy and Food • Sales and distribution costs decreased by 2017 relating to organizational changes and impact on the effective tax rate of 2.5 and 3.1 & Beverages were the main 3%, representing 10.9% of sales the divestment of Albumedix, the EBIT margin percentage points respectively. • Research and development costs decreased in 2018 was 0.7 percentage point lower than contributors to organic sales by 3%, representing 13.0% of sales in 2017. Net profit growth.” • Administrative costs decreased by 5%, Net profit grew by 3% to DKK 3,227 million representing 5.5% of sales EBIT and EBIT margin in 2018, up from DKK 3,120 million in 2017, Sales and sales growth DKK million % driven by a lower tax rate and lower net DKK million % Other operating income financial costs. Other operating income was a net income of DKK 43 million, compared with a net loss of Earnings per share (diluted) DKK 3 million in 2017, which included the Earnings per share (diluted) increased by 5% to divestment of Albumedix. DKK 11.03, compared with DKK 10.49 in 2017, due to higher net profit and cancellation of EBITDA shares. EBITDA increased by 1% to DKK 5,158 million, up from DKK 5,114 million in 2017. Depreciation, amortization and impairment losses were DKK 1,088 million in 2018, up 2% • EBIT • EBIT margin • Sales from DKK 1,067 million in 2017. • Sales growth, organic (%) Net finance Gross profit and margin Net financial costs were DKK 117 million in Gross profit decreased by 2% to DKK 8,255 2018, compared with DKK 157 million in 2017. million from DKK 8,413 million in 2017. The Net financial costs in 2017 were impacted by gross margin was 57.4%, down from 57.9% in a write-down of DKK 120 million on a financial 2017. Productivity improvements and mix had asset related to a guarantee provided by a positive impact on the gross margin, whereas M&G. In 2018, Novozymes realized a DKK 89 higher input costs and lower deferred income million currency hedging/revaluation net loss, had a negative effect. compared with a net gain of DKK 27 million in 2017. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Sales and earnings 72 Consolidated statements of income Income statement Statement of comprehensive income DKK million Note 2018 2017 DKK million Note 2018 2017 Revenue 2.1, 2.2 14,390 14,531 Net profit 3,227 3,120 Cost of goods sold 2.3, 3.1, 3.2, 4.1 (6,135) (6,118) Gross profit 8,255 8,413 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement: Sales and distribution costs 2.3, 3.1, 3.2 (1,571) (1,619) Research and development costs 2.3, 2.4, 3.1, 3.2 (1,865) (1,913) Currency translation adjustments Administrative costs 2.3, 3.1, 3.2 (792) (831) Subsidiaries and non-controlling interests 181 (970) Other operating income, net 2.5 43 (3) Tax on currency translation adjustments (5) 37 Operating profit / EBIT 4,070 4,047 Currency translation adjustments 176 (933) Share of result in associates (17) (14) Cash flow hedges Financial income 5.2 47 90 Fair value adjustments (133) 115 Financial costs 5.2 (164) (247) Tax on fair value adjustments 29 (25) Profit before tax 3,936 3,876 Cash flow hedges reclassified to financial costs 42 (5) Tax on reclassified fair value adjustments (9) 1 Tax 2.6 (709) (756) Cash flow hedges (71) 86 Net profit 3,227 3,120 Other comprehensive income 105 (847) Attributable to Shareholders in Novozymes A/S 3,226 3,119 Comprehensive income for the year 3,332 2,273 Non-controlling interests 1 1 3,227 3,120 Attributable to Shareholders in Novozymes A/S 3,331 2,273 Proposed dividend per share DKK 5.00 DKK 4.50 Non-controlling interests 1 3,332 2,273 Earnings per share 2.7 DKK 11.11 DKK 10.56 Earnings per share, diluted 2.7 DKK 11.03 DKK 10.49 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Sales and earnings 73 Balance sheet and financial position Total assets Invested capital Net interest-bearing debt Total assets increased from DKK 18,373 Invested capital increased from DKK 12,880 Novozymes had net interest-bearing debt of million at December 31, 2017, to DKK 19,697 million in 2017 to DKK 13,953 million in 2018. DKK 2,535 million at December 31, 2018, million at December 31, 2018. The increase This was a result of higher net working capital compared with DKK 1,642 million at December was mainly driven by changes in currency, an and high net investments. 31, 2017. Net interest-bearing debt was increase in net working capital and higher net impacted by cash outflows from dividend investments. Net working capital payments of DKK 1,317 million, stock buybacks Novozymes’ net working capital increased to of DKK 2,000 million and net investments ROIC DKK 2,768 million, up from DKK 2,023 million of DKK 1,388 million, which exceeded cash Return on invested capital (ROIC), including in 2017, due to higher trade receivables inflows from operating activities of DKK 3,679 goodwill, was 24.2%, down 1.4 percentage and increasing inventories, as well as lower million. points from 25.6% in 2017. The decrease was deferred income and contract liabilities. mainly a result of higher net invested capital. Net interest-bearing debt-to-EBITDA Net interest-bearing debt-to-EBITDA was 0.5x at December 31, 2018, compared with 0.3x at December 31, 2017. Net interest-bearing debt (NIBD) and net interest­ Net working capital ROIC and average invested capital bearing debt-­to-­EBITDA DKK million % % of sales DKK million NIBD/EBITDA • Average invested capital • Inventories • Receivables • NIBD • ROIC • Payables and deferred income • Net working capital • NIBD/EBITDA Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Balance sheet and financial position 74 Consolidated balance sheet Assets Liabilities and shareholders’ equity DKK million Note Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 DKK million Note Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 Intangible assets 3.1 2,130 2,432 Common stock 5.5 594 610 Land and buildings 3.2 2,779 2,697 Currency translation adjustments (86) (262) Plant and machinery 3.2 4,452 4,019 Cash flow hedges (26) 45 Other equipment 3.2 619 562 Retained earnings 10,943 10,861 Assets under construction and prepayments 3.2 1,848 1,648 Equity attributable to shareholders in Novozymes A/S 11,425 11,254 Deferred tax assets 2.6 938 755 Non-controlling interests 13 13 Other financial assets 20 29 Shareholders’ equity 11,438 11,267 Investments in associates 42 59 Other receivables 4.3 34 35 Deferred tax liabilities 2.6 892 721 Non-current assets 12,862 12,236 Provisions 3.3 132 159 Contract liabilities 4.4 199 Inventories 4.1 2,820 2,586 Deferred income 4.5 37 337 Trade receivables 4.2 2,606 2,554 Other financial liabilities 5.3 1,474 1,312 Contract assets 4.2 279 Non-current liabilities 2,734 2,529 Tax receivables 2.6 174 135 Other receivables 4.3 219 214 Provisions 3.3 97 86 Other financial assets 14 16 Other financial liabilities 5.3 1,899 979 Cash and cash equivalents 723 632 Trade payables 1,418 1,341 Current assets 6,835 6,137 Contract liabilities 4.4 175 Deferred income 4.5 13 205 Assets 19,697 18,373 Tax payables 2.6 575 483 Other liabilities 4.6 1,348 1,483 Current liabilities 5,525 4,577 Liabilities 8,259 7,106 Liabilities and shareholders’ equity 19,697 18,373 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Balance sheet and financial position 75 Equity and shareholder return Shareholders’ equity Return on equity Dividend Stock buyback program At December 31, 2018, shareholders’ equity Return on equity was 28.4%, up 1.3 percentage The Board of Directors proposes that the In 2018, Novozymes bought back 6.2 million B was DKK 11,438 million, up 2% from DKK points from 27.1% in 2017. The increase was a Annual Shareholders’ Meeting approve a shares with a transaction value of DKK 2,000 11,267 million at December 31, 2017, as result of higher net profit and a relatively lower dividend of DKK 5.00 per share for the 2018 million under the stock buyback program comprehensive income in 2018 more than increase in equity. financial year, an increase of 11% compared initiated on February 14, 2018, and completed offset dividend payments and net stock with 2017. This will result in an expected total on November 28, 2018. The shares acquired buyback. Treasury stock dividend payment of approximately DKK 1,438 within the program will be used to reduce At December 31, 2018, the holding of treasury million, corresponding to a payout ratio of the common stock and to meet obligations Equity ratio stock was 9.4 million B shares, equivalent to 44.6%. arising from employee stock-based incentive Shareholders’ equity represented 58% of the 3.2% of the common stock. programs. balance sheet total at December 31, 2018, down from 61% at December 31, 2017. Shareholder return Movements in equity 2018 Payout ratio and dividend growth * Dividend for 2018 is proposed DKK million % DKK million dividend. • Payout ratio • Dividend • Dividend growth • Stock buyback program Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Equity and shareholder return 76 Consolidated statement of shareholders’ equity Attributable to shareholders in the company Currency translation Cash flow Retained Non-controlling DKK million Common stock adjustments hedges earnings Total interests Total equity Shareholders’ equity at January 1, 2018 610 (262) 45 10,861 11,254 13 11,267 Net profit for the year 3,226 3,226 1 3,227 Other comprehensive income for the year 176 (71) 105 105 Total comprehensive income for the year 176 (71) 3,226 3,331 1 3,332 Purchase of treasury stock (2,000) (2,000) (2,000) Sale of treasury stock 172 172 172 Write-down of common stock (16) 16 Dividend (1,316) (1,316) (1) (1,317) Stock-based payment 97 97 97 Tax related to equity items (113) (113) (113) Changes in shareholders’ equity (16) 176 (71) 82 171 171 Shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2018 B/S 594 (86) (26) 10,943 11,425 13 11,438 Shareholders’ equity at January 1, 2017 620 670 (41) 10,483 11,732 13 11,745 Net profit for the year 3,119 3,119 1 3,120 Other comprehensive income for the year (932) 86 (846) (1) (847) Total comprehensive income for the year (932) 86 3,119 2,273 2,273 Purchase of treasury stock (2,000) (2,000) (2,000) Sale of treasury stock 179 179 179 Write-down of common stock (10) 10 Dividend (1,192) (1,192) (1,192) Stock-based payment 104 104 104 Tax related to equity items 158 158 158 Changes in shareholders’ equity (10) (932) 86 378 (478) (478) Shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2017 B/S 610 (262) 45 10,861 11,254 13 11,267 The proposed dividend of DKK 1,438 million for 2018 is included in Retained earnings. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Equity and shareholder return 77 Cash flow Cash flow from operating activities Net investments Free cash flow before acquisitions Financing activities Cash flow from operating activities was DKK Net investments excluding acquisitions were Free cash flow before net acquisitions was Cash flow from financing activities was 3,679 million, down from DKK 4,063 million DKK 1,388 million, down from DKK 1,665 DKK 2,291 million, compared with DKK 2,398 negative at DKK 2,167 million, compared with in 2017. Higher net profit impacted cash flow million in 2017. Net investments in property, million in 2017. The decrease of 4% was mainly a negative cash flow of DKK 2,553 million in positively, while higher net working capital plant and equipment amounted to DKK 1,328 due to higher net working capital, offset by 2017. The negative cash flow from financing negatively impacted cash flow by DKK 847 million, compared with DKK 1,566 million in lower net investments and to some extent also activities was mainly due to completion of the million. The development in net working 2017. Novozymes’ main investment projects higher net profit. stock buyback program (DKK 2,000 million) and capital was caused by higher receivables in 2018 were the greenfield facility in Mumbai, dividend payments (DKK 1,317 million). and increasing inventories, as well as lower India, the capacity expansion in Nebraska, Free cash flow deferred income and contract liabilities. US, and the innovation campus in Lyngby, Free cash flow was DKK 2,287 million in 2018, Cash position Denmark. compared with DKK 2,395 million in 2017. Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2018, amounted to DKK 723 million, up from DKK 632 million at December 31, 2017. Undrawn committed credit facilities were DKK 3,646 million at December 31, 2018. Net investments Free cash flow before acquisitions Cash flow from operating activities * Excluding acquisitions and The * 2014 net impact of The BioAg DKK million DKK million BioAg Alliance impact in 2014. % DKK million Alliance DKK ~1,700 million. • Net investments • Net investments (% of sales) Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Cash flow 78 Consolidated statement of cash flows DKK million Note 2018 2017 DKK million Note 2018 2017 Net profit 3,227 3,120 Financing Borrowings 2,093 965 Reversal of non-cash items 6.6 2,062 2,065 Repayments of borrowings (1,115) (505) Income tax paid 2.6 (761) (852) Purchase of treasury stock (2,000) (2,000) Interest received 9 7 Sale of treasury stock 172 179 Interest paid (11) (28) Dividend paid (1,317) (1,192) Cash flow before change in working capital 4,526 4,312 Cash flow from financing activities (2,167) (2,553) Change in working capital Net cash flow 120 (158) (Increase)/decrease in receivables (361) (96) (Increase)/decrease in inventories (234) (224) Unrealized gain/(loss) on currencies and financial assets included in cash and cash equivalents (29) (22) Increase/(decrease) in payables, deferred income and contract liabilities (265) 74 Net change in cash and cash equivalents 91 (180) Currency translation adjustments 13 (3) Cash flow from operating activities 3,679 4,063 Cash and cash equivalents at January 1 632 812 Investments Cash and cash equivalents at December 31 723 632 Purchase of intangible assets 3.1 (60) (99) Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,332) (1,593) Sale of property, plant and equipment 4 27 Business acquisitions, divestments and purchase of financial assets 6.6 (4) (3) Cash flow from investing activities (1,392) (1,668) Free cash flow 2,287 2,395 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Cash flow 79 Environmental performance Operational ecoefficiency Climate change Energy The total volume of wastewater generated in Novozymes strives to decouple environmental Novozymes’ total CO2 emissions were 472,000 In 2018, Novozymes’ energy consumption was 2018 increased by 2%. impact from business growth, and aims to tons in 2018, an increase from 447,000 tons in 4,831,000 GJ, an increase of 1% compared define targets and metrics that measure and 2017. Our target measures the increase in part with 2017. Renewable sources accounted In 2018, Novozymes established a wastewater drive our sustainability performance. of the total CO2 emissions (scope 1+2 only), for 23% of the energy consumption in 2018, treatment plant at its new production site in which increased by 7% from 408,000 tons in down from 24% in 2017. All our electricity Patalganga, India, designed to reuse 100% of In previous years, we have measured resource 2017 to 437,000 tons in 2018. This means the in Denmark and Brazil comes from offshore the treated process water in production. efficiency relative to gross profit, but this target was not met. windfarms and hydropower. has proved not to be optimal, as nonWaste sustainability-related changes in gross profit, Despite this, Novozymes’ net overall impact Energy by source 2018 (2017) Novozymes recovered 97% of biomass such as currency fluctuations and product mix, on climate change remains positive, as its generated in 2018 from landfill, on par with distort the picture of the actual sustainability products result in lower CO2 emissions over 2017. performance. We have therefore decided their life cycles compared with conventional to explore a better way of measuring our technologies. In 2018, our customers avoided For solid waste, the rate of recycling across sustainability performance and aim to finalize an estimated 88 million tons of CO2 emissions our global production sites increased to 44%, this work in 2019. by applying our solutions in their products or compared with 43% in 2017. processes, up from 76 million tons in 2017. This While exploring better long-term sustainability is equivalent to taking 37 million cars off the Environmental compliance measures, we have introduced annual targets road. The number of breaches of regulatory limits for energy and water consumption and CO2 recorded worldwide increased to 27 in 2018 emissions, where we aim to keep growth in • Electricity – conventional 38% (37%) from 24 in 2017. Most of these breaches resource consumption and CO2 emissions lower • Electricity – renewable 22% (23%) relate to wastewater treatment. Novozymes • Steam 21% (20%) than our organic sales growth. • Fuels – conventional 14% (15%) is addressing these incidents. In addition, • Heat – conventional 4% (4%) • Fuel and heat – renewable 1% (1%) we received 11 neighbor complaints in 2018, compared with 12 in 2017, mostly related to air pollution and waste management. Water In 2018, Novozymes’ water consumption increased by 1% from 8,106,000 m3 in 2017 to 8,205,000 m3. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Environmental performance 80 Consolidated environmental data Note 2018 2017 Climate change Estimated CO2 reductions from customers’ application of Novozymes’ products in their products or processes 7.1 Million tons 88 76 Greenhouse gas emissions 7.1 1,000 tons CO2-eqv. 472 447 Energy Energy consumption 7.2 1,000 GJ 4,831 4,760 Renewable energy 7.2 % 23 24 Water Water consumption 7.3 1,000 m3 8,205 8,106 Volume of wastewater 7.3 1,000 m3 6,306 6,182 Waste Solid waste 7.4 1,000 tons 14 14 Recycling rate for solid and hazardous waste 7.4 % 44 43 Biomass volume 7.4 1,000 tons 509 602 Recycling rate for biomass 7.4 % 97 98 Environmental compliance, etc. Breaches of regulatory limits 7.5 No. 27 24 Neighbor complaints 7.5 No. 11 12 References to notes without data Bioethics & biodiversity 7.6 n.a. n.a. Product stewardship 7.7 n.a. n.a. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Environmental performance 81 Social and governance performance Labor practices & human rights Occupational health & safety Business ethics Community engagement At December 31, 2018, the total number of Despite our continuous focus on building In 2018, Novozymes reinforced its commitment In 2018, Novozymes engaged approximately employees was 6,427, compared with 6,245 in awareness and keeping employees safe to its business integrity principles. 99% of 302,000 learners, compared with 2017. The employee absence rate was 2.1%, on and healthy, the frequency of occupational Novozymes’ employees completed business approximately 188,000 in 2017. The increase par with the 2017 performance. accidents increased to 2.4 per million working integrity training in 2018, on par with 2017. was due to expansion of our 2017 projects hours in 2018, compared with 1.6 in 2017. across regions and addition of new projects. Number of employees As in 2017, there were no breaches of Frequency of accidents (per million working hours) competition law in 2018. Customer engagement Novozymes conducts an annual customer The number of investigated fraud cases satisfaction survey and tracks progress on its decreased to 34 in 2018, compared with 49 in Net Promoter Score (NPS), which is assessed 2017. None of the investigated fraud cases had on a scale from -100 to +100. In 2018, we a material financial impact. received an NPS of +50, compared with +39 in 2017, which confirms our solid relationships Business integrity training for employees with our customers. % Novozymes promotes equal opportunities and strengthens diversity in the global Innovation workplace. At December 31, 2018, 30% of Novozymes is committed to delivering senior management (directors and higher) were bioinnovation and launched eight new women, up from 26% in 2017. products in 2018. In 2018, Novozymes had 1,041 active patent families, which comprise the number of inventions that have active • Training completion rate patent applications or active patents. See more details about our new products in This is Novozymes. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Social and governance performance 82 Consolidated social and governance data Note 2018 2017 Labor practices & human rights Employees, total 2.3 No. 6,427 6,245 Women 2.3 % 37.7 37.7 Rate of absence 8.1 % 2.1 2.1 Women in senior management 8.1 % 30 26 Occupational health & safety Fatalities No. Frequency of occupational accidents 8.2 Per million working hours 2.4 1.6 Frequency of occupational diseases 8.2 Per million working hours 0.4 0.2 Innovation New products 2.4 No. 8 8 Active patent families 2.4 No. 1,041 1,049 Business ethics Completion of business integrity training for employees 8.3 % 99 99 Breaches of competition law 8.3 No. Investigated fraud cases 8.3 No. 34 49 Community engagement Estimated number of learners reached 8.4 No. 302,000 188,000 Customer engagement Customer satisfaction, Net Promoter Score (NPS) 8.5 No. 50 39 Reference to notes without data Responsible sourcing 8.6 n.a. n.a. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Social and governance performance 83 T Notes N o Basis of reporting Net working capital 6.5 Fees to statutory auditor 1 Basis of reporting 4.1 Inventories 6.6 Cash flow 4.2 Trade receivables and 6.7 Events after the reporting date Net operating profit after tax contract assets 6.8 Group companies 2.1 Segment 4.3 Other receivables 2.2 Revenue 4.4 Contract liabilities Environmental data 2.3 Employees 4.5 Deferred income 7.1 Climate change 2.4 Research and development costs 4.6 Other liabilities 7.2 Energy s 2.5 Other operating income, net 7.3 Water e 2.6 Tax Capital structure and financing 7.4 Waste 2.7 Earnings per share 5.1 Financial risk factors and risk 7.5 Environmental compliance, etc. management 7.6 Bioethics & biodiversity Invested capital 5.2 Financial income and Financial 7.7 Product stewardship 3.1 Intangible assets and impairment costs test of goodwill 5.3 Other financial liabilities Social and governance data 3.2 Property, plant and equipment 5.4 Derivatives – hedge accounting 8.1 Labor practices & human rights 3.3 Provisions 5.5 Common stock and treasury stock 8.2 Occupational health & safety 5.6 Financial assets and liabilities by 8.3 Business ethics category 8.4 Community engagement 8.5 Customer engagement Other financial notes 8.6 Responsible sourcing 6.1 Management remuneration 6.2 Stock-based payment 6.3 Commitments and contingencies 6.4 Related party transactions Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 84 Basis of reporting 1 Basis of reporting This section provides an overview of Consolidation of the environmental data and • Translation of foreign subsidiaries’ income experience and various other factors. Actual Novozymes’ principal accounting policies, the social and governance data follows the same statements from average exchange rates results may differ from these estimates. critical accounting estimates and judgments principles as for the financial reporting. applied, a definition of materiality as well as Non-IFRS financial measures The estimates and underlying assumptions the impact of new or amended IFRS standards Translation of foreign currencies Novozymes uses certain financial measures are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Changes and interpretations. The consolidated financial statements are that are not defined in IFRS to describe the in estimates may be necessary if there are presented in Danish kroner (DKK). Group’s financial performance, financial changes in the circumstances on which The symbols I/S , B/S and ESG show which position and cash flows. These financial the estimate was based, or more detailed amounts in the notes can be found in the Exchange rate differences arising between measures may therefore be defined and information becomes available. Such changes income statement, balance sheet, and the exchange rate at the transaction date and calculated differently from similar measures in are recognized in the period in which the environmental data and social and governance the reporting date are recognized as Financial other companies, and thus not be comparable. estimate is revised. data respectively. income or Financial costs. The non-IFRS financial measures presented in The application of the Group’s accounting The accounting policies described below Foreign currency transactions are translated the Annual Report are: policies may require Management to make apply to the consolidated financial statements into the functional currency defined for judgments that can have a significant effect on as a whole. Accounting policies and critical each company using the exchange rates • Organic sales growth the amounts recognized in the consolidated accounting estimates and judgments are prevailing at the transaction date. Monetary • Economic profit financial statements. Management judgment described in the notes to which they relate to items denominated in foreign currencies are • ROIC is required in particular when assessing enhance understanding. The descriptions of translated into the functional currency at the • Free cash flow before acquisitions the substance of transactions that have a accounting policies in the notes form part of exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date. complicated structure or legal form. the overall description of accounting policies. The definitions of non-IFRS financial measures Financial statements of foreign subsidiaries are are included in the Glossary. The critical accounting estimates and ACCOUNTING POLICIES translated into Danish kroner at the exchange judgments can potentially significantly impact Consolidation rates prevailing at the reporting date for assets CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND the consolidated financial statements. The consolidated financial statements and liabilities, and at average exchange rates JUDGMENTS comprise the financial statements of for income statement items. The preparation of the consolidated financial Novozymes A/S (the parent company) statements and the environmental data and subsidiaries controlled by Novozymes The following exchange rate differences, and social and governance data requires A/S, prepared in accordance with Group arising from translation using the exchange Management to make estimates and accounting policies. The consolidated financial rate prevailing at the reporting date, are assumptions that can have a significant effect statements are prepared by combining recognized in Other comprehensive income: on the application of policies and reported items of a uniform nature and subsequently amounts of assets, liabilities, income, expenses eliminating intercompany transactions, internal • Translation of foreign subsidiaries’ net assets and related disclosures. The estimates and stockholdings and balances, and unrealized at the beginning of the year underlying assumptions are based on historical intercompany profits and losses. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 85 Basis of reporting 1 Basis of reporting (continued) The table below shows the critical accounting estimates and judgments and their level of potential impact on the consolidated financial statements: The principles are unchanged from last year. Estimate/ Potential impact from Defining materiality Note Critical accounting estimates and judgments judgment estimates and judgments Novozymes’ Annual Report is based on the 2.2 Revenue Profit sharing in partnerships Estimate concept of materiality, to ensure that the 2.6 Tax Group tax charge Estimate content is material and relevant. 3.1 Intangible assets and impairment test of goodwill Impairment of intangible assets and goodwill Estimate If items are individually immaterial, they are 4.1 Inventories Cost of work in progress and finished goods Estimate aggregated with other items of a similar nature 4.2 Trade receivables and contract assets Allowances for doubtful trade receivables Estimate in the statements or in the notes. Novozymes 4.4 Contract liabilities Deferred income Estimate provides the specific disclosures required by 7.1 Climate change CO2 emissions Estimate IFRS unless the information is considered Estimate immaterial to the economic decision-making 8.4 Community engagement Learners reached of the readers of these financial statements. The disclosures on environmental, social and governance (ESG) data include information on Basis of reporting The consolidated environmental data and Read Novozymes’ UNGC Communication on our management approach, targets, initiatives The consolidated financial statements of social and governance data have been progress in the Sustainability section and related progress on the issues. the Novozymes Group have been prepared prepared in accordance with principles • GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the that adhere to the following internationally 2016 (GRI Standards). Novozymes refers Novozymes’ materiality assessment is EU and further requirements in the Danish recognized voluntary reporting standards and to GRI 101: Foundation 2016 to inspire a systematic and rigorous process that Financial Statements Act. Novozymes has principles: its materiality assessment process and integrates inputs from external stakeholders, prepared the consolidated financial statements to GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 to trend analyses and internal engagement in accordance with all the IFRS standards • AA1000 framework for accountability. report contextual information about itself. with relevant departments, for example effective at December 31, 2018. The fiscal year The framework states that reporting must Information is presented on Novozymes’ senior leadership from Novozymes’ business for the Group is January 1 – December 31. provide a complete, accurate, relevant management approach to material divisions, Investor Relations, Risk Management The consolidated financial statements have and balanced picture of the organization’s issues, taking inspiration from GRI 103: & Controls, Public Affairs and Corporate been prepared on a going concern basis and approach to and impact on society Management Approach 2016. Topic-Specific Sustainability. This process results in under the historical cost convention, with the • UN Global Compact. Novozymes is a Information is provided by referencing GRI identification of the ESG issues that are most exception of derivatives and securities, which signatory to the UN Global Compact, a Standards 200, 300 and 400 on Economic, material to Novozymes. are measured at fair value. The accounting voluntary policy initiative for businesses that Environmental and Social disclosures. policies are unchanged from last year except are committed to aligning their operations Specific content for which information is for the implementation of IFRS 9 Financial and strategies with ten universally accepted reported is outlined in Novozymes’ GRI Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from principles in the areas of human rights, Content Index Contracts with Customers. labor, environment and anti-corruption. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 86 Basis of reporting 1 Basis of reporting (continued) The illustration is a snapshot of the upper-right In 2018, we studied relevant macrotrends Changing global trade policies are impacting The standard has been implemented quadrant of Novozymes’ materiality matrix and changes in the internal and external businesses all over the world. Therefore, prospectively using January 1, 2018 as the date and depicts the 16 issues from the economic, environment to understand the impact they it is important that we manage this issue of initial application. Novozymes has made use environmental, social and governance areas have on our current materiality matrix. As a to minimize the impact it may have on of the relief from restating comparative figures. that are most material to Novozymes’ business. result of this process, we identified one new Novozymes’ business. All other issues remain issue in the economic category: Trade policies. unchanged. • IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers establishes a single For further details on the materiality comprehensive framework for revenue High materiality, assessment process, including a full list of recognition. Issue category Corporate focus areas detailed disclosure all material issues and an explanation of All Environmental Social Targets/Flagship initiatives how the issues are linked to the Sustainable The implementation of IFRS 15 has had an Medium materiality, Economic Governance Contributes to SDG target(s) limited disclosure Development Goal (SDG) targets, see insignificant impact on the income statement Low materiality, no disclosure Materiality in the Sustainability section. and the related key ratios in the consolidated financial statements. Contract assets and Impact of new accounting standards Contract liabilities are now presented High Innovation Novozymes has adopted the following new or separately in the balance sheet. amended standards and interpretations from Proﬁtable growth January 1, 2018: The standard was implemented using the Partnerships modified retrospective method. Novozymes & customer engagement • IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments: Classification made use of the relief from restating Corporate IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Trade policies Water governance and Measurement of Financial Assets and comparative figures and applied IFRS 15 Compliance Solid capital Financial Liabilities contains requirements only to contracts that were not completed as structure Business ethics for the classification and measurement of of January 1, 2018. Product financial assets and liabilities, impairment Climate change stewardship Bioethics & & energy biodiversity methodology and general hedge accounting. The following table shows the amounts by which the affected line items are impacted Occupational The implementation of IFRS 9 has had an by the implementation of IFRS 15. Line items Labor practices health & safety & human rights insignificant impact on the consolidated that are not affected are not included in the financial statements. The implementation table, and consequently subtotals disclosed Responsible sourcing has resulted in additional disclosures; see cannot be derived from the numbers Notes 4.2 and 5.1. The basis for calculating provided. the allowance for doubtful receivables Community engagement & social investment has been changed from incurred losses to expected losses. However, this has had only an insignificant impact on the IMPACT ON NOVOZYMES High allowances and thereby the consolidated financial statements. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 87 Basis of reporting 1 Basis of reporting (continued) The first column shows amounts prepared • Annual Improvements to IFRSs (2014-2016) New standards and interpretations not yet • IFRS 16 – Leases introduces a single lessee under IFRS 15, while the second column contains minor changes to three standards adopted accounting model, requiring lessees to shows the amounts had IFRS 15 not been IASB has issued new or amended accounting recognize leases in the balance sheet as a implemented. • IFRIC 22 – Foreign Currency Transactions standards and interpretations that have not right-of-use asset and a lease liability, unless and Advance Consideration clarifies the yet become effective and have consequently the lease term is 12 months or less or the The implementation has resulted in accounting for transactions that include the not been implemented in the consolidated underlying asset has a low value. In the additional disclosures; see Notes 2.2 and 4.2. receipt or payment of advance consideration financial statements for 2018. Novozymes income statement, the lease cost is replaced in a foreign currency expects to adopt the accounting standards by depreciation of the leased asset and an • Amendment to IFRS 2 – Classification and and interpretations when they become interest expense for the financial liability. Measurement of Share-based Payment The adoption of the amended standards mandatory. The following accounting standard Transactions clarifies the accounting for and interpretations has not had a significant is considered the most relevant for Novozymes: The standard will be implemented on certain types of share-based payment impact on recognition or measurement in the January 1, 2019 using the modified transactions consolidated financial statements for 2018 and retrospective approach, where the rightis not anticipated to have an impact on future of-use assets on transition are measured periods. at an amount equal to the lease liability. Novozymes will make use of the relief from December 31, 2018 January 1, 2018 restating comparative figures and will not Increase/ Increase/ apply IFRS 16 to short-term leases and lowDKK million IFRS 15 Previous IFRS (decrease) IFRS 15 Previous IFRS (decrease) value leases. Assets The impact assessment analysis concluded Trade receivables 2,606 2,878 (272) 2,424 2,554 (130) that the implementation of IFRS 16 will Contract assets 279 279 143 143 have an insignificant impact on profit and Other receivables 219 226 (7) 201 214 (13) loss, but will result in an expected increase Current assets 6,835 6,835 6,137 6,137 in total assets and liabilities of DKK 615 million. Consequently, ROIC is expected to Liabilities be impacted negatively by approximately Contract liabilities, non-current (199) (199) (335) (335) 0.8 percentage point, and free cash flow in the Consolidated statement of cash flows Deferred income, non-current (37) (236) 199 (2) (337) 335 will improve by approximately DKK 125 Non-current liabilities (2,734) (2,734) (2,529) (2,529) million. The right-of-use asset and lease liability are to be presented separately in Provisions (97) (140) 43 (66) (86) 20 the balance sheet or disclosed in the notes. Contract liabilities, current (175) (175) (238) (238) Furthermore, the implementation of IFRS 16 Deferred income, current (13) (125) 112 (23) (205) 182 will require additional disclosures. Other payables (625) (645) 20 (747) (783) 36 Current liabilities (5,525) (5,525) (4,577) (4,577) Novozymes A/S 88 Net operating profit after tax Organic sales growth Net operating profit after tax EBIT 4% NOPAT Tax ROIC Invested capital excl. Net profit growth up from 2% in NWC 2017 to Invested capital NWC 3% DKK million Note 2018 2017 Revenue 2.2 14,390 14,531 Cost of goods sold (6,135) (6,118) Gross profit 8,255 8,413 Sales and distribution costs (1,571) (1,619) Research and development costs 2.4 (1,865) (1,913) The EBIT margin grew by 0.4 Administrative costs (792) (831) Other operating income, net 2.5 43 (3) percentage point to 28.3% Operating profit (EBIT) 4,070 4,047 Exchange gains/(losses) (89) 27 Tax on adjusted operating profit (717) (795) Share of loss in associates (17) (14) Adjusted operating profit (NOPAT) 3,247 3,265 Average invested capital (see Invested capital section) 13,417 12,732 ROIC 24.2% 25.6% Novozymes A/S 89 Net operating profit after tax 2.1 Segment Segment reporting Worldwide operations The stated geographical distribution of The internal reporting framework used for The Group operates in four geographical revenue may therefore vary from year to year reporting on revenue and expenses to the regions: Europe, Middle East & Africa (including if the delivery destination for these customers Executive Leadership Team and the Board of Denmark), North America, Asia Pacific and changes. Directors has been established to reflect and Latin America. From a revenue perspective, report on the global functional responsibility the US is the single largest market, contributing Most of the Group’s intangible assets and setup at Novozymes. This setup consolidates ~32% of the Group’s revenue (2017: ~32%). property, plant and equipment are located in functions by type, and Management reviews Denmark, the US and China at ~50%, ~30% the results of the Group as a whole to assess The geographical distribution of revenue is and ~13% respectively (2017: ~50%, ~30% and performance. Thus, there is only one operating based on the country in which the goods are ~13%). segment. delivered. With a number of customers, central deliveries are made to specified locations and the final destination is unknown. Intangible assets and property, plant and Revenue 2018 (2017) equipment 2018 (2017) Net investments 2018 (2017) DKK million DKK million DKK million • Denmark 204 (208) • Denmark 5,871 (5,658) • Denmark 713 (876) • Rest of Europe, Middle East & Africa 5,010 (5,043) • Rest of Europe, Middle East & Africa 49 (60) • Rest of Europe, Middle East & Africa 9 (18) • North America 4,893 (4,952) • North America 3,738 (3,607) • North America 309 (452) • Latin America 1,381 (1,463) • Latin America 160 (201) • Latin America 19 (27) • Asia Pacific 2,902 (2,865) • Asia Pacific 2,010 (1,832) • Asia Pacific 338 (292) Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 90 Net operating profit after tax 2.2 Revenue DKK million 2018 2017 Household Care 4,625 4,717 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES of Novozymes’ total annual revenue (2017: AND JUDGMENTS approximately 13%). Food & Beverages 4,122 4,041 Bioenergy 2,806 2,644 Novozymes has entered into partnerships A minor part of the revenue, related to the Agriculture & Feed 2,045 2,108 where Novozymes manufactures and sells expected profit share on products sold to Technical & Pharma 792 1,021 products to a partner, who undertakes the the partner, requires significant judgment Revenue I/S 14,390 14,531 sales to end customers, and where the and estimates by Management. This involves profit on products sold to end customers is estimating future sales prices to end Emerging markets 4,980 5,023 shared between the partner and Novozymes customers, along with their impact on rebate Developed markets 9,410 9,508 based on predetermined profit-sharing schemes, and estimating product returns Revenue I/S 14,390 14,531 mechanisms. Revenue related to this type of from end customers. partnership comprises approximately 13% Sales to the five largest customers as a percentage of revenue 28% 30% At the beginning of 2018, contract liabilities The majority of Novozymes’ revenue consists ACCOUNTING POLICIES microorganisms to the customers, and each amounted to DKK 573 million, of which DKK of sale of goods to customers, where revenue batch delivered is considered a separate 224 million has been recognized as revenue in is recognized when goods are delivered. Less Novozymes produces a wide range of performance obligation, as each batch is 2018. than 1% of Novozymes’ total revenue arises industrial enzymes and microorganisms. distinct. from royalties. Revenue includes sales of goods and related services and royalties, and is recognized at Discounts Sales by currency 2018 Sales growth 2018 an amount that reflects the consideration Enzymes and microorganisms are sometimes DKK million DKK million to which Novozymes expects to be entitled. sold with a rebate. A rebate agreement can Revenue from straightforward sale of goods be set up in various ways, but common to to customers is recognized when control of all agreements is that revenue is recognized the goods is transferred to the customer, based on the price specified in the contract, i.e. when goods are delivered. Variable net of the estimated rebate. The rebates are considerations are included in revenue estimated based on experience, as well as to the extent that they are not subject to information related to expected orders 3-12 significant uncertainty. months in advance. The estimated rebates are reassessed at the end of each reporting The performance obligations in the period. contracts are to deliver enzymes and • DKK ~10%(~10%) • EUR ~35%(~35%) • USD ~35%(~35%) • CNY ~10%(~10%) • Other ~10%(~10%) Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 91 Net operating profit after tax 2.2 Revenue (continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES Profit split Commission A trade receivable is recognized when the Novozymes has entered into partnerships Novozymes has entered into commission customer obtains control of the goods Returns where Novozymes manufactures and sells agreements where agents undertake sales and an invoice is issued, as this is the A few of Novozymes’ partnerships and products to a partner, who undertakes to third parties in return for commission point in time when the consideration is collaborations are granted a right of return. the sales to end customers. The profit on on realized sales. Revenue from such unconditional and only the passage of No revenue is recognized for the goods products sold to end customers is shared agreements is recognized when the time is required before the payment is due. expected to be returned, but a refund between the partner and Novozymes goods are delivered, as the nature of the Typical payment terms are around 60 days. liability is recognized. Estimates of the based on predetermined profit-sharing performance obligation is to provide the expected level of returns are based on an mechanisms. specified goods. Contract liabilities consist of advance analysis of historical returns and knowledge payments, deferred revenue and liabilities of the relevant markets/products. These Revenue from these arrangements consists Other for refund goods. The contract liabilities are estimates are updated at the end of each of sales of products to the partner and Revenue collected on behalf of third parties recognized as revenue as the performance reporting period. As the goods returned the shared profit, and is recognized in is not recognized as revenue. obligations under the contracts are fulfilled. are usually scrapped, no inventory asset is full when the goods are delivered to the recognized. other contracting party. This is done by Novozymes’ obligation to provide a refund calculating the expected profit based for products that are not of the agreed on insights, experience and other input quality or according to agreed specifications factors. The calculated profit is recognized under the standard warranty terms is as a contract asset or contract liability until recognized as contract liabilities. Reference an invoice is issued. The realized profit is is made to Note 4.4. settled periodically. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 92 Net operating profit after tax 2.3 Employees DKK million 2018 2017 Wages and salaries 2,960 2,965 Pensions – defined contribution plans 306 289 Other social security costs 232 273 Other employee costs 114 139 Stock-based payment 100 107 Employee costs 3,712 3,773 Recognized in the income statement under the following items: Cost of goods sold 1,350 1,342 Sales and distribution costs 778 811 Research and development costs 1,057 1,070 Administrative costs 492 531 3,677 3,754 Change in employee costs recognized in Inventories 35 19 Employee costs 3,712 3,773 Number of employees end of year 2018 (2017) Employee costs 2018 (2017) No. of employees DKK million • Denmark 2,687 (2,631) • Denmark 2,004 (1,962) • Rest of Europe, Middle East & Africa 191 (173) • Rest of Europe, Middle East & Africa 145 (191) • North America 1,301 (1,277) • North America 981 (1,015) • Asia Pacific 1,892 (1,815) • Asia Pacific 470 (472) • Latin America 356 (349) • Latin America 112 (133) Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 93 Net operating profit after tax 2.3 Employees (continued) 2018 2017 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Average number of employees in the Group 6,351 6,301 Average number of employees who work with R&D 1,522 1,473 The number of employees is derived Number of employees outside Denmark as a percentage of total number of employees 58% 58% from contractual obligations, but does not include employees on unpaid leave, Part-time employees 296 272 temporary replacements, student interns, Full-time employees 6,131 5,973 agency employees, consultants or PhD Employees, end of year ESG 6,427 6,245 students. In calculating the number of fulltime employees, employees with a workingSenior management 188 186 time ratio of 95% or above are stated as Management 1,207 1,122 full-time employees. Professional 1,820 1,816 Administrative 602 558 The average number of employees is calculated as the average of the number of Skilled workers, laboratory technicians and other technicians 1,364 1,344 permanent employees at the end of each Process operators 1,246 1,219 month. Employees by category ESG 6,427 6,245 Job categories are defined as follows: Employee gender distribution 2018 (2017) Employee growth Senior management comprises the CEO, % executive vice presidents, vice presidents and directors. Management comprises middle managers and specialists. Professional comprises employees with academic backgrounds as well as team leaders. Process operators comprises operators and unskilled workers. • Women 37.7% (37.7%) • Men 62.3% (62.3%) • Growth in total number of employees • Growth in number of female employees Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 94 Net operating profit after tax 2.4 Research and development costs DKK million Note 2018 2017 Internal and external research and development costs 564 615 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Employee costs 2.3 1,057 1,070 Amortization and impairment losses, intangible assets 3.1 120 122 Research and development costs primarily Depreciation and impairment losses, property, plant and equipment 3.2 124 106 comprises employee costs, internal and Total research and development costs I/S 1,865 1,913 external costs related to development of new products and to ongoing optimization of production processes for existing As a percentage of revenue 13.0% 13.2% products, and amortization, depreciation and impairment losses related to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment In 2018, Novozymes launched eight new In 2018, Novozymes had 1,041 active patent Reference is made to the Innovation used in the research and development products (2017: eight new products). New families (2017: 1,049). Active patent families pipeline update in the business model for activities. products comprises products with new or comprises the number of inventions for an overview of significant market-expanding improved characteristics. which there are one or more active patent opportunities that are currently being pursued Research and development costs are applications or active patents at year-end. in Research & Development. expensed as incurred unless the criteria for capitalization are deemed to have been met. Due to significant uncertainty associated with the development of new products, research and development costs are not capitalized. Income received from research and collaboration agreements is recognized in Other operating income. 2.5 Other operating income, net DKK million 2018 2017 Income and grants concerning research projects/ collaborations 33 26 Other secondary income, net 10 37 Loss on divestment of Albumedix (66) Other operating income, net I/S 43 (3) Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 95 Net operating profit after tax 2.6 Tax Tax risk Joint taxation Novozymes operates in many markets via sales agreements (APAs) with the tax authorities in Novozymes A/S and its Danish subsidiaries CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES companies and distributors, while production the countries where internal transactions are are jointly taxed with the Danish companies AND JUDGMENTS takes place in a small number of countries. most significant. in the Novo Holdings A/S Group. The joint This leads to transactions between Group taxation also covers withholding taxes in the As the Group operates across many companies. Novozymes follows the OECD For Novozymes, such agreements create form of dividend tax, royalty tax and interest different countries, the calculation of the principles in setting internal transfer prices for predictability in relation to taxation and reduce tax. The Danish companies are jointly and Group’s total tax charge in the income these transactions, but this is a complicated the risk of Novozymes becoming part of the individually liable for the joint taxation liability. statement necessarily involves a degree of area and entails a tax risk, partly because the ongoing transfer-pricing debate around the Any subsequent adjustments to income taxes estimation and judgment. Tax and transferarea is subject to political judgment in every world. A major part of internal transactions in and withholding taxes may lead to a larger pricing disputes with authorities in various country. Novozymes regularly enters into the Group is covered by APAs. See Novozymes’ liability. The tax for the individual companies countries may occur, and Management dialogue with the tax authorities to reduce this Position on Tax on Novozymes.com. is allocated in full on the basis of the expected judgment is applied to assess the possible risk, and has entered into advance pricing taxable income. outcome of such disputes. Payments in respect of tax liabilities for an Tax in the income statement accounting period result from payments on account and on the final resolution of open DKK million 2018 2017 items. As a result, there can be substantial Tax payable on net profit (890) (1,015) differences between the tax charge in the Change in deferred tax 150 253 consolidated income statement and actual Revaluation of deferred tax due to changes in corporate tax rate (33) tax payments. Adjustment for previous years 31 39 Tax in the income statement I/S (709) (756) In 2017 and 2018, Novozymes transferred intellectual property from Switzerland to Calculation of effective tax rate: Denmark. This had a positive impact on the Corporate tax rate in Denmark (22.0)% (22.0)% effective tax rate of 2.5 and 3.1 percentage Non-taxable income less non-deductible expenses (0.1)% (0.6)% points respectively, included in “Difference in foreign tax rates”. Difference in foreign tax rates 3.3% 2.9% Revaluation of deferred tax due to changes in corporate tax rate (0.8)% Other adjustments 0.8% 1.0% Effective tax rate (18.0)% (19.5)% Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 96 Net operating profit after tax 2.6 Tax (continued) Deferred tax Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities DKK million 2018 2017 2018 2017 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 742 536 (1,193) (1,064) Inventories 471 441 (188) (156) Corporation tax, comprising the current Tax loss carry-forwards 34 6 tax liability, change in deferred tax for the Stock options 75 185 year and possible adjustments relating to previous years, is recognized in the Other 266 255 (161) (169) income statement, unless it relates to items 1,588 1,423 (1,542) (1,389) recognized either in Other comprehensive Offsetting items (650) (668) 650 668 income or directly in Shareholders’ equity. Deferred tax at December 31 B/S 938 755 (892) (721) Uncertain tax positions are assessed individually and recognized if it is probable that an amount will be paid or received. The tax value of the unrecognized share of tax not expire amounted to DKK 23 million (2017: Deferred tax is measured using the balance loss carry-forwards, tax credits, etc. that do DKK 26 million). sheet liability method and comprises all temporary differences between the carrying amount and tax base of assets and liabilities. No deferred tax is recognized for DKK million 2018 2017 goodwill, unless amortization of goodwill Deferred tax at January 1 34 (247) for tax purposes is allowed. The tax value Currency translation adjustments 1 (33) of tax loss carry-forwards is included in the Tax related to the income statement 123 240 calculation of deferred tax to the extent that Tax on shareholders’ equity items (112) 74 the tax losses can be expected to be utilized Deferred tax at December 31 46 34 in the future. Deferred tax assets B/S 938 755 Deferred tax is measured according to Deferred tax liabilities B/S (892) (721) current tax rules and at the tax rate Deferred tax at December 31 46 34 expected to be in force on elimination of the temporary differences. Changes in deferred tax due to tax rate changes are recognized in the income statement, unless they relate to items recognized either in Other comprehensive income or directly in Shareholders’ equity. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 97 Net operating profit after tax 2.6 Tax (continued) Tax receivables and payables DKK million 2018 2017 Tax payables, net, at January 1 (348) (295) Currency translation adjustments 3 (5) Tax related to the income statement (832) (996) Tax on shareholders’ equity items 15 96 Tax paid for the current year, net 761 852 Tax payables, net, at December 31 (401) (348) Tax receivables B/S 174 135 Tax payables B/S (575) (483) Tax payables, net, at December 31 (401) (348) Of which due within 12 months (80) (70) Of which due after more than 12 months (321) (278) Tax payables, net, at December 31 (401) (348) Corporate income taxes paid are specified as follows: Income taxes paid in Denmark 546 527 Income taxes paid outside Denmark 215 325 Total income taxes paid 761 852 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 98 Net operating profit after tax 2.7 Earnings per share DKK million 2018 2017 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Profit used to calculate earnings per share 3,226 3,119 Earnings per share is calculated as net profit Average number of shares attributable to shareholders in Novozymes Weighted average number of shares in circulation 290,422,325 295,338,610 A/S divided by the average number of shares in circulation. Average dilutive effect of outstanding stock options and stock awards 1,940,030 1,863,742 Average number of diluted shares 292,362,355 297,202,352 Diluted earnings per share is calculated as net profit attributable to shareholders Earnings per share DKK 11.11 DKK 10.56 in Novozymes A/S divided by the average Earnings per share, diluted DKK 11.03 DKK 10.49 number of shares in circulation, including the dilutive effect of stock options “in the money.” Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 99 Invested capital ROIC down from 25.6% in 2017 to Invested capital EBIT 24.2% NOPAT Tax ROIC Invested capital excl. Increase in average invested NWC capital of DKK million Invested capital NWC 685 DKK million Note 2018 2017 Intangible assets 3.1 2,130 2,432 Property, plant and equipment 3.2 9,698 8,926 Investments in associates 42 59 Net working capital (see Net working capital section) 2,768 2,023 Financial assets, non-interest-bearing 14 16 Net investments excl. acq. down Provisions 3.3 (229) (245) Other non-current financial liabilities, non-interest-bearing (5) (9) from DKK 1,665 million in 2017 to Other financial liabilities, non-interest-bearing (110) (8) DKK million Tax, net (355) (314) Invested capital Average invested capital 13,953 13,417 12,880 12,732 1,388 Novozymes A/S 100 Invested capital 3.1 Intangible assets and impairment test of goodwill Acquired patents, trademarks, Completed IT IT development CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES licenses and development projects in DKK million Goodwill know-how, etc. projects progress Total AND JUDGMENTS Cost at January 1, 2018 1,108 2,923 492 61 4,584 Currency translation adjustments (22) (2) (24) Management assesses the risk of Additions during the year 21 14 25 60 impairment of the Group’s intangible assets. This requires judgment in relation to the Transfers to/(from) other items 27 (27) identification of cash-generating units Cost at December 31, 2018 1,086 2,942 533 59 4,620 (CGUs) and the underlying assumptions in the Group’s impairment model. Amortization and impairment losses at January 1, 2018 (1,793) (359) (2,152) Currency translation adjustments 3 (1) 2 If there is any indication of impairment, value in use is estimated and compared Amortization during the year (213) (68) (281) with the carrying amount. The calculation Impairment losses (59) (59) of value in use is based on the discounted Amortization and impairment losses at December 31, 2018 (2,062) (428) (2,490) cash flow method using estimates of future Carrying amount at December 31, 2018 B/S 1,086 880 105 59 2,130 cash flows from the continuing use. The key parameters are the expected revenue streams and the rate used to discount the cash flows. Impairment and the terminal value used is based on the previously the Albumedix CGU – has been The key assumptions used in testing for In 2018, impairment losses of DKK 59 million expected lifetime and cash flow over that reduced to sales-based royalty agreements. impairment are based on Management’s on two specific assets were recognized and period. For the other impaired asset, the cash expectations of future royalty payments, included in Cost of goods sold and Research flow is expected to cease in 2019. The market value of Novozymes is significantly which are partly based on experience, as well and development costs at DKK 46 million and higher than its equity, thus no further key as input from external experts. A WACC of 11% DKK 13 million respectively. A WACC of 7% was used to calculate the assumptions are used in determining whether (2017: 10%) has been used to calculate the discounted cash flows. impairment of goodwill exists for Novozymes’ discounted cash flows for the Biopharma CGU. The impairment losses were the result of main activities (2017: no impairment). impairment tests performed on assets where Impairment test of goodwill As the value in use for the Biopharma CGU indications of impairment had been identified Since 2016, Management has identified two The recoverable amount of the Biopharma is greater than its carrying amount, no due to reduced sales projections for the cash-generating units (CGUs): Novozymes’ CGU has been determined based on a value-inimpairment has been identified (2017: no assets in question. The cash flow used for the main activities and the Biopharma CGU. With use calculation. The expected future cash flows impairment). impairment test of one of the assets was based the Albumedix divestment in late December are based on a forecasting period of five years, on business plans for the period 2019-2023, 2017, the activity in the Biopharma CGU – reflecting the term of the royalty agreements. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 101 Invested capital 3.1 Intangible assets and impairment test of goodwill (continued) Acquired patents, Recognition of amortization and impairment losses by trademarks, Completed IT IT development function 2018 (2017) licenses and development projects in DKK million Goodwill know-how, etc. projects progress Total DKK million Cost at January 1, 2017 1,159 3,156 420 49 4,784 Currency translation adjustments (51) (35) (1) (87) Additions during the year 7 10 82 99 Disposals during the year (205) (7) (212) Transfers to/(from) other items 70 (70) Cost at December 31, 2017 1,108 2,923 492 61 4,584 Amortization and impairment losses at January 1, 2017 (1,752) (295) (2,047) Currency translation adjustments 14 1 15 • Cost of goods sold 179 (162) Amortization during the year (229) (72) (301) • Sales and distribution 7 (25) • Research and development 120 (122) Impairment losses (27) (27) • Administration 34 (19) Disposals during the year 201 7 208 Amortization and impairment losses at December 31, 2017 (1,793) (359) (2,152) Carrying amount at December 31, 2017 B/S 1,108 1,130 133 61 2,432 Impairment included in Cost of goods sold and Research In 2017, an impairment loss of DKK 27 million and development costs at DKK 15 million and on abandoned patents was recognized and DKK 12 million respectively. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 102 Invested capital 3.1 Intangible assets and impairment test of goodwill (continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES Expected useful lives are reassessed regularly. Intangible assets other than goodwill The Group regularly reviews the carrying are measured at cost less accumulated amounts of its finite-lived intangible assets amortization and impairment losses. to determine whether there is an indication Goodwill and IT development projects in of an impairment loss. An impairment loss progress are not subject to amortization. is recognized to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its estimated Costs associated with large IT projects for recoverable amount. Impairment losses are the development of software for internal reversed only to the extent of changes in the use are capitalized if they are incurred with assumptions and estimates underlying the a view to developing new and improved impairment calculation. systems. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually Amortization is based on the straight-line or whenever there is an indication that the method over the expected useful lives of the asset may be impaired. finite-lived assets, as follows: • Completed IT development projects are amortized over the useful life. IT development assets are amortized over a period of 3-5 years • Acquired patents, trademarks, licenses and know-how are amortized over their useful lives. The useful lives of patents and trademarks are normally identical to the patent period. Licenses are amortized over the agreement period. Recognized patents, trademarks, licenses and knowhow are amortized over a period of 7-15 years Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 103 Invested capital 3.2 Property, plant and equipment Assets under Land and Plant and Other construction and ACCOUNTING POLICIES DKK million buildings machinery equipment prepayments Total Cost at January 1, 2018 5,415 9,808 1,679 1,648 18,550 Property, plant and equipment is measured Currency translation adjustments 51 107 18 5 181 at cost less accumulated depreciation and Additions during the year 121 326 87 890 1,424 impairment losses. Borrowing costs in Disposals during the year (8) (90) (24) (122) respect of construction of major assets are Transfers to/(from) other items 115 494 86 (695) capitalized. Cost at December 31, 2018 5,694 10,645 1,846 1,848 20,033 Depreciation is based on the straight-line Depreciation and impairment losses at January 1, method over the expected useful lives of the 2018 (2,718) (5,789) (1,117) (9,624) assets, as follows: Currency translation adjustments (15) (45) (10) (70) Depreciation for the year (168) (442) (120) (730) • Buildings: 12-50 years Impairment losses (18) (18) • Plant and machinery: 5-25 years Disposals during the year 4 83 20 107 • Other equipment: 3-18 years Depreciation and impairment losses at December 31, 2018 (2,915) (6,193) (1,227) (10,335) The assets’ residual value and useful life are Carrying amount at December 31, 2018 B/S 2,779 4,452 619 1,848 9,698 reviewed on an annual basis, and adjusted Of which assets held under finance leases 148 148 if necessary at each reporting date. The Group regularly reviews the carrying amounts of its property, plant and equipment to determine whether there Capitalized interest and pledges Land and buildings with a carrying amount of Impairment is any indication that those assets have Interest of DKK 29 million (2017: DKK 10 DKK 355 million (2017: DKK 377 million) have In 2018, an impairment loss of DKK 18 million suffered an impairment loss. If any such million) has been capitalized under Additions been pledged as security to credit institutions. on a building was recognized and included indication exists, the recoverable amount of during the year above and included as The mortgage loan expires in 2029. in Sales and distribution costs (2017: no the asset is estimated in order to determine Investing activities in the statement of cash impairment losses). the extent of the impairment loss, if any. flows. Capitalization rate: 2.98% (2017: 2.05%). If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be lower than its carrying amount, the carrying amount is reduced to the recoverable amount. Impairment losses are reversed only to the extent of changes in the assumptions and estimates underlying the impairment calculation. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 104 Invested capital 3.2 Property, plant and equipment (continued) Assets under Recognition of depreciation by function 2018 (2017) Land and Plant and Other construction and DKK million DKK million buildings machinery equipment prepayments Total Cost at January 1, 2017 5,604 9,957 1,693 856 18,110 Currency translation adjustments (291) (527) (88) (37) (943) Additions during the year 65 294 110 1,124 1,593 Disposals during the year (8) (126) (66) (10) (210) Transfers to/(from) other items 45 210 30 (285) Cost at December 31, 2017 5,415 9,808 1,679 1,648 18,550 Depreciation and impairment losses at January 1, 2017 (2,673) (5,718) (1,078) (9,469) Currency translation adjustments 116 268 29 413 • Cost of goods sold 556 (583) Depreciation for the year (165) (449) (125) (739) • Sales and distribution 35 (20) • Research and development 124 (106) Disposals during the year 4 110 57 171 • Administration 33 (30) Depreciation and impairment losses at December 31, 2017 (2,718) (5,789) (1,117) (9,624) Carrying amount at December 31, 2017 B/S 2,697 4,019 562 1,648 8,926 Of which assets held under finance leases 59 59 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 105 Invested capital 3.3 Provisions 2018 2017 Dismantling and Legal and other Dismantling and Legal and other ACCOUNTING POLICIES DKK million restoration obligations Total restoration obligations Total Provisions at January 1 74 171 245 101 191 292 Reclassification to Contract Provisions are recognized where a legal or liabilities (20) (20) constructive obligation has been incurred Currency translation adjustments 3 (1) 2 (7) (7) as a result of past events and it is probable Additions during the year 5 42 47 21 21 it will lead to an outflow of financial Reversals during the year (41) (41) (20) (26) (46) resources. Provisions are measured at the Utilization during the year (4) (4) (15) (15) present value of the expected expenditure Provisions at December 31 82 147 229 74 171 245 required to settle the obligation. Recognized in the balance sheet No provisions are discounted, as as follows: discounting does not have any significant Non-current B/S 72 60 132 69 90 159 impact on the carrying amounts. Current B/S 10 87 97 5 81 86 Provisions at December 31 82 147 229 74 171 245 Dismantling and restoration Amounts with regard to restoration of leased Legal and other obligations Other obligations includes other long-term Dismantling and restoration relates to premises are considered uncertain, as the Novozymes is involved in a number of ongoing employee benefits and other contractual estimated future costs of environmental final settlements will depend on thorough legal disputes, and provision is made for obligations. Other long-term employee restoration – Novozymes aims for its inspection of the premises and negotiations the estimated costs of these based on the benefits account for only a minor amount, production sites to have no negative with the lessor at the time of vacating. The current evaluation of the outcomes. The cases as the majority of Novozymes’ pension plans environmental impact – and restoration of costs are expected to be incurred in a minimum are expected to be finalized in 2019-2020. are defined contribution plans, covering leased premises when terminating the lease of 1 year to a maximum of 15 years. In Management’s opinion, the outcome of approximately 99% of employees. These and vacating the premises. These liabilities these cases is not expected to give rise to any obligations are mainly expected to be incurred relate to established circumstances, and the significant loss beyond the amounts provided over a long period. costs are expected to be incurred either when for at December 31, 2018. concrete measures are implemented or when the sites are vacated. The expected costs and timing are by nature uncertain. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 106 Net working capital Average net working capital in DKK Net working capital million EBIT 2,396 NOPAT Tax ROIC Invested capital excl. Net working capital as % of sales NWC Invested 19.2% capital NWC DKK million Note 2018 2017 Inventories 4.1 2,820 2,586 Trade receivables 4.2 2,606 2,554 Contract assets 4.2 279 Other receivables 4.3 253 249 Deferred income 4.5 (50) (542) Deferred income related to The Trade payables (1,418) (1,341) Contract liabilities, excl. deferred income 4.4 (374) BioAg Alliance released as revenue Other liabilities 4.6 (1,348) (1,483) in 2018 in DKK million Net working capital 2,768 2,023 Average net working capital 2,396 2,056 169 Novozymes A/S 107 Net working capital 4.1 Inventories DKK million 2018 2017 Raw materials and consumables 372 308 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES 2018 (2017: DKK 862 million). The indirect AND JUDGMENTS production costs are assessed on an ongoing Work in progress 828 727 basis to ensure reliable measurement of Finished goods 1,620 1,551 Work in progress and Finished goods employee costs, capacity utilization, cost Inventories at December 31 B/S 2,820 2,586 are measured at cost, including indirect drivers and other relevant factors. Changes production costs. The indirect production in these parameters may have an impact on Cost of materials, included under Cost of goods sold 3,411 3,451 costs capitalized under inventories the gross margin and the overall valuation of Write-downs expensed during the year 117 111 amounted to DKK 938 million at the end of Work in progress and Finished goods. Reversal of write-downs during the year* 33 45 * Part of the reversal of write-downs can be attributed to written-down inventory being reused in production. ACCOUNTING POLICIES If the expected sales price less any completion costs and costs to execute sales Inventories are measured at cost (net realizable value) of inventories is lower determined on a first-in first-out basis or net than the carrying amount, the inventories realizable value where this is lower. are written down to net realizable value. The cost of Work in progress and Finished Novozymes has entered into a few goods comprises direct production costs agreements where Novozymes supplies such as raw materials and consumables, goods to a customer’s premises but retains energy and labor directly attributable to title to the inventory until the goods are production as well as indirect production consumed in the customer’s production. costs such as employee costs, maintenance Such goods are derecognized from and depreciation of plants, etc. inventories in the period that they are consumed in the customer’s production. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 108 Net working capital 4.2 Trade receivables and contract assets DKK million 2018 2017 ACCOUNTING POLICIES As the contract assets relate to the Trade receivables, gross 2,768 2,780 partnerships, the credit risk is based on an Allowances (162) (226) individual assessment. Trade receivables at December 31 B/S 2,606 2,554 Trade receivables and contract assets are measured at amortized cost less allowance Trade receivables and contract assets are Aging of trade receivables, gross: for lifetime expected credit losses. written off when all possible options have Up to 30 days 2,613 2,521 been exhausted and there is no reasonable Between 30 and 90 days 35 57 To measure the expected credit losses, trade expectation of recovery. More than 90 days 120 202 receivables have been grouped based on Trade receivables, gross, at December 31 2,768 2,780 shared credit risk characteristics and the The cost of allowances for expected credit days past due. Furthermore, an allowance losses and write-offs for trade receivables for lifetime expected credit losses for and contract assets are included in Sales Changes in allowances for trade receivables: trade receivables is recognized on initial and distribution costs. At January 1 226 179 recognition. Allowances during the year 48 128 Write-offs during the year (90) (13) Reversed allowances (22) (68) Allowances at December 31 162 226 As of December 31, 2018, DKK 272 In 2018, the allowances for trade Contract assets million from Trade receivables and DKK 7 receivables include a write-off related to the Contract assets amounted to DKK 279 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES million from Other receivables has been unrecoverable part of our receivable related million at the end of 2018, and are mainly AND JUDGMENTS recognized as Contract assets. Refer to to Beta Renewables S.p.A. The write-off is a related to the estimated profit split arising from Note 1 for a description of the impact of the consequence of the financial restructuring of partnerships that Novozymes has entered. The allowance for expected credit losses implementation of IFRS 15. part of the M&G Group. for trade receivables and contract assets is The contract assets are initially recognized as based on historical credit loss experience Trade receivables In 2017, the aging of trade receivables that revenue when goods are delivered to the other combined with forward-looking information In 2018, allowances have been recognized were past due but not impaired up to 30 days contracting party. When the realized profit split on macroeconomic factors affecting the according to the lifetime expected credit loss amounted to DKK 141 million, between 30 and is invoiced, the contract assets are reclassified credit risk. The expected loss rates are method, whereas the allowances in 2017 were 90 days DKK 33 million and more than 90 days to trade receivables. updated at every reporting date. recognized according to the incurred loss DKK 21 million. method. No allowance for expected credit losses has Novozymes has collateral held as security been made for contract assets at the end of The transition to lifetime expected credit for trade receivables in selected countries of 2018. losses has had only an insignificant impact on DKK 68 million (2017: DKK 64 million). allowances as of January 1, 2018. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 109 Net working capital 4.3 Other receivables DKK million 2018 2017 Deposits 24 27 Prepaid expenses 100 97 Other 129 125 Other receivables at December 31 253 249 Recognized in the balance sheet as follows: Non-current B/S 34 35 Current B/S 219 214 Other receivables at December 31 253 249 4.4 Contract liabilities DKK million 2018 As of December 31, 2018, DKK 311 million The BioAg Alliance 311 from Deferred income has been recognized Other contract liabilities 63 as Contract liabilities. Refer to Note 1 Contract liabilities at December 31 374 for a description of the impact of the implementation of IFRS 15. Assessing the earnings process and Recognized in the balance sheet as follows: the underlying deliverables for The Non-current B/S 199 Contract liabilities relate mainly to payments BioAg Alliance requires judgment and is Current B/S 175 from Monsanto in connection with the based on estimates of the future. These Contract liabilities at December 31 374 formation of The BioAg Alliance in 2014. The estimates are by nature subject to a high planned recognition of deferred income in the degree of uncertainty, and changes in such income statement is based on an assessment estimates may impact the timing of revenue Expected to be recognized in the income statement: of the earnings process and the underlying recognition in future periods. Within 1 year 175 deliverables, which are reassessed annually. Between 1 and 5 years 199 After 5 years The reassessment in 2018 has not changed the Deferred income at December 31 374 planned recognition of deferred income. * In 2017, deferred income related to The BioAg Alliance was included in Note 4.5. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 110 Net working capital 4.5 Deferred income DKK million 2018 2017 As of December 31, 2018, DKK 311 million The BioAg Alliance 2023 16 519 from Deferred income has been recognized ACCOUNTING POLICIES Other Up to 2027 34 23 as Contract liabilities. Refer to Note 1 Deferred income at December 31 50 542 for a description of the impact of the implementation of IFRS 15. Deferred income reflects the portion of Recognized in the balance sheet as follows: payments received that relates to future At December 31, 2017, deferred income periods and deliverables, and for which Non-current B/S 37 337 amounted to DKK 542 million. This related the criteria for revenue recognition are not Current B/S 13 205 mainly to payments from Monsanto in yet met. Deferred income is measured at Deferred income at December 31 50 542 connection with the formation of The BioAg nominal value. Alliance in 2014. The planned recognition Expected to be recognized in the income statement: of deferred income in the income statement Within 1 year 13 205 is based on an assessment of the earnings Between 1 and 5 years 32 283 process and the underlying deliverables, After 5 years 5 54 which are reassessed annually. The Deferred income at December 31 50 542 reassessment in 2017 did not change the * In 2018, deferred income related to The BioAg Alliance is included in Note 4.4. planned recognition of deferred income. 4.6 Other liabilities As of December 31, 2018, DKK 20 million DKK million 2018 2017 from Other payables has been recognized Employee costs payable 712 671 as Contract liabilities. Refer to Note 1 Stock-based payment settled in cash 11 29 for a description of the impact of the Other payables 625 783 implementation of IFRS 15. Other liabilities at December 31 B/S 1,348 1,483 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 111 Capital structure and financing NIBD/EBITDA at December 31, Capital structure and financing 2018 0.5x Return on equity up from 27.1% to 28.4% Net interest-bearing debt, 2018 1,828 35 2,535 DKK million 2,000 1,642 (3,679) 1,317 Novozymes bought back 6.2 million 0 B shares under the stock buyback 1,392 program with a transaction value of DKK million 2,000 (2,000) (4,000) NIBD at Jan. 1, Cash ﬂow Cash ﬂow Dividends to Net purchase Other NIBD at Dec. 31, 2018 from operating from investing shareholders of treasury movements 2018 activities activities shares Novozymes A/S 112 Capital structure and financing 5.1 Financial risk factors and risk management Novozymes’ international operations mean Hedging of currency risk is carried out in the Foreign exchange sensitivity – 2018 Foreign exchange sensitivity – 2019 estimate that our earnings and financial position are currencies where Novozymes has the largest The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact Operating profit (EBIT) is exposed to currency exposed to a number of financial risk factors. exposure. The hedging is managed by entering on net profit and other comprehensive income changes, as the effect of hedges is included Financial risks are managed centrally for into derivatives such as forward contracts, of a 5% change in the DKK versus the key in financial income/costs. EBIT is mainly the entire Group. The Treasury Policy is currency options and swaps. Loans and currencies to which Novozymes was exposed to the USD and EUR. A movement approved by the Board of Directors, and sets deposits in foreign currencies are also utilized exposed on December 31, 2018. For other of 5% in the USD would result in a change in the limits for the various financial risks and as hedging. Hedge effectiveness is assessed comprehensive income, the analysis shows the expected EBIT for 2019 of around DKK the derivatives used to hedge the risks. The on a regular basis by comparing changes in the impact on currency translation of net 130-160 million (2018: DKK 110-130 million). Treasury Policy is adjusted on an ongoing basis the timing and value of the expected exposure investments and does not include the impact A 5% movement in the EUR would result in a to adapt to the market situation, and contains in the relevant currencies with the timing and of cash flow hedges, as these relate to future change in expected EBIT for 2019 of around rules on which derivatives can be used for value changes for the designated cash flowcommercial transactions. DKK 200 million (2018: DKK 200 million). Of hedging, which counterparties can be used and hedging transaction. the expected USD cash flows for 2019, 100% the risk profile that is to be applied. The sensitivity analysis reflects the transaction has been hedged by forward contracts at an Currency risk related to net investments in and translation risk, and assumes that the average rate of DKK 6.21. As a result, the Currency risk foreign subsidiaries is hedged where this exchange rates change on December 31, 2018, impact on net profit from changes in the USD Currency risk arises due to imbalances is deemed appropriate by taking out loans and that all other variables remain constant. has been reduced significantly compared with between income and costs in each individual and entering into swaps. Currently, there are The table shows the effect of an increase in the impact on EBIT. currency and because Novozymes has more no open transactions used to hedge equity exchange rates. A decrease in the exchange assets than liabilities in foreign currencies in investments. rate would have an opposite effect. connection with global operations. Foreign exchange analysis 2018 2017 Change in other Change in other Increase in Change in net comprehensive Change in net comprehensive DKK million exchange rates profit income profit income CHF 5.0% (1) 59 (4) 74 CNY 5.0% (2) 116 (1) 107 USD 5.0% 2 236 1 212 Other 5.0% (1) 90 8 85 Total (2) 501 4 478 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 113 Capital structure and financing 5.1 Financial risk factors and risk management (continued) Interest rate risk Credit risk At December 31, 2018, the Group considered At December 31, 2018, Novozymes’ financial Interest rate risk arises in relation to interestCredit risk arises especially on cash and cash its maximum credit risk to be DKK 3,795 million resources amounted to DKK 4,023 million bearing assets and liabilities. In accordance equivalents, derivatives, trade receivables (2017: DKK 3,383 million), which is the total (2017: DKK 4,307 million), consisting of net with Novozymes’ Treasury Policy, a minimum and contract assets. The credit risk on trade of the Group’s financial assets. At December cash and cash equivalents and undrawn of 30% of loans must be at fixed interest rates. receivables and contract assets is countered by 31, 2018, the maximum credit risk related to committed credit facilities of DKK 3,646 Hedging of the interest risk is managed by thorough, regular analysis based on customer one counterparty was DKK 308 million (2017: million, which expire in 2020-2023. entering into fixed-rate loans and interest rate type, country and specific conditions. The DKK 313 million). swaps. credit risk on cash and cash equivalents With the exception of debt to credit as well as derivatives is mitigated by the Liquidity risk institutions, the maturity dates are primarily With the current hedging of interest risk, an Treasury Policy, which limits exposure solely to In connection with the Group’s ongoing within one year. increase of 1 percentage point in the average counterparties that have an investment-grade financing of operations, including refinancing, interest rate on Novozymes’ net interestcredit rating. The credit risk is calculated on efforts are made to ensure adequate and bearing debt would have a negative effect on the basis of net market values and is governed flexible liquidity. This is guaranteed by using net profit of DKK 8 million (2017: negative by the Treasury Policy. Novozymes has entered committed credit facilities and placing free effect of DKK 2 million). At December 31, 2018, into netting agreements (ISDA or similar) with funds in deposits, government bonds or ultra62% (2017: 72%) of the loan portfolio was at all the banks used for trading in financial liquid mortgage bonds in accordance with the fixed interest rates. instruments, which means that Novozymes’ Treasury Policy. credit risk is limited to net assets. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 114 Capital structure and financing 5.2 Financial income and Financial costs DKK million 2018 2017 Interest income 10 7 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Gains on cash flow hedges 12 Gains on fair value hedges, net 26 Financial income and Financial costs Other foreign exchange gains, net 71 comprise interest income and interest costs, realized and unrealized foreign exchange Fair value adjustments of cash-settled stock options 11 gains and losses, as well as fair value Financial income I/S 47 90 adjustments of cash-settled stock-based incentive programs, which are offset against Interest costs (13) (27) Other liabilities and fair value adjustments Losses on cash flow hedges, net (42) of Other financial assets. Losses on fair value hedges, net (56) Financial income and Financial costs also Other financial costs (22) (24) include fair value adjustments of derivatives Other foreign exchange losses, net (73) used to hedge assets and liabilities, and Write-down of financial asset (14) (120) income and costs relating to cash flow Fair value adjustments of cash-settled stock options (20) hedges that are transferred from Other Financial costs I/S (164) (247) comprehensive income on realization of the hedged item. Financial income/costs, net (117) (157) The financial asset relating to the partnership provided by M&G because cellulosic ethanol 120 million, included in Financial costs, was with Beta Renewables S.p.A. was fully written projects had not commercialized as expected in made because M&G was experiencing financial down in 2017. This related to a guarantee Beta Renewables S.p.A. The write-down of DKK difficulties. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 115 Capital structure and financing 5.3 Other financial liabilities DKK million 2018 2017 Credit institutions 3,258 2,274 Derivatives 115 17 Other financial liabilities at December 31 3,373 2,291 Recognized in the balance sheet as follows: Non-current B/S 1,474 1,312 Current B/S 1,899 979 Other financial liabilities at December 31 3,373 2,291 Liabilities arising from financing activities Financing cash Foreign exchange Financing cash Foreign exchange DKK million 2016 flows movement Other movements 2017 flows movement Other movements 2018 Long-term borrowing 1,713 2 (411) 1,304 746 3 (584) 1,469 Short-term borrowing 90 460 420 970 232 3 584 1,789 Total liabilities from financing activities at December 31 1,803 460 2 9 2,274 978 6 3,258 * Other movements include the effect of reclassification of non-current portion of interest-bearing loans and borrowings. Credit institutions – currency 2018 (2017) Credit institutions – time to maturity 2018 (2017) Loan portfolio – fixed or floating interest rate 2018 (2017) DKK million DKK million DKK million • EUR 1,477 (1,123) • Less than 1 year 1,789 (970) • Fixed interest rate 1,808 (1,438) • Other 1,781 (1,151) • Between 1 and 5 years 996 (876) • Floating interest rate 1,450 (836) • More than 5 years 473 (428) Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 116 Capital structure and financing 5.4 Derivatives – hedge accounting Fair value hedges The table below shows the derivatives the ACCOUNTING POLICIES Group has contracted to hedge currency exposure on financial assets and liabilities that give rise to currency adjustments in the income Hedge accounting consists of positive and statement. negative fair values of derivatives, which are recognized in the balance sheet under 2018 2017 Other financial assets and Other financial Contract amount Contract amount liabilities respectively. based on agreed Fair value based on agreed Fair value DKK million rates* Dec. 31 rates* Dec. 31 Derivatives used for fair value hedges Forward exchange contracts are measured at fair value on the CAD (343) (9) (332) 2 reporting date, and value adjustments are CHF (1,351) 12 (1,453) (1) recognized as Financial income or Financial USD 182 280 1 costs. Other 236 (13) 175 (2) Fair value hedges at December 31 (1,276) (10) (1,330) Derivatives used for cash flow hedges and * Positive contract amounts represent a sale of the respective currency, and negative amounts represent a purchase. hedges of net investments in subsidiaries are measured at fair value on the reporting date, and value adjustments are recognized The forward exchange contracts fall due in The fair value hedges were 100% effective, as compared with a loss on the hedged items of in Other comprehensive income. the period January 2019 to June 2019 (2017: the gain on forward exchange contracts was DKK 26 million (2017: loss of DKK 56 million). January 2018 to May 2018). DKK 26 million (2017: gain of DKK 56 million), Income and costs relating to cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in subsidiaries are transferred from Other comprehensive income on realization of the hedged item and are recognized as Financial income or Financial costs. Derivatives are recognized at the transaction date. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 117 Capital structure and financing 5.4 Derivatives – hedge accounting (continued) Cash flow hedges The table below shows the derivatives that the Group has contracted to hedge currency and interest rate exposure in future cash flows. 2018 2017 DKK million Contract amount Contract amount based on agreed Fair value based on agreed Fair value rates* Dec. 31 rates* Dec. 31 Forward exchange contracts USD 2,235 (82) 1,855 11 2,235 (82) 1,855 11 Interest rate swaps EUR/EUR – pays fixed rate of 3.58% / earns variable rate of (0.271%) (2017: (0.273%)) 112 (4) 112 (9) DKK/DKK – pays fixed rate of 0.595% / earns variable rate of (0.150%) (2017: (0.165%)) 521 (5) 521 (2) 633 (9) 633 (11) Cash flow hedges at December 31 2,868 (91) 2,488 * Positive contract amounts represent a sale of the respective currency, and negative amounts represent a purchase. The forward exchange contracts fall due in At the end of 2018, the Group had hedged the period January 2019 to December 2019 100% of expected future cash flows in USD (2017: January 2018 to December 2018), and for 2019 at an average rate of DKK 6.21 (2017: the swaps fall due in July 2019 and May 2026 100% of expected future cash flows in USD for (2017: July 2019 and May 2026). 2018 at an average rate of DKK 6.18). Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 118 Capital structure and financing 5.5 Common stock and treasury stock 2018 2017 Treasury stock 2018 Nominal value Nominal value No. DKK million No. DKK million % of common stock Common stock A common stock (shares of DKK 2) 53,743,600 107 53,743,600 107 B common stock (shares of DKK 2) 243,256,400 487 251,256,400 503 Common stock at December 31 B/S 297,000,000 594 305,000,000 610 Treasury stock B stock Treasury stock at January 1 12,051,096 24 12,381,738 25 Additions during the year 6,167,092 13 6,770,271 13 Disposals during the year (812,382) (2) (2,100,913) (4) Cancellation of common stock (8,000,000) (16) (5,000,000) (10) Treasury stock at December 31 9,405,806 19 12,051,096 24 Treasury stock 2017 No. 2018 2017 % of common stock Shares of common stock in circulation Shares of stock at January 1 292,948,904 297,618,262 Purchase of treasury stock (6,167,092) (6,770,271) Sale of treasury stock 812,382 2,100,913 Shares of common stock in circulation at December 31 287,594,194 292,948,904 Each A share gives an entitlement to 20 votes, safeguard Novozymes’ long-term development In 2018, Novozymes canceled 8 million while each B share gives an entitlement to two to the benefit of the company’s shareholders treasury shares, reducing the common stock to votes. and other stakeholders. 297 million shares. Each year, the Board of Directors assesses The treasury stock is used to reduce the whether the ownership structure with A and common stock and to hedge employees’ B common stock is optimal. The Board of exercise of granted stock awards and stock Directors maintains that this is the best way to options. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 119 Capital structure and financing 5.6 Financial assets and liabilities by category The table below shows the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities at December 31 by category. DKK million Note 2018 2017 Measurement and fair value hierarchy Trade receivables 4.2 2,606 2,554 All financial assets and liabilities, except Contract assets 4.2 279 for derivatives and other financial assets, Other receivables, excl. prepaid expenses 4.3 153 152 are measured at amortized cost. The Cash and cash equivalents 723 632 carrying amounts for these approximate fair value. Derivatives are measured at fair Financial assets at amortized cost 3,761 3,338 value based on observable data (level 2 input) according to the fair value hierarchy. Other financial assets 20 29 The derivatives are not traded on an Fair value through profit and loss 20 29 active market based on quoted prices, but are individual contracts. The fair value of Derivatives 14 16 these assets is determined using valuation Fair value through other comprehensive income 14 16 techniques that utilize market-based data such as exchange rates, interest rates, credit Financial assets 3,795 3,383 risk and volatilities. Other financial assets are measured at fair value based on nonobservable data (level 3 input). There are no Credit institutions 5.3 (3,258) (2,274) financial instruments measured at fair value Trade payables (1,418) (1,341) on the basis of quoted prices (level 1 input). Contract liabilities, excl. deferred income 4.4 (374) Other payables 4.6 (625) (783) Financial liabilities at amortized cost (5,675) (4,398) Derivatives 5.3 (115) (17) Fair value through other comprehensive income (115) (17) Financial liabilities (5,790) (4,415) Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 120 Other financial notes Grant date fair value of options Other financial notes granted in 2018 in DKK million This section contains other statutory disclosures not 64 related to the previous sections. Realized audit fee ratio during 2018 0.75 No. of Danish and foreign subsidiaries in the Group 43 Novozymes A/S 121 Other financial notes 6.1 Management remuneration 2018 2017 Executive Executive DKK million Leadership Team Board of Directors Total Leadership Team Board of Directors Total Salaries and other short-term benefits 41 8 49 37 7 44 Defined contribution plans 10 10 9 9 Expensed stock-based incentive programs 43 43 40 40 Severance package 34 34 Remuneration 94 8 102 120 7 127 Total remuneration for registered Executive Management* 55 55 43 43 * Registered as of December 31. General guidelines for remuneration of Executive Leadership Team maximum annual cash bonus is equivalent to by the company without any misconduct on the Board of Directors and the Executive Remuneration of the Executive Leadership five months’ fixed base salary plus pension the part of the executive officer, the executive Leadership Team of Novozymes A/S, assessed Team comprises a base salary, pension contributions. The stock-based incentive officer has a notice period of 12 months. In by the Board of Directors according to the contributions, a cash bonus scheme, stockprograms are described in Note 6.2. addition to the notice period, the executive recommendations of the Nomination and based incentive programs and other benefits officer has a right to compensation of between Remuneration Committee, are approved (car, telephone, etc.). The variable part of Members of the Executive Leadership Team one and two years’ base salary and pension at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting and the total remuneration (cash bonus and have contracts of employment containing contributions, depending on the position held. can be found on Novozymes.com. Detailed stock-based incentive programs) is relatively standard conditions for executive officers of information on Management remuneration is large compared with the base salary, and Danish listed companies, including the periods Board of Directors available in the Remuneration report found in is dependent on achievement of individual of notice that both parties are required to give The remuneration of the Board of Directors the Governance section. targets and Novozymes’ targets for financial, and noncompetition clauses. If an executive comprises a fixed fee and is not based on social and environmental performance. The officer’s contract of employment is terminated incentives. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 122 Other financial notes 6.2 Stock-based payment Novozymes has established stock-based the economic profit pool Furthermore, three-year programs were incentive programs for the Executive • A total of up to 25% of the program will be established in 2017 for vice presidents and Leadership Team, vice presidents and directors, allocated if Novozymes achieves 6% organic directors covering the period 2017-2019 ACCOUNTING POLICIES and other employees. The purpose of these sales growth on average during the three (approximately 182 vice presidents and programs is to ensure common goals for years. If average organic sales growth of directors). The total fair value at grant date was The Group has established stock-based Management, employees and shareholders. 3% is achieved, 50% of the stock and stock DKK 175 million, and the maximum-value incentive programs comprising equityAllocation of programs has been, and remains, options allocated to the sales growth pool clause is approximately DKK 350 million. The settled and cash-settled programs. dependent on profit, value-creation and, will be awarded. Between these two points, grant date fair value will be expensed over in some cases, sustainability targets being stock options and stock will be awarded a six-year period, based on the expected The fair value of the employee services achieved. At the time of granting stock options, proportionally. If the average sales growth is target achievement, which is reassessed received in exchange for the grant of stock there is no difference between exercise price below 3%, no stock or stock options will be annually. The program for the vice presidents options and stock awards is measured and share price. awarded under the sales growth pool largely follows the same mechanisms as the with reference to the fair value of the stock program for the Executive Leadership Team. options and stock awards granted. The fair In 2017, a three-year incentive program for the The total fair value of the program at grant The program for directors is a stock option value is measured using the Black–Scholes Executive Leadership Team was established, date was DKK 162 million, which will be program with the same targets for sales and option-pricing model. covering the period 2017-2019. The program expensed over a six-year period. The value economic profit as the incentive program for was a combination of stock options and stock. of the stock will be expensed over the threethe Executive Leadership Team. Furthermore, The fair value of stock-based payment Half of the incentive program is allocated in year qualifying period (2017-2019). The stock there are awards linked to annual EBIT and on the grant date is recognized as an stock options and half in stock, with the stock options have a vesting period of four years, sustainability targets. employee cost over the period in which the options being awarded annually in 2017, 2018 followed by an exercise period of five years. stock options vest. In measuring the fair and 2019, while the stock was allocated in The fair value of the stock options will be In previous years, stock option programs value, account is taken of the number of 2017 and will be released in 2020. The final expensed over a four-year period for each were established for all or selected groups of employees expected to gain entitlement grant will depend on accumulated economic of the qualifying years (2017-2019). The employees, conferring the right to purchase to the options as well as the number of profit generated as well as average organic recognition of the program expense is based one share per stock option. Allocations options the employees are expected to gain. sales growth during the period. on the expected target achievement, which is were made on the basis of the individual This estimate is adjusted at the end of each reassessed annually. employee’s base salary and achievement of a period such that only the number of options • A total of up to 75% of the program will be series of business targets – both financial and to which employees are entitled or expected allocated if economic profit accumulated The program contains a maximum-value clause, nonfinancial – set by the Board of Directors to be entitled is recognized. for the three years attains DKK 7.5 billion. allowing the Board of Directors to choose to for each year. The stock options have a vesting If economic profit of DKK 5.5 billion is limit the total allocation of stock and stock period of four years, followed by an exercise The value of equity-settled programs is generated over the period, 50% of the stock options if the intrinsic value of the program period of five years. In order to exercise the recognized in Shareholders’ equity. The and stock options allocated to the economic exceeds DKK 303 million at the end of the options, the employee must still be employed value of cash-settled programs, which are profit pool will be awarded. Between these program in January 2020. The maximumon the exercise date. This does not apply to recognized as Other liabilities, is adjusted two points, stock options and stock will be value clause has been adjusted to include the persons who have retired, taken a voluntary to fair value at the end of each period, and granted proportionally. If the accumulated new Chief Financial Officer (CFO). The former early retirement pension or been given notice. the subsequent adjustment in fair value is economic profit is below DKK 5.5 billion, no CFO is no longer part of the program. recognized in the income statement under stock or stock options will be awarded under Financial income or Financial costs. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 123 Other financial notes 6.2 Stock-based payment (continued) Stock options The number of outstanding options (excl. stock awards) has developed as follows: Number of options DKK DKK million Executive Vice presidents Other Avg. exercise Grant date fair Grant date fair Leadership Team and directors employees Total price per option value per option value total Outstanding at January 1, 2018 1,535,250 4,096,296 2,161,945 7,793,491 253 Granted1 497,697 745,908 1,243,605 301 51 64 Allocation adjustment (501) (501) 293 Exercised2 (98,698) (579,856) (199,713) (878,267) 209 Forfeited (96,241) (76,325) (172,566) 264 Expired (395) (14,654) (15,049) 89 Outstanding at December 31, 2018 1,934,249 4,165,211 1,871,253 7,970,713 266 Outstanding at January 1, 2017 1,443,244 4,157,065 2,756,676 8,356,985 230 Change in Management (249,614) 249,614 Granted 478,444 990,999 543 1,469,986 250 45 67 Allocation adjustment (54,837) (155,173) (210,010) 269 Exercised (136,824) (1,104,587) (304,605) (1,546,016) 121 Forfeited (135,413) (99,995) (235,408) 270 Expired (6,545) (35,501) (42,046) 78 Outstanding at December 31, 2017 1,535,250 4,096,296 2,161,945 7,793,491 253 Number of exercisable options at December 31, 2018 1,990,159 218 Number of exercisable options at December 31, 2017 972,760 178 1. The allocation of stock options for 2017-2019 will be adjusted in January 2020 based on the cumulative level of target achievement in the period. 2. The weighted average share price for stock options exercised during 2018 was DKK 340 (2017: DKK 297). 2018 2017 Remaining term to Remaining term to Remaining term to Remaining term to maturity of up to maturity of over maturity of up to maturity of over five years five years Total five years five years Total Stock options outstanding No. 3,573,318 4,397,395 7,970,713 2,892,905 4,900,586 7,793,491 Weighted average term to maturity Years 4 7 6 5 7 6 Range of exercise prices DKK 157-317 249-335 157-335 83-317 249-317 83-317 Average exercise price DKK 255 274 266 215 276 253 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 124 Other financial notes 6.2 Stock-based payment (continued) During 2018, DKK 100 million arising from Most programs are equity settled, and no The fair value of employee services received stock-based payment has been recognized in liability is recognized for these. If allocations is measured with reference to the fair value the income statement (2017: DKK 107 million), under the programs are made in countries of the equity instruments granted. Fair value DKK 97 million of which is from equity-settled where ownership of foreign stock is not at grant date is measured in accordance with programs (2017: DKK 104 million) and DKK 3 permitted, the value of stock options is settled the Black–Scholes model, using the average million from cash-settled programs (2017: DKK in cash instead, and a liability of DKK 11 exercise price, the option term and the 3 million). million has been recognized for this in 2018 following significant assumptions: (2017: DKK 29 million). The intrinsic value of exercisable cash-settled programs in 2018 was DKK 6 million (2017: DKK 34 million). 2018 2017 Expected future dividends per share DKK 34.1 31.6 Volatility % 23.9 26.6 Annual risk-free interest rate % 0.3 0.0 Weighted average share price at grant date DKK 301 250 Furthermore, the options are assumed to be Stock awards The total number of outstanding stock awards exercised two years after the vesting period, The stock allocated under the three-year at December 31, 2018 was 495,005 (2017: on average, or at the option’s expiry date if this programs is stock awards. The majority of 460,175). The fair value of these at December is within one year. Volatility is estimated using the stocks was allocated in 2017. In 2018, 31, 2018 was DKK 144 million (2017: DKK 163 the historical volatility over the last three years. 41.577 stock awards with a fair value of DKK million), which will be expensed over the threeThe risk-free interest rate is based on Danish 12 million were granted to new employees year period (2017-2019). government bonds with a maturity equivalent enrolled in the programs (2017: DKK 125 to the option’s term to maturity. million). Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 125 Other financial notes 6.3 Commitments and contingencies DKK million 2018 2017 Pending litigation and arbitration Novozymes is engaged in certain legal Recognized in the income statement in respect of rentals 127 115 cases. In the opinion of the Board of Directors and Executive Leadership Team, settlement or continuation of these cases Rental commitments expiring within the following periods from the reporting date: will not have a significant effect on the Less than 1 year 119 104 Group’s financial position. A liability is Between 1 and 2 years 89 57 recognized under Provisions where the risk Between 2 and 3 years 62 44 of a loss on a legal case is considered more Between 3 and 4 years 49 33 likely than not. Between 4 and 5 years 43 21 After 5 years 144 123 Contract conditions Rental commitments at December 31 506 382 Several of the partnership contracts to which Novozymes is a party could be terminated by the opposite party in the Of this, commitments to related parties The above rental commitments relate to event of significant changes concerning at December 31, 2018 amounted to DKK noncancelable operating leases, primarily for ownership or control of Novozymes. 23 million, compared with DKK 39 million buildings and offices. Furthermore, a few contracts contain at December 31, 2017. provisions that restrict Novozymes’ licenses to use specific forms of technology in such DKK million 2018 2017 situations. Other commitments Contractual obligations to third parties relating to property, plant and equipment 171 804 Novozymes is committed to increasing production capacity in Latin America if a specific customer reaches certain Other guarantees milestones. The amount required to meet Other guarantees and commitments to related companies 26 47 this commitment cannot be estimated Other guarantees and commitments 332 309 reliably at the moment. Contractual obligations to third parties relating impacted in 2017 by the construction to capital expenditure were significantly of Innovation campus, Lyngby in Denmark. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 126 Other financial notes 6.4 Related party transactions Novozymes A/S is controlled by Novo Holdings Related parties are considered to be the NNIT Group and the Chr. Hansen Group, All agreements relating to these A/S, domiciled in Hellerup, Denmark, which Novo Holdings A/S and the Novo Nordisk associates of Novozymes A/S, as well as the transactions are based on market price holds 71.7% of the votes in Novozymes Foundation, and the Board of Directors and Board of Directors and Executive Leadership (arm’s length). The majority of the A/S. The remaining stock is widely held. The Executive Management of these entities Team of Novozymes A/S together with their agreements are renegotiated regularly. The ultimate parent of the Group is the Novo together with their immediate families. Other immediate families. Related parties also Group has had the following transactions Nordisk Foundation (incorporated in Denmark). related parties are considered to be the include companies where the above persons with related parties: Novo Nordisk Foundation’s subsidiaries and have control or joint control. associates, such as the Novo Nordisk Group, Transactions Outstanding balances DKK million 2018 2017 DKK million 2018 2017 The Novo Nordisk Group The Novo Nordisk Group Sale of goods and materials 36 63 Sale of services 85 100 Receivables 35 40 Purchase of goods and materials (64) (71) Payables (109) (99) Purchase of services (51) (74) The NNIT Group The NNIT Group Purchase of services (32) (34) Payables (5) (4) The Chr. Hansen Group The Chr. Hansen Group Sale of goods and materials 82 39 Receivables 18 5 Purchase of services (26) Payables (3) There have not been any transactions with of the Board of Directors and Executive related parties other than the transactions Leadership Team, which is presented in Note described above, and normal remuneration 6.1. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 127 Other financial notes 6.5 Fees to statutory auditor DKK million 2018 2017 Statutory audit 8 7 Other assurance engagements Tax assurance services 5 7 Other services 1 1 Fees to statutory auditor 14 15 Audit fee ratio 0.75 1.14 Audit fee policy of DKK 2.0 million related to applications Revisionspartnerselskab is DKK 2 million It is Novozymes’ policy that the annual fee for for two major Bilateral Advance Pricing (2017: DKK 3 million) and comprises audit nonaudit services provided by the statutory Agreements (BAPA). of project accounts, tax advisory services auditor should not exceed the annual fee for concerning transfer pricing, and other general statutory audit services measured at Group Implementation of the EU audit reform has financial reporting and tax consultancy. level. The audit fee ratio may only exceed led to restrictions on the nonaudit services None of the nonaudit services performed are 1 with the approval of the Audit Committee. that the auditor elected at the Annual prohibited. The EU audit reform will lead to Shareholders’ Meeting may perform. The fee future restrictions on the scope of the nonaudit In 2018, no such approval was given. In 2017, for nonaudit services performed for Novozymes services that the elected auditor may perform approval was given for extra advisory services by PricewaterhouseCoopers Statsautoriseret while conducting the audit. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 128 Other financial notes 6.6 Cash flow DKK million Note 2018 2017 Non-cash items ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accrued interest income and interest costs 3 20 (Gain)/loss on financial assets, etc., net 10 139 The Consolidated statement of cash Depreciation, amortization and impairment losses 3.1, 3.2 1,088 1,067 flows, which is compiled using the indirect Realized loss and allowances for doubtful trade receivables 23 69 method, shows cash flows from operating, Financial (gain)/loss on sale of assets 3 (9) investing and financing activities, and the Unrealized foreign exchange (gain)/loss 125 (142) Group’s cash and cash equivalents at the Tax 2.6 709 756 beginning and end of the year. Stock-based payment 6.2 100 107 Change in provisions (16) (22) Cash flow from operating activities Loss on divestment of Albumedix 2.5 66 comprises net profit adjusted for nonProfit/loss in associates 17 14 cash items, paid financial items, corporate Non-cash items 2,062 2,065 income tax paid and change in working capital. Cash flow from investing activities comprises payments relating to the Business acquisitions, divestments and purchase of financial assets acquisition and sale of companies and nonDivestment of Albumedix 4 controlling interests, intangible assets, and Other acquisitions and purchase of financial assets (4) (7) property, plant and equipment. Cash flow from acquisitions, net (4) (3) Cash flow from financing activities Undrawn committed credit facilities were DKK 3,646 million at December 31, 2018 (2017: DKK 3,944 million), all of which expires in 2020-2023. comprises proceeds from borrowings, repayment of principal on interest-bearing debt, payment of dividends, proceeds from stock issues, and the sale of treasury stock To comply with the Danish Business Authority’s of comparatives. The 2017 cash flow from December 31, 2017 have been restated with and other securities. recent interpretation of cash on demand, financing activities has been restated from increases of DKK 7 million and DKK 269 million credit institutions has been reclassified negative cash flows of DKK 2,815 million to respectively. Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash from cash and cash equivalents to cash flow negative DKK 2,553 million, and cash and at bank and in hand less current bank loans from financing activities with restatement cash equivalents as of January 1, 2017 and due on demand. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 129 Other financial notes 6.7 Events after the reporting date No events have occurred after the balance sheet date of importance to the consolidated financial statements. 6.8 Group companies Percentage Percentage of shares of shares Activity owned Activity owned Parent company Novozymes Deutschland GmbH*, Germany 100 Novozymes A/S, Denmark Organobalance GmbH, Germany 100 Novozymes Hong Kong Ltd., Hong Kong 100 Subsidiaries Novozymes South Asia Pvt. Ltd., India 100 Novozymes BioAg S.A., Argentina 100 Novozymes Italia S.r.l.*, Italy 100 Novozymes Australia Pty. Ltd.*, Australia 100 Novozymes Japan Ltd.*, Japan 100 Novozymes Belgium BVBA*, Belgium 100 Novozymes Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.*, Malaysia 100 Novozymes Latin America Ltda.*, Brazil 100 Novozymes Mexicana, S.A. de C.V.*, Mexico 100 Novozymes BioAg Productos Para Agricultura Ltda., Brazil 100 Novozymes Mexico, S.A. de C.V., Mexico 100 Novozymes BioAg Limited, Canada 100 Novozymes Nederland B.V.*, Netherlands 100 Novozymes Canada Limited, Canada 100 Novozymes RUS LLC*, Russia 100 Novozymes (China) Biotechnology Co. Ltd., China 100 Novozymes Singapore Pte. Ltd.*, Singapore 100 Novozymes (China) Investment Co. Ltd., China 100 Novozymes South Africa (Pty) Ltd.*, South Africa 100 Novozymes (Shenyang) Biologicals Co. Ltd., China 100 Novozymes Korea Limited*, South Korea 100 Suzhou Hongda Enzyme Co. Ltd., China 96 Novozymes Spain S.A.*, Spain 100 Novozymes Bioindustrial A/S*, Denmark 100 Novozymes Sweden AB*, Sweden 100 Novozymes Bioindustrial China A/S*, Denmark 100 Novozymes Switzerland AG, Switzerland 100 Novozymes Biopharma DK A/S*, Denmark 100 Novozymes Switzerland Holding AG*, Switzerland 100 Novozymes BioAg A/S*, Denmark 100 Novozymes (Thailand) Limited*, Thailand 100 Novozymes France S.A.S.*, France 100 Novozymes Enzim Dis Ticaret Ltd. Sirketi*, Turkey 100 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 130 Other financial notes 6.8 Group companies (continued) Percentage Percentage of shares of shares Activity owned Activity owned Novozymes UK Ltd.*, UK 100 Joint operations/associates Novozymes BioAg, Inc., USA 100 Grundejerforeningen Smørmosen*, Denmark Novozymes Biologicals, Inc., USA 100 Grundejerforeningen Hallas Park*, Denmark Novozymes Blair, Inc., USA 100 Microbiogen PTY Ltd.*, Australia 23.10 Novozymes, Inc., USA 100 Beta Renewables S.p.A.*, Italy 9.95 Novozymes North America, Inc., USA 100 MagnaBioAnalytics LLC, USA 19.35 Novozymes US, Inc.*, USA 100 ISO 14001-certified sites. All major companies are also ISO 9001 certified. Production Sales & Marketing Research & Development Holding companies, etc. * Owned directly by Novozymes A/S. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 131 Environmental data Estimated tons of CO2 saved Environmental data from customers’ application of Novozymes’ products We measure our performance in areas that have an impact on the environment. One of the most important measures is our estimate of the CO2 emissions avoided as a result of customers’ application of Novozymes’ products in their products or processes. We 88 million also focus on reducing our own CO2 emissions and use of resources, and mitigating the risk of potential harm to the environment. Renewable energy share of total energy consumption 23% Percentage of biomass waste repurposed to local farmers as NovoGro® 97% Novozymes A/S 132 Environmental data 7.1 Climate change Mitigating climate change impacts is material Novozymes’ SAVE target measures the net Estimated annual CO2 savings Million tons of CO2 to Novozymes within its operations and positive CO2 impact of Novozymes’ products CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES throughout the value chain. Climate change on society. Novozymes’ products enable AND JUDGMENTS action is integrated into our business strategy, downstream users to avoid CO2 emissions in as the transition toward a low-carbon economy certain applications by lowering energy, water Novozymes uses LCAs to estimate the CO2 offers many opportunities to support the and raw material consumption compared with emissions that customers avoid by using growth of Novozymes’ biological solutions. conventional technologies. Novozymes’ products in their processes At the same time, climate change-associated or products. A calculation methodology issues (regulatory action, physical or Since 2004, Novozymes has conducted peerto consolidate the LCAs has been defined reputational damage, etc.) pose multiple risks reviewed cradle-to-grave life cycle assessment and consistently applied. However, the to Novozymes’ supply chain and operations. (LCA) studies to document the environmental individual LCAs depend on assumptions and impact of its biosolutions. The inferences estimates, which means that the result of Our approach are used to demonstrate to our commercial the calculation will be an approximation. Novozymes’ Sustainability Policy and climate stakeholders ways to reduce their CO2 change position paper outline the company’s emissions and leverage the positive impact on approach to managing climate action. Several climate change made possible by Novozymes’ departments (Supply Operations, Quality, solutions. To learn more, please see our Environment & Safety, Global Sustainability & approach to LCA on Novozymes.com. Public Affairs, etc.) are responsible for driving the climate change action agenda, both inside In addition, Novozymes continues to support and outside the organization. global climate action through transparent climate disclosures, responsible public Within its own operations, Novozymes’ efforts advocacy and partnerships. Read more about to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions these efforts in the Sustainability section. are driven by its annual target to limit the increase in absolute GHG emissions to levels 2018 highlights lower than organic sales growth. This target In 2018, Novozymes’ customers avoided an is complemented by our targets to limit estimated 88 million tons of CO2 emissions energy consumption and increase the share through the application of our products, of renewable energy in our operations. The up from 76 million in 2017. The annual progress on these targets is reported in Note savings achieved are equivalent to taking 7.2 Energy. approximately 37 million cars off the road. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 133 Environmental data 7.1 Climate change (continued) Novozymes’ commitment to make its In 2018, CO2 emissions (scope 1+2 only) lower than organic sales growth in 2018. 5­-year operational emissions (CO2-eqv.) operations less carbon intensive is based increased by 7% to 437,000 tons from 408,000 This was mainly due to some shifts in our 1,000 tons on two levers: implementing various energy tons in 2017. production capacity to sites with higher carbon efficiency projects and increasing the share of footprints. These shifts were driven by changes renewable energy in its energy consumption Novozymes fell short of its target to limit the in our product mix. mix; see Note 7.2 for further details. rise in operational CO2 emissions to levels A breakdown of the operational emissions is provided in the table. CO2-equivalent emissions 1,000 tons 2018 2017 In 2018, Novozymes authored and launched a Natural gas 34 38 new vision for climate change mitigation in the Gas oil, light fuel oil and diesel oil 3 transport sector. The vision presents a pathway HCFCs 1 1 to unite green technologies in the future • Scope 2 • Scope 1 Scope 1 38 39 energy matrix based on their complementarity. It highlights the potential role of biorefining as District heat 9 10 a flexible platform to provide low-carbon liquid Electricity 307 283 fuels for transport segments that cannot easily Steam 83 76 be electrified. The biorefining side streams can Scope 2 (market-based) 399 369 also be used as storable fuels for electricity production during peak demand periods. Additionally, biorefining allows for negative Ship 5 7 greenhouse gas emissions when combined Truck 15 17 with the carbon capture and storage (CCS) Air freight 15 15 technology. To find out more, please refer to Scope 3 35 39 the spotlight article Biorefining for a better future in the Sustainability section of this Emissions, total ESG 472 447 report. Going forward, Novozymes will continue to Market-based vs. location-based scope 2 emissions purchase more energy from renewable sources 1,000 tons 2018 2017 whenever possible and reduce consumption of Scope 2 CO2 emissions (market-based) 399 369 fossil-based energy through efficiency projects Scope 2 CO2 emissions (location-based) 452 442 to reduce CO2 emissions from its operations. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 134 Environmental data 7.1 Climate change (continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES organizations. If emission factors are not available, annually determined emission factors from Danish authorities and The estimated reduction in CO2 emissions suppliers are used. resulting from customers’ application of Novozymes’ products is based on annually Transport-related CO2 emissions (scope 3) updated life cycle assessments (LCAs) are calculated based on principles described of Novozymes’ products. The LCAs are in the GHG Protocol. Reported quantities prepared and updated by Novozymes and comprise CO2 emissions related to transport subject to assumptions and estimates. from all primary enzyme production sites to the customer where Novozymes pays for the Reported CO2 emissions comprises scope freight. Transport between production sites 1, scope 2 and emissions from outbound is also included. Transport of raw materials transport of products. to a production site is not included. CO2 emissions generated at external warehouses CO2 from internally generated energy (scope are not included. Emissions data are 1) is calculated based on the amount of fuel calculated based on distance and emission consumed, using local emission factors. factors from the GHG Protocol. CO2 from externally generated energy (scope The environmental impact potentials 2) is reported in accordance with both for global warming and ozone layer the market-based and the location-based depletion are calculated on the basis of methods, as defined by the Greenhouse data published by the US Environmental Gas (GHG) Protocol. The location-based Protection Agency (EPA) and the Montreal method uses annually determined local Protocol published by the United Nations emission factors from power plants or their Environment Programme (UNEP). Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 135 Environmental data 7.2 Energy Energy is material to Novozymes across targets drive our performance in these areas. of 29,000 GJ. Furthermore, 23,000 GJ of Novozymes continued to use 100% renewable the value chain, as its operations depend Novozymes’ Supply Operations and Sourcing energy savings were realized through the electricity from the Horns Rev II wind farm on steam and electricity, while many of its departments manage and monitor all energy installation of a second anaerobic digester at its Danish facilities. In 2018, Novozymes biosolutions enable downstream users to save efficiency and renewable energy-sourcing at our largest production site in Kalundborg, focused on exploring and maturing energy in certain applications (e.g. in laundry efforts. Denmark. opportunities in the renewable energy and dishwashing detergents and textile procurement space in all its operating regions. applications) compared with conventional 2018 highlights The table provides details of energy consumed Energy from renewable sources accounted for methods. In 2018, Novozymes achieved its annual by primary source. 23% of the total energy consumed in 2018, target of maintaining the increase in energy down from 24% in 2017. Our approach consumption at a level lower than organic 5-year energy consumption Novozymes manages energy in its operations sales growth. 1,000 GJ Going forward, Novozymes plans to replicate through a two-pronged approach: reducing the best energy-saving projects at other energy use in production by implementing Projects driving process optimization and sites. In regions with fewer opportunities for energy-saving projects, and increasing the energy efficiency undertaken at our sites renewable energy procurement, Novozymes sourcing of energy from renewables. Relevant throughout the year resulted in energy savings will continue to prioritize investment in energy efficiency projects. Energy consumption by primary source 1,000 GJ 2018 2017 Natural gas 645 696 Biogas 65 69 Gas oil, light fuel oil and diesel oil 24 7 Internally generated energy, total 734 772 Electricity – conventional 1,825 1,780 Electricity – renewable 1,062 1,080 District heat – conventional 175 181 District heat – renewable 4 2 Steam 1,031 945 Externally purchased energy, total 4,097 3,988 Energy consumption, total ESG 4,831 4,760 Energy production from waste 72 36 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 136 Environmental data 7.2 Energy (continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES heat and steam on site and is converted Reported quantities are based on meter to energy using factors supplied by utility readings, with the exception of steam, which Net energy consumption includes quantities providers or local authorities. Fuel for may be subject to calculation. consumed both in the production process transportation is not included. and in other areas, less energy production The renewable energy percentage is from Novozymes’ waste. Externally generated energy is the input calculated by dividing renewable energy to Novozymes of externally generated consumed by total energy consumption. Internally generated energy is measured electricity, heat and steam. Renewable energy used at Novozymes as fuel consumption converted to energy sites comprises energy that is generated based on the lower combustion value and Energy produced from waste or wastewater from natural processes and continuously weight by volume, except in the US, where is renewable and corresponds to the total replenished. Sources include solar-, windlegal requirements for reporting of CO2 state energy (heat, electricity or steam) produced and hydropower-based electricity and that the higher combustion value is to be by an internal or external utility provider. An energy from biogas. applied. Fuel consumption comprises all example is energy produced from biomass types of fuels used to produce electricity, waste or biogas. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 137 Environmental data 7.3 Water The production of Novozymes’ biological This is exemplified by our annual target, which a level lower than the organic sales growth in solutions is a water-intensive process aims to keep growth in water consumption 2018. ACCOUNTING POLICIES and generates a considerable amount of lower than organic sales growth. wastewater. Many of the raw materials required The table provides a breakdown of total in our operations are agriculture based and Sustainable wastewater and biomass water consumed. In the last quarter of 2018, Water includes drinking water, water intensive to produce. In certain product treatment at our production sites is given high we also commissioned a water reuse system industrial water and externally supplied applications such as laundry detergents and priority. The wastewater is treated internally or in Franklinton, US. When operational, it is steam. Drinking water is water of drinkingtextile processing, Novozymes’ solutions can externally in biological wastewater treatment projected to save 80,000 m3 of water per year. water quality. Industrial water is not of enable consumers and customers to achieve systems before being discharged to a final drinking-water quality, but is suitable for water savings compared with conventional destination point or used in agriculture for 5-year water consumption certain industrial processes, for example for methods. irrigation. All water efficiency and wastewater 1,000 m3 use in cooling towers. Industrial water can management efforts are managed by come from lakes or wells. In addition, our wastewater treatment Novozymes’ Supply Operations and Quality, solutions can improve processes and the Environment & Safety departments. The reported quantities are stated based on quality of treated water. Therefore, water is the metered intake of water to Novozymes material for Novozymes across the whole value 2018 highlights and include quantities consumed both chain. In 2018, Novozymes spent a total of DKK in the production process and in other 37 million on various water projects at its areas. The reported quantities of steam are Our approach production sites. These projects included the converted to volume of running water and Novozymes’ approach to water management installation of a new treatment technology at are therefore subject to calculation. is anchored in its Sustainability Policy. We our site in Araucária, Brazil, which reduces constantly strive to manage water-related chemical use and generates less wastewater. Wastewater is measured as the volume risks within our operations by improving Overall, Novozymes achieved water savings of discharged by Novozymes or calculated water efficiency and ensuring compliance with almost 158,000 m3 in 2018. Thanks to these based on water consumption. wastewater discharge regulations at all our efforts, Novozymes met its annual target of sites. restricting the growth in water consumption to Water by primary source 1,000 m3 2018 2017 Drinking water 5,578 5,427 Industrial water 2,256 2,339 Steam 371 340 Water, total ESG 8,205 8,106 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 138 Environmental data 7.3 Water (continued) Novozymes established a wastewater convert 200,000 tons of biomass per year to In 2019, our focus will be on improving our treatment plant at its new production site in bionatural gas and fertilizers, supporting the understanding of site-specific water-related Patalganga, India, designed to reuse 100% of circular economy and industrial symbiosis in risks and technology facilitation to increase the treated process water in production. the region. reuse of the treated wastewater. Novozymes strives to utilize the biomass in Optimization of renewable energy production Wastewater by treatment method wastewater streams coming from its enzyme (biogas) from wastewater also improved 1,000 m3 production processes. A new facility for significantly in 2018 thanks to a successful treatment of all the biomass from our Danish partnering project with the technology supplier. production sites, including biomass present The table provides details of wastewater in wastewater, has been commissioned near generated in 2018. Kalundborg. This facility has the capacity to Wastewater treatment 1,000 m3 2018 2017 Wastewater used for irrigation 866 673 Wastewater discharged 5,440 5,509 Wastewater volume, total ESG 6,306 6,182 • Novozymes-treated to external • Novozymes-treated to irrigation water recipient • Untreated to external treatment • Novozymes-treated to external treatment • Untreated to water recipient Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 139 Environmental data 7.4 Waste Novozymes supports the transition to a circular 2018 highlights our organic agricultural fertilizer product economy through sustainable consumption Novozymes generated 523,000 tons of waste in NovoGro® or composted. The remaining ACCOUNTING POLICIES and production practices. Reduction, reuse 2018 compared with 616,000 tons in 2017. The 3% was sent for landfill. A breakdown of and recycling of the planet’s limited natural vast majority of the waste is recovered, as only total biomass generated is provided in the resources are vital for a sustainable future. 4% is sent for landfill. table. Novozymes is investigating options for Biomass is measured or calculated on the Responsible waste management is a key recycling biomass currently being sent for basis of volume or weight produced and enabler in this and the reason why waste is a Waste and by­-products recovered 2018 (2017) landfill. transported from Novozymes as liquid material issue for Novozymes. fertilizer (NovoGro®), converted to a fertilizer In 2018, Novozymes, along with the Danish product with a higher dry matter content Our approach energy companies Ørsted and Bigadan, (NovoGro® 30 or compost) or dried and used Novozymes’ waste and by-products fall into inaugurated a new biogas plant at its as fuel for energy production. Biomass from three general categories: biomass (by-product), production site in Kalundborg, Denmark. a newly built plant is sent for landfill with nonhazardous waste and hazardous waste. The plant utilizes Novozymes’ biomass to energy production (biogas) as a temporary Each production site reports on the three produce biogas for use in other industries and disposal method. categories and disposal methods. Production private households. After being processed at of enzymes and microorganisms generates the biogas plant, the biomass will continue Solid waste is the registered volume of large amounts of biomass and a relatively low to be used as fertilizer on fields. The new waste broken down into hazardous and percentage of waste. Our approach to waste • Recovered biomass 94.4% (95.6%) plant shows how Novozymes’ biomass bynonhazardous waste, and by disposal management is driven by our Sustainability • Recovered (recycled) solid waste 1.2% (1.0%) product can be beneficially reused twice, method. The amount recycled is the • Biomass sent for landfill 2.9% (2.1%) Policy, and we continuously strive to improve • Solid waste sent for landfill/incineration 1.5% (1.3%) and exemplifies Novozymes’ commitment to quantity recycled internally or sent to an our resource efficiency, minimize waste and the circular economy. When running at full external service provider for recycling. increase recyclability. capacity, the plant can process 300,000 tons Biomass is not included in the reported Biomass of biomass per year, generating 8 million m3 amounts of solid waste. As waste handling is a complex issue subject to The biomass generated accounts for the of biogas. This corresponds to approximately local regulations and involving several external majority of total waste and by-products 5,000 Danish households and results in annual service providers, we have adopted a sitegenerated by Novozymes’ production sites. CO2 savings of around 17,000 tons. specific management approach. Monitoring Biomass is a by-product rich in nitrogen and and reporting of waste data are anchored in phosphorus. In 2018, 97% of the biomass our Quality, Environment & Safety function. was recovered and sold to local farmers as Biomass 1,000 tons 2018 2017 NovoGro ® 347 399 NovoGro® 30 138 171 Compost 9 19 Landfill 15 13 Biomass, total ESG 509 602 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 140 Environmental data 7.4 Waste (continued) Solid waste Novozymes strives to increase its recycling rate Nonhazardous waste and hazardous waste and the amount of waste diverted from landfill. account for 3% of the total waste and byIn collaboration with local experts and vendors, products generated and include materials we are currently exploring opportunities such as paper, food waste, laboratory waste to increase waste diversion at three of our and chemicals. In 2018, the rate of recycling largest production sites, in Denmark, the US of solid waste was 44% compared with 43% in and China. We will use the learnings from 2017. The remaining 56% of the waste, which these assessments to improve our waste corresponds to 8,000 tons, was sent for landfill management practices globally. or for incineration without energy recovery. A breakdown of total solid waste generated is provided in the table. Waste 1,000 tons 2018 2017 Nonhazardous waste Incineration 2.1 1.7 Landfill 3.6 3.9 Recycling (external) 4.4 4.3 Recycling (internal) 0.1 0.1 Nonhazardous waste, total 10.2 10.0 Hazardous waste Incineration 2.3 2.5 Recycling (external) 0.2 0.2 Recycling (internal) 1.6 1.6 Hazardous waste, total 4.1 4.3 Waste, total ESG 14.3 14.3 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 141 Environmental data 7.5 Environmental compliance, etc. Compliance with environmental norms and Policy. All activities to ensure environmental action have been agreed with the relevant Novozymes received 11 neighbor complaints in regulations is a high priority for Novozymes so compliance are anchored in the Quality, authorities for these incidents. 2018, down from 12 complaints in 2017. as to maintain business continuity and dayEnvironment & Safety function. Our to-day running of operations. Novozymes is Environmental Management System is based committed to complying with all environmental on ISO 14001 certification, and we strive to regulations and maintaining high standards minimize the number of noncompliances and ACCOUNTING POLICIES Breaches related to annual control of environmental management on various neighbor complaints. measurements of spills reported in previous aspects, including pollution prevention, Breaches of environmental regulatory limits years are not included, as they are not resource conservation and waste reduction. 2018 highlights is measured as the number of incidents in indicative of performance during the In 2018, 27 environmental incidents were the reporting year considered not to be in reporting year. Our approach registered across our facilities, compared conformity with environmental permits or Novozymes’ commitment to environmental with 24 in 2017. Most of these were related requirements under environmental law. Neighbor complaints refers to the number compliance is outlined in its Sustainability to wastewater treatment. Plans for preventive of registered environmental complaints, primarily odor and noise related. 7.6 Bioethics & biodiversity Novozymes’ research and business are based to produce a wide range of enzymes and When we take samples in nature, it is Novozymes understands the importance on bioinnovation. To develop sustainable microorganisms. Novozymes’ position paper important that we comply with globally of a healthy and thriving biodiversity, solutions and applications for our customers, on industrial biotechnology articulates our recognized principles on the utilization of resulting in well-functioning ecosystems and we explore nature and take samples of approach to managing and supporting safe genetic resources. Novozymes’ position paper ultimately enabling sustainable development fungi, bacteria and enzymes among the and sustainable use, and the adoption of on biodiversity articulates how Novozymes and achievement of the UN Sustainable available biodiversity, then assess the robust, science-based regulations for processes endorses, acknowledges and respects the Development Goals (SDGs). The private samples and optimize applications by means and products involving gene technology, principles in the United Nations Convention sector has enhanced its engagement with of biotechnological research. That is why including the latest gene-editing technologies. on Biological Diversity and the complementary and responsibility toward biodiversity-related “bioethics & biodiversity” is a material issue for We acknowledge the need to engage with Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefits issues and is now a new, global focus area. Novozymes’ operations and its relationships stakeholders to improve the general level of Sharing. Novozymes has internal procedures Novozymes regularly monitors the trends and with external stakeholders. knowledge about the opportunities presented to ensure that the company lives up to its developments in this area and assesses how to by biology, industrial biotechnology and gene commitments. incorporate best practices into its operations. Our approach technology, and their role in society. Novozymes uses industrial biotechnology Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 142 Environmental data 7.7 Product stewardship Novozymes is committed to ensuring product responsibility rests with Regulatory Affairs & 2018 highlights was jointly developed with the Federation of stewardship and safety in its operations and Product Safety. Procedures ensuring product Novozymes is a full member of the Enzyme European Union Manufacturers and Suppliers customer relationships. This is material to us, stewardship are enforced globally and audited REACH Consortium and successfully met of Ingredients to the Bakery, Confectionery and as many of our biological solutions serve as by the independent external body Bureau the May 2018 REACH deadline to register Patisserie Industries. ingredients in consumer goods (e.g. in laundry Veritas. technical enzymes sold in low volumes. detergents) or are used as industrial processing As a Lead Registrant in many Substance Novozymes chairs the Enzyme Safety Working aids (e.g. in the production of baked goods). Novozymes has also developed its position Information Exchange Forums (SIEF) for Group, which has a coordinating role within on and approach to related topics such as enzymes, Novozymes remains firmly committed AMFEP to develop advanced safety standards Our approach product information and labeling, traceability, to maintaining high-quality substance dossiers, for enzyme use through industry associations. Novozymes’ approach to product stewardship industrial biotechnology, animal testing, which are endorsed by the external authorities. is outlined in its Quality and Product Safety REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation Policy, which is an important element of and Restriction of Chemicals) and FIAP (Food Novozymes strives to reduce the risk of Novozymes’ Quality Management System. Improvement Agents Package). enzyme allergies among employees and Novozymes constantly strives to reduce the downstream users by promoting adherence risk of potential harm to both human health to enzyme safety standards. In 2018, the and the environment during the manufacture, Association of Manufacturers and Formulators handling and use of its products. This of Enzyme Products (AMFEP) published approach is implemented by means of many Industry Guidelines on the Safe Handling of cross-functional teams, and the primary Enzymes in the Bakery Supply Chain, which Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 143 Social and governance data Women in senior management Social and governance data We measure our social performance using a number of indicators in the areas of labor practices & human rights, occupational health & safety, business ethics, customer 30% engagement and community engagement. These indicators enable us to track our progress and respond to risks and opportunities related to both talent attraction and retention, and business development. Accidents per million working hours 2.4 Completion of business integrity training for employees 99% Novozymes A/S 144 Social and governance data 8.1 Labor practices & human rights Employee statistics Employees are vital for Novozymes’ growth and facilitate the fulfillment of these fundamental 2018 2017 the successful execution of its strategies. It is rights in countries with limited labor therefore important for Novozymes to focus legislation. Rate of employee turnover – retirement % 1.0 0.8 on employee development and diversity in all Rate of employee turnover – dismissal % 2.0 4.9 its operations. Novozymes is also responsible Read more in our position papers on diversity Rate of employee turnover – voluntary % 5.8 6.2 for ensuring that human rights are respected and equal opportunities and human rights on Rate of employee turnover, total % 8.8 11.9 throughout its value chain. Novozymes.com. Rate of absence Our approach 2018 highlights Senior management, management, professional We have adopted a common management Labor practices and administrative % 1.2 1.3 approach and reporting structure for labor We believe in promoting gender diversity at Skilled workers, laboratory technicians, other technicians and process operators % 3.0 2.9 practices and human rights. Our People and work and have continuous focus on increasing All employees ESG % 2.1 2.1 Organization (P&O) function together with the number of women in leadership roles in leaders across Novozymes are responsible the organization. In 2018, 30% of the senior for ensuring equal rights for all employees management team were women, exceeding our Other employee statistics and promoting diversity. We are committed target for the year of at least 27%. Average age Years 41.4 41.5 to ensuring equal opportunities and avoiding Average seniority Years 9.6 9.6 discrimination based on race, religion, sex or This year, Science Magazine ranked Novozymes Number of expatriates No. 23 23 age in our global organization. For instance, third-best global science employer. We have Average training cost spent per employee DKK 3,637 3,159 we have a target to ensure that women hold at been among the top 10 employers in the world Costs as percentage of total employee costs % 0.6 0.5 least 30% of senior management positions by for the last four years. 2020. In 2018, the rate of employee turnover Novozymes is committed to providing a work decreased from 11.9% to 8.8%. In 2018, we environment where all individuals can work recorded a 2.1% rate of absence, which is together comfortably and productively, free of above our target of ≤ 2.0%. The rate of absence all forms of harassment and discrimination. has been broken down into grouped job Furthermore, Novozymes recognizes and categories, based on whether the work carried respects the right to form and join associations out is primarily office based. and to bargain collectively. Our P&O function works together with local leadership to Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 145 Social and governance data 8.1 Labor practices & human rights (continued) In 2018, we launched a leadership In October, we introduced our new employee Human rights • Nondiscrimination − we continue to development program, Lead the Way, to help survey, TunedIn. The new survey and process Novozymes revamped its human rights implement robust processes and procedures all leaders at Novozymes to develop the core were designed together with employees monitoring approach in 2016 to carry out to avoid any discrimination in our supply leadership skills needed to drive employee across Novozymes, who contributed to the a global human rights impact assessment chain engagement and performance, and mobilize development of the questionnaire, process, every two years. However, the applicability • Safe and healthy working conditions for employees around our purpose and values. The name, etc. With TunedIn, we not only track of human rights varies from region to region, our suppliers’ employees − we continue to participants are guided through the program organizational mood but also make room for and we therefore believe that a region-specific assess working conditions at our suppliers’ via a mobile app with a “learning path” that more relevant team talks about how we work assessment will provide a better overview of premises combines multiple types of activities such as together at Novozymes. These talks are key relevant human rights, our positioning and • Modern slavery in our supply chain − we watching videos, meeting with peers, onto ensuring our success as a business and associated gaps in the individual region. This continue to improve our supplier evaluation the-job exercises, e-learning, sparring with sustaining our reputation as a great place to exercise involves assessing all 48 human rights framework managers and face-to-face training. To date work. The survey helps us to track our longas per the International Bill of Human Rights. • Land grabbing − we continue to respect ~30% of leaders have enrolled in the program. term and annual target for “Satisfaction and This year, we started with India and held land rights of local communities, including Motivation.” In 2018, we achieved a result of individual meetings with relevant functions indigenous people 81, surpassing our annual target of ≥ 75. to identify material human rights and existing procedures to mitigate any risks. We identified We plan to cover the remaining geographies potential human rights themes and are taking − China, Europe, North America and Latin the following actions: America − by 2021. ACCOUNTING POLICIES as employee turnover divided by the average Average age and seniority are calculated as Training costs is the costs of external number of permanent employees. Employee the sum of employees’ total age/seniority in training courses and seminars, translated Absence is stated as time lost due to the turnover is measured as the number of whole years at the reporting date, divided by into Danish kroner at average exchange employee’s illness, including sick leave, permanent employees who left the Group the number of employees. rates. Training costs is also shown as a and occupational accidents and diseases. during the last four quarters (excluding percentage of total employee costs. The rate of absence is calculated as the employees at divested entities transferred to Expatriation refers to Novozymes employees number of registered days of absence as a the acquiring company). temporarily reassigned within Novozymes Women in senior management measures the percentage of the total number of normal from the country of original employment for percentage of women in director positions or working days in one year, less vacation and a period of more than six months. higher (i.e. senior director, vice president or public holidays. executive vice president). The rate of employee turnover is calculated Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 146 Social and governance data 8.2 Occupational health & safety The health and safety of all employees is of 2018 highlights To sharpen focus on safety behavior, we paramount importance to Novozymes. This is In 2018, our target was to limit the frequency introduced four desired behaviors: Help, ACCOUNTING POLICIES why health and safety is a fundamental part of of occupational accidents per million Act, Rethink and Talk. These behaviors guide our business strategy. The aim is to ensure that working hours to 1.5 or below. However, we us in how to act to stay safe, and what we Occupational accidents is defined as the robust safety processes, hardware, standards, experienced an increase in the frequency of can expect from one another when it comes reported number of occurrences arising tools and training are fully integrated into our occupational accidents to 2.4 from 1.6 in 2017, to safety issues. We believe that having an out of or in the course of work that result way of working. We take appropriate measures therefore not meeting our target for 2018. Our aligned approach to safety and an aligned in fatal or nonfatal injury with at least one to ensure focus on occupational health and analysis showed a higher number of accidents set of safety behaviors across the entire day’s absence from work apart from the day safety across the organization, by means of in production areas, many involving strains and organization is essential. To support this, all of injury. initiatives driven locally as part of a global sprains, whereas falling and tripping accidents employees have been asked to complete an framework. were down compared with previous years. For e-learning course, and tools have also been Occupational diseases is defined as the more information on occupational accidents provided for local dialogue. number of diseases contracted as a result Our approach and diseases, please refer to the tables of exposure to risk factors arising from Novozymes’ Quality, Environment & Safety provided. work activity and notified as work related in function is responsible for ensuring a safer and accordance with local legislation. healthier working environment. To reinforce Consequences of occupational accidents safety culture, we have a global Health and No. 2018 2017 The consequences of occupational Safety Policy along with internal standards and Return to original job 22 18 accidents with absence and occupational procedures. We monitor our performance and Return to a different job in the same department 1 diseases are measured by recording the ensure continuous improvement through our Out of work or early retirement 1 work situation once the outcome of the long-term target of an occupational accident incidents has stabilized, for example Case pending 3 frequency of 1.0 accident per million working whether the employees have returned to Occupational accidents with absence, total 27 18 hours or below by 2020. To help us achieve this their original jobs, and the total number of target, we also define annual targets. calendar days of absence. Total days of absence related to accidents registered in the same year 346 235 Frequencies of occupational accidents with absence and occupational diseases are Injury severity rate 13 13 stated per million working hours. The injury severity rate is calculated by dividing total days of absence related to accidents registered in the same year by the number of occupational accidents. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 147 Social and governance data 8.2 Occupational health & safety (continued) Consequences of occupational diseases We also implemented a new company-wide friendly meetings and coping with shiftwork, No. 2018 2017 system, CAPTURE, to record improvements, and with tools to spark important dialogue Return to original job 3 2 corrective actions and incidents. This digital among colleagues. Return to a different job in the same department platform is available in Danish, English, Out of work or early retirement Chinese, Spanish and Portuguese. The The Global Medical Center and Global OH&S 1 system enables global trendspotting and have managed our allergy performance for Case pending sharing of learnings, provides better data years using a series of procedures known as Occupational diseases, total 4 2 security, and ensures we comply with all the ZEAL (Zero Enzyme Allergy) standards. current legislation, such as the new EU rules These procedures have led to a decrease Total days of absence related to diseases registered in the on protection of personal data, the General in allergy cases over the years. However, in same year Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). 2018 we experienced three enzyme allergy cases, for which the root cause has been We want our employees to prioritize selfidentified and corrected. care, learn more about the power of the Types of occupational diseases brain and discover what their brains can In 2019, we will continue to work toward No. 2018 2017 achieve when they work together. This is improving our safety culture with special Skin disease 2 why we launched a global initiative, Brain focus on Management’s role. Furthermore, Enzyme allergy 3 Space, aimed at inspiring employees and we plan to enhance the use of our new Other 1 equipping them with tools for how to data system and build on CAPTURE to Occupational diseases, total 4 2 nurture their brains to help them thrive prevent the recurrence of accidents by in a digital, fast-paced work environment. understanding the current trends and Employees are provided with tips on digital increasing the quality of our root cause detox, and tips for encouraging more brainanalysis. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 148 Social and governance data 8.3 Business ethics Business ethics is at the core of our business Novozymes also works proactively to prevent, and therefore a key issue for the company. We detect and respond to fraud, and has ACCOUNTING POLICIES a company in the Novozymes Group has are committed to conducting business in an continuously increased its internal awareness violated applicable anti-trust regulations. ethical and transparent way, and to meeting and proactive initiatives in this area. An stakeholders’ expectations of high business internal control system enables identification Completion of business integrity training All allegations of fraud are investigated integrity standards across our operations. of fraud cases and concerns raised, either refers to the percentage of selected until it can be determined whether they through Novozymes’ whistleblower system employees who have undergone business can be substantiated. The number of Our approach or other reporting channels. These cases integrity training in the last training period. fraud cases represents substantiated and Novozymes has adopted six business integrity are reported to the Audit Committee on a New entities are included within six months unsubstantiated matters reported to the principles that lay the ground rules for quarterly basis, and all allegations of fraud are of acquisition. Business integrity training Audit Committee in the reporting year. engaging with third parties and apply to all appropriately investigated in accordance with is conducted for employees who can employees across the world. These principles, internal policies and procedures. Substantiated potentially influence third-party interactions Novozymes defines fraud as an offence which include zero tolerance for bribery and fraud will lead to proportionate disciplinary or decisions as part of their job role. This where an employee or third party either: rules for gifts and donations, form the basis of sanctions for the parties involved. Reporting to comprises employees in professional, our efforts to eliminate all forms of corruption. the police is assessed on a case-by-case basis. managerial or administrative positions. • takes or removes the company’s property For more details, please see our position paper without its consent with the intent of on business integrity on Novozymes.com. Novozymes recognizes its responsibility not The reporting criteria for competition depriving the company of it, or just for ensuring ethical business practices law violations are whether it has been • intentionally deceives the company by Novozymes’ management approach to within its own operations, but also that our established by an authority member of the providing false documentation or by addressing anti-corruption and business business partners and stakeholders are equally International Competition Network or by a suppressing the truth in order to obtain a integrity is embedded in our corporate values committed to preventing corruption and competent court anywhere in the world that personal gain. and policies. A dedicated compliance function upholding business integrity principles. Our handles business integrity-related matters, third-party due diligence processes include including training of our employees. All monitoring and ensuring that our commercial employees have access to guidance and may partners conduct business with integrity and anonymously raise concerns about business share our values regarding legal compliance. ethics and corruption via a multichannel grievance mechanism. Read more about our grievance channels on Novozymes.com. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 149 Social and governance data 8.3 Business ethics (continued) Novozymes conducts an annual business Novozymes also has recurring anti-trust The charts below provide further details of the integrity training program to ensure that e-learning in place providing general guidance reporting channels and consequences of fraud employees are well equipped to uphold on anti-trust law. This program is completed by cases. business integrity principles and handle relevant employees in commercial roles across ethical dilemmas that they may encounter the globe. There were no violations of competition law in in their everyday work. The global e-learning 2018. The anti-trust training in 2018 focused program has been designed and rolled out 2018 highlights on competition law concerns relating to by Novozymes’ Chief Legal Compliance The number of fraud cases investigated by different forms of exclusivity in connection with Officer, based on input from regions’ lines Novozymes decreased to 34 in 2018 from 49 customer agreements. of business and questions raised during the in 2017. However, we continue to see a threat year to ensure relevance and applicability. from external fraud attempts by unknown The business integrity training in 2018 was The training includes a reinforcement of perpetrators, such as CxO fraud and fraudulent completed by 99% of our employees. Moving employees’ commitment to business integrity invoices. During 2018, 12 cases were reported forward, we will continue to raise awareness of as well as case studies mimicking real cases at to the police. The investigated fraud cases in fraud and train employees in relevant policies Novozymes or from the media noted during the 2018 did not have a material financial impact. and procedures. year. Investigated fraud cases Reporting channels 2018 (2017) Consequences of substantiated fraud cases 2018 (2017) No. of cases • Whistleblower/tip-off 75% (51%) • Dismissal 25% (17%) • Internal controls and proactive detection 25% (49%) • Other disciplinary sanctions 0% (7%) • Substantiated • Open • Unknown perpetrator 75% (76%) • Unsubstantiated Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 150 Social and governance data 8.4 Community engagement As a responsible company, we believe that it and the various educational programs are Learners reached by geography 2018 (2017) is important to engage with the communities driven and implemented regionally by our CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES in which we operate and to create significant sustainability managers. In total, we have AND JUDGMENTS value in society. We focus our community educated more than 612,000 learners globally engagement and social investment activities since 2015. on education, which we believe is crucial for Methodologies to count and consolidate global sustainable development. Our programs 2018 highlights learners reached have been defined and are designed specifically around biology, In 2018, we engaged approximately 302,000 are applied, but the reported numbers are sustainability and the environment. learners, with Asia Pacific and Latin America still subject to assumptions and estimates, being major contributors. An overview of for example when recording the number of Our approach the distribution of learners reached by the participants at a conference. This means Our community engagement initiatives are different regions is provided in the chart. • Asia Pacific 43% (44%) that the result of the calculation will be an • North America 21% (28%) driven by our long-term target of educating 1 • Latin America 25% (23%) approximation. million people about the potential of biology. Read more about EDUCATE in the Targets • Europe, Middle East & Africa 11% (5%) The EDUCATE target is anchored in our section and in the Sustainability section. Corporate Sustainability department, ACCOUNTING POLICIES Learners reached comprises the total number of persons Novozymes reaches via its EDUCATE activities. An EDUCATE activity is an activity that engages the learner to a degree sufficient to confirm that awareness has been created. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 151 Social and governance data 8.5 Customer engagement Novozymes believes that the opinion of its an annual survey based on the Net Promoter relationships with our customers. Among the customers serves as a powerful indicator in Score (NPS) methodology. The NPS reflects key factors impacting the NPS, customers ACCOUNTING POLICIES determining the success and performance of customers’ answers to the question: “How appreciate our commercial and technical its solutions in the market. We therefore treat likely are you to recommend Novozymes to services and our products. Particularly with customer engagement and partnership as a others?” and ranges from -100 to +100. regard to account management, our customers The Net Promoter Score (NPS) is derived key material issue for our business. note that our sales force is proactive, and from an annual questionnaire measuring 2018 highlights engaged and adept at driving discussions how likely the customer is to recommend Our approach In 2018, Novozymes invited 933 customers, about new and upcoming opportunities. Novozymes to others. The NPS is calculated We monitor customer satisfaction and collect twice the number from last year, to participate We also see that our products match our as the share of promoters (on a scale of feedback on a regular basis. Responsibility for in the survey, and we saw a response rate of customers’ needs, but there is a hunger for 0-100) less the share of detractors (also on measuring, analyzing and addressing customer 63%. We achieved an NPS of +50, surpassing more co-innovation and regional products a scale of 0-100). The resulting score is a satisfaction is anchored across the commercial our 2018 target of +40. The results hold for across industries. number between -100 and +100. divisions. our large and smaller customers, new and old, across regions. Going forward, we will continue to translate the Novozymes has an annual target for Customer learnings from the survey and incorporate the Satisfaction Measurement. To measure This score is high compared with the NPS findings into our engagement strategies for all customer satisfaction, Novozymes conducts of +39 in 2017 and confirms our solid our customers. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 152 Social and governance data 8.6 Responsible sourcing It is crucial for Novozymes to have a secure be regularly re-evaluated. The system has an of direct suppliers subject to evaluation/resupply of raw materials for its production. integrated set of assessment criteria covering evaluation by the Sourcing department. Agricultural raw materials are a major commercial, quality, employee health and constituent of our production processes, and safety, human and labor rights, environment Another significant move to increase the level this is one of the reasons for our continuous and business integrity. of transparency in our supplier base and to sharp focus on environmental, social and continuously improve our responsible sourcing governance (ESG) issues. We require all our contracted suppliers to practices is that Novozymes has now become comply with our Responsible Purchasing an AB member of the Sedex sustainability Our approach Standard. This covers various aspects, collaboration platform. Read more about our Novozymes’ supplier management and including business ethics, labor standards engagement with Sedex in the Sustainability responsible sourcing approach is anchored in and human rights, health and safety, and section. the Sourcing department. Novozymes screens environment. For example, we require all suppliers and classifies their risk based on our suppliers of directly sourced agricultural During 2018, we also conducted an internal country and category. Suppliers are assessed raw materials to adhere to our deforestation training program on modern slavery and by the Sourcing department by means of requirements by not contributing to further human trafficking for sourcing teams. The Supplier Performance Management (SPM). An deforestation, and exercise zero tolerance objective of the training was to educate initial evaluation of suppliers is carried out in of land grabbing. See our position paper on our colleagues about issues relating to the form of an SPM questionnaire. Once the responsible purchasing on Novozymes.com for modern slavery, and how to identify and form is completed, the system assigns a score, more details. react in case of violations. To strengthen our potentially “flags” issues and recommends systems for monitoring human rights risks suppliers are “approved,” “conditionally 2018 highlights in our operations and in our supplier base, approved” or “rejected.” Conditionally Our segmentation approach for evaluation of we have initiated regional human rights approved suppliers require an action plan. If suppliers was strengthened back in 2017 by impact assessments. Read more about our suppliers are unwilling to improve, Novozymes including country risk as a key parameter. The assessments in Note 8.1 Labor practices & reserves the right to end the collaboration with impact of this during 2018 has led to an annual human rights. immediate effect. Approved suppliers need to increase of approximately 50% in the number Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 153 Statement of the Board of Directors and Executive Leadership Team The Board of Directors and the Executive In our opinion, the accounting policies used are of the Group and the Parent Company, of Leadership Team have today considered and appropriate, and the Group’s internal controls the results for the year, and of the financial adopted the Annual Report of Novozymes A/S relevant to preparation and presentation of the position of the Group and the Parent Company for the financial year January 1 – December 31, Annual Report are adequate. The Consolidated as well as a description of the most significant 2018. The Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements and the Parent Company risks and elements of uncertainty facing the have been prepared in accordance with Financial Statements give a true and fair view Group and the Parent Company. International Financial Reporting Standards as of the financial position at December 31, 2018 adopted by the EU and further requirements in of the Group and the Parent Company and of In our opinion, Novozymes A/S adheres to the Danish Financial Statements Act, and the the results of the Group and Parent Company the AA1000 AccountAbility principles, and Parent Company Financial Statements have operations and consolidated cash flows for the environmental, social and governance data been prepared in accordance with the Danish financial year January 1 – December 31, 2018. are stated in accordance with the accounting Financial Statements Act. Management’s policies. Review has been prepared in accordance with In our opinion, Management’s Review includes the Danish Financial Statements Act. a true and fair account of the development in We recommend that the Annual Report be the operations and financial circumstances adopted at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. Bagsvaerd, January 24, 2019 Executive Leadership Team Board of Directors Peder Holk Nielsen Jørgen Buhl Rasmussen Agnete Raaschou-Nielsen Kasim Kutay Lars Bo Køppler President & CEO Chairman Vice Chairman Thomas Videbæk Kim Stratton Lars Green Mathias Uhlén Patricia Malarkey Prisca Havranek-Kosicek Lena Bech Holskov Anders Hentze Knudsen Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Statements 154 Independent Auditor’s Report To the Shareholders of Novozymes A/S Our opinion Our opinions are consistent with our Auditor’s The Consolidated environmental data and the Independence In our opinion, the Consolidated Financial Long-form Report to the Audit Committee and Consolidated social and governance data of We are independent of the Group in Statements give a true and fair view of the the Board of Directors. Novozymes A/S, pages 80-83 and 132-153, for accordance with the International Ethics Group’s financial position at December the financial year January 1 to December 31, Standards Board for Accountants’ Code of 31, 2018 and of the results of the Group’s What we have audited 2018 comprise the environmental performance Ethics for Professional Accountants (IESBA operations and cash flows for the financial The Consolidated Financial Statements of and consolidated data, the social and Code) and the additional requirements year January 1 to December 31, 2018 in Novozymes A/S, pages 71-79 and 83-131, for governance performance and consolidated applicable in Denmark. We have also fulfilled accordance with International Financial the financial year January 1 to December data and the related notes, including summary our other ethical responsibilities in accordance Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU and 31, 2018 comprise the consolidated income of accounting policies. with the IESBA Code. further requirements in the Danish Financial statement and statement of comprehensive Statements Act. income, the consolidated balance sheet, the These are collectively referred to as the To the best of our knowledge and belief, consolidated statement of shareholders’ “Environmental, Social and Governance Data.” prohibited non-audit services referred to in Moreover, in our opinion, the Parent Company equity, the consolidated statement of cash Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 Financial Statements give a true and fair view flows and the notes, including summary of Basis for opinion were not provided. of the Parent Company’s financial position significant accounting policies. We conducted our audit in accordance with at December 31, 2018 and of the results of International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) Appointment the Parent Company’s operations for the The Parent Company Financial Statements and the additional requirements applicable We were appointed as auditors of Novozymes financial year January 1 to December 31, of Novozymes A/S, pages 160-173, for the in Denmark. Our responsibilities under those A/S for the first time after the initial public 2018 in accordance with the Danish Financial financial year January 1 to December 31, 2018 standards and requirements are further offering on 21 March 2001. We have been Statements Act. comprise the income statement, the balance described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for reappointed annually by shareholder resolution sheet, the statement of changes in equity and the audit of the Financial Statements section for a total period of uninterrupted engagement In our opinion, the Consolidated environmental the notes, including summary of significant of our report. of 18 years, including the financial year 2018. data and the Consolidated social and accounting policies. governance data for the financial year January We believe that the audit evidence we have 1 to December 31, 2018 are prepared in Collectively referred to as the “Financial obtained is sufficient and appropriate to accordance with the accounting policies for Statements”. provide a basis for our opinion. the Consolidated environmental data and the Consolidated social and governance data. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Statements 155 Key audit matters These matters were addressed in the context Key audit matters are those matters that, of our audit of the Financial Statements as a in our professional judgment, were of most whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and significance in our audit of the Financial we do not provide a separate opinion on these Statements for 2018. matters. Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Revenue recognition related to partnerships and collaboration agreements Novozymes has entered into several partnerships and collaboration agreements. We tested relevant controls including applicable information systems and monitoring controls implemented, to ensure that revenue and costs from the partnerships and collaboration agreements are Some of these partnerships and collaborations include complex mechanisms for sharing profit and recognized appropriately on an ongoing basis. expenses. Due to the complexity of the agreements, there are several uncertainties in relation to the interpretation of the agreements. We obtained Management’s estimate of deferred income and profit-sharing accruals under the applicable agreements, and reconciled inputs and key assumptions – from both internal and external We focused on this area because the agreements and the related accounting treatment of revenue sources – and assessed the accuracy of the accruals in previous periods. recognition are complex and because establishing appropriate accruals requires significant judgement and estimation by Management. We assessed whether the disclosures in relation to revenue were appropriate and met the requirements of accounting standards and the Danish Financial Statements Act. Refer to Note 2.2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Statement on Management’s Review Moreover, we considered whether Management’s Responsibility for the Financial Furthermore, Management is responsible Management is responsible for Management’s Management’s Review includes the disclosures Statements and the Environmental, Social and for preparing the Environmental, Social Review, pages 3-70. required by the Danish Financial Statements Governance Data and Governance Data in accordance Act. Management is responsible for the preparation with the accounting policies stated in the Our opinion on the Financial Statements and of Consolidated Financial Statements that Environmental, Social and Governance Data, on the Environmental, Social and Governance Based on the work we have performed, in our give a true and fair view in accordance with and for such internal control as Management Data does not cover Management’s Review, view, Management’s Review is in accordance International Financial Reporting Standards as determines is necessary to enable the and we do not express any form of assurance with the Consolidated Financial Statements, adopted by the EU and further requirements preparation of Environmental, Social and conclusion thereon. the Parent Company Financial Statements and in the Danish Financial Statements Act Governance Data that are free from material the Environmental, Social and Governance and for the preparation of Parent Company misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In connection with our audit of the Financial Data, and has been prepared in accordance Financial Statements that give a true and fair Statements, our responsibility is to read with the requirements of the Danish Financial view in accordance with the Danish Financial Management’s Review and, in doing so, Statements Act. We did not identify any Statements Act, and for such internal control consider whether Management’s Review is material misstatement in Management’s as Management determines is necessary to materially inconsistent with the Financial Review. enable the preparation of financial statements Statements or our knowledge obtained in the that are free from material misstatement, audit, or otherwise appears to be materially whether due to fraud or error. misstated. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Statements 156 In preparing the Financial Statements, and the Environmental, Social and • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure We also provide those charged with Management is responsible for assessing the Governance Data, whether due to fraud or and content of the Financial Statements, governance with a statement that we have Group’s and the Parent Company’s ability error, design and perform audit procedures including the disclosures, and whether complied with relevant ethical requirements to continue as a going concern, disclosing, responsive to those risks, and obtain audit the Financial Statements represent the regarding independence, and to communicate as applicable, matters related to going evidence that is sufficient and appropriate underlying transactions and events in a with them all relationships and other matters concern and using the going concern basis of to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk manner that achieves fair presentation. that may reasonably be thought to bear on our accounting unless Management either intends of not detecting a material misstatement • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence independence, and where applicable, related to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company resulting from fraud is higher than for one regarding the financial, environmental, social safeguards. or to cease operations, or has no realistic resulting from error, as fraud may involve and governance information of the entities alternative but to do so. collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, or business activities within the Group to From the matters communicated with those misrepresentations, or the override of express an opinion on the Consolidated charged with governance, we determine Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the internal control. Financial Statements and the Environmental, those matters that were of most significance Financial Statements and the Environmental, • Obtain an understanding of internal control Social and Governance Data. We are in the audit of the Financial Statements of Social and Governance Data relevant to the audit in order to design responsible for the direction, supervision and the current period and are therefore the key Our objectives are to obtain reasonable audit procedures that are appropriate in the performance of the Group audit. We remain audit matters. We describe these matters in assurance about whether the Financial circumstances, but not for the purpose of solely responsible for our audit opinion. our auditor’s report unless law or regulation Statements and the Environmental, Social expressing an opinion on the effectiveness precludes public disclosure about the matter and Governance Data as a whole are free of the Group’s and the Parent Company’s We communicate with those charged with or when, in extremely rare circumstances, from material misstatement, whether due internal control. governance regarding, among other matters, we determine that a matter should not be to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting the planned scope and timing of the audit communicated in our report because the report that includes our opinion. Reasonable policies used and the reasonableness of and significant audit findings, including any adverse consequences of doing so would assurance is a high level of assurance, but accounting estimates and related disclosures significant deficiencies in internal control that reasonably be expected to outweigh the public is not a guarantee that an audit conducted made by Management. we identify during our audit. interest benefits of such communication. in accordance with ISAs and the additional • Conclude on the appropriateness of requirements applicable in Denmark will Management’s use of the going concern always detect a material misstatement basis of accounting and based on the audit when it exists. Misstatements can arise from evidence obtained, whether a material fraud or error and are considered material if, uncertainty exists related to events or individually or in the aggregate, they could conditions that may cast significant doubt reasonably be expected to influence the on the Group’s and the Parent Company’s economic decisions of users taken on the ability to continue as a going concern. If we Hellerup, January 24, 2019 basis of these Financial Statements and the conclude that a material uncertainty exists, Environmental, Social and Governance Data. we are required to draw attention in our PricewaterhouseCoopers auditor’s report to the related disclosures As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs in the Financial Statements or, if such Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab and the additional requirements applicable in disclosures are inadequate, to modify our CVR no 3377 1231 Denmark, we exercise professional judgment opinion. Our conclusions are based on the and maintain professional skepticism audit evidence obtained up to the date of throughout the audit. We also: our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the Lars Baungaard Rasmus Friis Jørgensen • Identify and assess the risks of material Parent Company to cease to continue as a State Authorized Public Accountant State Authorized Public Accountant misstatement of the Financial Statements going concern. mne23331 mne28705 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Statements 157 Independent limited assurance statement on Novozymes’ adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles To the Stakeholders of Novozymes Management’s responsibility Our team of experts has competencies with Scope, standards and criteria used We have been engaged by Novozymes A/S’ Adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility regard to assessing sustainability management We have planned and performed our work Management to provide moderate assurance Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and systems. In 2018, we have not performed based on AA1000AS (2008), using the (review) as to whether Novozymes adheres to Responsiveness is the responsibility of any tasks or services for Novozymes or other criteria in the standard to perform a Type 1 the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. Management. clients, which would have conflicted with our engagement. independence, nor have we been responsible Conclusion Our responsibility for the preparation of any part of the Annual We have worked to obtain moderate assurance Based on the procedures we have performed We are responsible for planning and Report. Thus, we are independent as defined (review) of Novozymes’ adherence to the and the evidence we have obtained, nothing performing the engagement to obtain in the AA1000 Assurance Standard (AA1000AS AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. has come to our attention that causes us to moderate assurance (review) of Novozymes’ (2008)), and we consider our team qualified believe that the description of Novozymes’ adherence with the AA1000 AccountAbility to carry out this independent assurance Methodology, approach, limitation and scope adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and engagement. of work principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness; forming an independent Our methodology has included procedures to Responsiveness is not fairly stated. conclusion, based on the procedures we obtain evidence of Management’s commitment have performed and the evidence we have to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles and of This conclusion is to be read in the context of obtained; and reporting our conclusion to the the implementation of systems and procedures what we say in the remainder of our report. stakeholders of Novozymes A/S. in support of the principles. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Statements 158 Based on an assessment of materiality and Observations and recommendations We have also noted new strategic work Regarding Responsiveness risk, our work has included: According to AA1000AS (2008), we are undertaken by Novozymes to consider how the There has been significant focus this year on required to include observations and UN Sustainable Development Goals can drive driving internal performance improvement 1. Review of processes related to how recommendations for improvements in relation future growth opportunities for the business. as well as awareness of and engagement in Novozymes identifies its stakeholders and to Novozymes’ adherence to the AA1000 sustainability issues. We have noted that engages them in relevant business decisions AccountAbility Principles. Regarding Materiality consideration of sustainability issues and to develop and implement responses to Novozymes continues to actively evaluate and the UN Sustainable Development Goals in sustainability; Regarding Inclusivity manage current and likely future sustainability particular is central to the ongoing 2020+ 2. Review of the process that Novozymes Novozymes continues to include sustainability issues and their impact on the business. During strategy process. used to identify and determine relevant in its core strategy and operational processes 2018, Novozymes has updated its assessment and significant (material) issues to the at Board, executive and operational level. of the material sustainability issues for the We have communicated a number of minor organization and its stakeholders and This year in particular we have noted the business. Delivery of the business’s long-term recommendations for improvement to the whether these issues are included in the establishment of new Impact and Foundation targets continues to be factored into senior Management of Novozymes. sustainability reporting; and Boards to help drive both strategic and management’s objectives and remuneration. 3. Enquiries and interviews with the Chairman operational sustainability performance, of the Board of Directors, members of and the enhanced involvement of business the Executive Leadership Team and functions in these processes. employees responsible for key areas of Novozymes’ operations regarding Novozymes’ commitment and adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles, and the existence of systems and procedures to support adaptation of the principles in the organization. Our work focused on Novozymes’ sustainability ambition and strategy, and its organizational capacity to deliver on this. This work also included Novozymes’ lessons learned from recent experience for the Group’s next strategy Hellerup, January 24, 2019 period, with a particular focus on how sustainability and the UN Sustainable PricewaterhouseCoopers Development Goals, a material topic to Novozymes’ stakeholders, can drive future Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab business growth. CVR no.: 33771231 Lars Baungaard Rasmus Friis Jørgensen State Authorized Public Accountant State Authorized Public Accountant mne23331 mne28705 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Statements 159 Financial statements for Novozymes A/S Financial statements Financial activities Income statement 4.1 Financial income and costs Balance sheet 4.2 Credit institutions Statement of shareholders' equity 4.3 Proposed appropriation of net profit Basis of reporting 1 Accounting policies Other notes 5.1 Contingent liabilities and Primary operations pending litigation 2.1 Revenue 5.2 Related party transactions 2.2 Employee costs 5.3 Fees to statutory auditor 2.3 Other operating income 5.4 Common stock and treasury stock 5.5 Derivatives Other assets and liabilities 3.1 Intangible assets 3.2 Property, plant and equipment 3.3 Financial fixed assets 3.4 Other receivables 3.5 Deferred tax Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Financial statements for Novozymes A/S 160 Income statement, Novozymes A/S DKK million Note 2018 2017 Revenue 2.1 8,272 8,273 Cost of goods sold (3,965) (4,062) Gross profit 4,307 4,211 Sales and distribution costs (1,092) (960) Research and development costs (1,482) (1,433) Administrative costs (600) (556) Other operating income 2.3 1,458 1,516 Operating profit / EBIT 2,591 2,778 Income from investments in subsidiaries 3.3 818 963 Share of result in associates 3.3 (7) (11) Financial income 4.1 34 79 Financial costs 4.1 (164) (191) Profit before tax 3,272 3,618 Tax (555) (597) Net profit 2,717 3,021 Proposed appropriation of net profit Dividend to shareholders 1,485 1,266 Revaluation reserve according to the equity method 2,434 952 Retained earnings (1,202) 803 4.3 2,717 3,021 Proposed dividend per share DKK 5.00 DKK 4.50 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Financial statements for Novozymes A/S 161 Balance sheet, Novozymes A/S Assets Liabilities and shareholders’ equity DKK million Note Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 DKK million Note Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2017 Intangible assets 3.1 2,446 1,709 Common stock 5.4 594 610 Treasury stock (4,163) (4,698) Property, plant and equipment 3.2 4,255 3,798 Revaluation reserve according to the equity method 1,050 92 Reserve for development costs 127 151 Investments in subsidiaries 3.3 8,163 7,321 Retained earnings 11,316 13,250 Investments in associates 3.3 42 49 Proposed dividend 1,438 1,216 Other long-term receivables 3.4 6 2 Shareholders’ equity 10,362 10,621 Other financial assets 10 Receivables from Group enterprises 3.3 350 1,411 Deferred tax 3.5 380 235 Financial fixed assets 8,561 8,793 Other provisions 9 8 Provisions 389 243 Fixed assets 15,262 14,300 Credit institutions 4.2 1,474 1,312 Raw materials and consumables 160 134 Non-current liabilities 1,474 1,312 Work in progress 478 486 Finished goods 816 830 Credit institutions 1,895 968 Inventories 1,454 1,450 Trade payables 749 670 Payables to Group enterprises 2,883 3,474 Trade receivables 920 900 Other payables 756 829 Receivables from Group enterprises 671 1,222 Current liabilities 6,283 5,941 Tax receivables 12 25 Other receivables 3.4 85 90 Liabilities 8,146 7,496 Receivables 1,688 2,237 Liabilities and shareholders’ equity 18,508 18,117 Cash at bank and in hand 104 130 Current assets 3,246 3,817 Assets 18,508 18,117 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Financial statements for Novozymes A/S 162 Statement of shareholders’ equity, Novozymes A/S Revaluation reserve Reserve for according to the development Retained Proposed DKK million Common stock Treasury stock equity method costs earnings dividend Total Shareholders’ equity at January 1, 2018 610 (4,698) 92 151 13,250 1,216 10,621 Net profit for the year 2,434 283 2,717 Capitalized development costs (24) 24 Dividend received (1,805) 1,805 Dividend paid (1,358) (1,358) Dividend paid relating to treasury stock 42 42 Proposed dividend, gross (1,485) 1,485 Proposed dividend relating to treasury stock 47 (47) Purchase of treasury stock (2,000) (2,000) Sale of treasury stock 172 172 Write-down of common stock (16) 2,363 (2,347) Currency translation adjustments of investments in subsidiaries, etc. 306 (49) 257 Value adjustment of derivatives (71) (71) Other adjustments 23 (141) 100 (18) Shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2018 B/S 594 (4,163) 1,050 127 11,316 1,438 10,362 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Financial statements for Novozymes A/S 163 NOTE SECTION 1 1 Accounting policies The financial statements of Novozymes A/S Assets are recognized in the balance sheet Financial assets Net revaluation of investments in subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with the when it is considered probable that future Investments in subsidiaries and investments and associates is recognized under Danish Financial Statements Act (accounting economic benefits will flow to the company in associates are recognized initially at cost Shareholders’ equity in the Revaluation reserve class D). The accounting policies are and the value of the asset can be measured and measured subsequently using the equity according to the equity method. The reserve unchanged from last year. on a reliable basis. Liabilities are recognized in method. The company’s share of the equity is reduced by payments of dividends to the the balance sheet when they are considered of subsidiaries, based on the fair value of parent company and adjusted to reflect other The accounting policies are the same as for probable and can be measured on a reliable the identifiable net assets on the acquisition changes in the equity of subsidiaries. the consolidated financial statements with the basis. When first recognized, assets and date, minus or plus unrealized intercompany adjustments described below. For a description liabilities are measured at cost. Assets and profits or losses, with addition of any residual The proportionate share of the net profits of the Group’s accounting policies, please refer liabilities are subsequently measured as value of goodwill, is recognized under of subsidiaries less goodwill amortization is to the consolidated financial statements. described below for each item. Investments in subsidiaries and Investments recognized under Income from investments in in associates respectively in the balance sheet. subsidiaries in the income statement. Goodwill No separate statement of cash flows has been The recognition and measurement principles If the shareholders’ equity of subsidiaries or in subsidiaries is amortized over a period of 10 prepared for Novozymes A/S; please refer to take due account of predictable losses and associates is negative and Novozymes A/S years using the straight-line method. the Consolidated statement of cash flows. risks occurring prior to the presentation of has a legal or constructive obligation to cover financial statements that confirm or refute the the company’s negative equity, a provision is Dividend Recognition and measurement in general conditions prevailing on the reporting date. recognized. The dividend proposed for the financial year is Income is recognized in the income statement shown as a separate item under Shareholders’ as it is earned. Intangible assets equity. The accounting policies for intangible fixed All costs incurred in generating the year’s assets follow those of the Group with the revenue are also recognized in the income exception of goodwill, which is amortized over statement, including depreciation, amortization a period of 10 years using the straight-line and impairment losses. method. Value adjustments of financial assets and An amount equal to the total capitalized liabilities measured at fair value or amortized development costs after tax is recognized cost are also recognized in the income under Shareholders’ equity in the Reserve for statement. development costs. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Financial statements for Novozymes A/S 164 NOTE SECTION 2 2.1 Revenue DKK million 2018 2017 Reference is made to Note 2.1 to the consolidated Geographical distribution: financial statements concerning segment Denmark 203 205 information. Rest of Europe, Middle East & Africa 5,039 4,939 North America 1,228 1,265 Asia Pacific 1,407 1,427 Latin America 395 437 Revenue I/S 8,272 8,273 2.2 Employee costs DKK million 2018 2017 Reference is made to Note 6.1 to the consolidated Wages and salaries 1,674 1,593 financial statements concerning remuneration of the Pensions defined contribution plans 180 175 Board of Directors and Executive Leadership Team. Other social security costs 21 21 Other employee costs 141 170 Employee costs 2,016 1,959 Average number of employees in Novozymes A/S 2,663 2,613 2.3 Other operating income DKK million 2018 2017 Royalty income relating to subsidiaries 1,422 1,490 Other 36 26 Other operating income I/S 1,458 1,516 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Financial statements for Novozymes A/S 165 NOTE SECTION 3 3.1 Intangible assets 2018 2017 Acquired patents, Completed IT IT development licenses and development projects in DKK million Goodwill know-how, etc. projects progress Total Total Cost at January 1 897 1,558 483 61 2,999 2,186 Additions during the year 942 130 14 23 1,109 863 Disposals during the year (50) Transfers to/(from) other items 26 (26) Cost at December 31 1,839 1,688 523 58 4,108 2,999 Amortization and impairment losses at January 1 (124) (816) (350) (1,290) (1,130) Amortization for the year (197) (107) (68) (372) (183) Impairment losses (27) Disposals during the year 50 Amortization and impairment losses at December 31 (321) (923) (418) (1,662) (1,290) Carrying amount at December 31 B/S 1,518 765 105 58 2,446 1,709 Impairment included in Cost of goods sold and Research In 2017, an impairment loss of DKK 27 million and development costs at DKK 15 million and on abandoned patents was recognized and DKK 12 million respectively. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Financial statements for Novozymes A/S 166 NOTE SECTION 3 3.2 Property, plant and equipment 2018 2017 Property, Production plant and Land and equipment and Other equipment under DKK million buildings machinery equipment construction Total Total Cost at January 1 2,490 4,581 888 1,042 9,001 8,272 Additions during the year 6 156 27 555 744 774 Disposals during the year (2) (63) (5) (70) (45) Transfers to/(from) other items 13 234 36 (283) Cost at December 31 2,507 4,908 946 1,314 9,675 9,001 Depreciation and impairment losses at January 1 (1,308) (3,233) (662) (5,203) (4,952) Depreciation for the year (81) (156) (46) (283) (294) Disposals during the year 1 62 3 66 43 Depreciation and impairment losses at December 31 (1,388) (3,327) (705) (5,420) (5,203) Carrying amount at December 31 B/S 1,119 1,581 241 1,314 4,255 3,798 Capitalized interest Land and buildings with a carrying amount of Interest of DKK 10 million (2017: DKK 6 DKK 355 million (2017: DKK 377 million) have million) has been capitalized under Additions been pledged as security to credit institutions. during the year above and under Investing The mortgage loan expires in 2029. activities in the Consolidated statement of cash flows. Capitalization rate: 1.40% (2017: 1.62%). Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Financial statements for Novozymes A/S 167 NOTE SECTION 3 3.3 Financial fixed assets Investments in Investments in Receivables from DKK million subsidiaries associates Group companies Total Cost at January 1, 2018 7,150 128 1,411 8,689 Additions during the year 1,500 188 1,688 Disposals during the year (1,249) (1,249) Cost at December 31, 2018 8,650 128 350 9,128 Revaluation reserve at January 1, 2018 171 (79) 92 Share of net profit/(loss) 1,685 (7) 1,678 Elimination of profit on internal asset transfers (867) (867) Dividends received (1,805) (1,805) Currency translation adjustment 306 306 Other adjustments 23 23 Revaluation reserve at December 31, 2018 (487) (86) (573) Carrying amount at December 31, 2018 B/S 8,163 42 350 8,555 As of December 31, 2018, DKK 1,623 million Reference is made to Note 6.8 to the elimination of profit on internal asset transfer consolidated financial statements concerning is included in the revaluation reserve. investments in subsidiaries, joint operations and associates. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Financial statements for Novozymes A/S 168 NOTE SECTION 3 3.4 Other receivables DKK million 2018 2017 Prepaid expenses 41 40 Derivatives 14 16 Other receivables 36 36 Other receivables at December 31 91 92 Recognized in the balance sheet as follows: Non-current B/S 6 2 Current B/S 85 90 Other receivables at December 31 91 92 3.5 Deferred tax DKK million 2018 2017 Deferred tax at January 1 235 367 Adjustment for previous years (12) (24) Tax related to the income statement 68 (9) Tax on shareholders’ equity items 89 (99) Deferred tax at December 31 B/S 380 235 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Financial statements for Novozymes A/S 169 NOTE SECTION 4 4.1 Financial income and costs DKK million 2018 2017 The financial asset relating to the not commercialized as expected in Beta partnership with Beta Renewables S.p.A. Renewables S.p.A. The write-down of DKK Interest income relating to subsidiaries 28 67 was fully written down in 2017. This 120 million, included in Financial costs, Interest costs relating to subsidiaries (18) (12) related to a guarantee provided by M&G was made because M&G was experiencing because cellulosic ethanol projects had financial difficulties. 4.2 Credit institutions DKK million 2018 2017 Long-term debt to credit institutions falling due after 5 years 473 428 4.3 Proposed appropriation of net profit DKK million 2018 2017 Proposed appropriation of net profit Dividend to shareholders 1,485 1,266 Revaluation reserve according to the equity method 2,434 952 Retained earnings (1,202) 803 Net profit 2,717 3,021 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Financial statements for Novozymes A/S 170 NOTE SECTION 5 5.1 Contingent liabilities and pending litigation Rental and leasing commitments related to noncancelable operating lease contracts expire within the following periods from the reporting date: DKK million 2018 2017 Recognized in the income statement in respect of rentals 60 56 Rental commitments expiring within the following periods from the reporting date: Less than 1 year 56 59 Between 1 and 2 years 30 19 Between 2 and 3 years 7 13 Between 3 and 4 years 5 5 Between 4 and 5 years 4 4 More than 5 years 5 7 Contingent liabilities at December 31 107 107 Other contingent liabilities Contractual obligations to third parties relating to property, plant and equipment 89 544 Other guarantees and commitments to related companies 2,311 2,140 Other guarantees and commitments to third parties 126 97 Pending litigation and arbitration Reference is made to Note 6.3 to the consolidated financial statements concerning pending cases. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Financial statements for Novozymes A/S 171 NOTE SECTION 5 5.2 Related party transactions Transactions Outstanding balances DKK million 2018 2017 DKK million 2018 2017 The Novo Nordisk Group The Novo Nordisk Group Sales 121 162 Receivables 9 13 Purchases (109) (131) Payables (76) (66) The NNIT Group The NNIT Group Purchases (32) (34) Payables (5) (4) The Chr. Hansen Group The Chr. Group Sales 76 33 Receivables 18 4 Purchases (26) Payables (3) Reference is made to Note 6.4 to the consolidated financial statements concerning transactions with related parties. 5.3 Fees to statutory auditor DKK million 2018 2017 Statutory audit 4 4 Other assurance engagements Tax advisory services 1 2 Other services 1 1 Fees to statutory auditor 6 7 Reference is made to Note 6.5 to the consolidated financial statements concerning fees to statutory auditor. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Financial statements for Novozymes A/S 172 NOTE SECTION 5 5.4 Common stock and treasury stock Reference is made to Note 5.5 to the consolidated financial statements concerning common stock and treasury stock. 5.5 Derivatives Reference is made to Note 5.4 to the derivatives, as the figures and information in consolidated financial statements concerning Novozymes A/S are identical. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Financial statements for Novozymes A/S 173 Glossary Acre Biofuels Earnings per share (diluted) Enzymes A measure of land area. In the US and the UK, Liquid fuels produced from primary crops or Net profit (attributable to shareholders in Proteins that act as catalysts, helping to one acre equals 4,840 square yards, which is biomass such as sugarcane, grains, agricultural Novozymes A/S) divided by the weighted convert one substance into another. 4,047 square meters. residues, algae and household waste. They are average number of shares outstanding typically used to replace gasoline and diesel in (diluted). Equity ratio Acrylamide transportation. Total shareholders’ equity as a percentage of A chemical compound that forms naturally EBIT balance sheet total at year-end. when starchy foods are processed at high Biomass Earnings before interest and tax. See Operating temperatures, such as when they are fried or Organic material, predominantly plants or profit. Feed conversion baked. A suspected health risk. plant residues. The way in which livestock is able to convert EBIT margin animal feed into the desired output, such as Age of Biology Biomass conversion Earnings before interest and tax as a meat and dairy. A Novozymes-backed initiative focusing A method for turning agricultural residues percentage of revenue. attention on biology and its power to shape and waste into high-quality fuels, electricity or Free cash flow before acquisitions our world. renewable chemicals. EBITDA Cash flow from operating activities minus Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and cash flow from investing activities, changes Asia Pacific Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) amortization. in net working capital, business acquisitions, Australia, Bangladesh, Cambodia, China, An independent not-for-profit organization that divestments and purchase of financial assets. Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Iran, Japan, manages the global disclosure platform for EBITDA margin Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Malaysia, companies, cities, states and regions to report Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Myanmar, Nepal, New Zealand, Pakistan, their environmental impact. amortization as a percentage of revenue. An international, multistakeholder body Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Sri Lanka, working on a standardized framework for Taiwan, Thailand, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Cellulosic ethanol Economic profit reporting environmental, social and economic Vietnam. Biofuel made from cellulosic materials, which Economic profit is defined as adjusted information. include agricultural residues such as corn cobs, operating profit (NOPAT) less (average invested Biodiversity stover and straw, forestry waste and municipal capital * WACC). HelloScience The variety of all living things: the different solid waste. An online open innovation network for plants, animals and microorganisms, the Effective tax rate entrepreneurs, researchers, NGOs and genetic information they contain, and the Clean label Income tax expense as a percentage of profit companies to find solutions to some of the ecosystems they form. A term for foods labeled in a way that before tax. world’s greatest challenges. emphasizes health and the absence of artificial Bioenergy ingredients and common allergens. EMEA Inoculant Comes in the form of liquid fuels, electricity, Europe, the Middle East & Africa. Inoculants are beneficial microorganisms that heat and steam, and is produced from primary Developed markets promote plant health. crops or biomass such as sugarcane, grains, Markets with a highly developed economy and Emerging markets agricultural residues, algae and household advanced technology infrastructure relative to Markets that are becoming more advanced, waste. less industrialized markets. usually by means of rapid growth and industrialization. Novozymes A/S 174 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (financial liabilities) less the market value of Renewable energy environment and anti-corruption. (IPCC) cash at bank and in hand and other easily Continuously replenished energy generated IPCC is the UN body for assessing the science convertible interest-bearing current assets. from natural processes. Sources include solar, UN Sustainable Energy for All (SE4ALL) related to climate change. wind and hydropower-based electricity and A UN initiative focused on SDG 7, the goal on Net interest-bearing debt-to-EBITDA (NIBD/ energy from biogas. universal energy access. Invested capital EBITDA) Total assets excluding interest-bearing assets Net interest-bearing debt divided by EBITDA. RenovaBio WBCSD and minority investments less interest-bearing The Brazilian national biofuel policy to support World Business Council for Sustainable liabilities. See “Invested capital” section. Net working capital the Brazilian government in cutting carbon Development. CEO-led organization of more All current assets less current liabilities used emissions. than 200 businesses and partners working on Learners reached in, or necessary for, the company’s operations. the transition to a sustainable world. A learner is a person who has been engaged The main components are inventories, trade Return on equity (ROE) ratio in a Novozymes Educate activity, for example receivables and trade payables. A profitability ratio that measures a Yeast a workshop or an educational activity that company’s ability to generate profits from its Single-celled microorganism, part of the fungus requires active participation from the learner. NOPAT shareholders’ investments in the company. kingdom. EBIT adjusted for exchange gain/losses, share Life cycle assessment (LCA) of profit in associates less tax on adjusted Return on invested capital (ROIC) An environmental assessment tool that operating profit using the effective tax rate. Adjusted operating profit (NOPAT) after tax as addresses environmental impacts from all See “Net operating profit after tax” section. a percentage of average invested capital. EBIT processes in the production of products, from is adjusted for net foreign exchange gains/ raw material extraction through production Operating profit (EBIT) losses and share of result in associates. and product use to final disposal. See EBIT. Starch Materiality Organic sales growth Long chains of sugar molecules. The main The materiality assessment process identifies Sales growth from existing business, excluding component of cereal grains such as corn, wheat topics that pose either risks or opportunities sales from business acquisitions and and rice. for Novozymes’ business strategy. Relevant divestments, measured in local currency. topics are those that may be considered Starch-based ethanol important for reflecting the organization’s P4G – Partnering for Green Growth and the Ethanol produced from starch, most often corn economic, environmental and social impacts, or Global Goals 2030 kernels. for influencing the decisions of stakeholders. An initiative with the ambition of becoming the world’s leading forum for developing public– Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Microbes private partnerships to deliver on the SDGs The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Microscopic, living, single-celled organisms and the Paris Climate Agreement. are an intergovernmental set of 17 aspirational such as bacteria and fungi. goals with 169 targets. The goals were officially Product stewardship implemented on September 25, 2015. Microorganisms The practice of designing and managing Microscopic, living, single-celled organisms products to minimize adverse environmental, UN Global Compact such as bacteria and fungi. health and safety impacts across the product An international UN initiative working to bring life cycle. businesses together with UN agencies, labor Net interest-bearing debt (NIBD) and civil society to support 10 principles in the The market value of interest-bearing liabilities areas of human rights, labor standards, the Novozymes A/S 175 About the report At Novozymes, our reporting ambition is to provide one integrated report linking the company’s business model, strategy, targets and performance through integrated financial and sustainability data. The Novozymes Report 2018 is available in Photography Our business, Governance, and Sustainability. Forward-looking statements are by their very the form of a full online version at report2018. Lars Just, Thorbjørn Hansen and Ty Stange The Sustainability section includes our nature associated with risks and uncertainties novozymes.com. The online report features Communication on Progress made with respect that may cause actual results to differ interactive graphics and videos for an even Design & web to the UN Global Compact principles, our materially from expectations, both positively better experience and greater insight. BystedFFW A/S report index based on the Global Reporting and negatively. These risks and uncertainties Initiative (GRI) as well as detailed sustainability may include unexpected developments in i) the Editorial team Editing & proofreading data regarding our main activities in Argentina, ability to develop and market new products; ii) Borella projects Brazil, Canada, China, Denmark, India and the the demand for Novozymes’ products, marketEditor-in-Chief US. driven price decreases, industry consolidation, Anja Berg Winther, Global Communications Reporting and audits and launches of competing products or abw@novozymes.com | tel. +45 3077 0421 The website contains The Novozymes Report The report has been prepared in accordance disruptive technologies in Novozymes’ core 2018, which, pursuant to section 149 of with the International Financial Reporting areas; iii) the ability to protect and enforce Communications the Danish Financial Statements Act, is an Standards (IFRS), the Danish Financial the company’s intellectual property rights; iv) Ann Lauritzen Steel, Global Communications extract of the company’s annual report. It also Statements Act and the additional significant litigation or breaches of contract; alas@novozymes.com | tel. +45 3077 2027 contains the financial statements of the parent requirements of Nasdaq Copenhagen A/S v) the materialization of the company’s company Novozymes A/S. Together, these for the presentation of financial statements growth platforms, notably the opportunity for Finance constitute the company’s annual report that is by listed companies. It is also inspired by the marketing biomass conversion technologies Jens Breitenstein, Finance filed with the Danish Business Authority. GRI’s G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. or the development of microbial solutions jib@novozymes.com | tel. +45 3077 1087 See Basis of reporting in the report for more for broad-acre crops; vi) political conditions, PwC has audited the consolidated financial details. such as acceptance of enzymes produced by Investor Relations statements, the parent company financial genetically modified organisms; vii) global Carl Ahlgren, Investor Relations statements, and the environmental and social Forward-looking statements economic and capital market conditions, cxal@novozymes.com | tel. +45 3077 2783 data. PwC is also the sustainability assurance This annual report contains forward-looking including, but not limited to, currency exchange provider, basing its assurance on the AA1000 statements, including statements about future rates (USD/DKK and EUR/DKK in particular, Sustainability Assurance Standard (2008). events, future financial performance, plans, but not exclusively), interest rates and inflation; Santosh Govindaraju, Corporate Sustainability strategies and expectations. Forward-looking and viii) significant price decreases for inputs govs@novozymes.com | tel. +45 3077 2563 The audit covers the financial, environmental statements are associated with words such and materials that compete with Novozymes’ and social data. These are marked “Audited by as, but not limited to, “believe,” “anticipate,” biological solutions. The company undertakes Text PwC.” See also the statements in the report. “expect,” “estimate,” “intend,” “plan,” “project,” no duty to update any forward-looking The editorial team from Novozymes, headed by “could,” “may,” “might” and other words with a statements as a result of future developments Global Communications PwC has not audited the sections of the similar meaning. or new information. report under the headings The big picture, Novozymes A/S 176 r l o re ou rt Exp e repo n onli here © Novozymes A/S, Krogshoejvej 36 report2018.novozymes.com 2880 Bagsvaerd, Denmark
