Securing Your World Connected World, Integrated Security Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 CSR Extract The world is increasingly connected and this trend is set to continue, driven by the global investment in infrastructure, communications, technology and data. At G4S we are investing in the resources and capabilities to provide customers with industry-leading solutions that enable them to operate securely, reliably and efficiently in a connected world. G4S takes a fully integrated approach to its strategy and Corporate Social Responsibility. This is reflected in its 2018 Integrated Report and Accounts, from which this document has been extracted, setting out our CSR approach and impact on society. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) call upon businesses to advance sustainable development through the investments they make, the solutions they develop and the practices they adopt. In this report, we have mapped case studies against the SDGs to highlight examples where G4S is helping to advance the Goals through our programmes and operations. For more information about the social and economic areas where G4S supports the realisation of the Goals and makes a positive difference to society and communities around the world, see page 19 of this extract. CEO INTRODUCTION ASHLEY ALMANZA, Group Chief Executive Officer “I am proud of the important role that G4S has in helping to advance the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, in particular, our support of Goal 8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth) and Goal 16 (Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions). Together with our continued commitment to the core principles of the United Nations Global Compact, these goals are reflected in many of our values, policies and business activities.” Our values in action – Department of Work & Pensions, UK In April 2018, G4S commenced the integrated security contract for over 790 properties in the UK, including job centres, for the Department of Work & Pensions (DWP). The contract will run for an initial period of five years, with the potential for a two year extension thereafter. The DWP’s objective was to procure a security service supportive of their transformation programme which aims to reduce costs, whilst maintaining safety of the users of its properties. We will be modernising the way security is provided using an Effects-Based Methodology Security Threat Risk Assessment which has been aligned with the Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure best practice. Essentially we are looking to minimise threats by reducing and better managing anxiety of members of the public at DWP sites, reducing the likelihood of incidents occurring. The contract, one of the largest integrated security contracts to be awarded in the UK, will combine G4S’s security technology with professionally trained G4S security officers across the DWP estate, providing an innovative and cost effective solution to meet the customer’s needs. This is consistent with our values of Security, Service Excellence, Innovation and Teamwork. SDGs: CSR extract G4S plc 1 G4S OVERVIEW INTEGRATED SOLUTIONS FOR A CONNECTED WORLD Who we are What we do Our values G4S is the world’s leading global, integrated G4S plays a valuable and important role Our people and values underpin everything security company. We offer a broad range in society. As a major global employer we do. of security services delivered on a single, we make a difference by helping people multi-service or integrated basis across to live and work in safe and secure six continents. We have been investing environments. G4S takes a fully integrated in technology, software and systems. approach to its strategy and Corporate The Group’s technology-related security Social Responsibility (CSR). See page 18 for revenues were £2.8 billion* in 2018 more information on our CSR approach (2017: £2.45 billion). and impact on society. Countries of operation using G4S technology Other countries of operation OUR GLOBAL FOOTPRINT With 546,000 people, G4S is one of the world’s largest private sector employers. 90+ Our employees touch the lives of others every day, providing crucial services to keep them safe and secure. Our success is underpinned by the COUNTRIES way we lead and engage with our people. * Revenues from manned security contracts enhanced through G4S software, hardware and security systems. 2 G4S plc CSR extract OUR BUSINESS SECURE SOLUTIONS CASH SOLUTIONS 85%* 78% SECURITY SOLUTIONS incorporating risk consulting, 15%* CASH TECHNOLOGY services comprising of: on-site, mobile and remote security, technology-enabled ■■ Cash technology focused on the efficient management of cash monitoring and response, software and systems and integrated including Retail Cash Solutions, the leading software and service security solutions combining some or all of these services solution for large retail formats in North America. ■■ Deposita, Cash360 and G4S Pay solutions for medium and small 7% CARE & JUSTICE SERVICES including custody detention, retail formats. education, rehabilitation and transportation. ■■ Bank process automation. G4S operates an integrated security business in more than CONVENTIONAL CASH services – cash in transit (CIT), cash 90 countries across the globe. The global security market has processing and automated teller machine (ATM) services. structural growth qualities (see page 10 of the Integrated report and account for a description of the growth drivers) and is G4S Cash Solutions is one of a small number of large, global highly fragmented; there are few international suppliers and our cash businesses and is the market leader or number two competitors are typically smaller local and regional companies. in most of its 44 markets. Each market is highly regulated, often by central banks, and the business requires significant The security industry is seeing growing demand for technologyinfrastructure and expertise. G4S competes with local, national enabled and integrated security solutions (which combine and a small number of international competitors. Cash volumes people and technology) to deliver cost-effective security. in most developed markets are flat or gradually declining at an We have the market positions, products and services to aggregate market level and are growing in emerging markets. capitalise on these trends. At the end of 2018, G4S announced that the board was looking The Group's Care & Justice services businesses are concentrated at separation options for the cash businesses from the rest of the in the UK and Australia where we have built significant Group (see page 2 of the Integrated report and account). knowledge and expertise. Cash Solutions strategy: Secure Solutions strategy: Safe and secure operations for our people and valuables To create more secure and efficient security solutions in our cash businesses in 44 countries for customers: Continuously improve the efficiency of our conventional We aim to differentiate our services by emphasising cash business network of vehicles, vaults and cash our global expertise as an integrated security provider centres serving banks and retailers to encourage them across more than 90 countries, in six continents to outsource more of their cash management activities around the world and grow our market share Through continuous improvement we aim to operate Drive growth through the expansion of our Cash efficient and effective businesses with a positive Technology activities which offer tremendous value to culture and embedded values underpinned by a all retail and banking partners through lower costs and strong safety culture increased ease in handling cash. These services have low penetration and strong growth potential in both existing * % of Group underlying revenues. markets such as the United States and new markets CSR extract G4S plc 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THE CSR COMMITTEE This is my first report, having joined the board in June 2018 and taking over as chair of the CSR Committee from my predecessor Clare Spottiswoode. I would like to thank Clare, for her dedication and focus on ensuring the integration of CSR as part of the Group’s overall strategy during her tenure. A lot of good work has been done, but there remains scope to embed CSR further throughout the organisation and I am committed to ensuring that we continue to take a holistic and integrated approach in this regard. There are few businesses in the world which have as wide a geographic footprint, scale and diversity of workforce as G4S, with service offerings touching the lives of millions of people. Of crucial importance to me and to our Group is our continued drive to improve health and safety, and ELISABETH FLEURIOT, during 2019 our committee will continue to support our goal CSR Committee Chair of zero harm. We operate in countries where the political and social environment is challenging, so we need to make sure we Committee membership during 2018 operate in line with our corporate culture and values to ensure Member since the integrity of our organisation, the safety of our employees and ​ Clare Spottiswoode (Chair)1 January 2012 Elisabeth Fleuriot (Chair)2 June 2018 those in our care and, the sustainability of our business. Winnie Kin Wah Fok January 2012 Responsibilities John Ramsay January 2018 The Group takes a holistic approach to corporate Paul Spence January 2013 and social responsibility and is mindful of our societal 1. Clare Spottiswoode retired as a director on 15 May 2018. impact. Our 546,000 employees deliver services in 2. Elisabeth Fleuriot joined the board and was appointed chair of the complex and challenging environments and contribute CSR Committee on 18 June 2018. to creating a safer and more connected society in Other regular attendees include the Regional President for the Africa which millions of people live and work. The CSR region, the Group Corporate Affairs Director and the Group HR Committee was established in 2011 to review and Director. There were four scheduled meetings and two additional meetings monitor the Group’s CSR approach, which includes during 2018. Members’ attendance at committee meetings is shown developing policies on various CSR-related matters on page 81 of the integrated report and accounts. for consideration by the board and to review and monitor how the Group performs against relevant Main activities of the CSR policies. It oversees reporting on CSR matters and Committee during the year (%) progress made during the year. Over the last seven years, this holistic and integrated approach to CSR has been promoted successfully throughout the Group and during the course of 2018, the committee reviewed and considered amending its terms of reference accordingly. However, in light of the New Code, which came into force in early 2019, it was agreed that amending the terms of reference would be deferred to 2019. Further details of the committee’s responsibilities can be found in the committee’s terms of reference which are available at g4s.com/investors. Current issues 45% Health and safety 25% CSR reporting 15% Values/culture ethics/whistleblowing 15% Link to strategic priorities 4 G4S plc CSR extract Health and safety The review was led by Kate Lampard CBE, a former The safety of our employees and those in our care barrister and vice chair of the South of England is of paramount importance. As part of its normal Strategic Health Authority and of the Financial cycle of work, the committee received regular health Ombudsman Services Limited. The CSR Committee and safety reports, including updates on on‑going met with Kate Lampard on three occasions to discuss initiatives, details of future plans and summaries progress, findings and recommendations. Members of of incidents. The committee monitored the global the committee also visited Brook House and met with programmes raising awareness across the spectrum detainees, detainee custody officers and team leaders of health and safety risks as well as those focused on as well as the senior management team. While at addressing and eliminating specific recurring incidents. Brook House, the committee was provided with an In addition, particular focus was given to health and update on the action plan and initiatives to capture safety challenges faced in custodial facilities and a and share best practice across other similar facilities. In presentation on these aspects was received. December 2018, G4S published the full report from Verita, as well as the action plan and progress to date. The CSR Committee supports the Group’s goal of The CSR Committee continues to receive regular zero harm. However sadly, in 2018, 24 employees updates about the operational improvement plans lost their lives in work related incidents. There has implemented following the allegations and the findings been a clear reduction in road traffic related deaths and recommendations of the Verita investigation. as a result of improved vehicle management and training. In addition, following the embedding of High HMP Birmingham Potential Incident reporting across the Group, there is Following a major disturbance at HMP Birmingham in improved visibility of incidents and compliance issues December 2016, the inner city remand prison faced and efforts are continuing to ensure consistency in numerous challenges in returning to normal operation reporting such incidents. as a result of issues including drug usage by prisoners and increasingly high levels of violence towards Specific issues staff and fellow prisoners. The CSR Committee was appraised of measures being taken following Brook House the incidents of 2016 to ensure the prison was fully During 2018, the CSR Committee received regular operational, bearing in mind that the nature, age, updates relating to Brook House Immigration condition and location of HMP Birmingham made it a Removal Centre following allegations regarding the particularly challenging environment. conduct and behaviour of a number of staff at the facility, which had come to light in late August 2017. In August 2018, G4S agreed with the UK Ministry of As part of these update sessions, the committee Justice (MoJ) that Her Majesty’s Prison and Probation provided oversight and challenge to the management Service (HMPPS) would step-in and take over the team responsible for this part of the business. management of the prison by appointing a Governor and providing additional resources. This status remains In parallel and as previously reported, the CSR in place at the time of this report. Committee commissioned Verita, a specialist consultancy, to carry out an independent review The CSR Committee led an internal review to assess to understand the extent and root causes of the the factors which led to the situation at the prison issues which had arisen at Brook House. The review and ultimately to the step-in by HMPPS and identify examined G4S’ management, operational and staffing any lessons that could be learnt and shared across arrangements and the practices and behaviour of the broader G4S custodial estate. The committee G4S’ staff. It also assessed how G4S oversees the will continue to monitor the actions arising from care and welfare of detainees, including mental health the review. issues, self-harm, violence prevention, use of force and proper reporting of incidents. CSR extract G4S plc 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Culture and values Committee performance Mindful that our values are integral to everything we The assessment of the committee’s performance, do, the CSR Committee oversees the culture and conducted as part of the overall board review process values programme which is focused on embedding with assistance from Lintstock, concluded that the our values across the Group, to ensure that our committee continued to provide challenge and good culture and values are consistently reflected in oversight over the Group’s CSR strategy and the behaviours and actions in all parts of the business. implementation of the global whistleblowing and Values training is provided to new employees as part case management system. This had resulted in the of the induction process and also to existing managers committee receiving a good level of information on and front‑line staff. whistleblowing cases and trends. During the year, the committee reviewed the In addition to the positive enhancements to enhanced communication to all employees in respect whistleblowing systems and processes, the committee of the whistleblowing facility, Speak Out, intended believes there are further opportunities for the Group to create a culture in which people feel confident to in identifying and understanding the early warning report and raise ethical concerns. Data relating to signs of potential issues within the business and in whistleblowing trends and the usage of Speak Out sharing best practice and learnings from incidents to is presented to the committee at each meeting and prevent them recurring. the committee supports the initiative to promote and In 2019, in light of progress made since its creation in encourage the use of Speak Out. 2011 and the New Code, the committee will review In addition, the committee has been keen to gain the scope of its remit and activities and reflect any a better understanding of challenges faced by the changes in its terms of reference. Group in some geographies to ensure our culture The committee will also continue to support and values are consistently applied. Reports on the communication of the Group’s values and current situations and limitations in certain territories whistleblowing arrangements to enhance the where the Group operates were discussed, with the environment for G4S employees and the people committee seeking to provide constructive challenge in our care and to support the various initiatives to and support to management initiatives to enhance achieve our goal of zero harm. the application of our culture and values in these geographies. Integrated CSR reporting In 2017, G4S set out to produce its first fully integrated annual report and accounts. Business leaders and governing bodies continue to promote integrated thinking and management in business practice and reporting. G4S has embraced this forward‑thinking approach to highlight the Group’s integrated and holistic approach to corporate social responsibility. In light of the success of the 2017 integrated annual report, which was highly commended for most effective integration of ESG at the UK IR Society awards and at the 2018 PwC Building Public Trust awards, the committee agreed that the fully integrated reporting approach will continue as best practice. 6 G4S plc CSR extract OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The board oversees the Group’s NOMINATION COMMITTEE governance framework, reviews and approves the strategy, Role and responsibilities monitors management’s ■■ Review board composition performance against agreed ■■ Lead the process for new board and committee appointments targets and ensures appropriate controls are in place and ■■ Review board succession planning processes operating effectively. See page 90 of the integrated report and accounts The board ensures leadership through effective oversight and review. Executive decisions, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE and development and implementation of strategy are Role and responsibilities delegated to management. ■■ Review and approve the company’s CSR strategy or recommend The board fulfils a number of policies to ensure CSR remains an integral part of the Group’s its responsibilities directly (see strategy the list of matters reserved ■■ Monitor compliance with CSR policies throughout the Group to the board on page 79 of and the integration of CSR processes within the Group’s risk the integrated report and management and approval processes accounts) and others through its committees. See page 93 of the integrated report and accounts BOARD RISK COMMITTEE Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities ■■ Review and approve the ■■ Advise the board on the Group’s overall risk appetite and company’s strategy tolerance ■■ Monitor management’s ■■ Oversee the company’s risk management framework and review performance against agreed its effectiveness targets ■■ Review major contracts and projects ■■ Review, approve and GROUP RISK See page 96 of the integrated report and accounts promote the company’s AND values and standards INTERNAL ■■ Review its own performance AUDIT on a yearly basis AUDIT COMMITTEE FUNCTION Role and responsibilities ■■ Oversee the financial reporting process and ensure the integrity of the company’s financial statements ■■ Monitor internal audit ■■ Approve external audit scope and fee, review and monitor CHIEF EXECUTIVE external auditor’s independence OFFICER See page 98 of the integrated report and accounts REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Role and responsibilities ■■ Approve remuneration of chairman of the board, the executive GROUP EXECUTIVE directors, other members of the executive committee and the COMMITTEE company secretary of the board ■■ Monitor level and structure of remuneration of other senior management of the Group See page 105 of the integrated report and accounts CSR extract G4S plc 7 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT ENGAGING TO DELIVER VALUE Our key stakeholders are those who most materially impact our strategy, or are directly impacted by it. Engagement with stakeholders is essential for G4S, given our role in society, the global nature of our business and our substantial workforce. KEY STAKEHOLDERS HOW WE ENGAGE SOCIETY ■■ Operations which promote secure and stable communities Our employees touch the lives ■■ CSR Materiality Review with key stakeholders (see pages 36 and 85) of others every day, providing ■■ Community engagement programmes crucial services to help keep ■■ Substantial tax and economic contributions society safe and secure. ■■ Government relationships and parliamentary engagement ■■ NGO and UN agency engagement ■■ Industry forums CUSTOMERS ■■ Consultative approach to selling and bidding for contracts Through understanding our ■■ Proactive relationship management customers’ needs we offer value ■■ Bidding processes added, innovative, cost effective ■■ Customer service security solutions and build enduring relationships. ■■ Net promoter score SHAREHOLDERS ■■ One-on-one meetings between management and shareholders The company actively seeks to ■■ Group investor meetings hosted by management engage with shareholders on a ■■ Results announcements and trading updates regular basis. ■■ Participation in investor relations association and best practice events ■■ Annual governance meetings with the Chairman and ad-hoc meetings ■■ CSR updates with the Chair of the CSR committee ■■ Annual General Meeting EMPLOYEES ■■ HR core standards set the framework for employee engagement With 546,000 colleagues, G4S is ■■ Onboarding, induction and refresher training one of the world’s largest private ■■ Local and global meetings sector employers. Our success is ■■ Biennial global all-employee and senior management engagement surveys underpinned by the way we lead and engage with our people. ■■ Trade unions, works councils and employee representative forums ■■ Newsletters, videos, employee self-service portals, and intranets ■■ Specific campaigns on health & safety, our values and Speak Out whistleblowing arrangements ■■ Values recognition schemes SUPPLIERS ■■ We purchase goods and services from more than 40,000 suppliers We have a responsible ■■ Contract and relationship management purchasing policy consistent with ■■ Supplier Code of Conduct our business ethics. ■■ Purchase to Pay process 8 G4S plc CSR extract Understanding stakeholders’ interests helps us define our strategic priorities and guide our initiatives and remuneration policies. We run a formal exercise every two years to identify our material CSR priorities (see pages 18 and 20). KEY AREAS OF INTEREST OUR RESPONSE AND KPIS LINKS TO STRATEGY ■■ People and Values ■■ Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement Strategy ■■ Ethical and sustainable ■■ UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress business practice including: ■■ Global employee engagement survey (see page 15) People and Values ■■ Health & safety ■■ Values awareness and training programmes Customers and service excellence ■■ Human rights ■■ Engagement with Parliamentary committees ■■ Anti-bribery ■■ Industry forums including: International Security Ligue, British Technology and innovation & corruption Security Industry Association, Confederation of British Industry Operational excellence and ■■ Employee standards ■■ MP engagement and site visits, especially to custodial detention productivity and behaviour facilities Financial and commercial discipline ■■ Quality and price ■■ 1.1% underlying revenue growth in 2018 Remuneration Policy Annual bonus scheme – financial of service delivery ■■ Almost 49,000 customers surveyed using net promoter score in performance measures and personal/ ■■ Expertise innovation 2018, with positive results in all markets (2017: 24,000) non-financial measures (see page 109 of the integrated report and ■■ Health & safety ■■ Feedback from unsuccessful contract bids accounts) ■■ Business ethics Long term incentive plan – based on EPS, operating cash flow and total shareholder returns (see page 109 of the integrated report and accounts) ■■ Financial performance ■■ CEO and CFO met with shareholders representing ■■ Strategic direction and over 67% of the share register and 163 institutions (see page 86 for more information of the integrated report and accounts) CSR Policies coherence ■■ Governance and ■■ 1.1% underlying revenue growth in 2018 Please see page 23 risk management ■■ £474 million underlying Adjusted PBITA in 2018 ■■ £453 million underlying operating cash flow in 2018 ■■ Dividend of 9.70p per share in 2018 ■■ Company performance ■■ Implemented action plans based on responses from and plans 428,000 employees who competed the ■■ Compensation and global engagement survey in 2017 benefits ■■ Increase in overall favourable responses ■■ Training and career from 82% (2015) to 84% (2017) development ■■ Feedback from consultation committees and works councils ■■ Health & safety ■■ Nominations for employee recognition awards ■■ Human rights ■■ Reduction in staff turnover from 25.3% in 2017 to 24.7% in 2018 ■■ Values, CSR ■■ Fatalities due to road traffic and workplace incidents down and recognition around 67% since 2013 ■■ Supplier performance ■■ Rationalised suppliers – service delivery and ■■ Commitment to the UK Prompt Payment Code product quality ■■ Member of the UK Government Contract Finder portal to ■■ Payment terms promote use of SME businesses ■■ SME engagement CSR extract G4S plc 9 OUR STRATEGY Our strategy addresses the long‑term positive demand for security and related services STRATEGIC AND and our enduring strategic aim is to demonstrate the values and performance that makes PERFORMANCE G4S the company of choice for customers employees and shareholders. OVERVIEW This section summarises our strategic priorities and how we focus our resources and expertise in areas where we can achieve the best results for customers and sustainable growth and return for investors. Our CSR approach covers a PEOPLE AND VALUES CUSTOMER FOCUS AND SERVICE broad range of areas but we EXCELLENCE have three material priorities: health and safety, human rights We recruit, develop and deploy the best We build long-term customer and anti-bribery and corruption people in the industry relationships based upon trust and which are covered in detail on understanding of customers’ businesses page 18. and objectives Strategic priorities ■■ Embed the right culture; promote our ■■ Positive demand for security services G4S values and sustain strong employee driving revenue growth of 4-6% p.a. in Underpinned by corporate culture identification with those values the medium term based on Group Values and ■■ Embed health and safety behaviours ■■ Investment in risk consulting expertise commitment to corporate social to lead initial customer engagement responsibility. ■■ Talent acquisition, development and succession planning and develop excellent service and solution design ■■ Engage to ensure best performance ■■ Investment in technical and project ■■ Incentivise and recognise success management capability ■■ Investment in sales, marketing, account management teams, SalesForce CRM, embed G4S way of selling and contract retention programmes Key risks ■■ Our trained and skilled people are hired ■■ Failure to understand customers’ by competitors or other companies or changing needs or falling short of See Principal risks do not behave in line with the Group’s customer expectations pages 64 to 71 of the integrated values, resulting in adverse impact on report and accounts. customer service or those in our care ■■ Negative impacts on our employees’ health and safety KPI See page 34 of the integrated report and accounts for more detail and the 67% Reduction in road traffic fatalities £1.4bn Annual contract value of new business won progress in the Group’s financial and since 2013 in 2018 (2017: £1.4bn) non-financial KPIs and how they link to the Group’s strategic priorities. COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE SOCIAL OUR CORPORATE CULTURE BASED ON GROUP VALUES AND… 10 G4S plc CSR extract TECHNOLOGY AND OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE FINANCIAL AND COMMERCIAL INNOVATION AND COST LEADERSHIP DISCIPLINE We design, market and deliver innovative, We have safe, secure, reliable and We manage risk effectively and industry-leading technology and services efficient operations ensure we provide profitable, cash that protect and add value for our generative services customers wherever they operate ■■ We continue to invest in the resources, ■■ Deliver £70-£80m annual operational ■■ Improved risk management, including skills and capabilities to develop and cost savings programme by 2020 contract risk management deliver technology-enabled security and ■■ Operational excellence and efficiency: ■■ Established and embedded rigorous cash management solutions: implement lean, automated processes capital investment appraisal processes ■■ Secure Solutions – expand and upgrade ■■ Continue to improve health & safety ■■ Portfolio programme technology-integration capability awareness and performance ■■ Driving improved cash flow ■■ Cash Solutions – leading bank and retail ■■ Capital allocation cash technology ■■ Failure to market or deliver our services ■■ Failure to comply with our standards ■■ Inefficient capital management and and technology effectively or failure to results in harm, loss of expertise or failure to comply with Group risk deliver adequate value for money investment fails to deliver benefit management standards 45% Of security revenues were 30bp Improvement in Secure Solutions Adjusted £20m Reduction in annual finance costs through technology enabled in 2018 (2017: 42%) PBITA margin in 2018 compared with refinancing achieved 2017 RESPONSIBILITY UNDERPINS THE STRATEGY CSR extract G4S plc 11 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED PEOPLE AND VALUES With 546,000 colleagues, G4S is one of the world’s largest private sector employers. Our employees and services Acquire – attracting and recruiting the best people touch the lives of others every day, With a tightening labour market in some countries providing crucial services to keep them we face cyclical challenges attracting and retaining safe and secure. Our success is therefore employees who may have other employment options. Whilst the interesting and varied nature of the work underpinned by the way we attract, we offer enables us to retain our core employee develop and engage with our people, as base (73% of our employees have more than a year’s well as the culture and values that shape service), we have also streamlined our recruitment the way we work and how our colleagues processes to speed up the time taken to process new carry out their roles. employee applications. A strong brand and reputation as a fair employer also differentiate us in a competitive market place. Over a number of years we have focused on improving retention which has meant our labour turnover continues to reduce, even in tight Organise – creating the right organisation labour markets such as in parts of Europe, where our and culture turnover rates are now below 20%. Overall we saw a Our values are core to shaping the culture of our further reduction in labour turnover for the Group at organisation, helping to guide, unite, differentiate and 24.7%, down from 25.3% in 2017. sustain us. They are integral to everything we do. In 2017 we launched scenario-based values training materials for our front‑line employees including flashcards, presentations and online training modules. Together with online management training launched Protect – putting safety first – CSR priority area in 2018, these materials are now being widely used The safety of our employees and those in our care and form part of our employee’s experience from is our first priority. Our goal is zero harm. This focus recruitment and induction, through to training and enables us to secure our customers’ worlds and appraisal. We are continuing to update our induction the communities we serve. It is our responsibility and training materials and to find innovative ways to ensure that our colleagues return home from to share and embed them so that, regardless of work safely every day and we believe that setting where they work and what they do, our employees the highest standards for health and safety across understand the behaviours that are expected of them our industry builds loyalty and commitment to G4S in line with our values. among our employees. PERFORMANCE THROUGH PEOPLE Globally we align our HR strategy to six key work streams which focus on the activities integral to driving sustainable business performance: Protect Develop Do we put the Do our safety of our employees have employees and the capability those in our care to deliver? Acquire first? Engage Do we have Are our employees the right people committed to doing a in the right places? good job? Organise Are we organised PERFORMANCE Reward as efficiently and THROUGH Do our incentives effectively as PEOPLE support sustainable possible? performance? 12 G4S plc CSR extract OUR VALUES IN ACTION – INVISIBLE WALLS WALES G4S CUSTODIAL & DETENTION: UK An innovative programme developed by G4S and Barnardo’s Cymru aims to reduce the number of prisoners reoffending, cut the risk of intergenerational offending and improve the quality of life and community inclusion for families. Recognising that connections to family are an important element in the successful rehabilitation of offenders, the programme, initially developed and implemented at HM Prison Parc in South Wales, works with the families of prisoners who are experiencing difficulties. Each prisoner taking part in the programme is allocated a mentor, who also works together with the prisoner’s family, children, partners and parents, to help sustain and rebuild connections. The family will receive tailored support for up to a year prior to the prisoner’s release, and then for another six months following release. During its first five years, Invisible Walls Wales has helped to: 1. Reduce unemployment rates for prisoners from 80% to 25% and for their family members reduced unemployment rates from 69% to 46%. 2. Increase prisoners’ engagement in education, training, or volunteering from 0% to 10% and for their family members, from 2% to 14%. 3. Decrease the number of prisoners’ children experiencing attainment or attendance issues at school from 43% to 12%. 4. Halve the number of prisoners’ children considered by social services to be “at risk”, from 16% to 7%. 5. Reduce the number of prisoners that were misusing alcohol and/or drugs from 89% to 20%, and for their family members reduce the number from 15% to 5%. The success of the programme has led to the model being replicated in other prisons across the UK and overseas. Further information is available at g4s.com/invisiblewalls SDGs: CSR extract G4S plc 13 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED Having put the necessary processes in place over recent years, we have now seen a very significant reduction in the number of serious incidents. Develop – building a capable workforce Compliance is monitored through audits and reviews of risk and performance at regional, group and board As the skills we need in our global business constantly level, via the CSR committee, and further details of change in anticipation of market dynamics and new these assurance processes can be found on page 67. technology, ensuring we have capable and confident people is vital. In 2018, we extended the scope During 2018, 24 of our colleagues sadly lost their lives of our talent review process, enabling us to reach in work related accidents, including five colleagues further into the organisation and identify employees who died in a terror attack in Afghanistan. This with the potential to become future leaders earlier in loss is not acceptable and our thoughts are with their careers. their families. This is nevertheless a reduction from 25 fatalities in 2017 and solidifies the step change Our leadership programme continues to offer global we saw that year when the number of fatalities development for high potential employees and this halved compared with our longer‑term experience. year the number of employees participating in the We continue to make progress in road safety and programme doubled. In 2019, we plan to undertake a road traffic fatalities have decreased by 67% since review of the programme and benchmark it externally 2013 when we first launched the improvement to ensure it remains cutting edge and focused on our programme. business strategy. Mitigating the levels of violence associated with Whilst developing high performers will always be a attacks on our Cash Solutions business remains business imperative, we want to offer all employees a significant priority. Initiatives taken by G4S and the opportunity to increase their skills and knowledge other operators in South Africa, working with law at work. We encourage employees to take enforcement agencies, began to have a positive responsibility for their own learning on an on-going impact in the second half of 2018 and this remains a basis using the extensive range of materials available, priority for 2019. and using technology platforms to share training and learning paths more effectively. For example, during a We continue to reduce our injury rate. During 2018 16 week on-line development programme concluded the Group Lost Time Injury incidence rate was 6.6 in 2018, over 41,000 employees completed learning per 1,000 employees, compared with a rate of 6.7 modules with very positive feedback. For our frontin 2017. The change is due to improvements in the line operational staff, continued development is no Care & Justice Services business, partially offset by the less important, and our use of on-line training is being number of injuries sustained during attacks in Global extended where possible as it enables businesses to Cash Solutions. reach wider audiences efficiently and give employees There were nine non-natural deaths in G4S custody access to learning at times to suit them. in 2018. All deaths in custody are investigated by the Each year, we also introduce specific learning relevant authorities to determine the cause of death. materials to support business needs or to meet new Five of these deaths in 2018 were due to self harm, customer and legislative requirements. This year three were related to substance abuse and one was was no exception with further health and safety a homicide. The relevant coroner pronounced that training produced in pursuit of our goal of zero harm a death that occurred in 2017 and was previously and an array of materials developed to support disclosed as non-natural, was actually due to the introduction of the General Data Protection natural causes. Regulations (GDPR), ensuring everyone understands their role and responsibilities in safeguarding data. Employees by region 2018 Employee gender diversity in 2018 % 100 70 83 85 80 60 40 20 30 Secure Solutions 17 15 Africa 21% 0 Americas 21% Board Senior Total Asia 32% Female Europe 20% Male employees management Cash Solutions Cash Solutions 6% 14 G4S plc CSR extract OUR VALUES IN ACTION – SECURING HEALTHCARE IN FRAGILE STATES G4S RISK MANAGEMENT: AFGHANISTAN, IRAQ, SIERRA LEONE, SOUTH SUDAN Delivering medical care in fragile and conflict affected states is complex and fraught with challenges. G4S provides integrated security solutions and wider support functions to healthcare services in challenging environments such as Afghanistan, Iraq, Sierra Leone and South Sudan. In 2018, G4S carried out security risk assessments of the French Medical Institution for Mothers and Children, a non profit hospital in Kabul providing medical care and working towards improvements in health services in Afghanistan. Despite its aims, the hospital attracts a high threat profile due to its connections to the Afghan government, western NGOs and focus on the empowerment of women. G4S made a number of recommendations to enhance security at the hospital, without greatly hindering access for staff, patients and visitors, and a programme of increased resilience is currently being implemented. During the Ebola Crisis, G4S supported the UK Department for International Development by managing and maintaining their vehicle fleet in Sierra Leone – an essential service that ensured that their aid and healthcare workers could reach affected communities. To help us ensure the ongoing sustainability of the programme, we implemented accredited training and mentoring for our locally employed staff. Alongside our security operations at Baghdad International airport, G4S has a medical clinic that provides a 24/7 medical service to G4S staff and international clients. The clinic offers emergency and primary care services, complemented by diagnostic care. Paramedics are available to provide many types of treatment, from simple procedures to dealing with more serious conditions or to stabilise a critically ill or injured person before an evacuation. SDGs: Engage – creating an inclusive and Our plans for 2019 will be shaped by the research engaging workplace findings. In the meantime, we have developed With scope to access the perspectives and recruitment case studies to showcase the diverse experience of employees in over 90 countries we career opportunities and to challenge the rarely struggle for ideas. Diversity of thinking helps us stereotypical views of the industry. We have also innovate and stay ahead in the marketplace, creating aligned our recruitment suppliers with our aims by long-term value for all our stakeholders. Ensuring ensuring they are reaching out to more diverse talent everyone can contribute to their full potential is pools and providing shortlists of diverse candidates. therefore a key area of focus. In line with our diversity Giving all employees the opportunity to comment on and inclusion strategy and commitments in the UK what they think and feel about working for G4S is a gender pay gap report (visit g4s.com/genderpaygap), cornerstone of our engagement strategy. We seek we have been conducting employee research into feedback from representative channels such as unions barriers, both perceived and real, that impact our and works councils at a local, regional and global level, ability to develop a more diverse workforce and a giving updates on business performance and in return more inclusive workplace. receiving information on the issues that are affecting our employees on a day to day basis. CSR extract G4S plc 15 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED We also invest significant time and energy in In cases where colleagues are suspected of not 2018 ACHIEVEMENTS conducting a global employee survey. In the last upholding those standards, we undertake swift, survey, conducted in 2017, 428,000 employees responded. Their feedback was resoundingly positive with over 84% of participants rating the company thorough and impartial investigations and take appropriate action. Where unacceptable behaviour has taken place we learn from such instances and 428,000 Colleagues participated favourably. Throughout 2018, the focus has been on enhance our safeguards to prevent similar issues in our survey in 2017 understanding the issues where the responses were arising in the future. with over 84% favourable less favourable and implementing actions arising from responses. In 2018, we We have invested time, effort and resource to survey feedback. In 2019, we will issue our next global identified any issues and promote the use of Speak Out, our anonymous survey, refreshing the approach and the questions we developed action plans whistleblowing system available to employees globally. ask to align with the relevant issues in the business. During 2018, 519 cases were raised by colleagues We will also take the opportunity at our leadership via Speak Out. Our efforts during 2017 and 2018 conference and through our senior management to create a culture in which people feel confident survey to seek feedback about the issues that matter to speak out and raise ethical concerns using our most to them such as strategy, culture and incentives. whistleblowing channels has resulted in a 73% increase in the number of reports made via Speak Out during 2018. Reward – incentivising and recognising success The majority of matters raised via Speak Out are Recognition and praise is vital in an industry where HR grievances which are managed by the relevant employees go to extraordinary lengths to deliver, HR department where they remain best placed sometimes in challenging and hostile environments. to investigate and resolve these matters promptly. Businesses have developed separate approaches to Where appropriate, concerns regarding operational recognition awards and they all link to our values and procedures are investigated by local management to the behaviours which underpin them. Across our ensure that relevant standards are being followed. senior management team, we offer bonus plans Internal Audit and other assurance functions may also which incentivise high performance while upholding assess operational compliance. our values. For many operational employees we negotiate terms and conditions with trade unions Investigations relating to other matters, such as alleged operating across the industry, which helps ensure our bribery, ethical or financial issues are conducted pay is competitive with market rates. We seek out by our internal network of investigators or by a wide range of benefits which offer good value for independent experts. our employees, and where possible, support for their Matters of a potentially serious nature are investigated families too. at a senior and independent level, with 105 investigations completed during 2018. The Group Ethics Steering Committee has continued to oversee implementation of our whistleblowing policy and conducts regular reviews of serious cases, Anti-Bribery & Corruption – CSR priority area investigation progress and resulting actions. By having clear values and standards, and educating and training colleagues to uphold them, we are creating a positive culture which means our colleagues can be trusted to do the right thing and behave in a way which meets our standards. IF YOU SEE OR SUSPECT WRONGDOING… Total number of whistleblowing cases …do the right thing and speak out! 600 500 519 400 402 300 300 200 100 158 0808-234-8852 www.g4s-speakout.com 0 65 IT IS SAFE TO SPEAK OUT! SPEAK OUTis for reporting serious 14 15* 16 17 18 You are encouraged to report any serious wrongdoing. Any other concerns (such issues without fear of retaliation. All concerns as pay queries, uniform issues or general * Speak Out launched raised in good faith will be taken seriously and treated with respect. employment grievances) should be directed to your line manager, or HR for a quick resolution. Securing Your World 16 G4S plc CSR extract 2018 Actions ​ Engage Status Launch management values training materials, embed front‑line materials and complete update of HR policies and processes to reflect G4S values Implement action plans from global employee engagement survey and address actions from management survey Review opportunities to improve gender balance ​ ​ Develop Status Continue the delivery of regional leadership programmes and promote development paths and learning opportunities for employees at different levels ​ ​ Protect – CSR Priority Area Status Continue to implement the revised front‑line health and safety induction training Introduce updated controls for security officers working at entrance gates Share and adopt best practice across the Group in managing critical health and safety risk areas Develop action plans for businesses which have had multiple fatalities, as well as monitoring their implementation ​ ​ Anti-Bribery & Corruption – CSR priority area Status Continue to increase awareness of Speak Out and create an environment in which colleagues are confident they may raise concerns confidentially and without fear of retribution ​Status complete on‑going 2019 ACTIONS AND PLANS Engage ■■ Conduct sixth global employee engagement survey using the previous response rates and favourable scores as a benchmark ■■ Implement actions arising from the employee research conducted on diversity and inclusion Develop ■■ Review and refresh the regional leadership programme and extend the offering of development materials to a wider internal audience Protect – CSR priority area ■■ Improve health, safety and security risk assessments processes ■■ Conduct a thematic review of High Potential Incidents in high priority businesses ■■ Improve controls related to attacks on employees ■■ Introduce additional training on road safety Anti-Bribery & Corruption – CSR priority area ■■ Continue to increase awareness of Speak Out and increase the confidence of employees to raise concerns through available channels CSR extract G4S plc 17 CSR PERFORMANCE SOCIAL IMPACT AND CSR PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS We play an important role in society – our 546,000 employees deliver services that create a safer and better environment in which millions of people live and work. Through these services and our organisation, G4S delivers a broad range of significant and far reaching social and economic benefits to the communities in which we live and work, many of which are helping to realise the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. OUR CSR PRIORITY AREAS To ensure that G4S’ approach to CSR remains focused on the areas that are most relevant to the business and its stakeholders, a wideranging materiality assessment is undertaken every two years. The most recent assessment, completed in December 2017, confirms our three core CSR priority areas during 2018 and 2019. For more information on the assessment see page 20. HEALTH HUMAN ANTI-BRIBERY AND SAFETY RIGHTS AND CORRUPTION The safety of our employees and those in Our respect for human rights is core to We will continue to develop and our care is one of our corporate values the sustainable success of the business and encourage a workplace culture in which all and is a priority for the Group (see pages continues to by an important part of our employees are clear about the company’s 12 to 17). risk assessment and mitigation process. standards of ethics and feel confident that they may raise ethical concerns (see pages 12 to 17). Respecting Human During 2018, we have: ■■ Published our second slavery and humanRights – CSR priority area trafficking statement, setting out the ■■ Conducted human rights training actions we have taken to help prevent We are proud of the role G4S and its’ and awareness sessions for senior modern slavery within our business and employees play in society and the positive management across the Group. supply chain. contribution they make to the protection of ■■ Revised our human rights control selfhuman rights through our range of services ■■ Implemented the recommendations assessment process and completed and the standards which we apply. made by the independent review 48 self‑assessments in high risk However, we are clear that, as a business of Brook House Immigration countries and a further 48 assessments we have a responsibility to ensure that Removal Centre. in other countries. we are not at risk of violating human rights through the services we provide, ■■ Conducted internal audits of human the customers with whom we work, the rights controls in 15 countries. suppliers we use, or through the treatment ■■ Assessed operational and other business of our colleagues and others in our care. issues against our ‘risk universe’, such as G4S’ human rights policy and its related human rights and other CSR risks. ACTIONS FOR 2019 framework are based upon the United ■■ Reviewed and updated our human ■■ Continue to build awareness of Nations Guiding Principles on Business rights heat map assessment process, and human rights responsibilities across and Human Rights. Alongside our values conducted a review of human rights risks the Group of Integrity and Respect, the framework to generate the 2019 human rights heat ■■ Conduct human rights control reinforces the continued development of map. The review identified 23 countries, self-assessments in all businesses a business model which aids the realisation in which G4S has operations, as being operating in high-risk countries of the United Nations Sustainable high or very high risk environments for and continue the programme of Development Goals through the creation human rights. internal audits of employment opportunity, the global ■■ Enhanced our supplier code of conduct improvement of industry standards and ■■ Complete implementation of and reviewed our approach to risk enhanced supplier code of conduct by helping to create secure and stable assessment for modern slavery. communities around the world. risk assessment and due-diligence approach in the UK 18 G4S plc CSR extract SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) call upon business to advance sustainable development through the investments they make, solutions they develop and the practices they adopt. We have identified fifteen social and economic impacts where G4S supports the broad realisation of the Goals and makes a positive difference to society and communities around the world. Within these, we have a specific focus on Goal 8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth) with ‘Health and wellbeing’ and ‘Job creation’ and Goal 16 (Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions) with ‘Prevention of crime’ which closely align with our strategy and operational expertise. Social‑economic impact Supporting criminal justice system Providing care Privacy vs security balance Protection of assets Employee wages and benefits Consulting on risks People development Support in post-conflict zones Health and wellbeing Taxes paid Support of economic reconstruction Job creation Interest and dividends paid Raising industry standards Prevention of crime LOW MEDIUM HIGH Relevant significance Priority sustainable development goals for G4S Health and Wellbeing Job Creation Prevention of Crime The nature of G4S’ work and the G4S provides direct employment to G4S delivers a wide range of specialist environment in which we operate may 546,000 people around the world. Through security services that mitigate the risk or become hazardous. Mitigating this risk so its supply chain and employee expenditure, impact of criminal behaviour and help to that our people and those in their care G4S indirectly supports the creation of create safer communities. A key focus of can remain safe and secure every day is hundreds of thousands of further jobs our Care & Justice Services operations is to a strategic priority for the Group. G4S is worldwide. In helping to create safer confront and address offender behaviour investing in safety awareness training environments in which businesses may and work towards their rehabilitation and and intervention as part of an ongoing prosper, G4S can also contribute to the positive reintegration in the community. programme to enhance the safety culture attractiveness of investment by businesses of the company and security industry and into new communities and the creation of achieve its goal of zero harm. further employment opportunities. CSR extract G4S plc 19 CSR PERFORMANCE CONTINUED CSR Materiality Assessment To ensure that G4S’ approach to CSR remains focused on the areas that are most relevant to the business and its stakeholders, a wideranging materiality assessment of ethical and sustainability issues is undertaken every two years. The most recent assessment, completed in December 2017 confirms three core CSR priority areas during 2018 and 2019: 1. Health and Safety 2. Human Rights 3. Anti-Bribery and Corruption Working in partnership with independent experts, we reviewed and identified issues and trends which may have the potential to have an impact on our business, our stakeholders and the wider security industry. Together with our partners, we conducted a series of interviews with the executive and non-executive members of G4S senior management team and a broad range of external stakeholders, including sustainability analysts, industry bodies, customers, suppliers, and NGOs. We sought views and opinions on which issues present the greatest risk or opportunity to the organisation’s performance, strategy and reputation. The findings reinforce the importance that G4S’ ethics, culture and values, and our employee’s personal standards and behaviour have in preventing issues and poor performance across the core priorities and other CSR matters. Our next CSR materiality assessment is due in 2019. Health, safety and HIGH Ethics Human rights protection of employees and people under G4S’ Environment care Economic Ethics & values Geopolitical Anti-bribery & corruption Employment Labour relations Governance & compliance Employee standards & IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Valuing & developing employees behaviours Secure & stable Diversity & inclusion communities Employee recruitment & Government relationships screening Data protection & Customer trust & information security delivery Risk management Promoting industry standards Economic & tax contribution Technology & innovation Responsible supply chain Climate change Environmental management LOW IMPACT ON G4S HIGH 20 G4S plc CSR extract OUR VALUES IN ACTION G4S Africa is working with customers such as Helios Towers, part of Helios Investment African markets. Their principal business lies in building, acquiring and operating – HELIOS TOWERS AND Partners that is connecting international capital and know-how to African talent telecommunications towers that are capable of accommodating and powering the and enterprise. needs of multiple tenants. Using a solution G4S ENSURING TELECOMS Protecting mobile phone masts in remote combining video monitoring with real time surveillance, G4S is providing a service that CONNECTIONS IN AFRICA locations is an area of expertise for G4S Africa. results in a reduction in theft and vandalism, real time monitoring of equipment status Helios Towers owns and operates and fuel levels in the generators with SDGs: telecommunications towers and passive significant cost savings and improved uptime infrastructure in four high-growth of mobile phone towers. CSR extract G4S plc 21 CSR PERFORMANCE CONTINUED KEY CSR INDICATORS, PRINCIPAL RISKS, NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT AND CSR POLICIES KEY INDICATOR KPI ​ GOAL 2018 2017 2016 2015 EMPLOYEES Number of employees –​ 546,000 570,000 585,000 610,000 PAGES 12-17 Percentage of female managers Increase the number of female 22.5% 22.8% 25.5% 23.4% managers in the Group Percentage of front‑line female –​​ 14.3% 14.2% 13.6% 13.4% employees Coverage by collective agreements –​​ 33% 31% 32% 33% Voluntary turnover Reduce global levels of employee 24.7% 25.3% 27.6% 29.4% turnover Bienniel Global Survey – Response rate Increase the response rate to the n/a 73% n/a​ 73% global survey Bienniel Global Survey – Overall Increase the overall favourable n/a 84% n/a​​ 82% favourable response response rate to the global survey SAFETY Work related fatalities Zero harm 24​ 25 47 46 PAGES 12,14,17 Attack 14 8 20 17 Non-attack 3​ 6 10 9 Road traffic incident 7 11 17 20 Lost time incidents Reduce the LTI rate 6.6​ 6.7 7.7 8.5 (per 1k employees) Non-natural deaths in custody Zero harm 9 3 9 2 (UK/Australia) HUMAN RIGHTS Number of human rights control Assess all businesses operating in 48 65 54 n/a PAGE 18 self assessments high-risk countries Increase number of businesses 48 n/a n/a n/a completing control self assessments in lower-risk countries Number of human rights audits in _​ 15​ 37 n/a​ n/a​​ high-risk countries SPEAK OUT: Number of cases raised via Speak Out Increase the confidence of 519 300 402 158 WHISTLEBLOWING employees to raise concerns PAGES 16-17 through available channels Employees “feel able to speak up n/a​ 84% n/a​​ 80% on unethical behaviour” ENVIRONMENTAL GHG emissions per £m revenue Reduce carbon intensity 3.5% per 59.5​ 61.2 62.8 66.0 PAGES 28 t/CO2e annum Total GHG emissions t/CO2e Decrease total carbon emissions 455,310​ 472,019​ 472,748​ 461,262​ Scope 1 t/CO2e ​ 271,471​ 276,493​ 268,107​ 276,594​ Scope 2 t/CO2e ​ 96,833​ 101,506​ 107,297​ 96,449​ Scope 3 t/CO2e (Air Travel) ​ 17,147​ 17,693​ 15,114​ 15,926​ SOCIAL MATTERS Business overview (pages 6-15 of the ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ integrated report and accounts) Stakeholder engagement (pages 8-9) Geopolitical risks (page 26) Tax strategy Supplier code of conduct 22 G4S plc CSR extract OUR IMPACT RELEVANT POLICIES AND RELATED PRINCIPAL RISKS​PAGE ■■ Business Ethics Policy – g4s.com/ethics ■■ CSR Committee 4-6 ■■ Ethical Employment Partnership – g4s.com/EEP ■■ Stakeholder Engagement 8-9 ■■ HR Core Standards – g4s.com/HRstandards ■■ People & Values 12-17 ■■ Gender Pay Gap Report (UK) – g4s.com/genderpaygap ■■ CSR Materiality Assessment 18, 20 ■■ Health & Safety (Principal Risk) 25 ■■ Culture & Values (Principal Risk) 25 ■■ People (Principal Risk) 26 ■■ Geopolitical (Principal Risk) 26 ​ ■■ Health and Safety (Principal Risk) 25 ■■ Business Ethics Policy ■■ CSR Committee 4-6 ■■ Human Rights Policy – g4s.com/humanrights ■■ People & Values 12-17 ■■ Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement – g4s.com/modernslavery ■■ CSR Materiality Assessment 18, 20 ■■ Culture & Values (Principal Risk) 25 ■■ Geopolitical (Principal Risk) 26 ■■ Laws & Regulations (Principal Risk) 27 ■■ Business Ethics Policy ■■ People & Values 12-17 ■■ Whistleblowing Policy – g4s.com/whistleblowing ■■ CSR Materiality Assessment 18, 20 ■■ Human Rights Policy ■■ Culture & Values (Principal Risk) 25 ■■ Laws & Regulations (Principal Risk) 27 ■■ Business Ethics Policy ■■ CSR Materiality Assessment 18, 20 ■■ Environmental Policy – g4s.com/environment ■■ Greenhouse Gas Emissions 28 ■■ Business Ethics Policy ■■ Stakeholder Engagement 8-9 ■■ Supplier Code of Conduct – g4s.com/suppliercode ■■ People & Values 12-17 ■■ Tax Strategy – g4s.com/tax ■■ CSR Materiality Assessment 18, 20 ■■ Whistleblowing Policy ■■ Geopolitical (Principal Risk) 26 ■■ Laws & Regulations (Principal Risk) 27 CSR extract G4S plc 23 RISK MANAGEMENT AND OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE MODEL BOARD The board has responsibility for ensuring risk management processes are effective by reviewing the most critical risks and controls. RISK COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Risk Committee meets four times per year and reviews the The Audit Committee meets four times per year and ensures Group’s risk appetite, assesses the Group’s principal risks and the Group’s control framework is operating effectively. assesses the overall enterprise risk management process. GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGIONAL AUDIT COMMITTEES The Group Executive Committee oversees the management of the The committees meet four times a year, also attended by the Group’s principal risks. external auditor, and review: 1. The progress of closing internal and external audit findings; and 2. Reports on status of financial controls and significant accounting judgments. GROUP AND REGIONAL ETHICS COMMITTEES The committees are responsible for whistleblowing and related investigations across the regions. OPERATING COMPANIES AND SHARED-SERVICE FUNCTIONS Our operating companies and shared-service process with updates made in senior management functions identify and assess the risks to achievement team meetings and trading reviews. Self-assessments of their business objectives and plan appropriate of compliance with Group control standards mitigating actions. These are recorded in our Groupare completed annually (bi-annually for financial wide risk management tools. A thorough review is control standards). conducted as part of the annual business planning Operating companies 1ST LINE: BUSINESS OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT We employ three lines Responsibility for the first line sits with the managers Result: Ensures standards expected by the Group, of defence of our businesses, whether line management our customers and other stakeholders are met. to control and or support. The senior management team within manage risks each business is responsible for implementing across the and maintaining appropriate controls across Group. their business. 2ND LINE: CONTROL AND OVERSIGHT FUNCTIONS The second line consists of oversight functions at Result: Provides support to business managers. both regional and Group level including: risk, finance, legal, human resources, operations, information technology, commercial and CSR. 3RD LINE: INTERNAL INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE The third line comprises the internal audit function. Result: Provides independent assurance over the As part of its annual programme of work, internal design and operation of controls. audit conducts regular reviews of risk management processes and gives advice and recommendations on how to improve the control environment. EXTERNAL AUDIT Financial reporting risks are considered as part of the external audit. 24 G4S plc CSR extract Risk During 2018 we continued the roll-out of safety Principal risk The provision of security services, often in hostile or induction training, which included a focus on the risks dangerous circumstances, presents health and safety facing security officers. Four wide-ranging H&S reviews HEALTH AND (H&S) challenges. In addition to the significant impact were conducted in high-priority businesses, as well as two follow-up audits to monitor improvement. SAFETY (H&S) on individuals, serious H&S incidents could disrupt the Group’s businesses, have a negative impact on our Safety improvement plans are required for all Link to strategy reputation and lead to financial and regulatory costs. businesses, with business leaders being responsible for In 2018, 24 (2017: 25) employees lost their lives in leading safety performance, developing and monitoring work-related incidents, of which 14 (2017: 8) were action plans and putting H&S at the forefront of their as a result of armed attacks and 7 (2017: 11) were day-to-day activities. road-traffic incidents, as the year-on-year improvement in road safety continued. There were 9 (2017: 3) nonGood practice and progress in delivering H&S natural deaths of people in our custody. improvements are recognised and rewarded, while poor practice and insufficient progress lead to close Risk mitigation executive scrutiny, and can impact performance-related pay for business leaders. We are committed to protecting the health, safety and well being of our employees, people in our care Mitigation priorities for 2019 or custody and third parties. G4S uses a systematic approach to managing H&S which is consistent with We will continue to refine our standards, policies internationally recognised standards. We monitor H&S and controls where we see an opportunity to reduce performance regularly and intervene if performance H&S risks further, using lessons learned from serious does not meet the continuous improvement targets incidents to drive actions to prevent recurrence. set. The Group’s mandatory standards target the Compliance with our standards will continue to be critical safety risks in the Group including road and monitored through self assessments, region and Group firearm safety, and are supplemented by controls and reviews and internal audits. Topics which will be training for front line staff through to business leaders. prioritised are risk assessment processes, training on The annual self assessment by countries of compliance road safety and improving controls to prevent attacks. with our standards is supported by site reviews from local, regional and group managers and is included in the scope of country internal audit visits. Principal risk Risk In the event that employees notice unethical G4S provides security for people, premises and behaviour contrary to our values we encourage them CULTURE AND valuable assets. The Care & Justice Services business to use our confidential whistleblowing facility, Speak VALUES provides services to detainees, victims of crime, people Out. needing assistance, and other members of the public. In 2018, we received 519 Speak Out reports (2017: Link to strategy We operate in many different countries with a diversity 300) as we continue to raise awareness of this facility. of local and national cultures. Having an appropriate set While all calls are investigated, matters of a serious of values deeply embedded in our corporate culture is nature are investigated at a senior and independent key to ensuring that employees meet our expectations level, with 105 investigations completed during 2018 including compliance with our ethical business conduct (2017: 59). standards. Failure to do so risks not delivering on our commitment to our colleagues, customers and other Mitigation priorities for 2019 stakeholders, and businesses failing to comply with For our front‑line employees, we will continue to legislation and international standards. provide updated training materials to reinforce the behaviours expected in line with our values and will Risk mitigation use the global employee engagement survey, due to Our values, detailed on page 6, are continually be completed in 2019, to assess levels of awareness reinforced through a variety of processes including and understanding. Where gaps are identified we will recruitment, induction training and recognition develop remediation plans. schemes, as well as communication materials. Our values-based training materials for front‑line employees All new managers will be required to complete have been developed to reflect common experiences the online training developed in 2018 and to or particular challenges which are identified through confirm their understanding of and commitment People and values whistleblowing cases, internal grievances or feedback to compliance with the Group’s Business Ethics Customers from the global employee engagement survey. Policy. Further updated training on anti-bribery and service excellence and corruption will also be made available to all Nominated values ambassadors in businesses are Technology managers and employees with responsibilities relating and innovation helping to cascade values-related communications. to financial transactions or supplier and customer For managers, the enhanced competency framework relationships. Operational excellence and productivity has helped guide the development of mandatory online training. This also uses realistic scenarios to Our reward and recognition schemes will continue Financial and guide managers in making value based decisions to be aligned with our values, to ensure they are commercial discipline from a range of options in order to achieve the right promoted in everything we do. The Group-wide outcomes in real-life situations. We continue to build scheme will be enhanced to supplement local efforts awareness of the importance of living our values in our and enable us to showcase the types of behaviour day-to-day activities, no matter how challenging the which exemplify our values and reflect the great work circumstances. that our employees do. CSR extract G4S plc 25 RISK MANAGEMENT AND OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED Risk needs and build succession plans. We also deliver Principal risk In a global and diverse security business such as regional leadership programmes to nurture talented ours, there are risks associated with recruiting, individuals early in their careers, and help them PEOPLE training, engaging, rewarding and managing people, develop into more senior roles as they move through as well as ensuring we retain critical talent to the organisation. Feedback from our global employee deliver increasingly sophisticated services through survey is used to develop initiatives which support Link to strategy employee engagement and development at all levels our 546,000 employees. Screening and vetting is a particular challenge in some territories which lack of the organisation. Examples include the introduction supporting infrastructure from the relevant authorities. of two health and wellbeing initiatives for employees Any incident where our people fail to meet the in G4S Peru, the development of a new employee expectations of customers and other stakeholders handbook in the UAE and the launch of a new could lead to financial and reputational damage. quarterly briefing by managers for employees in the Whilst our controls are robust, we still face the risk of UK Cash Solutions business. an employee not behaving in line with our values. Staff turnover is a key indicator of employee satisfaction, and reducing it improves service standards Risk mitigation and reduces recruitment costs. During the year staff The Group’s Human Resource (HR) standards cover turnover reduced from 25.3% in 2017 to 24.7% in core requirements for delivering the HR strategy, 2018 (see page 20). such as ensuring there are effective organisational structures in place, that employees are screened, Mitigation priorities for 2019 inducted and trained to perform their jobs, and Compliance with our core HR Standards will again be self that there are appropriate mechanisms in place for assessed during 2019 and reviewed by local, regional and managing ongoing performance and recognising Group teams as well as tested by internal audit. Direct service excellence. Compliance is self-assessed support will be provided as necessary to enhance annually and reviewed by local, regional and Group compliance with our standards. Further, more detailed teams. Additionally, core HR controls are tested training is being prepared to ensure HR teams have a by internal audit during visits to the businesses. strong understanding of the core standards, why they are The performance and potential of managers across important and what actions they need to take to ensure the Group is reviewed to identify development compliance if there are any gaps. Principal risk Risk Our Risk Management business has particular GEOPOLITICAL We operate in many countries across the world, with expertise in providing secure solutions in very highwide-ranging government and political structures, risk, low-infrastructure environments. different cultures with varying degrees of compliance We have a clear commitment to respect human Link to strategy with laws and human rights, particularly within conflict rights. All business units are required to annually selfand post-conflict zones. Associated risk factors assess their compliance with human rights standards include: political volatility, including the outcome of which are reviewed by the Group and included in elections and referendums affecting trade rules and internal audits for the higher risk countries. We have regulations and changes in policies towards business, also built awareness of human rights responsibilities revolution, terrorism, and military intervention, and across the business and our partners and are mistreatment of migrant workers and employees increasing engagement with suppliers to ensure they working for our suppliers. These risks impact us in are also complying with international human rights many ways: the health and safety of our staff and standards. This is governed by a mandatory supplier customers; the continued operation of our businesses; code of conduct which includes anti-bribery and and the ability to secure our assets and deliver good modern slavery requirements. financial performance. Mitigation priorities for 2019 Risk mitigation In markets where potential government policy or In markets where policy or trade agreements have a trade agreements may have a significant impact on significant impact on our ability to trade we engage our ability to trade we will continue to engage with with governments to promote the benefits that governments to promote the benefits that G4S G4S brings to a market and an economy, to ensure brings. We will continue to monitor the results of that we minimise potential adverse impacts of trade human rights control self assessments, providing restrictions or trade policy. support with training and guidance where needed We collaborate with local partners, conduct early risk to further embed awareness and understanding assessments before and during security assignments, of expectations. We will also continue to increase develop robust operating procedures and work engagement with suppliers to ensure their compliance closely with our local and global customers in with human rights standards. managing the risks of operating in such environments. 26 G4S plc CSR extract CARBON FOOTPRINT Risk to respond. G4S continues to liaise with relevant Principal risk G4S operates under many complex and diverse governments and authorities to influence positively regulatory frameworks, some of which have the regulatory environments in which we work. LAWS AND extraterritorial reach and many where regulations REGULATIONS change frequently. Risks include: new or changed Mitigation priorities for 2019 restrictions on foreign ownership; difficulties Given the increased exposure and high penalties Link to strategy obtaining relevant licences to operate; complying for non-compliance in respect of this risk, the board with employment legislation covering a wide range and Executive team will focus as a priority on the of requirements; complying with often complex enhancement of compliance with laws and regulations and broad ranging local tax regulations; increasing across all jurisdictions we operate in. This will include litigation and class actions; bribery and corruption direct enquiry and oversight by Group and region of and complying with human rights legislation. local management to ensure awareness of these risks Failure to meet the required standards can lead to become fully understood and ensure that concerns higher costs from claims and litigation; inability to are addressed appropriately with mitigation plans operate in certain jurisdictions, through either direct implemented promptly. ownership or joint ventures; loss of management control; damage to our reputation; and loss of customer confidence. The investigation opened by the Serious Fraud Office (SFO) in 2013 in respect of the Group’s Electronic Monitoring contract remains on-going and the Group continues to engage and co-operate fully with the investigation. Based on currently available information, the Group is unable to make a reliable estimate of the financial effect of the SFO’s investigation, and no provision has been made in respect of it. Risk mitigation Our policies and procedures clearly set out the requirement for local management teams to comply with relevant laws and regulations. Group and regional leadership, together with our Ethics Committees at Group and regional level provide oversight and support our businesses in mitigating the risks. Group legal and regional leadership closely monitor changes in foreign ownership laws and make appropriate plans People and values Customers and service excellence Technology and innovation Operational excellence and productivity Financial and commercial discipline CSR extract G4S plc 27 ENVIRONMENTAL Greenhouse gas emissions Alongside the risks faced by people and infrastructure The G4S total carbon footprint during 2018, from climate change are the challenges presented by extrapolated to 100% of the business equates to global economic conditions. some 455,310 t/CO2e. These CO2e emissions, including emissions generated by services which our Managing fuel costs and the impact of “carbon taxes” customers have outsourced to G4S, have decreased through programmes to improve the Group’s energy by 3.5% since 2017 – against a 1.1% revenue growth efficiency and reduce its environmental impacts in our underlying businesses during the same period, are important to the continued effectiveness and reflecting the efforts made to increase the energy sustainability of the Group’s business. efficiency of our business. We follow WBCSD* and WRI** Greenhouse Gas In 2019, we will continue to implement efficiency Protocol to measure our Scope 1 and 2 emissions – strategies with the aim of reducing carbon intensity by vehicle fleet, fuel, refrigerants and electricity usage for at least 3.5% per annum. G4S businesses over which the Group has financial and operational control. In addition the Group has For further details, please visit g4s.com/environment. measured Scope 3 emissions from employee business * World Business Council for Sustainable Development air travel. ** World Resources Institute The businesses that reported data in the 2018 GHG measurement represent 90% of the Group’s operations, across a 12 month period. This level of measurement, including each of the Group’s main service types, allows reliable calculation of the total GHG emissions for 100% of the Group. GHG emissions (t/CO2e) (Based on 90% measurement) 2018 2017 Vehicles (inc. refrigerants) 236,155​ 239,265​ Total buildings (inc. refrigerants) 132,149 138,734 Including electricity emissions of 96,833​ 101,506​ Air travel 17,147 17,693​ Carbon intensity ​ 2018 2017 Tonnes CO2e per £m turnover 59.5​ 61.2 28 G4S plc CSR extract REPORTING FRAMEWORKS Carbon Disclosure Project Since 2009, G4S has reported on the progress of its environmental management through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). In the latest CDP report, G4S achieved a score of C. Reporting to the CDP helps to demonstrate a company’s awareness of their greenhouse gas emissions, allowing for reduction targets to be put in place, as well as addressing the risks and opportunities that are associated with climate change. FTSE4Good G4S has been independently assessed and included as a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series for the second year running. This inclusion recognises G4S’ strong commitment to social responsibility and to sustainable business practices across the group. The FTSE4Good index series is a leading socially responsible investment (SRI) indicator developed by FTSE Russell, part of London Stock Exchange Group. It is designed to measure the performance of companies demonstrating strong environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices. UN Global Compact G4S became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2011. The world’s largest CSR initiative, the Global Compact sets out 10 universal principles to which businesses must align their strategies and operations, and calls upon companies to take actions that advance the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. G4S is proud to be a participant in the UN Global Compact and to reaffirm its committment to these principles, which continue to be reflected in our core values. G4S is a signatory of the Business for Peace initiative and remains active within the UK Network of the UN Global Compact – continuing to participate as a member of the governing Advisory Group. Within our collected sustainability reporting framework, we have described the actions we have undertaken to build upon and further integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our culture and values, business strategy and daily operations during 2018. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Index: Integrated CSR Report Extract Online Statement of Continued Support – 1 www.g4s.com/csr by the CEO Human Rights: Principles 1 & 2 36, 38-39, 69, 70, 85, 103 5, 18, 20, 22-23, 26 www.g4s.com/humanrights Labour: Principles 3, 4, 5 & 6 16-17, 20-25, 36-37, 38-39, 67, 68, 5, 12, 14-17, 18, 20, 22-23, 25 www.g4s.com/people 85, 94-95 www.g4s.com/humanrights Environment: Principles 7, 8 & 9 38-39, 85, 129-130 20, 22-23, 28 www.g4s.com/environment Anti-Corruption: Principle 10 16-17, 20, 24, 25, 36, 38-39, 85, 67, 69 16-17, 18, 20, 22-23, 25 www.g4s.com/ethics CSR Index A full index of our key sustainability programmes and other ethical and social policies and practices is available on our website at g4s.com/csrindex CSR extract G4S plc 29 www.g4s.com G4S plc 5th Floor Southside 105 Victoria Street London SW1E 6QT United Kingdom Telephone: +44 (0) 207 963 3100 Email: investor@g4s.com Registered in England No. 4992207 30 G4S plc CSR extract
