Communication on Progress 2018 Copyright Impact® 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011: IMPACT I Communication on Progress 2018 The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiat businesses that are committed to aligning their opera strategies with ten universally accepted principles in Copyright Impact® 2019 of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corr Communication on Progress 2018 Human Rights Environment Principle 1 Principle 7 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Businesses should support a precautionary approach to internationally proclaimed human rights; and environmental challenges; Principle 2 Principle 8 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental abuses. responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of Labour Standards environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and Anti-corruption the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 10 Principle 4 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; including extortion and bribery. Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Copyright Impact® 2019 Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Communication on Progress 2018 Who We Are Impact is an independent multi-award winning Creative Change Agency, established in 1980. We have a worldwide delivery capability, employing over 150 talented people from offices in the UK, Europe, Asia-Pacific and the USA. We focus on really understanding the problem our clients are faced with and designing experiences and opportunities for people to think, work and lead in different ways to create value for all. Our work is deeply rooted in behavioural change, leadership action and sustainable innovation. We build organisations worth working for. We believe that it is through organisations that we will successfully meet the challenges we face as a global society. Our organisations must therefore be the very best expressions of human ingenuity, endeavour and enterprise. They should be vibrant places that inspire meaningful action and create enduring value. Copyright Impact® 2019 Communication on Progress 2018 Copyright Impact® 2019 Communication on Progress 2018 Introduction from David Williams Impact have been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact since 2005. Key to the progression of these principles is the commitment and support from our people. In a recent survey (source: Great Places To Work® Survey 2018) 98% of our employees said that ‘it is a physically safe place to work’ 99% said that ’Impact manages its impact upon society responsibly’ 99% said that ’it is working to improve its environmental impact’ 98% said that ‘Management’s actions match it’s words’ Over the years, Impact have demonstrated its ability to deliver competitive profits by remaining focused on delivering on its purpose. We continue to invest in new systems for communication, new products and services and significant investment in new talent. The strength of our proposition coupled with our global footprint and locally based talent has enabled us to attract significant business through the year and positions us well for further growth into 2019/2020. Over the last year, we have focused heavily on improving our data security in order to secure the personal information of staff and clients. We evaluated our policies and procedures and made some significant changes, re-organising the documentation and updating many of our policies. As established experts in the field of leadership development, we are now developing our offering around Sustainable Innovation and facilitating people led Change. Copyright Impact® 2019 By drawing upon 39 years of experience in people development we are able to support whole organisations as they tackle complex change projects. Communication on Progress 2018 We have also developed a new platform to deliver digital and virtual experiential learning. Our digital platform “air” is a leading edge, mobile first tool for extending and deepening the quality of our work with clients. New clients and projects are testament to the need for these newer initiatives as we continue to innovate and design in this space. We continue to support a number of local charities through our ’Learning in the Community’ initiative. Our annual holiday for underprivileged children is in its 23rd year and in 2018 we tackled loneliness in our communities by providing elderly people with afternoon tea and ongoing support in their homes. Externally we continue to support, influence and engage our clients and participants by designing and embedding the Sustainable Development Goals into our projects and programmes. We are also active partners of the UK Stakeholders for Sustainable Development (UKSSD). It is our culture and client focus combined that make Impact the unique organisation we are. We recognise that it is the nature of who we are as much as what we do that sees us win work and continue to grow sustainably and successfully. As we move into 2019, I am please to reaffirm my full support to the UNGC and the ten principles which underpin the initiative. In this year’s report we outline progress made in the UK. As in previous years, our report demonstrates success and failure against our 2018 targets. Our Report is in the public domain and can be viewed on the UNGC website or via a link on our website: Copyright Impact® 2019 http://www.impactinternational.com/united-nations-global-compact Communication on Progress 2018 Principle 1 Principle 2 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights internationally proclaimed human rights; and abuse CONTEXT: Impact are fully supportive of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and is aware of the UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework. Impact are committed to the implementation of all aspects of human rights, internally within our organisation and externally, through the delivery of programmes for our clients. As an international organisation, we seek to develop consistent best practice across all regions and work to the highest standards in terms of safe and healthy working environments, child protection and other aspects of human rights. As a service organisation, we can support these principles in two tangible and measurable ways. The former is around how we engage and educate our people in this area and the latter is about providing innovative approaches to engage and influence across our clients and supply chain. Our report outlines how we address these principles internally and externally. Internally: The support Impact provide to uphold the rights of its employees and of others through our ‘Learning in the Community’ initiative. Externally: Copyright Impact® 2019 How we support and uphold the rights of participants on our programmes and partner organisations through our Community Action Learning (CAL) programmes. Communication on Progress 2018 INTERNAL All Impact employees are expected to give a minimum of three paid days, working in their local community. We call this initiative ‘Learning in the Community’ (LITC). Learning in the Community (LITC) is formally reviewed twice a year, during performance reviews by line managers. All activities are aligned to personal development targets and to the Sustainable Development Goals. In August 2018, 15 people across the UK business worked Some recent examples include: collaboratively to design and § Teenage Cancer Trust organising and hosting family fun days for teenagers and their families deliver a week of activities and § Jigsaw (a children’s hospice) 2 team/coaching programmes for the nursing staff memorable experiences for § Coaching junior fell running groups disadvantaged youth in Cumbria. We do each year in partnership with § Secondary School support, career days and mock interviews. Action for Children, Cumbria. § Coaching volunteer PTA chair person Feedback about the week long Our target is to uphold 70% engagement of LITC throughout the UK business holiday from parents In 2018 a total of 136 days were achieved out of a potential of 204 days = 67% “This has been great, without this In 2017 a total of 135 were achieved out of a potential of 207 days = 65% residential my son and daughter In 2016 a total of 80 days were achieved out of a potential of 186 days = 43% would not have a holiday this year.” The statistics above include all full time members of Impact UK in 2018, of which there are 69 “I’m so pleased my son decided to employees. We believe our figures are consistently high due to our employees being encouraged to go, he was very reluctant at first but when he came home he couldn’t stop identify and work with partners and charities they feel closest to. talking about it.” According to the Great Places to Work® (GPTW®) survey: And the children Copyright Impact® 2019 99%of UK employees ‘feel good about the way we contribute to our communities’. “This is the best holiday I’ve ever had” This is up by 5% from 2017. “I really didn’t want to go but am soooooooo glad I did!”. Communication on Progress 2018 Aligning our LITC Activities to the SDGs People at Impact feel engaged and motivated when they are able to create opportunities to give back. This has helped us to create the sense of community and appreciation of each other which helps to defines our culture. All LITC work is aligned to an individual’s personal development plan (these are reviewed twice a year) and the Sustainable Development Goals. Work Inspiration Programme Since 2010 Impact have partnered with local secondary schools to provide a five-day programme for 15-17 year olds that educates and inspires a generation of local young people around the world of work. Since 2010 more than 130 students have taken part in 19 programme. In 2018, 18 students participated. Impact Aid An internal group that raises monies that are then donated to our chosen charity as well as other local, national and international charitable causes with a connection to Impact staff. Impact UK donates 50 pence per participant of our UK development programmes, to Impact Aid. Fundraising activities include themed staff lunches held at our hotels, bake sales, coffee mornings, sponsored challenges etc. Jigsaw – our chosen charity of 2018. A committed team of Impact employees have worked closely with members of Jigsaw, carefully designing and delivering team events, provided marketing and digital support with the aim of engaging local businesses and helping to secure funding to enable this Hospice to continue to provide incredible care and love to local children and their families. Copyright Impact® 2019 All our LITC activities support goals 3,4,8 and 17 Communication on Progress 2018 Aligning our LITC Activities to the SDGs Streetfootballworld a network of around 100 organisations across the world using the power of football to address social issues in their communities. Streetfootballworld and Impact have worked together for several years and they have continued their ongoing partnership throughout 2018. You and your lovely team have been on my mind since Two major events took place in 2018: the Festival, thanks again for all your support and incredible work on the • The FIFA Football for Hope Festival, an official part of the FIFA World Cup in Russia ground in Moscow. I truly where we ran a Young Leaders Workshop for 60 participants from all over the world was/am in awe of your on Leadership skills and supported Streetfootballworld in the running of the intentionality in all the Festival. amazing work you do’. § Generation Amazing, where we are supporting the development of 53 young leaders Lilli Barrett-O'Keefe across the Middle East on their 2 year Distance Leadership Programme starting to North America and look at how we can use our distance learning technology (air) to increase Caribbean Regional participation. Manager Copyright Impact® 2019 Communication on Progress 2018 EXTERNAL – Community Action Learning This innovative methodology brings corporations and communities together for mutual benefit and learning. Recent updates; § Due to changes in legislation around working young people, we updated our safeguarding policy, in particular our consent form which protects and respects the young people we work alongside. Community Action Learning provides a meaningful way to bring learning to life and a powerful way to bring learning to others. Two recent projects include: § Working with graduates from Q8Workstyle programme and 40, Year 10 students. The graduates were in charge of the design and delivery of a workshop to focus on teamwork, building resilience and presentation skills. We made the clear link to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals at the start, stating that this project was in direct support of quality education, equal opportunities, good health and well being and partnership for the Goals. § Bilfinger Talent Programme – one of the projects included participants making prosthesis for people in India. This project was carried out in collaboration with an organisation called Helping Hands. It provided a really engaging group project, making Copyright Impact® 2019 something tangible for others and creating dialogue which enabled participants to discuss wider societal issues and the role of individuals and businesses in tackling them. Communication on Progress 2018 Progress Against Targets 2018 TARGET: Review Human Rights policies and report on any changes PROGRESS: We hosted a Human Rights Exhibition in the main meeting area of our office to review current policies with the intention of: § Raising awareness of the UN Declaration of Human Rights and of our policies in these areas § Engaging our employees and asking if any of our actions may compromise any of our policies § Collating questions with the UK Management Team § Making amendments and changes if required 2018 TARGET: Introduce mental health awareness training across the UK business to enable us to better understand mental health issues for ourselves and others and help to create a supportive workplace. PROGRESS: In 2018 we delivered five mental health & wellbeing workshops. 71 employees attended. 2018 TARGET: Roll out coaching training to enable people to support each other more effectively in their work and home lives. PROGRESS: Three coaching, dialogue and feedback skills workshops have been Copyright Impact® 2019 delivered in the past year and 24 employees have attended these. Communication on Progress 2018 2018 TARGET: Launch of Hive a mentoring programme run through an online platform to match suitable coach and coachees. PROGRESS: We are no longer using HIVE, however, we are now looking at other ways to ensure all employees have a mentor. 2018 TARGET: Rolling out The Impact Academy on a digital platform to enable people to develop, grow and do their jobs better both ‘on the go’ and face to face. PROGRESS: The Impact Academy is hosted on SharePoint, an online platform where employees can access all training and development opportunities Copyright Impact® 2019 Communication on Progress 2018 TARGETS FOR 2019 Our central purpose through 2019 in respect of our commitment to the UN Declaration of Human Rights will be to engage our own employees, as well as influencing our clients and our supply chain with regards to their practices. Specifically we aim to: § Create and develop a group of staff to act as mental health advocates or ambassadors. This group will promote good mental health within the organisation and will be an alternative point of contact for staff who are experiencing difficulty § The rolling out of the one day mental health awareness course to non-UK staff via a web platform § Report on changes to our Human Rights policies following a review with the UK Management Team and insights from UK employees § Delivery of the ‘Play Proud' project which is part of a 12-18 month journey promoting ‘safe spaces and social inclusion in support of LGBTQ+ youth' across North America and the Caribbean. This is part of our partnership with StreetFootballWorld. 20 selected Project Leaders are being brought together to become 'Play Proud Pioneers' and set the foundation for the North American/Caribbean 'Play Proud Network'. § Delivery of an event hosting 50 local businesses to help secure funding for our 2018 Charity of the Year, Jigsaw Copyright Impact® 2019 Communication on Progress 2018 Principle 3 Principle 4 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining labour; Principle 5 Principle 6 the effective abolition of child labour; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. CONTEXT: Our key asset is our people. Consequently Impact is committed to adhering to, and going beyond, all legal requirements to provide fair, flexible and appropriately remunerated employment to all our directly employed and freelance contract staff. Key labour related issues for Impact involve providing a safe and healthy work environment, flexible working structures (both in terms of available contracts for staff and day to day working practices) and providing transparent remuneration and appropriate benefits for contract staff. Impact employ a large number of ‘contract’ or ‘freelance’ staff across our global offices. Because of their freelance status such staff often have the least access to representation and forms of collective bargaining. Relevant feedback from the Great Place to Work® survey in terms of Labour standards include: § 98% said ‘Management is honest and ethical in its business practices.’ § 98% said ‘This is a physically safe place to work.’ Copyright Impact® 2019 § 92% said ‘This is a psychologically and emotionally healthy place to work. § 92% said ‘Management trusts people to do a good job without watching over their shoulders’ Communication on Progress 2018 Safety at Impact will always be our top priority. § Our Global Head of Safety, Philip Poole reports directly to Samantha Carey, Head of Impact UK and David Williams, Founder and CEO. § Health & Safety is addressed at every Monday morning company meeting and the beginning of every programme and project. § Each month a safety update is communicated globally through our Safety website. § Updates from Country Managers are shared with the Board on a quarterly basis. § Every year a safety report is completed and shared throughout the organisation. Progress Against Targets 2018 TARGET: Review the workings of the People Bank to accurately record progress on the safety training Learning Management System (LMS) PROGRESS: Employment of a ‘resource assistant' to help with promoting the need to Global Head of complete training. Safety, Phillip Poole 2018 TARGET: Develop the functionality of the LMS on the safety training system PROGRESS: System now created which is connected to the People Bank and Copyright Impact® 2019 automatically updates when a person completes their on-line training. It is also set to send reminders to employees who have not completed their safety training. Communication on Progress 2018 External Safety Audits: We continue to monitor changes and updates to legislation and guidance. There have been no significant legislation changes that affect Impact UK. The impact of Brexit on safety laws is also unlikely to affect us greatly. The current plan is to Adventuremark Inspection introduce the Health and Safety (Amendment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2018. These clarify Adventuremark is a non-statutory safety scheme that existing duties remain and do not introduce any new obligations on employers. devised by the Adventure Activity Industry Any major changes to legislation are unlikely to follow any time soon. Advisory Committee (AAIAC) for providers of adventurous activities that are outside the scope Total accidents: of the Adventure Activity Licensing regulations. This is a bi-annual inspection. The inspector § This year, we had a total of 5 accidents, down by 2 on last year, all of which were looked at our safety systems, risk assessments minor. and equipment and then observed the project § Near miss reporting was down last year from 25 to 9, Although this has enabled us 'Pipistralis' being run in darkness to implement any improvements necessary, the level of reporting could improve for next year. We were marked as grade 1 in all areas. The inspector remarked positively on our safety systems, equipment and staff ratio. Risk Assessments Report comments included: The risk assessments associated with all incidents have been reviewed and updated. Other risk assessments are regularly revised when changes occur. ‘Good use of flood lighting and high vis vests. The quality of the safety briefing was excellent Copyright Impact® 2019 and staff placed themselves in safety critical positions during the task. Communication on Progress 2018 Progress Beyond Targets Incidence of Accidents The incidence of accidents (number of accidents divided by the number of people) has gone down for participants from 0.07% to 0.05% and down for staff from 1.72% to 0 as we had no staff accidents for the year 17/18. Frequency of Accidents The frequency of accidents is an industry standard calculation of the number of accidents x the hours exposed and has gone down for participants from 2.68 to 2.26. Statutory Reportable Incidents We had no reportable incidents this year. What Sort of Accidents? All the accidents this year were minor. The most potentially serious one was when an air conditioning unit in a marquee was blown over onto a participant sitting at a table resulting in a bruised back and legs. The side panel of the marquee ripped its fixings from a particularly strong wind gust and blew onto the unit, knocking it over. The other accidents were minor lower limb sprains during hill walks, a community project and a group development project. Copyright Impact® 2019 Communication on Progress 2018 Progress Beyond Targets Continued Embedding a Safety Culture – Actions as a Result of Incidents Below are a some of the actions taken following a reported incident. These actions are shared to all employees through our regular communication channels (please refer to page 17) Safety Actions as a Result of Incidents § Review hotel procedures for identifying participants on programmes with food allergies and labelling of food going to mountain huts. § Keep heavy objects away from the side of marquees and clarify Site Manager, Deputy and Learnfest Organiser roles. § Reminder to staff to dynamically risk assess activities in real time and intervene if necessary. § Reminder for all staff to verbally check for medical conditions before an activity takes place. § Reminder to warm up participants before activities. § Reminder that safety boat drivers must be aware of the full contents of our safety sacks and feel able to make the call to return to shore if required. § Outside office steps re-marked to make them clearer. § Drone risk assessment completed. § Updated blindfold project risk assessments. § Updated travel risk responsibilities for those organising and staffing programmes in Copyright Impact® 2019 other countries. Communication on Progress 2018 Proactive Safety Actions § Warning on the fire hazards of multi adaptors. § Restructure of safety management after changes in day to day management staff. § Clarification on who is responsible for safety when running joint programmes with clients. § New defibrillator bought for the boathouse. § Key safety instructions issued for work station uses. § A major step forward in the management of safety has been the updating of tracking who has done the online safety training and the automation of reminders for those still to complete it. § The designs for the new safety website have been approved and work should start in January. Copyright Impact® 2019 Communication on Progress 2018 Staff Training We have completed over 27 staff safety training events this year including: § Training of new managers in accident investigation systems. § Radio training for all new Programme Managers who monitor the emergency radio for groups out on the lake. § All staff complete Stage 1 and 2 safety training. The system now automatically finds and reminds those who have not completed it by email every two weeks. § 8 Programme Directors have completed Stage 3 Webinar this year. Targets for 2019: § Monitor the working of the People Bank to accurately record progress on the safety training Learning Management System (LMS) after the functionality upgrade. § Review the Safety Website and fully update after the website redesign. § Ensure the Safety App is rolled out and working Copyright Impact® 2019 Communication on Progress 2018 Principle 7 Principle 8 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental environmental challenges; responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. CONTEXT: Like all businesses, Impact face considerable environmental challenges. As a service organisation our key challenges are around resource usage on our programmes, office energy efficiency and transport. 95% of our employees believe that we are working to reduce our environmental impact (source: Great Place to Work® Survey 2017). We believe that we have an environmental responsibility to protect our communities and therefore we aim to undertake environmental initiatives that will have an impact on our local and global communities. We have an internal focus group that consists of a cross functional team tasked with driving environmental initiatives through the business. Progress against targets TARGET 2018 : Continue to replace our petrol and diesel vehicles with electric versions where possible to Copyright Impact® 2019 achieve ultra low fleet status. . PROGRESS: We have Continued to reduce the number of petrol and diesel vehicles in the Impact fleet, from 19 in 2015 to 12 in 2019. Communication on Progress 2018 Progress against targets continued… TARGET 2018: Choose an electricity supplier that offers a 100% renewable energy tariff. PROGRESS: We have made some progress but we have not been able to identify an appropriate supplier. TARGET 2018: Increase recycling to include items that are not currently recycled PROGRESS: We have found a facility to recycle our old site helmets, buoyancy aids and canoe helmets. TARGET 2018: Donate our retired technical equipment to be up-cycled. PROGRESS: All our retired waterproofs and harnesses are donated and are made into rucksacks. TARGET 2018: Organise a beach clear up at one of Cumbria’s beaches PROGRESS: We have not been able to progress this target Copyright Impact® 2019 Communication on Progress 2018 TARGET 2018: Print all our documents on 100% recycled paper. PROGRESS: All paper used in the stores and the office black and white printers are 100% recycled TARGET 2018: Actively support a tree-planting project locally. PROGRESS: Although we have not supported an external project our estate team have planted 400 trees within our grounds this year. Actions beyond targets… • Buying reusable water bottles for use on all our programmes • Managing our woodlands – we have a woodland management plan in place to make more of our woods accessible. We have an in-house tree surgeon to manage our woodlands in consultation with National Parks Authority and Cumbria Woodlands. • We have replaced all lighting with more energy efficient LED lighting in two of the three offices • We have removed a diesel engine van on our fleet and replaced it with a fully electric version for use on programmes. • Travel considerations for programmes and meetings – taking the train if at all possible Copyright Impact® 2019 Communication on Progress 2018 Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. CONTEXT: Impact firmly believe that all businesses should work against corruption. We have strong internal policies communicated to all staff (through our staff handbook) about expectations for professional and ethical behaviour, it states that: ‘Impact recognise the importance of conducting its business subject to the highest ethical standards, with integrity and honesty, and in full compliance with all applicable laws’. All new employees are taken through a full induction process where our policies on anti corruption are provided and talked through to ensure people understand our policies. There are also a number of interventions at every stage of our work with clients where we share, communicate and assess the work scope and our role. Any issues which may compromise our work are quickly identified, communicated and discussed at the appropriate level. In 2018 we recorded no incidents where our policy was compromised. 26 Copyright Impact® 2019 Communication on Progress 2018 Communication on Progress Produced by: Impact Cragwood House Windermere Cumbria LA23 1LQ t: +44 (0)15394 88333 e: jo.appleby@impactinternational.com Images contained in this report are from “Images From a Warming Planet”, which Impact are proud to support. Ashley Cooper is the photographer behind “the book, a collection that is the culmination of 14 years work travelling to every continent to document the causes and impacts of climate change and the rise of renewable energy. His art-photographic book showcases 500 of the best images from an epic journey around the planet, which Jonathon Porritt called “an extraordinary collection of images Copyright Impact® 2019
