Letter to stakeholders BRANDART is a leading packaging company driven by integrity and innovation. In the last years, we have been developing advanced packaging products bearing constantly in mind the objective of causing the less harm possible to the environment while improving our community’s wellbeing. Due to these reasons, we introduce our first sustainability report as a way of sharing BRANDART’s prior commitment and future goals to achieve for the next years to come. Since 2009, we have been working hard to adopt an integrated management system in compliance with ISO 9001, ISO 14001, SA8000, FSC and GOTS standards. Going forward in our journey towards a more sustainable and responsible business, we will continue to invest on innovating our company through R&D, sustainable technologies and people’s training to enhance growth making sure that excellence perdures as part of our DNA for future generations. BRANDART strongly believes and supports our society’s concern to environmental causes. Therefore, in 2018, we decided to support the UN Global Compact and to integrate its Ten Principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations, to contribute to the United Nations’ SDGs as well as sharing our sustainability commitment to our stakeholders and partners. Supported by a new R&D and innovation hub, a stronger process of partners’ engagement and an advanced supply chain’s control, we are reengineering our products in terms of design, materials utilized and end-of-life processing to set-up the conditions for an almost complete fit within the circular economy; hence, reducing the utilization of raw materials and waste generation. Nowadays, we face the challenge to continue our growth and innovation process in a highly competitive and price sensitive market while keeping people and the environment at the center of our strategy. We are devoted to this cause. Due to this solid mindset, we will keep focusing our energies on researching new technologies, processes and sustainable innovation to be our customers’ one-stop-shop for all packaging and display solutions. Our 2018 Sustainability Report will walk you through this incredible journey. Maurizio Sedgh, CEO 1 Introduction: Methodological notes The 2018 report is the first Sustainability Report in BRANDART’s history, and represents the main way to communicate the Company commitment along its path to sustainability. This report covers the activities and the related impacts of BRANDART S.r.l. in its 3 facilities located in Busto Arsizio (VA) – Italy. The exclusion of any geographical area, Group company, or specific site from the scope of reporting is due to the difficulty of obtaining data of satisfactory quality, or to their immateriality in relation to the Group as a whole, as may be the case for newly-acquired entities or production activities that are not yet fully operational. Omission of data or any significant deviation is appropriately indicated and explained; the calculation methods and units of measurement are indicated where appropriate, and any estimates are mentioned as well. This report will be updated and communicated to stakeholders on an yearly basis. Unless otherwise stated in the text, the reporting period of this Sustainability Report covers information and data for calendar year 2018 (from January 1st 2018 to December 31st 2018). As this is BRANDART’s first Sustainability Report there is no need of any restatement or changes in this report. BRANDART issued this document in compliance with the GRI Standard, in its current version (1), and follows the core option. For any claims connected to this Sustainability Report, please contact Etienne Carnaghi, BRANDART’s CSR, Sustainability Manager and Deputy General Manager, by phone at +39 347 1438161, or by email at etienne.carnaghi@brandart.com. The complete review of the annual Sustainability Report is made by the entire Executive Committee, including the CEO, where all the executive officers check the contents with a specific focus on the material topics covered by their position in the Organization. The CEO finally approves the Sustainability Report and ensures that all material topics are adequately covered and reported. This Sustainability Report is certified by the independent certifying agency SGS Italia S.p.a. in compliance with the GRI Standards: Core Option reporting model. SGS has verified the accuracy and reliability of both the primary data and the aggregated data, the consistency and accuracy of the statements made and the overall compliance of the document with the model indicated, as stated in the letter below. Notes: 1): Disclosure 403 and 303 refer to 2018 version of GRI 2 3 Stakeholders engagement and materiality analysis To define the material topics to be included in its Sustainability Report, BRANDART started from the GRI suggested ones and considered its governance approach, its activities and its social, environmental and economic main impacts, evaluating their relevance towards the Company’s goals and the expectations and interests of its stakeholders. BRANDART firstly involved its internal stakeholders (i.e. the employees) through interviews and questionnaires, by selecting representatives of all main functions and departments. The Senior Management then identified the main external stakeholders to be engaged within the following groups. Certification Bodies Packaging suppliers Customers Local community Trade associations General suppliers Logistic suppliers Training institutions Banks and insurance companies ICT suppliers Branch companies Job agencies 4 Stakeholders engagement and materiality analysis Some of the previously mentioned external stakeholders were directly involved in the materiality analysis. Those with a stronger business relationship with BRANDART and that showed a greater attention to sustainability topics were selected. BRANDART asked them to complete its Materiality Questionnaire. In other cases the opinion of external stakeholders was expressed by groups of employees selected as the most suitable to represent them (i.e. corporate functions) since they manage stakeholders relations on a daily basis. For this first report BRANDART decided not to directly involve customers, but to apply the survey on their behalf through corporate functions. The purpose of the survey was to acquire the stakeholders’ opinion about a wide list of sustainability topics and to highlight in which of them they are more interested. Surveyed parties had to classify the importance of listed topics with a scale from 1 (not important) to 5 (fundamental), according to their business experience with BRANDART. The results of the materiality analysis were then reviewed and approved by BRANDART’s Senior Management, to verify their coherence with the areas of focus that guide the Company’s strategy when making day-to-day business decisions. Roadmap 2019 • Directly involve all the key external stakeholders that represent BRANDART’s chain of value on a yearly basis, to achieve a deeper engagement and a more consistent contribution to the analysis, also through specific personalized questionnaires, meetings and discussion groups • Improve the involvement of internal stakeholders with a more detailed survey 5 Materiality analysis Materiality matrix The survey results proved that external stakeholders’ interests regarding surveyed topics Crucially material topics are generally aligned with those of internal Moderately material topics stakeholders. Slight differences were identified in relation to the relationship with local communities, for which internal stakeholders have less interest, and health and safety, human capital and employees satisfaction, for which the interest of internal stakeholders is higher than this of external stakeholders. Areas of greater interest are in general aligned with Senior Management awareness, ongoing and planned activities, and roadmaps for the next years. According to the Materiality Matrix, topics were grouped into: • crucially material: rating above 4 for either internal or external stakeholders • moderately material: rating below or equal to 4 for either internal or external stakeholders The limit set to 4 represents the average value of the average ratings of internal and external stakeholders. 6 Material topics Crucially material topics • Investments and development: Invest in research and innovation of materials, products, production processes and services provided • Raw material management: Select raw materials with the aim of reducing the relative environmental impacts, introducing sustainable and eco-friendly materials and solutions • Human capital and employees’ satisfaction: Adopt welfare initiatives, work-life balance, remuneration and professional growth policies. Promote training and involvement. Ensure that working conditions comply with national legal and regulatory provisions and are consistent with applicable international labor standards • Health & Safety: Adopt all the necessary measures for the prevention of accidents and accidents at work, in terms of machinery, spaces, training and involvement • Gender equality: Guarantee and pursue gender equality and the absence of discrimination and unfair economic treatment of employees • Product quality and customer experience: Implement systems and processes for a constant increase in product quality and in the overall experience of purchasing and customer relations • Green economy: Adopt strategies aimed at reducing the environmental impact of products and services • Sustainability management: Manage the company while considering economic, social and environmental issues, with a long-term vision 7 Material topics Moderately material topics • Sustainable procurement: Make use of a supply chain that is sensitive to the issues of corporate social and environmental responsibility, favoring the selection of local suppliers. Integrate sustainability principles into the entire procurement process, selecting and monitoring suppliers through environmental, social and economic criteria • Ethical responsibility: Include the application of the principles and practices of social responsibility within corporate decision-making processes • Waste and chemical management: Promote and encourage solutions for the reduction of corporate waste and the increase in the reuse or recovery of waste materials. Choice and management of chemical substances to minimize their use and the risk of dispersion. • Sustainable logistics: Optimize logistic strategies with reference to support sites, routes, choice of sustainable partners and evaluation of alternative transport systems, in order to reduce the impact in terms of CO2 emissions • Management of conflict minerals: Take all necessary measures to avoid that BRANDART products contain minerals from countries affected by conflicts or widespread human rights violations • Security and business continuity: Invest in the development and use of data protection and business continuity guarantee systems (i.e. disaster recovery or business backup techniques) • Stakeholder involvement: Involve the main internal and external stakeholders in the organization's strategic choices regarding business, development and market positioning • Involvement of the local community: Involve local communities, also through dedicated initiatives, to encourage their participation, development and awareness of sustainability issues • Consumption and CO2 emissions: Implement energy efficiency projects and optimization of corporate consumption, also through the involvement of employees, with the objective of reducing energy consumption and CO2 emissions • Social dialogue: Recognize the importance of social dialogue institutions, both at local and international level, and collective bargaining structures, guaranteeing to employees the opportunity of joining them. Consult representative groups of the local community and join associations, to align corporate priorities with public ones Since no topic has been evaluated by stakeholders as not important“, BRANDART mainly focused on crucially material topics in this Sustainability Report, moderately material topics are also mentioned and explained. 8 Table of contents 1 Our Company 2 Our commitment to sustainability 3 Governance 4 Products and innovation 5 Our people 6 Our partners 7 Environment 8 Local communities 9 GRI Content Index 9 Our Company 1 Our Company 10 Introduction to BRANDART BRANDART is a company specialized in the supply of retail packaging, product packaging and visual display products to leading companies and Luxury Brands in the clothing, accessories, eyewear, watches, jewelry and cosmetic sectors. The core activities of BRANDART are the design and development of creative and highly innovative packaging and display solutions and the management of a worldwide supply chain to deliver high quality standards to its customers. BRANDART is headquartered in Busto Arsizio, in the province of Varese, one of the most industrialized regions of Italy and home of the most advanced industrial and retail companies in the Country. It is thanks to this blend of products and operational excellence that, together with a production of over 90 million packaging pieces per year, BRANDART decided to be part of the environmental and social challenge that is posed to its Industry. Companies have a role to play in transmitting the knowledge and finding the solutions to reduce the impact of certain materials on the environment. Optimizing packaging is the first step that BRANDART is offering to its customers through its sustainable product line. The focus of BRANDART is on packaging redesign, reduction of multimaterial combinations and on the research of new and improved, recycled, biodegradable and compostable materials. 11 Our facilities This Sustainability Report refers to BRANDART IMAGE PACKAGING S.r.l., in short form BRANDART S.r.l. (further on called BRANDART) and Blu Holding S.r.l. includes the following facilities located in Italy: 100% 1. Headquarter in Busto Arsizio, Via A. Costa 19/21 Reporting scope 2. Warehouse in Busto Arsizio, Via 5 Giornate 14 3. R&D Department in Busto Arsizio, Viale Lombardia 48 BRANDART S.r.l. These are to be intended as “operations”, i.e. single locations used by the organization for the production, storage and/or distribution of its goods 100% and services or for administrative purposes. BRANDART Image Packaging S.r.l. 1 32 4 5 100% BRANDART USA Corp. Guangzhou BRANDART Packaging 100% Design Service Co., Ltd Other two sites belong to BRANDART S.r.l. but they are not relevant for 100% Sacchetti Star the reporting purposes: 4. Commercial office in Milano, Via San Simpliciano 2 100% BRANDART HK Ltd. 5. Registered office in Milano, Viale Lunigiana 46 12 Our products and services Products Shopping bags Gift boxes Displays Dust bags BRANDART focuses on the following product categories: • Retail and product packaging and display • Cosmetic packaging Garment bags Eyewear cases Jars E-Commerce • E-Commerce and outlet packaging • Car covers and automotive protection Services BRANDART offers the following services in order to R&D ICT Governance guarantee the end-to-end control of the supply chain: Sustainable Stock management/ & Business integration Innovation Logistics & distribution by Sap System • Research and Development for materials, products and tailored solutions, through its in-house R&D Team • E-Procurement Web service • Stock Management, Logistic and Distribution Manufacturing End to End Services to all the appointed destinations of its supply chain control customers 13 BRANDART at a glance • Busto Arsizio, Varese (Italy) • 8 countries worldwide Headquarters Production outsourcing • 1998 • 8.000.000 Year of foundation Average packaging units produced every month • In-house R&D department • 64 Focus on product development Countries reached by BRANDART’s products • Certifications • 18 ISO 9001, ISO 14001, SA8000, FSC®, GOTS BRANDART’s logistic hubs • 151 Employees as of 31/12/2018 14 BRANDART throughout the years Since the beginning of its activity, BRANDART has always been focused on maintaining the highest standards: in 2005 the Company obtained the ISO 9001 certification, followed by the ISO 14001 in 2009 and by the SA 8000 certification in 2013. In 2018 BRANDART launched its R&D and innovation hub. As of today the Company is still 100% owned by its CEO, Mr. Maurizio Sedgh. 1998 2005 2006 2009 2010 2018 1998 2004 2009 2014 2018 First production of Packaging for Opened China Branch ISO 14001 achieved 2013 SAP go-live Launch of R&D and Luxury E-Procurement innovation accessories Entered the Retail SA 8000 platform HUB Packaging 2010 achieved 2002 business 2006 Expanded Logistic platform integration 2015 Entered the business to Global Logistic Production Created USA Eyewear USA clients partnership in Branch of 2005 Infrastructure Packaging Albania Company business Created Display Division ISO 9001 achieved FSC achieved 13 52 61 193 (1) 500K units/month 2,000K units/month 3,200K units/month 8,000K units/month Notes: (1): Employees of the whole BRANDART Group 15 Our worldwide infrastructure LOGISTIC HUB CORPORATE and SALES Lugano Area, LOGISTIC HUB Manufacturing CORPORATE and London, CORPORATE and SALES SALES Switzerland Guangzhou, LOGISTIC HUB location United Kingdom Shanghai, New York, China LOGISTIC HUB USA China Manchester, LOGISTIC HUB United Kingdom Belluno area, Italy LOGISTIC HUB LOGISTIC HUB2) CORPORATE and SALES Montebelluna, LOGISTIC HUB Paris, Italy New Jersey, France LOGISTIC HUB/ USA CORPORATE and SALES Hong Kong, China LOGISTIC HUB Mexico City, LOGISTIC HUB LOGISTIC HUB Mexico Yangon, Alicante, LOGISTIC HUB Spain Myanmar Los Angeles, HQ LOGISTIC HUB USA LOGISTIC HUB LOGISTIC HUB Sydney, Busto Arsizio Varese, Dubai, Italy United Australia Arab LOGISTIC HUB Emirates SHOWROOM LOGISTIC HUB Milano, BRANCH OFFICE Tamil Italy Nadu, India With its production organized in 8 regions worldwide and 18 logistic hubs, BRANDART aims at offering to its customers the shortest available logistic routes from production to delivery. 16 16 Our values and principles BRANDART wants to be a reliable and innovative partner for the development of packaging and display products, integrating creative and sustainable solutions with manufacturing feasibility. In order to guarantee the satisfaction of customers and stakeholders’ demands and expectations, and to achieve continuous improvement, Company processes are regulated by the Governance Model, set according to the Italian Legislative Decree 231/2001, and the Integrated Management System, which complies to the UNI EN ISO 9001, UNI EN ISO 14001, SA 8000 voluntary standards, the requirements of GOTS and FSC® standards, all applicable national and international standards rules and regulations, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the ILO (International Labour Office) conventions. We believe that ethics, integrity, quality of our products, transparency and commitment are the foundations on which to build the success of our company. BRANDART’s Integrated Management System is based on the following key principles: • Assess and analyze processes, setting goals and measurable targets to pursue continuous improvement • Identify and fulfil all compliance obligations • Ensure the involvement, expertise and awareness of employees, and safeguarding the Company know-how • Reduce risks and strengthen opportunities, regarding customer and stakeholders satisfaction, direct and indirect environmental impacts Occupational Health and Safety and Corporate Responsibility • Certification by Third Parties of Company’s voluntary commitments 17 Our commitment to sustainability 1 Our Company 2 Our commitment to sustainability 18 Our certifications and international awards ISO 9001 ISO 14001 SA 8000 Since 2005 Since 2009 Since 2013 SA 8000 certification verifies BRANDART’s ISO 9001 certification verifies BRANDART’s ISO 14001 certification verifies BRANDART’s effective management and measures related capacity to supply consistently reliable products tangible efforts to minimize the environmental performances of business aspects related to and services that meet clients’ and stakeholders impact of its processes, products and services, corporate social responsibility: respect for human requirements, providing evidence of its constant defining concrete objectives and measuring rights, respect for workers' rights, protection commitment to improvement. related performances. against exploitation of minors, safety and health guarantees in the workplace. Forest Stewardship Council Global Organic Textile Standard Workplace Conditions Assessment Since 2010 Since 2017 Since 2016 GOTS certification verifies that the GOTS certified The Workplace Conditions Assessment (WCA) FSC® certification verifies that the raw materials textile products are made of natural organic program provides a powerful, cost-effective (wood or paper / cellulose) used to make FSC vegetable or animal fibers, produced in solution for companies and facilities seeking to certified products are sourced from certified accordance with organic farming criteria and improve workplace conditions efficiently and in forests, managed according to strict subsequently processed in accordance with accordance with widely accepted industry environmental, social and economic standards, stringent environmental and social criteria, in all standards and best practices. and ensures the traceability of derived products. stages of processing, manufacturing, packaging, BRANDART received the award for the third labelling, marketing and distribution. consecutive year. Roadmap 2019 Extend all certifications to the new R&D department of BRANDART. Notes: FSC® and GOTS products are available upon request 19 Our associations and industrial memberships United Nations Global Compact AICE Joined in 2018 The United Nations Global Compact is a non-binding United Aice represents Italian companies that are committed Nations pact to encourage businesses worldwide to adopt predominantly to commercial activities abroad: trading, sustainable and socially responsible policies, and to report on export, import, countertrade, buying-offices, export their implementation. It is a principle-based framework for management, small and medium enterprises, etc; as well as businesses, stating ten principles in the areas of human the services related to such activities. Membership is open to rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. all companies resident in Italy and interested in international BRANDART is committed to integrate these 10 principles into trade activities, or that provide assistance to such companies its businesses. in the promotion of import/export activities. Roadmap 2019 • Publish Company’s first Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact initiative 20 United Nations SDG’s: our contribution In 2015, the United Nations published the Sustainable Development Goals consisting of 17 goals with 169 targets regarding social, environmental and economical aspects. They address states, civil society and the private sector. BRANDART is responding to this call for increased responsibility by carrying out projects and introducing measures that have an influence on mainly four goals identified by Senior Management. 21 United Nations SDG’s: our actions Implementation steps Our goals PARTNERS • We take care of our workers training, competence and well being • We aim at obtaining better working conditions for • We ensure a healthy and safe working environment every worker within our supply chain through improved • We assure economic growth to all our partners and due diligence processes of suppliers every year supply chain INNOVATION • Through continuous market research and • We invest in innovative technologies for communication with our business partners, we aim at infrastructures, services and data management offering to our customers state-of-the-art technologies both in terms of production and services PRODUCTS • We invest in products excellence • By researching market trends and attending • We optimize the use of raw materials and reduce conferences worldwide we aim at offering innovative unnecessary waste materials and packaging solutions to our customers, • We produce reusable or recyclable products with whom we share our advanced internal research COMMITTMENT • We involve in our sustainability project all our • In the next years, we aim at implementing a process of partners in every step of the supply chain life-cycle-assessment to evaluate different aspects of • We share our sustainability goals with internal and sustainability for our products throughout the whole external stakeholders supply chain 22 United Nations SDG’s: correspondence with our material topics Investments and development * Raw material management * Human capital and employees’ satisfaction * * Health & Safety * Gender equality * Product quality and customer experience * * Green economy * * Sustainability management * * * * Sustainable procurement * * Ethical responsibility * * * Waste and chemical management * Sustainable logistics * Management of conflict minerals * Security and business continuity * Stakeholder involvement * Involvement of the local community * Consumption and CO2 emissions * Social dialogue * 23 Governance 1 Our Company 2 Our commitment to sustainability 3 Governance 24 Our economic and financial performances The financial statements of BRANDART for the year ended 31/12/2018 show a profit of € 3,527,899 (€ 2,945,879 in 2017). The net profit result achieved can be considered, even for this year, more than satisfying, especially given the particular economic moment in which BRANDART operates. During the year, no damage was caused to the environment for which the Company was found guilty and no fines or penalties were imposed for offenses or environmental damage. From the Company’s solid balance sheet it is possible to highlight its ability to maintain financial balance in the medium and long term. As above-mentioned, it can be assumed that the current year expresses a positive result for BRANDART and its employees. Net Sales Net sales 20181 VS Net Sales 2017 € 85.4m + 21.7% Financial performance Direct economic value generated Salaries distributed Supply costs Taxes paid € 91.4m € 9.0m € 56.4m € 1.3m Donations Economic value distributed(2) Net income Equity € 12k € 85.4m € 3.5m € 13.7m Financial grants Grants for energetic improvements Grants for R&D € 30.0k € 239.5k Notes: (1): Including other income; (2) including costs for: materials, services, rental and salaries. 25 Our Code of ethics BRANDART's policy has always been to pursue business activities with honesty and integrity. The first Code of Ethics was adopted by the Company in 2013 and the last update was made in 2017. This document, approved by the Company Administrative Body, sets out the ethical values that are promoted by BRANDART and that managers, employees and those acting on the Company’s behalf are expected to support and comply with. The Code of Ethics is one of the pillars of BRANDART’s Governance Model, adopted pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree no. 231/01. The Governance Model, starting from the crime-risks mapping throughout all the company areas and processes, has acknowledged the Code itself and provided a set of additional written protocols ruling the correct behaviors in the framework of the applicable law requirements. Our ethical principles 1 Compliance with the law and regulations in force in all the 4 Respect for competition, as an indispensable tool for the countries in which BRANDART operates development of the economic system 2 5 Legitimacy, loyalty, fairness, transparency Confidentiality 3 6 Respect for the environment and awareness of environmental Respect for the value of the person and human resources protection Conflict minerals BRANDART supports the fight against violence, human rights violations and environmental degradation in the extraction and marketing of minerals from the geographical areas defined as Conflict Regions”. We require our suppliers to make sure the products they sell only contain Conflict Free materials and components. 26 Fair business and anti-corruption Anti-corruption and fair business practices are a central topic of BRANDART’s Code of Ethics and Governance Model. To this regard BRANDART is also committed to fully comply with all national and international anti-corruption laws. The Governance Model was adopted in 2015 and radically updated in 2017 following a renewed risk assessment, performed on company processes and sensitive areas. The Model, with specific reference to corruptive offenses envisages both general and specific monitoring processes. Inherent risks specifically related to corruption identified through the risk assessment 1 Recognition of rewards, bonus, free services 6 Incitement to corruption of public officers 2 Disposal of operating assets at unfair prices 7 Passive or brokers invoicing to gain benefit from public offices 3 Career facilitation to public-sector workers 8 Customs corruption 4 Recruiting employees close to public sector 9 Any corruption form of inspection authorities 5 Creation of slush funds for procurement overbilling or inexistent 10 Private corruption with customers, consultants, accountants, purchases suppliers, subsidiaries The Company's Supervisory Body (ODV), a fundamental pillar for the supervision and prevention of the 231 predicate offenses, is made up of qualified and certified professionals, and carries out its role with effectiveness and continuity. Roadmap 2019-2020 • Update the Governance Model due to regulatory changes, changed organizational structure, preceded by an in-depth risk assessment with focus on corruption practices and their concrete methods of consumption in the company. • Adopt an anti-corruption policy and implement its own SCI, formalizing the process of participating in public tenders for the acquisition of orders or loans (both national and within the European Union). • Draw up the Group Guidelines and the Anti-Corruption Policy to which all subsidiaries and associates of BRANDART must adapt. 27 Ethical awareness and participation BRANDART encourages its employees to make comments, recommendations, reports or complaints concerning the workplace and/or nonconformances to the Code of Ethics and the SA8000 Standard by using the following channels: • sending an e-mail to segnalazioniSA8000@BRANDART.com • sending an e-mail to SGS certification body (sa8000@sgs.com) • sending an e-mail to the SAAS accreditation body in New York (USA) (saas@saasaccreditation.org) • inserting anonymous paper messages in the appropriate collection boxes located at the company premises The first three channels are available also to other interested parties and are reported on the Company’s website. Reported items received through internal channels are managed by BRANDART's Social Performance Team (SPT), according to the requirements of the SA8000 standard. The key principle of this reporting system is to maintain the freedom to express oneself anonymously and to guarantee the protection of anonymity. The Code of Ethics, comprehensive of the Governance Model protocols, has been communicated to all members of the governance body and to all employees, and everyone of them received proper training. The Code is also regularly communicated to all suppliers working on behalf of BRANDART. The training and promotion of the Code of Ethics, the Governance Model and Integrated Management System at all levels within the Company, the institution of an independent Supervisory Body in charge of surveillance, the whistleblowing procedure, the inclusion of provisions in the contractual documentation with suppliers, and the activity of internal and Third Parties auditing are the means used by BRANDART to develop its ethical values among stakeholders and all along its supply chain. 28 Assessment of social performances BRANDART periodically assesses its social performances by using the SA8000 Performance Indicators Annex of the SA8000: 2014 Standard as a reference. This Annex describes the minimum social responsibility performance expectations for SA8000 certified organizations. Each performance indicator is a secondary reference, as it provides a quantitative or qualitative measure of performance directly related to one or more of the requirements of the Standard itself. As a result of this internal monitoring activity, the Management can recognize the need for additional activities and/or controls to meet the SA8000 requirements and/or can identify risks and opportunities, to be managed properly. The self-assessment related to year 2018 resulted in a level of compliance with the requirements of the SA8000 standard of 97%. The area in which there are more opportunities for improvement is the one related to workloads, working hours and overtime, which however remains within the limits set by the national labor contract. 29 Business continuity and customer privacy Security data management BRANDART security strategy aims at guaranteeing the protection of customer data by the following actions: • ICT Policy applied on the pc and mobiles equipment, budget for new software solutions, application of web filtering, training of end users, internal security campaigns, servers and pc antivirus, continuous software updates, internal and external security audits, vulnerability plan tests, partnership with leading associations on cyber security. BRANDART has an internal certified specialist ICT 27001. Privacy data management BRANDART has applied the GDPR European law and defined internal processes to continuously improve and update the management of privacy data. An internal policy was put in place, together with a Privacy Code Office, and MDM – Mobile Devices Management. BRANDART implemented also a risk analysis model, an internal privacy data register, organized internal and external audits, training on internal processes, software policy authentications and users profiling. Business continuity BRANDART has put in place the technical, economical and organizational actions needed to guarantee the continuity of services to its customers. From an infrastructure point of view, all ICT services on the Primary Data Center are certified Tier IV and a secondary Data Center for disaster recovery is located in Switzerland. BRANDART approaches Business continuity by implementing the following steps: • Define key people, processes, technical tools and procedures to decrease the risks of business interruptions • Keep an external recovery work site capable of hosting 40 key users and allow the continuity of the primary process/services • Each of BRANDART’s sites can be considered as a primary site in case any other site is affected by a disastrous event • Organize material suppliers, logistic platforms and factories to guarantee the continuity of services 30 Products and innovation 1 Our Company 2 Our commitment to sustainability 3 Governance 4 Products and innovation 31 Our products Production breakdown by product category New products and technologies In the last two years BRANDART developed and marketed different new 2% 2% 0% products and technologies. Some of the most relevant projects the Company worked on are: 18% • Introduction of products 100% made from PCW (Post Consumer Waste) recycled paper, including paper handles Total production 43% • Removal of plastic lamination from shopping bags in order to obtain singlematerial and 100% recyclable products 92.0m • Design and production of foldable paper and cardboard boxes to optimize units transportation volumes and reduce costs 35% Eco-friendly materials in 2018 • 4% of sold Cut & Sew products are made of BCI (Better Cotton Initiative) Cut & Sew Display cotton Paper Others Optical Automotive • 7% of sold Cut & Sew goods are made of organic cotton • 47% of sold Paper goods are made of FSC® certified paper Roadmap 2019 • Set up an internal technical team dedicated to sustainability, with the task of monitoring and developing the sustainability business line of BRANDART throughout the different functions of the Company 32 Our materials Purchasing breakdown by product category 4% BRANDART outsources all production processes, except from a Accessories Optical 20% small percentage of prototypes manufactured in-house. Automotive Others Raw materials are generally directly purchased by BRANDART 39% Cut & Sew Paper 149.7m suppliers. 2% Display Raw materials purchasing For the productions assigned to contract working suppliers and for units some marketed products BRANDART directly purchases raw 10% materials, which are mainly fabrics, paper and leather as reported 1% 0% below. 24% Fabrics purchased Paper purchased as raw material Leather purchased 21% 0% Natural fibers FSC certified paper Leather 47% 24% Synthetic fibers Conventional paper 3.7m 2.9m GOTS cotton 174.7 1,736 metres metres Conventional tons m2 natural fibers BCI cotton 79% 76% 53% • Other main materials used in the production processes are plastic, metal, cords/ribbons in natural or synthetic fibers, microfiber, and wood • The type of material utilized is specified by our customers or suggested by BRANDART to guarantee the best result Roadmap 2019 • Increase the consumption of PCW (Post Consumer Waste) recycled materials, BCI cotton and bioplastics, following the market and industry trends and requirements • Reporting the amount of purchased fabric in kg instead of m, and quantify main raw materials consumptions also for all marketed products 33 Customer Health & Safety The quality and safety of marketed products, as well as the consequent protection of customer’s health & safety, constitute the central focus of BRANDART’s regulatory management. To this purpose, BRANDART implements stringent controls on its entire production chain. In order to obtain a safe finished product, we refer to accredited third-party laboratories for carrying out tests and controls on the chemical composition and physical-mechanical characteristics of materials, which are indispensable to ensure high technical performances. This close monitoring allows BRANDART to be constantly in line with the applicable European and international legislation regarding dangerous or potentially dangerous chemical substances, including, for example, the European REACH regulation, the Chinese GB standards, and the American Proposition 65. For each production batch, BRANDART carries out conformity tests on fabrics and components and specific tests on any prints to ascertain the absence of phthalates. Also, the absence of aromatic amines derived from azo dyes is verified and likewise the presence of free and hydrolyzed formaldehyde is excluded. BRANDART requires tests of color fastness to water or rubbing as well as odor tests and verification of the absence of heavy metals. BRANDART’s packaging suppliers are bound to follow the indications of its Restricted Substances List (RSL), which defines the most restrictive parameter of use of certain substances and which is constantly updated in line with international standards, legislative developments and customers’ requirements. 34 Our new R&D Department In 2018 BRANDART opened its new R&D Department, equipped with state-of-the-art machineries, with the purpose of improving its capability to provide customers with high quality textile and paper samples in a timely manner. BRANDART activated a SAP model which allows the governance of interaction flows within the production management of paper samples. In fact, the orders launched on the paper machines are transmitted on SAP and all the processes are then monitored in the system, with the result that, once the product is created, a QR code label is also printed to track the product. 35 Our people 1 Our Company 2 Our commitment to sustainability 3 Governance 4 Products and innovation 5 Our people 36 Company organisation D.LGS 231 Chief Executive Supervisory Officer Body Privacy Code Office Health & Saferty D.LGS Legge 196/03 & GDPR 81/08 & General 2016/679 Services Accounting & Finance Sales Strategy General Manager Marketing & Deputy Communication Business Function Coordination North America Business Asia Pacific Business Development Development Business & Operations Human Resources Reporting CSR, Process ICT & Business Analytics Management & Quality Assurance Sales Operation & Planning, Purchasing, Customer Care Product Production Italy Production & Quality Far Logistic Management Development EU – EST EU East/Paper EST EU 37 Workforce details and conditions of employment I All BRANDART employees, with their experience and skillset, represent the know-how of the Company and contribute to create value for the Company itself and for all stakeholders. Talents are sought after and followed in a growth path within the Company. Overview Employees breakdown by gender Employees breakdown by employment type Employees Evolution 2016 – 2018 Female 7% Full time 38% Male Part time 151 135 127 60% 93% Employees breakdown by function Employees breakdown by employment contract 2016 2017 2018 4% 1% Blue collar 5% 1% Permanent 11% 9% White collar Temporary 3% Manager Apprentice Senior Executive Temp. Agencies Outsourced 151 74% 91% Total employees (1) (1) This BRANDART employees are mostly hired from local municipalities. Senior executives are the number includes 2 outsourced workers and 2 employees with foreign contract. result of years of collaboration and reciprocal trust between the Company and its community: they all reside in the Provinces of Varese, Como and Milano. 38 Workforce details and conditions of employment II Top Management, based on the total number of hours worked, work peaks and objectives assigned to the function, evaluates the correct sizing of its function and therefore the possible need for new resources. The research also stems from the continuous evaluation of the organizational structure, to respect the needs of the business and the market. Employees turnover by gender and by age group (1) Entered employees Exited employees % Turnover To search for personnel, BRANDART activates the following channels: publication of announcements via a 38% 36% 37% dedicated portal or other sites, 40 40 34 34 databases, CVs filed in the company, 30 30 labor contracted companies, 21 21 companies for the personnel 18 18 20 20 14 selection, and temporary working 13 11 10 7 Agencies. An interview is held for all 10 10 2 3 2 candidates both with Human 0 0 Resources office and Function MALE FEMALE TOTAL <30 30-50 >50 Total Manager. Hired employees breakdown by age/gender (2) Hired employees breakdown by gender 9% All employees are covered by the 29% <30 Female 38% National Textile Collective 30 50 Male Agreement, apart from senior 34 >50 34 executives which are covered by National Industrial Collective people people Agreement. 62% 62% Notes: (1): Temporary workers are excluded from the calculation of turnover. (2) BRANDART does not employ young workers (i.e. aged less than 18 years old). 39 Workforce details and conditions of employment III In 2018 training priority was given to the operational needs emerging from periodic meetings with Top Management. Furthermore, based on the results of the work-related stress questionnaire, a course was introduced to help internal communication. Positive % difference of BRANDART’s average salary vs minimum industry wage Training of employees Level 8 The wage provided by 4% 4% 2% Professional growth Level 7 BRANDART to its employees 6% Others is higher than the minimum Company certifications 7% Level 6 set by the industry, both 1,416 Apprentice training Level 5 considering employment 8% Communication levels and gender. Hours Level 4 BC Integrated Management System 14% 55% Governance Model Level 4 WC SA8000 and human rights Female Level 3 BC Male 0% 50% 100% 4% 1% 4% 38% 11% BRANDART offers the following initiatives to its employees: • Room equipped for the preparation and consumption of meals 1,416 • Snack machines 1,416 • Christmas and Easter gift boxes Hours Hours • Discounts in nearby restaurants 62% 80% In the month of June 2018, as a reward to employees for their commitment and dedication in achieving corporate goals, a set of tickets Female Blue collar Senior executive for personal and family purchases has been distributed to all employees, Male White collar Internships excluding Senior and Top Managers and those with variable remuneration. Manager 40 Occupational Health & Safety Occupational health services BRANDART ensures the health and safety of its employees and of these workers who are not direct employees but whose work and/or workplace is controlled by BRANDART, by applying all the requirements of Italian law (D. Lgs. 81/2008), where all its operations are set: 1 5 Risk evaluation and specific risk assessments Updated certifications of conformity for all Company plants 2 6 Safe management of chemicals Emergency plan and fire drills 3 7 Workers training Occupational health check 4 8 Proper maintenance of machineries and working devices Definition of H&S responsibilities within and outside the Company The same attention is paid to protect the workers of subcontractors (i.e. contract working suppliers), which are strictly monitored and audited for legal compliance at production sites. The function of Responsible for the Prevention and Protection Services is outsourced. A work-related stress assessment was made by BRANDART in 2018, according to the INAIL (National Institute for Insurance against Accidents at Work) methodology. Results encouraged the Senior Management to develop strategies to improve the well-being of its employees. The Workers’ Safety Representative (RSL) is in charge since many years, and is well known and trusted by all the workers. 41 Occupational Health & Safety Workers training on occupational health and safety 19% 5% 13% 31% As foreseen by national law, General training 2% Blue collar 50% Male BRANDART employees 423 Specific training 423 White collar Female attended mandatory Update specific training Manager training on occupational Hours Hours Fire-fighting and first aid Senior Executive health and safety. 24% 26% 80% 50% Work related injuries During 2018 there were no employees fatalities or high-consequence work-related injuries. 2 work-related injuries occurred which caused 121 hours of absence. One of them happened outside the office premises, during commute. Frequency index (number of injuries * 1.000.000/ Company worked hours) = 8 Gravity index (lost days for injuries * 1.000 / Company worked hours) = 0,062 No work-related injuries or fatalities occurred to external workers while working within BRANDART premises. Promotion of workers’ health • Besides the occupational health check required by law, BRANDART provides to all its employees SANIMODA, the supplementary health care fund for workers in the fashion industry. The objective of the fund is to support the needs and requirements of workers, providing supplementary healthcare services to those of the National Health System (SSN). The registration of workers at SANIMODA is mandatory and automatic, and requires a monthly contribution which is paid by the Company. • A counseling and psychological help desk is available to employees, both in the company premises and at an external professional office with guaranteed preservation of privacy. 42 Our partners 1 Our Company 2 Our commitment to sustainability 3 Governance 4 Products and innovation 5 Our people 6 Our partners 43 Our business partners – I Suppliers breakdown by category Production supply chain 10% Packaging Technical services BRANDART's business model is based on the outsourcing of all production 6% Logistic Others activities with the aim of ensuring competitive prices, high quality 9% Total products and high standing services at every stage of the value chain. number: For most of its production, BRANDART directly purchases finished 588 products from its manufacturing partners. 75% In the other cases, and especially for Italian and European textile productions, finished products are produced by contract work, i.e. raw materials and accessories are purchased by BRANDART and delivered to Packaging suppliers are BRANDART’s main business the manufacturers sites where they are processed to produce semipartners. They are of strategic importance since they finished and/or finished products. BRANDART, through its dedicated can be perceived by customers as BRANDART’s direct functions located close to manufacturing sites, applies a strict control over production facilities. This report will therefore focus on all outsourced productions, to guarantee the quality of the products and this category of suppliers. the compliance with customer requirements. Packaging suppliers used for productions (1) Accessories Optical Packaging suppliers located in Northern Italy, which covers 28% 82 95 62% of purchasing turnover Contract wor. Paper Cut & sew Others Total Total Display Raw materials Percentage of contract working suppliers located in the 35 number: number: 88% provinces bordering the company headquarter (Varese, Como 365 365 and Milano) on the total number of contract working suppliers 40 42 27 16 28 Notes: (1) Suppliers for whom at least a production order was placed by Brandart during 2018 44 Our business partners – II Sharing of sustainability principles BRANDART believes that ethics, integrity, transparency and commitment are the basis and the foundation for a successful business, both as a self commitment and through the cooperation with business partners. All the main packaging suppliers selected by BRANDART, at the earliest stage of the new relationship, are requested to subscribe BRANDART’s Code of Conduct which focuses on the aspects related to human rights, working conditions, health and safety, environment safeguard, confidentiality, fair and ethic business, innovation and research, and abides by the principles stipulated in the Conventions of the lnternational Labour Organization, the Universal Declaration on Human Rights, the guiding principles of the OECD (Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development), and the principles of the UN Global Compact. We require strict compliance with this standard from all our suppliers, their factories, subcontractors, as well as their own suppliers. Our suppliers are selected among the most experienced producers worldwide and they preferably already hold company or product certifications related to social and environmental sustainability. Qualification of suppliers As part of the sourcing procedure, in order to make sure suppliers meet or are willing and capable to meet BRANDART requirements, manufacturing sites are subject to BRANDART social and environmental compliance audits, according to a risk-based approach. The audits are based on BRANDART’s Code of Conduct, the respect of local legislation and international regulations related to H&S, and standards such as SA8000 and ISO 14001. Some of the audits are specific for FSC® and GOTS requirements. Audits are carried out by BRANDART’s CSR Team, which includes qualified Lead Auditors and works in close contact with Development and Purchasing departments. Third parties are involved in case of needed support. The results of the suppliers qualification process are documented in the Suppliers Database, which includes supporting information and statistics, and is shared to all involved functions and colleagues working in subsidiaries branches. 45 Our business partners – New packaging suppliers During 2018 BRANDART utilized 83 new packaging suppliers New packaging suppliers holding certifications Italy 52 New suppliers holding environmental 30% certifications (ISO 14001, EMAS, Far East 20 FSC®, PEFC, GOTS) Europe 9 USA 2 New suppliers holding social 8% certifications (SA8000, OHSAS 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 18001, BSCI, WCA…) Accessories Contract working Cut & Sew Display Optical Others Paper Textile New packaging suppliers by geography In Italy and Europe 100% of contract working suppliers carrying out the textile phases of cutting, printing and sewing received a social and environmental audit in 2018. Contract working is the most critical category of suppliers for Brandart since production orders can have a great impact on the supplier’s businesses in terms of commissions. In the same region, auditing priority for other categories of suppliers was given to those carrying a higher risk of non-compliance in terms of location, nationality of their workforce, structure of the company, type of activity, environmental impacts and BRANDART’s exposure to suppliers in terms of total purchases. Regarding remaining new suppliers of different product categories in the same regions: • 14% of suppliers received a social and environmental audit in 2018 • For the remaining 86% of suppliers, almost 30% of them were already supplying our customers and therefore didn’t require further auditing processes. Remaining suppliers were evaluated as low-risk, or audits were postponed to 2019 In Far East region 80% of new suppliers received a social and environmental audit. The others did not require it due to the holding of certifications or very low purchasing volumes in the year. New suppliers based in the USA were already supplying our customers and therefore didn’t require further auditing processes. 46 Our business partners – Active packaging suppliers (1) During 2018 BRANDART used 365 packaging suppliers Italy 258 Far East 83 Europe 20 USA 4 0 50 100 150 200 250 Accessories Contract working Cut & Sew Display Optical Others Paper Textile Once qualified, suppliers are monitored by periodical surveys and follow-up audits, aiming to support and assist them to accomplish all BRANDART’s requirements, improve their performances and guide them to reach and maintain a high standard of compliance. Our guidance allowed manufacturers to be approved by leading companies in the luxury industry. Most of the CSR Team efforts are dedicated to free consultancy services to suppliers in order to guarantee best practices to final customers. Active packaging suppliers assessed in 2018 Italy and Europe Far East Out of BRANDART’s active packaging suppliers, 39 suppliers located in Italy and Europe and 43 suppliers located in Far East region were assessed for social and environmental impacts in 2018 through on-site audits. Priority was assigned to the audit of these 82 suppliers by considering the potential social and environmental negative impacts 39 43 of production sites, based on specific activities, location, structure and management issues. Before any assessment, auditors shared with suppliers the audit plan with a list of audit requirements. Notes: (1) Active suppliers are those for whom at least a production order was placed by Brandart during 2018 47 Our business partners – Active packaging suppliers II For 18 of the 39 assessed suppliers located in Italy and Europe (46%) significant social and/or environmental actual impacts were detected as a result of the assessment. All suppliers committed to improve by signing a Corrective Suppliers with significant Action Plan which was agreed with the auditors. In one case BRANDART terminated its business relationship with impacts in Italy and Europe the supplier due to the missing implementation of agreed actions against critical issues. The following issues were most commonly detected: 18 46% • Environmental: emissions, waste management, fire prevention, dangerous chemicals management, thermal plants, LPG tanks, electric plants, certificate of use and occupancy of the buildings; • Social: non-regularization or non-presentation of the tax and wage compliance certificate, non-availability of letters of employment and/or compulsory employment notification documentation. For 33 of the 43 assessed suppliers located in the Far East region (78%) significant social and/or environmental actual impacts were detected as a result of the assessment. The following issues were most commonly detected: Suppliers with significant • Environmental: chemical substances missing secondary containment, hazardous waste not properly stored impacts in Far East region • Social: blocked emergency exit, pre-job & post-job occupational health exam not provided, fire-fighting equipment not properly maintained, insufficient social insurance coverage. 33 78% In half of the cases, suppliers committed to environmental improvements through the filling of the Corrective Action Plan agreed with the auditors. 81% of social improvements were agreed, in the same way. The low percentage of environmental commitment pushed BRANDART to plan further specific actions during 2019. As a result of the assessment, BRANDART terminated its business relationship with 4 suppliers and planned the backup of productions for other 2 factories. Roadmap 2019-2020 • Deepen the environmental assessment of Far East Suppliers by starting the BRANDART SUPPLIERS ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT, with a first phase of selfassessment of production sites, and then the scheduling of specific on-site audits based on data and documents collection and verification, with a focus on the management of raw materials, waste and energy consumptions • Implement the ISO 20400 for Sustainable Procurement 48 Our logistic partners BRANDART is committed to run a responsible business while respecting the environment and embracing precautionary efforts to mitigate broad global climate change impacts and pollution. To achieve its vision, BRANDART promotes a strategic focus on cleaner seas, less polluted lands and efficient cargo shipments trough a responsible and sustainable logistics approach. BRANDART sustainable preferences support shipments by sea. Full Container Load (FCL) is a must, for both containers and swap bodies (Intermodal Transport). BRANDART’s commitment is to reduce as much as possible Less Container Load (LCL). From 2018 the Company implemented rail transports also for intercontinental shipments (China-Italy) to create a low environmental impact alternative to sea shipments in peak seasons, bad weather and no vessels availability cases. BRANDART uses road shipments only for internal transfers or last mile deliveries. BRANDART is fully committed to further reducing energy consumption and CO2 emissions across all operations, for this reason BRANDART requires to all its Forwarding Agents to ship only by Main World Liners (MAERSK – MSC – COSCO, etc.) that have in place strong sustainability policies. Whenever possible BRANDART requires bamboo floored containers in order to reduce the consumption of “normal” wood, WaterBased Paint (WBC) containers to reduce the Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) and shipments from/to ports adopting Shore Power Supply (SPS) in order to reduce vessels CO2 emissions in port by around 80%. BRANDART’s partners for road shipments guarantee modern fleets adopting last technologies in CO2 emissions control. BRANDART air freight forwarders work only with Main World Air-Cargo Liners that guarantee efficient plane models with lower CO2 emissions. Couriers partners (FEDEX – DHL – UPS) have in place clear Sustainability Policies. All logistic partners are required to sign BRANDART’s Code of Conduct or to adopt similar ethical and environmental commitments. Roadmap 2019-2020 • Assess or estimate the carbon footprint of logistic chain, by involving our partners 49 Environment 1 Our Company 2 Our commitment to sustainability 3 Governance 4 Products and innovation 5 Our people 6 Our partners 7 Environment 50 Our Environmental approach – I The direct environmental impact of BRANDART’s activities can be considered as almost unmaterial, due to Company dimensions and business structure; no water is used for production processes, few emissions and no hazardous waste are produced. Years ago BRANDART chose to include ISO 14001 requirements in its Integrated Management System, to be used as a framework for planning and managing any action related to the saving of natural resources and environmental protection. BRANDART believes that everyone with day by day actions can contribute to environmental protection and to reduce global environmental footprint, therefore employees are encouraged to implement best practices to reduce harmful effects on the environment. Environmental sustainability within BRANDART focuses mainly on energy and natural resources consumptions, water and waste management, as per below. Energy and natural resources consumptions (2018) Waste management (in Kg) (2) Gas (m3) 73,213 Total waste 54,315 Diesel (l) 62,857 Hazardous waste 0 Electrical energy (KWh) (1) 328,280 Non hazardous waste 54,315 (1) 100% electrical energy is from renewable sources. All diesel is consumed Recicled – reused – recovered 41,675 (2) No waste transported or shipped by BRANDART, all waste disposed by hired company vehicles. through disposal contractors. Energy and natural resources consumptions (2017) (3) Detail of total waste by material (in Kg) Gas (m3) 67,427 Mixed material packaging 27,590 Fuel (l) 69,975 Out of print toners 55 Electrical energy (KWh) 235,424 Inorganic waste 14,030 (3) Comparing to 2017, consumptions in 2018 were higher for electricity and Waste from processed textile fibers 12,640 gas due to the opening of the new R&D Department, but fuel was reduced due mainly to the optimization of the carrier routes and the consolidation of the customer base. 51 Our Environmental approach – II Water withdrawal by source (in m3) (1) Water discharge (in m3) (2) Municipal water 956 Municipal sewage 860 Surface water 0 (2) As water withdrawn is not used for production purposes, we Groudwater 0 assume that 90% of water withdrawn is discharged and 10% consumed Seawater 0 as drinking water or used for watering Company’s green areas. Produced water 0 Third party water 0 (1) Data are obtained from municipal supplier bills related to the JanuarySeptember period (total withdrawn volume is 717 m3). Volumes for the months of October, November and December are estimated as the average monthly amounts of previous months. • Water withdrawn is used in BRANDART only for civil use, and no water is reused or recycled • No water sources are significantly affected by BRANDART’s water withdrawal or discharge, discharged water is collected and treated by public sewage system • No water is withdrawn or discharged by or into water stress areas Environmental compliance Thanks to a careful management of legislative obligations and our ISO 14001 certification, no fines or non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and/or regulations monetary were issued to our sites in 2018. 52 Analysis of climate footprint With the support of ReteClima (www.reteclima.it), an Italian ETS (Third Sector Body) of non-profit nature, which promotes actions of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and sustainability in the private sector and public procurement, BRANDART made a simplified assessment of Company’s greenhouse gases emissions (GHG Greenhouse Gases). The voluntary assessment of the Company’s climate direct performance fits into the logic of actions for the fight against anthropogenic climate change, which is the greatest environment risk of the modern age. The assessment is based on the consumption data registered by BRANDART during the year 2018, according to an inventory approach, and is carried out by taking as a reference the technical criteria of the standard ISO 14064 (Greenhouse gases Part 1: Specification with guidance at the organization level for quantification and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and removals). Within BRANDART direct business cycle, the main categories of consumption logically and functionally associated with the supply of company activities were investigated, which are related to: SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS (direct emissions) (energy indirect emissions) • Structure heating, with methane gas consumption • Mobility of people and goods transport (company • Lighting and cooling, with electricity consumption vehicles), with fuel consumption 53 Quantification of CO2 emissions Below are the emission values that together contribute to determining the direct climate footprint of BRANDART in its three operating sites. Consumption and emission values are broken down by macro-categories. SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS (direct emissions) SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS (energy indirect emissions) SCOPE 1 HEATING WITH CONSUMPTION OF METHANE GAS: SCOPE 2 LIGHTING AND COOLING, WITH ELECTRICITY Consumption: 73,213 m3  emission of 145,223 kgCO2eq (1) CONSUMPTION: Consumption: 328,280 kWh  emission of 157,574 kgCO2eq (2) SCOPE 1 MOBILITY OF PEOPLE AND TRANSPORT OF GOODS WITH (2) Emissions calculated by location based method, using “ISPRA – Fattori di CONSUMPTION OF FUEL: emissione atmosferica di gas a effetto serra nel settore elettrico nazionale e Consumption: 62,857 l diesel  emission of 169,754 kgCO2eq (1) nei principali paesi europei» and «European Residual Mixes 2017 Association of Issuing Bodies” (1) Emissions calculated according to IPCC methodology, using equations of 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories , Volume 2_2 ( Stationary Combustion ) and the lower calorific powers (PCI) extracted from “ISPRA national standard parameters 2018” updated 02/07/2019 TOTAL EMISSIONS SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS (excluding scope 3) 314,977 157,574 472,551 kgCO2eq kgCO2eq kgCO2eq 54 Initiatives for the environment In 2018 BRANDART adopted the flowerbed at the entrance of our new R&D Department, and continued to take care of the flowerbed in front of its Headquarter. In 2018 BRANDART also started the Paper Cut project, with the double aim to optimize the number of prints and therefore paper and toner consumption in daily office activities, and to ensure the privacy of printed documents. All employees are encouraged to print double-sided and to use recycled paper whenever possible. We estimated 952,367 prints were made, comparing to 2017 where prints were 1,043,053, with a reduction of 9%. C02 emissions related to Company’s website were compensated through the plant of a tree, within a new urban forestry project in Milano, as part of the ReteClima CO2web® Project (www.co2web.it). Roadmap 2019-2020 • Extend our assessment to indirect CO2 emissions, considering our main upstream and downstream business partners, and the life cycle of our products • Identify and develop carbon reduction and offset actions through certified compensatory projects at a national and/or international level 55 Local communities 1 Our Company 2 Our commitment to sustainability 3 Governance 4 Products and innovation 5 Our people 6 Our partners 7 Environment 8 Local communities 56 Local communities BRANDART facilities are located within a residential district in Busto Arsizio. Utmost care is provided in the building design, external areas and maintenance status to ensure the compatibility with the surrounding environment. None of the facilities produce emissions that may negatively affect the atmosphere, nor produces odors, light pollution or discharges into the environment. The vehicle traffic doesn’t impact significantly on normal traffic flow. No tensions with the local administration were recorded. BRANDART employees are mostly hired from nearby municipalities, generating wealth and employment opportunities. 91% of them reside in the provinces of Varese, Milano and Como, and 74% within 20 km of BRANDART’s Headquarter. By hiring local employees, BRANDART is also able to minimize transport-related environmental impacts. In 2018 BRANDART made several donations to local, national and international social initiatives and non-profit organizations, active in the following fields: • promotion and support of sustainability actions • rehabilitation of people with mental health disorders and their families • medical research • sport initiatives • supporting jew communities Roadmap 2019 • Involve schools and Universities for specific technical projects and initiatives related to sustainability. 57 GRI Content index 1 Our Company 2 Our commitment to sustainability 3 Governance 4 Products and innovation 5 Our people 6 Our partners 7 Environment 8 Local communities 9 GRI Content Index 58 GRI content index 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI Standard Conf Indicator Page Comments 102-01 CORE Name of the organization 12 // 102-02 CORE Activities, brands, products, and services 13, 16, 30, 32, 35 102-03 CORE Location of headquarters 12 102-04 CORE Location of operations 12 102-05 CORE Ownership and legal form 12 102-06 CORE Markets served 11, 16 102-07 CORE Scale of the organization 38, 12, 25, 32 102-08 CORE Information on employees and other workers 38 102-09 CORE Supply chain 44 102-10 CORE Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain // OMISSION: Not applicable since this is the first reporting year 102-11 CORE Precautionary principle or approach 2 102-12 CORE External initiatives 17, 19, 20, 57 102-13 CORE Membership of associations 20 102-14 CORE Statement from senior decision-maker 1 102-16 CORE Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 17 102-17 // Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 28 102-18 CORE Governance structure 37 102-40 CORE List of stakeholder groups 4 102-41 CORE Collective bargaining agreements 39 102-42 CORE Identifying and selecting stakeholders 4, 5 102-43 CORE Approach to stakeholder engagement 4, 5 102-44 CORE Key topics and concerns raised // OMISSION: Not applicable since this is the first reporting year 102-45 CORE Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 12, 25 102-46 CORE Defining report content and topic boundaries 6, 7, 8, 21, 22, 23 102-47 CORE List of material topics 6, 7, 8, 21, 22, 23 102-48 CORE Restatements of information // OMISSION: Not applicable since this is the first reporting year 102-49 CORE Changes in reporting // OMISSION: Not applicable since this is the first reporting year 102-50 CORE Reporting period 2 102-51 CORE Date of most recent report // OMISSION: Not applicable since this is the first reporting year 102-52 CORE Reporting cycle 2 102-53 CORE Contact point for questions regarding the report 2 102-54 CORE Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards // OMISSION: Not applicable since this is the first reporting year 102-55 CORE GRI content index 59-67 102-56 CORE External assurance 2, 3 59 GRI content index 200: ECONOMY GRI Standard Conf Indicator Page Comments GRI 201 Economic performance 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4-5-6-7-8-22-23103-02 // the management approach and its components // 25 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 201-01 // Direct economic value generated and distributed 25 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103-02 // the management approach and its components 4-5-6-7-8-22-23 // 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 201-04 // Financial assistance received from government 25 GRI 202 Market presence 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4-5-6-7-8-22-23103-02 // the management approach and its components // 38 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to 202-01 // 40 local minimum wage 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4-5-6-7-8-22-23103-02 // the management approach and its components // 38 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach Proportion of senior management hired from the local 202-02 // 38 community GRI 204 Procurement practices 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4-5-6-7-8-22-23103-02 // the management approach and its components // 44 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 204-01 // Proportion of spending on local suppliers 44 GRI 205 Anti-corruption 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4-5-6-7-8-22-23103-02 // the management approach and its components // 26-27 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 205-01 // Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 27 60 GRI content index 200: ECONOMY GRI Standard Conf Indicator Page Comments GRI 205 Anti-corruption 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 26, 27 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 205-02 // 27 and procedures 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 26, 27 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach No incidents related to corruption occurred in 2018, and no 205-03 // Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken // employees or business partners were dismissed due to corruption problems. GRI 206 Anti-competititìve behavior 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 26, 27 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach During 2018 there were no legal actions pending or completed Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and regarding anti-competitive behavior and violations of anti206-01 // // monopoly practices trust and monopoly legislation in which BRANDART has been identified as a participant. 300: ENVIRONMENT GRI Standard Conf Indicator Page Comments GRI 301 Materials 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 11, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 13, 22, 23 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach We have no company production processes so we do not report about process materials and semi-manufactured goods or parts. We do not report about materials for packaging 301-01 // Materials used by weight or volume 33 purposes since information is not available. We do not report about materials consumptions for marketed products since information is not available. 61 GRI content index 300: ENVIRONMENT GRI Standard Conf Indicator Page Comments 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 11, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 13, 22, 23 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 301-02 // Recycled input materials used // OMISSION: Nor reported since information is not available GRI 302 Energy 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 51 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 302-01 // Energy consumption within the organization 51 GRI 303 Water and effluents 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 51 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 303-01 // Interactions with water as a shared resource 52 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 51 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 303-03 // Water withdrawal 52 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 51 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 303-04 // Water discharge 52 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 51 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 303-05 // Water consumption 52 GRI 305 Emissions 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 51 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 305-01 // Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 54 62 GRI content index 300: ENVIRONMENT GRI Standard Conf Indicator Page Comments 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 51 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 305-02 // Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 54 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 51 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach In 2018 no significant emissions of ozone-depleting substances 305-06 // Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) // (ODS) occurred. GRI 306 Waste 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 51 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 306-02 // Waste by type and disposal method 51 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 51 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 306-03 // Significant spills // In 2018 no significant spills occurred. 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 51 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 306-04 // Transport of hazardous waste 51 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 51 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 306-05 // Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff 52 63 GRI content index 300: ENVIRONMENT GRI Standard Conf Indicator Page Comments GRI 307 Environmental compliance 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 51 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 307-01 // Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 52 GRI 308 Supplier environmental assessment 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 44, 45 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach New suppliers that were screened using environmental 308-01 // 45, 46 criteria 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 44, 45 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and 308-02 // 47, 48, 49 actions taken 400: SOCIAL GRI Standard Conf Indicator Page Comments GRI 401 Employment 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 38 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 401-01 // New employee hires and employee turnover 39, 42 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 38 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 401-02 // 40 provided to temporary or part-time employees 64 GRI content index 400: SOCIAL GRI Standard Conf Indicator Page Comments 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 38 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach In 2018, 6 female and 1 male employees were entitled to and 401-03 // Parental leave // took parental leave. All of them returned to work after parental leave ended, and all are still employed in BRANDART. GRI 403 Occupational Health&Safety 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 41 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 403-03 // Occupational health services 41 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 41 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 403-05 // Worker training on occupational health and safety 42 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 41 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 403-06 // Promotion of worker health 42 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 41 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 403-09 // Work-related injuries 42 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 41 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 403-10 // Work-related ill health // No work-related illnesses were recorded in the last 3 years. GRI 404 Training and education 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 38 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 404-01 // Average hours of training per year per employee 40 65 GRI content index 400: SOCIAL GRI Standard Conf Indicator Page Comments 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 38 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 404-02 // 40 assistance programs GRI 405 Diversity and equal opportunity 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 38 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 405-02 // Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 40 GRI 406 Non discrimination 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 26, 38 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach In 2018 there were no cases of discrimination identified by or 406-01 // Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken // notified to BRANDART. GRI 412 Human rights assessment 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 26, 38 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach All BRANDART'S employees receive a training related to 412-02 // Employee training on human rights policies or procedures // human rights, specific to the requirements of SA8000 standard. GRI 414 Supplier social assessment 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 51 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 414-01 // New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 45, 46 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 44, 45 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 414-02 // Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 47, 48, 49 66 GRI content index 400: SOCIAL GRI Standard Conf Indicator Page Comments GRI 415 Public policy 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 103-02 // the management approach and its components 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 23 // 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach BRANDART does not support with donations any political party 415-01 // Political contributions // or political entities. GRI 416 Customer health & safety 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 34 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and 416-01 // 34 service categories GRI 418 Customer privacy 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 30 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach In 2018 there were no cases of complaints concerning Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer 418-01 // 30 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data privacy and losses of customer data identified by or notified to BRANDART. GRI 419 Socioeconomic compliance 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 22, 103-02 // the management approach and its components // 23, 26 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach In 2018 BRANDART did not receive any significant fine and Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and 419-01 // // non-monetary sanction for non-compliance with laws and/or economic area regulations in the social and economic area 67
