TRADITION AND SUCCESS VISI ONWITH WAFERS Non-financial report Extract from the Annual Report 2018 Non-financial report issued by Siltronic AG, Munich (Implementation of the requirements contained in sections 315b, 315c in conjunction with sections 289b to 289e of the German Commercial Code) 1 Foreword 10 5. Personnel aspects 11 Headcount and personnel planning strategy 2 1. The framework for this sustainability report 12 Relationship with employee representatives and and non-financial report employees’ rights 12 Diversity and equal opportunity 3 2. The Siltronic business model and 13 Advanced training and demographic trends in Germany our ethical principles 13 Remuneration and equal pay 3 The Siltronic business model 14 Occupational health and safety 3 Corporate ethics at Siltronic 14 Employee satisfaction 3 The impact of ethical principles on the organization of Siltronic 15 6. Supply chain 4 Non-financial performance indicators 15 Supplier relationships within our organization 15 Conflict minerals 15 Siltronic limbers up to be “Fit for the NAP“ 5 3. Determining the contents of this report 15 Sustainability with regard to customers 5 Siltronic’s most important stakeholders 6 Determining the contents of the report 16 7. Social responsibility or social aspects 16 Combating legal violations, particularly 7 4. Environmental aspects corruption and bribery 7 Management of raw materials and supplies 16 Human rights 7 Management of energy 17 Non-profit purposes and corporate volunteering (consumption of energy within Siltronic) 17 Relationships with associations and with politics 8 Management of waste 17 Taxes 9 Management of water 17 Dialog at regional levels 10 Environmental protection measures 18 United Nations Global Compact 10 Emission of greenhouse gases 10 Other air emissions 19 Report of the independent auditor 10 Influence of climate change 2 Siltronic Annual Report 2018 / Non-financial report / Foreword Foreword GRI 102-14 In order to achieve economic success, companies need to be trusted by society. We take our corporate responsibility seriously. We combine corporate success with responsible action – in our production processes, in our use of resources and in all our interactions with our employees. We are one of the global market leaders in the field of hyperpure silicon wafers and supply all leading consumers of these wafers throughout the semiconductor industry. Silicon wafers are key components in the vast majority of electronic parts that make our lives easier, safer, and ecologically friendlier. Our technologies form the basis for manufacturing more compact and energy-efficient components in the modern world of electronics. Consequently, we contribute towards preserving precious resources and reducing carbon dioxide emissions worldwide. We continually and consistently improve our production processes with the aim of reducing energy consumption and increasing the percentage of supplies that can be reused. In order to make deliveries to our customers as environmentally friendly as possible, we combine deliveries and utilize multiple-use packaging solutions. Our employees represent our greatest asset and the cornerstone of our success. We treat one another with respect, honesty, and openness and see the differences between people as a source of enrichment. Our goal is to achieve even greater diversity within our organization, focusing in particular on mentoring more women and employees with varying cultural experiences to take up positions in middle and upper management. We support a work life balance with a variety of measures. Occupational health and safety are deeply embedded in our business processes. Siltronic implements the ten principles of the United Nations ‘Global Compact’ initiative for the protection of human rights, social and environmental standards, and the fight against corruption. We respect internationally proclaimed human rights and promote their observance within our sphere of influence. Siltronic employees worldwide take on the daily challenge of making our processes better, safer, simpler, environmentally friendlier, and therefore more sustainable. Together, we want to live up to our responsibility to reconcile the impact of our business activities with the expectations and needs of society. Dr. Christoph von Plotho CEO 1 Siltronic Annual Report 2018 / Non-financial report / 1. The framework for this sustainability report and non-financial report 1. The framework for this sustainability report and non-financial report We see sustainability as the positive impact of our current activities This report is the summarized, separate non-financial report for on future conditions in the ecological, economic, and social the financial year 2018 and applies to both the Siltronic Group spheres, mitigating inequalities and promoting an open future. and Siltronic AG. Information that applies only to Siltronic AG, is Consequently, the underlying reason for this non-financial report indicated in the text. The non-financial report has been issued and or sustainability report is the question of how Siltronic contributes was made available to the public on https://www.siltronic.com/en/ towards the improvement or deterioration of ecological, ecoour-company/sustainability.html. nomic, and social aspects at local, regional, and global levels. Information included in this report was prepared based on We believe that sustainable activity is also beneficial for Siltronic the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting as a company. For instance, we are safeguarding our profitability Initiative (GRI) and is aligned to the Sustainable Development by deploying raw materials more efficiently and optimizing energy Goals of the United Nations. Moreover, this report provides consumption. Profitability is an important factor in our ability to information regarding sustainability to the degree relevant for provide employees with above-average social benefits and offer reporting the ‘Communication on Progress’ of the United Nations them a wide range of advanced training measures. A dedicated, Global Compact. The reported period corresponds to that of the well-trained workforce is more capable of breaking new ground consolidated financial statements and all Group entities were in the field of research and development, which, in turn, has a included. We intend to prepare the sustainability report on an beneficial impact on our profitability in the medium and long term. annual basis, as in the past. GRI 102-50, -52 In this manner, a cycle is created that is not only positive for stakeholders and the environment, but for Siltronic as a company, too. This non-financial report was subject to an audit by the Supervisory Board of Siltronic AG. Hence, the Supervisory Board has asked an With this sustainability report or non-financial report we suppleaudit firm to execute a corresponding audit. KPMG AG Wirtschaftsment the economic aspects outlined in the consolidated financial prüfungsgesellschaft has performed an audit using ISAE 3000 to statements and the combined management report by including obtain a limited assurance regarding the information required in ecological and social aspects and explaining how we propose to accordance with Sections 315b, 315e in conjunction with 289b reconcile these with one another. to 289e of the German Commercial Code. GRI 102-56 2 Siltronic Annual Report 2018 / Non-financial report / 2. The Siltronic business model and our ethical principles 2. The Siltronic business model and our ethical principles Section 289c para. 1 of the German Commercial Code The Siltronic business model topics of behavior towards one another, leadership as an example, dealings with business partners, handling information, Siltronic is a globally operating market and technology leader separation of private and corporate interests, quality, safety, specialized in manufacturing hyperpure silicon wafers. Since health and environment, and social responsibility. GRI 102-17 wafers form the basis for semiconductors all our customers are • Voluntary commitments: Siltronic implements the ten principles manufacturers of semiconductors. GRI 102-2 of the United Nations’ Global Compact initiative for the protection of human rights, social and environmental stanWafers are produced by melting hyperpure silicon and extracting dards, and the fight against corruption. Siltronic adheres to the a crystal from the melt by means of a pulling process. The crystal principles of the chemical industry’s Responsible Care® initiais sawn into individual wafers, polished, and subject to a final tive. Siltronic has also become a signatory to the ‘Diversity inspection prior to packaging. We deploy many special-purpose Charter’. By signing, Siltronic undertakes to actively implement machines in the course of manufacturing and a considerable part and promote equal opportunity and diversity. As a supplier to of the process takes place in cleanrooms. Production costs are the electronics industry, Siltronic observes the Code of Conduct attributable (in decreasing order) to personnel, auxiliaries and set out by the Responsible Business Alliance RBA which leading operating materials, depreciation, raw materials and energy. GRI companies in the electronics industry use to promote social and 102-9 ecological responsibility as well as ethical business practices worldwide. GRI 102-12, -13 The production equipment largely consists of machines for pulling • Strategy handbook: This handbook sets out Siltronic’s highest crystals, furnaces, measurement equipment, cleaning systems, and aims and defines our mission statement. Our mission statement machines for the mechanical and chemical treatment of the wafer consists of aspiring to create added value for our stakeholders. surfaces. Most of the wafer manufacturing process takes place in We want to achieve this aim by offering wafers of outstanding cleanrooms. From our four production sites we dispatch our quality at competitive cost. wafers directly to our customers’ chip factories, which are located (in alphabetical order) in Israel, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan and (mainland) China, the USA, and Western Europe. At The impact of ethical principles on each of our four largest sites we run a production, administration and sales department. In addition, we operate small sales or the organization of Siltronic administration units in six countries. GRI 102-4, -6, -9 The above guidelines have an impact on the organizational We produced some 28.2 million wafers in the reporting year structure of Siltronic, whereby the most important organizational (2017: 27.6 million). GRI 102-7 measures for ensuring the ethical principles are (a) management systems, (b) the existence of a separate department for environAdditional information on our business model is available in the mental protection, occupational health and safety, and plant combined management report. process safety, and (c) reporting channels to the Executive Board and Supervisory Board. Corporate ethics at Siltronic We control operational processes via our Integrated Management System (IMS). The IMS outlines processes and responsibilities and In order to achieve economic success, companies need to be defines group-wide standards, including those relating to quality, trusted by society. In our efforts to ensure that Siltronic’s business energy, occupational health and safety, environmental protection, is conducted responsibly and compliant to all statutory regulations, and plant process safety. The standards are based on national and we have developed various guidelines, including: GRI 102-16 international standards, laws, customer requirements, and our own principles. Selected management systems are certified by a globally • Code of Conduct: We have drawn up a Code of Conduct for operating service provider. The certifications include ISO 14001 for our Group that sets out binding rules for responsible and environmental protection, OHSAS 18001 for occupational health law-abiding conduct, which all Siltronic employees are required and safety, ISO 50001 for energy management at our sites in to observe. The Code of Conduct deals in particular with the Germany, and ISO 9001 and ISO TS 16949 for quality systems. 3 Siltronic Annual Report 2018 / Non-financial report / 2. The Siltronic business model and our ethical principles Group management system Non-financial performance indicators within our organization Integrated management system The management of the Siltronic organization is based on financial performance indicators. The most important of these are recorded monthly on a local and Group basis and entered in reporting ISO 14001 ISO TS 16949 ISO 50001 OHSAS 18001 systems, where they are compared with previously determined Environmental Quality Energy Health and safety protection targets. The most important financial performance indicators in 2018 were EBITDA margin, ROCE and net cash flow. In order to identify and manage the variety of possible risks Apart from these financial performance indicators we use nonentailed in conducting business, the Executive Board has implefinancial performance indicators as guidance. However, none of mented a risk management system, which is described in detail in these indicators is used to manage the Company. the combined management report in the chapter ‘Risk and opportunity report’. In addition, we have installed a compliance system Similar to the financial performance indicators, non-financial aimed at avoiding, identifying, and sanctioning companyrelated performance indicators also have a hierarchy according to their statutory violations, for which the Siltronic compliance organizasignificance. From the wide range of non-financial performance tion is responsible. Siltronic has appointed compliance officers in indicators that can be assigned to sustainability, the Executive all of its active entities. As a protected reporting channel, we have Board has selected five performance indicators through which it also appointed an external ombudsman to whom our employees is informed in the course of routine reporting. Each of these indiand third parties can anonymously report any violations of statucators has a target for the fiscal year. The five non-financial tory regulations. The Chief Compliance Officer reports directly to indicators relating to the field of sustainability are as follows: the CEO of Siltronic AG. GRI 102-17 Section 289c para. 3 number 5 of the German Commercial Code As a company working with complex chemical and mechanical • The efficient use of silicon (raw materials management) processes, we have a high degree of responsibility for the operation • The efficient use of energy (energy management) of our equipment as well as for the protection of people and the • The avoidance of waste (waste management) environment. For this reason, we have appointed employees at • The number of work accidents per 1 million working hours production sites who are specially trained in the fields of environ(safety) mental protection, occupational health and safety, and plant safety. • Work accidents per year involving chemicals (safety) These employees are grouped together in the Quality Management and Sustainability department reporting directly to the CEO. The In view of the high relevance of water in our production, we will allocation of responsibilities among the members of the Executive be introducing a performance indicator to measure the efficiency Board is presented in the combined management report. GRI 102-11 of using water as from 2019. For information on the composition of the Supervisory Board and Non-financial performance indicators are reviewed during the year its cooperation with the Executive Board, please refer to the and in case of negative variances the cause for the development explanations in the Corporate Governance Report and the Report is analyzed in order to introduce improvement measures. of the Supervisory Board. Information on the remuneration of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board is available in the Remuneration Report. 4 Siltronic Annual Report 2018 / Non-financial report / 3. Determining the contents of this report 3. Determining the contents of this report Siltronic’s most important stakeholders Due to its extensive activities, Siltronic impacts outside individuals, The following diagram shows the most important interactions and companies, and public authorities in various ways. The their frequency of exchange. GRI 102-40, -43 defining of stakeholder groups that have been assessed as the most important ones is based on the number of interactions with a particular stakeholder group and the involvement of managers. GRI 102-42 Business model and organization of Siltronic with performance indicators concerning: Asset Consumption of Energy Waste Quality and Sales Costs Accidents management raw materials consumption reduction innovation Economy Ecology Safety Products Siltronic‘s mission statement: To create added value for our stakeholders by offering wafers of outstanding quality at competitive costs. Interaction between Siltronic • Regular audits • Regular audits •R egular workforce • Annual General • Regular applications and its stakeholders • Regular issuing • regular submission meetings Meeting and notifications of representation of declarations •R egular meetings •Q  uarterly roadshows • Monthly payment letters • Regular support with works council •Q  uarterly financial of social security • Purchasing principles by experts and supervisory information contributions and board members taxes • Every two years • Joint development • Annual reports supplier day projects to improve •R egular news in • Audits wafers the Intranet • Investors and finan­ • Ombudsman cial analysts •R egular training courses Personnel, Suppliers Customers including Shareholders, Government Siltronic‘s most important stakeholders organized analysts authorities Supply chain representatives 5 Siltronic Annual Report 2018 / Non-financial report / 3. Determining the contents of this report Determining the contents of the report In order to identify the topics important for this report – environThe second step entailed prioritizing the topics according to mental topics, personnel aspects, supply chain (including human materiality, which also involved a risk assessment. Each topic was rights), social responsibility and social aspects (including fight then allocated to a general group. against corruption and bribery) –, we determined various sustainability aspects as a first step. The identification of sustainability In a fourth step, the result was subject to a validation process, topics is based on the following considerations: which was carried out in consultation with internal experts and by comparing it with the corporate strategy. This resulted in the • Specifics of the company following list: GRI 102-46, -47 • The ten principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact project and the Sustainable Development Goals formulated by the United Nations • Discussions with customers • Specifics of our industry •  Result of external rating agencies that have conducted an assessment using last year’s non-financial report and other documents Environmental aspects Supply chain Personnel aspects Society Compliance x Reduction of specific silicon consumption x x Reduction of specific consumption of auxiliary materials x Reduction of specific energy consumption x Environmental impact of transportation x x x x Recycling x x Water consumption x x Environmental protection measures x x Greenhouse gas emissions x x Diversity x x Advanced training, demographics x Occupational health and safety Water consumption x The analyses did not reveal any reportable risk. 6 Siltronic Annual Report 2018 / Non-financial report / 4. Environmental aspects 4. Environmental aspects Section 289c para. 1 of the German Commercial Code, UNGC Management of raw materials and supplies The specific target for the reporting year was to avoid a deterioration of two percentage points measured against the previous As wafers consist almost entirely of hyperpure silicon, silicon is by year. The fact that no year-on-year improvement was set as a far the most important raw material for Siltronic. After oxygen, target for 2018 is due to the product mix our customers ordered. silicon is the second-most frequently found element in the Earth’s Furthermore, our customers ask for wafers showing more sophiscrust and non-toxic. For this reason, we regard silicon wafers as ticated technical specifications. With such wafers our customers an unrivaled raw material for manufacturing semiconductors and can produce chips which consume less electricity (with the chip the raw material of choice for our products in the long term. having a higher performance at the same time) but the specific consumption of silicon increases before the chip production starts. We endeavor to use silicon as efficiently as possible, thereby The specific goal for the entire year 2018 was slightly missed since contributing towards reducing environmental pollution and the efficiency was below expectation at the beginning of the year. helping us remain competitive. The ‘efficient use of silicon’ In the course of the financial year the efficiency improved and in performance indicator triggers in particular that silicon residues the fourth quarter the target was exceeded. are recycled in our production cycle, that manufacturing processes are further developed with the aim of increasing yield, and that Apart from the raw material silicon, chemicals, gases, and polishinvestments are made in new machinery. We set a target value for ing agents used as supply materials play a role in our production this performance indicator on an annual basis. The will to achieve process. As the various supplies are less important to us than the goals leads to the emergence of new ideas that are tested. If silicon, no performance indicators were reported to the Executive their use in production scenarios looks promising, investments are Board. Of course we continuously work on changing our producmade to implement them. Unfortunately, the increasing physical tion processes with the aim of reducing the specific amounts of and chemical specifications required by our customers on many auxiliary materials required. Specific reductions are usually achieved wafer types has a negative impact on the yield. by avoidance (e.g. by using less chromium) or by recycling (e.g. by reducing the use of polishing agents and cleaning baths). Progress The following table illustrates how the efficient use of silicon has is usually measured using quantitative factors and compared with developed, whereby 2016 was selected as the basis for comparison: targets after one or two years. Development of the efficient use of silicon in % Management of energy 100 100 98 99 (consumption of energy within Siltronic) 75 A substantial part of the process of transforming the purchased silicon into wafers is performed at high temperatures and in 50 air-conditioned cleanrooms. The large amount of energy required to drive this process makes wafer production an energy-intense industry. 25 0 2016 2017 2018 7 Siltronic Annual Report 2018 / Non-financial report / 4. Environmental aspects In 2018, energy consumption totaled 719 GWh. Consumption In order to reduce energy intensity, projects are being initiated and includes production, research and development, and administraexecuted to lower the specific electricity consumption. Sustainable tion. Sales offices are not included in the total, as their overall changes were achieved in recent years especially through improveenergy consumption is insignificant. Electricity is by far the most ment projects in the areas of heat recovery, adjusting water important source of energy. temperatures for cooling and other process optimizations. Energy consumption The ‘efficient use of energy’ performance indicator is reported to the Executive Board on a regular basis and ambitious targets are in GWh 2016 2017 2018 determined annually. Together with the production volume this is Electricity consumption 586 601 608 the basis for us to calculate absolute savings in MWh for sites and Natural gas 75 75 71 production lines. Steam, heat 42 39 35 Siltronic pursues the strategic target of reducing its specific energy Fuel oil 7 6 5 consumption by an average of 1.5 percent per year. On this basis Total 710 721 719 and using planned production volume, we calculate absolute savings targets in MWh for the sites and absolute targets for the Siltronic purchases electricity from the public grid. About 55 perproduction areas. cent of the electricity is consumed in Germany. According to the Federal Association of the Energy and Water Industry (BDEW), Numerous energy efficiency measures have contributed to meeting 38 percent (previous year: 36 percent) of the electricity consumed the 2018 target, resulting in a total sustainable reduction in in Germany from public grids has its origin in renewable sources, electricity consumption of 15.7 GWh per annum and an equivalent which mainly includes wind, biomass and solar. value of EUR 1.2 million. The annual target of 1.5 percent was met. Energy consumption per square centimeter of wafer manufactured The Company’s energy management system is certified in accordescribes the energy intensity of our products (the forms listed in dance with ISO 50.001 2011 at the Burghausen and Freiberg sites. the table ‘Energy consumption’ are used to calculate energy consumption). The following table illustrates that we were able to lower the eenergy intensity significantly since 2016. Management of waste Energy consumption per sq cm wafer surface In order to reduce packaging waste, we have taken an initiative in % many years ago together with our customers and introduced two 100 recyclable types of reusable packaging which are the ‘Hybox’ and 100 95 92 the ‘FOSB’. As multiples of FOSBs can be stacked in a Hybox, an FOSB forms the inner reusable packaging and the Hybox the outer 80 reusable packaging solution. Since both types of reusable packaging impact customers’ production processes, customers first 60 need to agree to the use of the Hybox and the FOSB. 40 Over the years, we have nearly always been able to convince 20 customers of the benefits of this form of packaging wherever the use of the Hybox was technically feasible. Through this reusage con0 cept we reduced the transport of packaging by around 488 tons and 2016 2017 2018 the waste by about 977 tons in comparison with carton packaging. Our main focus in reusable packaging is the use of the FOSB. The percentage of multiple use of the FOSB for packaging purposes is one of the five non-financial performance indicators that are regularly reported to the Executive Board. 8 Siltronic Annual Report 2018 / Non-financial report / 4. Environmental aspects Share of wafer area in reusable packaging Disposal routes as well as the classification of waste into the in % categories ‘dangerous’ and ‘not dangerous’ are based on local legal or quasi-legal regulations. 40 38 35 32 A total of 38 percent of the waste is caused by Siltronic AG. 30 20 Management of water Water is primarily used in our manufacturing process for cleaning 10 and cooling purposes. We endeavor to protect natural water resources and use them as sparingly as possible. The definition of 0 the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and our 2016 2017 2018 risk assessment using the Global Water Tool® defines Singapore as a water shortage area. We are therefore under an obligation to use water especially carefully in our Singapore location. For that The target for 2018 was to achieve a percentage of 35 percent. reason we operate our own water treatment plant in Singapore. This target was not met because the acceptance procedure to In the year 2018 we were able to realize major improvements to introduce a type of FOSB at one major customer was slower than the treatment of waste water and water retaining. expected. The water recycling rate in the group stood at 38.2 percent in With regard to waste, the disposal of hazardous material is also a 2018, following 35.5 percent the year before. significant factor. The composition of waste and the disposal channel were as follows in 2018: Use of water in million m3 Composition of the waste GRI 306-2 in 1,000 t 6.3 For production 7.5 Non-hazardous 18.6 8.5 For cooling purposes Hazardous Discharge of waste water (without cooling water) in million m3 Disposal type GRI 306-2 in 1,000 t 1.6 For direct discharge 4.8 Disposal 5.6 For indirect discharge 11.2 Recycling 9 Siltronic Annual Report 2018 / Non-financial report / 4. Environmental aspects Germany accounts for about 86 percent of water use and about The collection methodology complies with the guidelines of the 58 percent of waste water (excluding cooling water). GHG Protocol for the chemical industry. The calculation includes all Group entities. To calculate greenhouse gas emissions, we use In order to use water more than once, we add water used in a current emission factors from DEFRA, EPA, UBA and the IPPC production process to other processes as far as possible. In 2018, report AR5 for Scope 1 and from IEA for Scope 2. the volume of water recycled this way amounted to 2.4 million m3, compared to 2.2 m3 million the previous year. Other greenhouse gases besides CO2 make up a marginal part of Scope 1 emissions. Nevertheless, we are continuously working on more effective use and substitution with gases, Environmental protection measures which have a lower greenhouse effect. Environmental related investments totaled approximately Our activities to reduce Scope 2 emissions focus on increasing the EUR 4.6 million in 2018 (previous year: EUR 3.6 million). We alloefficiency of energy use. cate these investments according to typical environmental aspects, out of which EUR 1.9 million refer to water, EUR 1.5 million to air As a result of our measures to increase the efficiency of energy and EUR 1.2 million to climate protection. use in particular, CO2 emissions per wafer area produced, Scope 1 and 2, have fallen by a medium single-digit percentage comOur site in Portland is located in an area that has been used by pared with the previous year. industry for around 100 years. Due to detected contamination in the soil and the adjacent river, authorities have imposed requireIn addition, we motivate our employees to leave their cars at ments for monitoring and eliminating environmental pollution. As home. At the Burghausen site, we have been using commuter the owner of a property that has been contaminated and borders buses for shift workers for more than ten years. At our site in the river, Siltronic has been subject to specific environmental regPortland, Oregon, USA, we grant our employees subsidies for ulations in Portland for many years. In order to fully meet these public transport tickets, and in Singapore Siltronic offers shuttle requirements, we employ an employee who is solely responsible buses from the plant to various city districts. for implementing the environmental regulations. This measure ensures that the necessary coordination with the authorities takes place, formalities are fulfilled, qualified service providers are Other air emissions assigned and the remediation is coordinated. NOx emissions amounted to 104 tons in 2018 and NMVOC to 57 tons. Ozone-depleting substances are used negligibly in Emission of greenhouse gases production. Emissions of SOx, POP (persistent organic pollutants) and PM (particulate matter) are irrelevant as to their quantities. The groupwide carbon footprint is an essential instrument for improving climate protection. In addition to direct greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with Scope 1, we also determine indirect Influence of climate change emissions from the purchase of energy in accordance with Scope 2 and report these emissions as part of the assessment by CDP. In The demand for wafers is mainly driven by demand in the fields 2018, we evaluated additional indirect emissions along the value of mobile communication, computers and servers, data storage chain for the first time and measured them for individual categoon local devices and in the cloud, automotive electronic compories. We will continue to calculate the relevant Scope3 emissions nents, and industry in general. We do not view our business in 2019 and thereafter report them. model as being negatively impacted by climate change. On the contrary: without semiconductor components and therefore Greenhouse gas emissions (in t CO2 equivalents) wafers, electric mobility would not be possible, the feeding in of Description in accordance with electricity generated by solar installations and wind farms the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, causes unthinkable, and a great many smart ways of reducing power and main sources 2017 2018 consumption unfeasible. Moreover, storing data on semi­ Natural gas, fuel, con­ductor components consumes less electricity than other forms Scope 1 Direct emission climate-­impacting gases 12,512 11,952 of electronic data storage. GRI 201-2 Scope 2 Indirect emission Electricity, steam 268,528 268,208 10 Siltronic Annual Report 2018 / Non-financial report / 5. Personnel aspects 5. Personnel aspects Section 289c para. 2 number 2 of the German Commercial Code, UNGC Headcount and personnel planning strategy On December 31, 2018, Siltronic Group employed 3,914 people, 61 percent of whom were employed by Siltronic AG in Germany, 29 percent in Asia, and 10 percent in the USA. Headcount as at December 31, 2018 GRI 102-8 Men Women Total Employees in the Group Germany 1,889 482 2,371 61% Of which on permanent contracts 1,888 480 2,368 Of which on temporary contracts 1 2 3 Singapore and other Asian countries 801 329 1,130 29% Of which on permanent contracts 801 323 1,124 Of which on temporary contracts 0 6 6 USA 292 121 413 10% Of which on permanent contracts 292 120 412 Of which on temporary contracts 0 1 1 Employees in the Group 2,982 932 3,914 100% 3,502 worked full-time and 412 part-time. Of the part-time workAs demand in the semiconductor industry has historically shown ers, 54 percent were women, and 100 percent of the part-time considerable ups and downs and as we are required to cope with workers were in permanent employment. GRI 102-8 these changes, we pursue a flexible strategy in our personnel planning. The strategy includes covering a certain percentage of our Breakdown of employees by region personnel requirements in production with temporary staff, which (excluding temporary employees) also protects the core workforce. If a pronounced upturn in in % demand leads to production peaks, we employ temporary staff. Conversely, if personnel cost cuts become necessary due to a mar10 ket downturn, we initially reduce the number of temporary workUSA ers. If that measure proves insufficient we stop renewing fixedterm contracts , as a second stage. In a third step, we consider introducing reduced working hours for staff in areas particularly 29 impacted by a downturn. Asia In order to respond promptly to any significant changes in demand, 61 the personnel requirements resulting from incoming orders are Germany continuously compared with current and future staff levels. Any measures planned to substantially increase or reduce the number of employees are discussed by employer and employee representatives in a structured process. On December 31, 2018, Siltronic employed a total of 715 temporary workers (534 men and 181 women). The last time Siltronic needed to reduce working hours was in 2012. GRI 102-8 11 Siltronic Annual Report 2018 / Non-financial report / 5. Personnel aspects Relationship with employee representatives disability. The combined management report comprises information to employees with disabilities. and employees’ rights We reject discrimination or degradation on the basis of gender, The Siltronic Group cooperates with employee representatives in race or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, sexual orientation a spirit of goodwill, while regular meetings between employer and or age. These principles apply throughout the Group and are set employee representatives are convened. out in writing as part of our corporate culture. Employees can report potential discrimination to their managers, to the compliOur workforce has always been highly unionized, particularly in ance officers, the works council, the personnel department, or Germany. Since employees are not required to report union to an ombudsman. The complaint will be reviewed and the membership, and as it is inadmissible for employers to ask, we do complainant informed of the outcome. not know how many of our employees are union members. Sixty-one percent of employees work in units covered by collective All employees at the German locations are required to familiarize agreements. This relates to the employees in Germany.GRI 102-41 themselves with the General Equal Treatment Act (AGG) through e-learning training. The training course is applicable to all hierarchy If an employer’s collective bargaining agreement is in place, levels. Siltronic is obliged by the employment contract to treat employees as if the respective collective bargaining agreement were Our long-term goal is to raise the level of diversity in Siltronic’s applicable – regardless of their membership in a trade union. workforce, also by increasing the percentage of women in management positions. At the end of 2018, two of 17 positions At sites that do not have an established employee representation, one level below the Executive Board and two of 36 positions in there are employees who act as contacts for employee issues. the second management level were represented by women. The Corporate Governance Report provides more information on the In addition to remuneration and working time, essential employee proportion of women. rights in Germany include the right to parental leave or maternity leave. Naturally, German Siltronic employees make use of this right: The table below shows the percentage of men and women at As of December 31, 2018, 12 women and one man were either on management level at Siltronic AG: maternity or parental leave. Headcount as at December 31, 2018 Siltronic regularly informs the workforce about current developments that could have an impact on the business performance. Men Women Total Employees are comprehensively informed of any significant Employees in the Group at manoperational changes in a timely manner. Siltronic hereby agement level 49 4 53 complies with the respective national and international informaIn percent 92 8 100 tion requirements. Of which first level below Executive Board 15 2 17 In percent 88 12 100 Diversity and equal opportunity Of which second level below Executive Board 34 2 36 Siltronic operates in Europe, North America, and Asia and therefore in a culturally diverse environment. Siltronic AG, the largest In percent 94 6 100 of the Group’s companies, employed people of about 30 different nationalities during the year under review. One focus of our efforts is to leverage the existing diversity of modern society and, with this in mind, Siltronic AG has appointed a woman as Diversity Officer. The diversity of the workforce and its wide range of skills and talents also provides an opportunity for innovative and creative solutions. Among other factors, diversity includes gender, nationality, ethnic origins, religion and 12 Siltronic Annual Report 2018 / Non-financial report / 5. Personnel aspects We have defined mid-term goals for the percentage of women for Remuneration and equal pay the first and second level below the Executive Board. Until the end of June 2020, the percentage of woman should be at least 18 In order to attract new employees and retain existing ones, both percent in the first level of management and at least 8 percent in of which we require in order to ensure a successful future, we the second level. need to offer competitive levels of remuneration. In addition to their basic salary with vacation and Christmas bonuses, employees in Germany receive variable remuneration if the company achieves Advanced training and certain defined financial targets. This voluntary payment benefits both employees paid according to standard tariffs and those who demographic trends in Germany are not. There are also variable remuneration components for those employed by foreign subsidiaries. Competent employees keep the company both innovative and competitive. We encourage our employees in Germany to keep In addition to the fixed salary and the variable pay, remuneration learning throughout their lives and retain a flexible attitude includes various other benefits that extend beyond the statutory towards change, as we believe that we all need to be prepared minimum requirements, regardless of whether an employee works for longer working lives in order to cope with the demographic full-time or part-time. In Germany, the most important company change. To enable employees to make the most of their potential, benefits include in particular the company pension scheme, partial Siltronic offers a wide range of opportunities for further developretirement programs, bus subsidies, anniversary bonuses, canteen ment. The training measures relate to personality, management, subsidies, and preventive health care programs. Company and social competence as well as technical expertise. pension plans and health insurance are provided in the USA. Employees and their managers discuss development measures at The notes to the group financial statements comprises information least once a year in a performance review, regardless of hierarchy on personnel cost and retirement benefits. level, gender, or location. Fluctuation can be seen as a sign of how well we succeed in At the end of 2018, the average age of the typical employee was retaining employees and being attractive to new employees. In 44 years. The following table shows the age structure of Siltronic 2018, 601 employees were hired, of whom 231 were in Germany employees worldwide. and 370 abroad. These hires accounted for 15 percent of the workforce as of the balance sheet date. 291 employees left the Age structure as at December 31, 2018 company. This corresponds to 7 percent of the workforce as of the balance sheet date. Germany was affected in 40 cases and Male Female Total other countries in 251 cases. Fluctuation was low in Germany and Under 30 years of age 15 % 18 % 16 % the USA and regionally typical higher in Asia. 30 to 50 years of age 48 % 53 % 49 % We regard it as important to treat temporary workers fairly. We Over 50 years of age 37 % 29 % 35 % pay at a minmum the wage defined under the collective agreeTotal 100 100 % 100 % ment on industry surcharges for temporary employment in the chemical industry (TV BZ Chemie). In addition, there are workIn 2018, some 20,000 e-learning courses were provided and place, shift, and other voluntary allowances, which can vary around 1,900 employees attended seminars, further education or according to business and location. In addition, Siltronic meets the similar events. requirements for an equivalent wage in accordance with the German Temporary Employment Act (AÜG). Temporary workers have received a variable pay equal to the employees of Siltronic AG in Germany in 2018 for the year 2017. The payment was based on the financial performance of the company. 13 Siltronic Annual Report 2018 / Non-financial report / 5. Personnel aspects Occupational health and safety The number of accidents has decreased in a comparison over a number of years but is still not satisfactory. As the accidents are Responsibility towards the entire workforce in the field of occuessentially behavior-induced, we have launched initiatives that pational health and safety plays a major role at Siltronic and is specifically address this cause. primarily reflected in extensive preventive measures. Secondly, the Executive Board receives regular reports on the development of Accidents at work 1) accident figures, which are a non-financial indicator, as well as on Number of accidents per million working hours any relevant occupational accidents and related corrective measures. Special attention is given to injuries involving chemicals. The 4.0 target figure for injuries involving chemicals is 0. 3.3 3.0 With our safety program, we work continuously to improve safety standards within the working environment. Key measures include 2.0 1.9 1.9 the appointment of safety officers, safety inspection tours, training courses, talks with operating staff, and emergency drills, all aimed 1.0 at identifying and avoiding unsafe activities – whether when operating equipment, handling chemicals, in the workplace, in the office, or on the way to work. The occupational health and safety 0 standard OHSAS 18001 has been defined as a group-wide 2016 2017 2018 standard. Despite these measures, however, accidents still occur. 1) Loss of one or more working days The following table shows the development of accident figures, which the Executive Board has defined as an indicator, and on We also run awareness raising campaigns on the subject of stumwhich it receives regular reports. bling, slipping and falling, a program for reporting safety-critical situations, and measures for onboarding new employees as our Number of work accidents per 1 million working hours internal statistics show a higher accident risk in the first few months for this group. With this in mind, 2018 saw the launch of 2016 2017 2018 the new “GEFAHRRADT” safety concept. Work accidents 1) 3.3 1.9 1.9 Under the GEFAHRRADT concept, employees are made aware as Injuries involving chemicals 2 1 0 far as possible of accidents that have actually happened at the very location, along with safety-critical situations and their causes of 1) Accidents are counted in the statistics if the employee involved is unfit to work for at least one day. The statistics include work accidents involving temporary staff. accident, as well as measures planned and implemented to avoid accidents in future. The overall concept is aimed at systematically The targets for 2018 were 1.8 for occupational accidents per improving our culture of safety. 1 million working hours and 0 for injuries involving chemicals. The number of occupational accidents exceeded the self-imposed target to a negligible extent, and the target for injuries with chemEmployee satisfaction icals was reached. There have been no fatal or serious accidents at work in recent years. An employee survey was conducted in March 2018 at the German sites under the slogan of “Your Opinion Counts”. Compared with the previous survey in 2015, participation rates increased by 10 percentage points to 69 points of employees. The findings of the survey were very positive overall. With a view to increasing employee satisfaction, we plan to concentrate primarily on the areas of idea management, feedback and management behavior. 14 Siltronic Annual Report 2018 / Non-financial report / 6. Supply chain 6. Supply chain UNGC, Sustainable Development Goals Supplier relationships Sustainability with regard to customers In 2018, our purchasing volume totaled almost EUR 728 million. Technical progress and innovation in the interaction between We cooperate with more than 3,800 suppliers worldwide, nearly Siltronic and many of its customers is of great significance, due to 300 of whom constitute some 90 percent of our purchasing the fact that technical progress in the semiconductor industry is volume. The volume purchased in Europe accounts for around advancing quicker than in many other industries. The technical 64 percent, just under 28 percent is sourced from Asia, and North advancement that semiconductor manufacturers are achieving is America accounts for 8 percent. The most important supplier is above all evident in the fact that electronic circuits are becoming Wacker Chemie AG, which not only supplies us with the raw more compact. Smaller circuits make semiconductors more effimaterial polysilicon, but also provides a variety of on-site services cient and they consume less electricity at the same time. This at our plant in Burghausen under the terms of a service agreedevelopment can only be maintained if wafers meet more sophisment. Furthermore, suppliers of electricity and equipment are ticated physical and chemical specifications. Our customers set the particularly important. GRI 102-9 pace of development. In order to satisfy their expectations, we have spent between five and seven percent of our sales on research We strive to ensure that our suppliers act responsibly with regard and development in recent years. to working conditions, ethical standards, safety standards, and the management of local resources. One of the key measures we have As previously mentioned in the waste management section, we enacted is to ensure that our suppliers commit, within the framehave worked for years to convince our customers to use reusable work of our general procurement conditions, to comply with the transport packaging and our efforts have been successful. principles of the UN Global Compact and the Responsible Care® initiative. However, should we detect any violations of these In our dealings with customers, we commit ourselves to respecting regulations within the framework of our cooperation, we discuss the freedom of association, to the abolition of all forms of forced these observations with the relevant suppliers and demand labor, the abolition of child labor and the avoidance of discrimiimprovements. nation. Our expectations of suppliers’ careful and sensible treatment of their employees and the environment are also documented in our Code of Conduct. Conflict minerals Siltronic AG does not source any conflict materials (gold, tantalum, tungsten, tin) from mines in conflict areas (§1502 Dodd-Frank Act). Siltronic limbers up to be “Fit for the NAP“ The Company is participating in the qualification offensive of the German network of Global Compact in the context of the Business and Human Rights National Action Plan (NAP). 15 Siltronic Annual Report 2018 / Non-financial report / 7. Social responsibility and social aspects 7. S ocial responsibility and social aspects Section 289c para. 2 numbers 3/4/5 of the German Commercial Code For Siltronic, sustainability also means transparency and openness Employees who have contact with business partners are required in the sense of corporate citizenship. This begins with a good to complete an e-learning course on compliance. Furthermore, all relationship with our neighbors and speaking openly about what employees in sales and marketing are required to undergo online happens within the plant, as well as addressing questions posed training courses on antitrust law. GRI 102-17 by the public worldwide. This is the only way to create the spirit of social trust that companies need in order to be economically successful. With these points in mind, Siltronic assumes social Human rights responsibility, particularly in the regions near its various locations. Our concepts in this respect extend beyond the above-mentioned Our four production sites are located in highly developed indusglobal initiatives RBA and the United Nations Global Compact: trialized countries, where there is a low risk of human rights violations compared to less developed nations. A certain degree of risk, however, does remain. Since we want to actively fight Combating legal violations, human rights violations within our company as well as in the upstream and downstream supply chain, we have taken measures particularly corruption and bribery to identify possible contraventions. According to the Corruption Perception Index of Transparency Via our Code of Conduct, we explicitly endorse the ten principles International (CPI), Siltronic operates predominantly in countries of the United Nations Global Compact initiative. The first two with a medium to low risk of corruption. principles of the Global Compact deal with upholding human rights and the exclusion of human rights abuses. Based on the first We resolutely oppose any form of transgression or violation of the principle of the Global Compact “support for human rights” and law. Irrespective of the national probabilities of occurrence, our the second principle “exclusion of human rights abuses”, Siltronic compliance system described above is designed to avoid, prevent, implements the following measures in particular: identify and sanction compliance violations in form of corruption, fraud, infringements of competition rules, and other manifesta• Siltronic does not purchase materials, goods, or services from tions of white-collar crime, in every market in which we operate. suppliers or service providers who do not undertake to uphold human rights. We implement this aim by requiring suppliers and Employees are required to report any violations they observe to service providers to accept our relevant purchasing principles. their managers, compliance officers, the works council, or the • We train our employees at specific seminars to ensure compliresponsible members of staff in the personnel department. Moreance with internationally proclaimed human rights. over, both employees and third parties can anonymously report • If we become aware of potentially critical aspects with regard violations of legal regulations to an external ombudsman, who to human rights, we analyze them. Should a situation turn out has been appointed by Siltronic. The Company investigates every to be critical in the face of analysis, we take action. reasonable suspicion, examines the case and defines measures to • In our dealings with customers, we commit to upholding remedy any weaknesses identified. It also takes any disciplinary human rights and to excluding any abuses thereof. measures deemed necessary. The Chief Compliance Officer reports to the Executive Board of Siltronic AG on a monthly and ad-hoc basis. GRI 102-17 16 Siltronic Annual Report 2018 / Non-financial report / 7. Social responsibility and social aspects Non-profit purposes and Relationships with associations corporate volunteering and with politics Employees within Germany participate in the cent donation We are committed to responsible behavior towards political parties program organized by the Wacker Relief Fund in which employees and non-governmental organizations. We represent our political consent to having their monthly salary rounded downwards to the interests in accordance with the standpoints we have publicly next lower amount in euros. These remaining cent amounts are expressed. Our approach to politics is based on factual considerthen donated. Every year, Siltronic employees at the Freiberg site ations, and we are open to dialog with all democratic parties. Any take part in the Nepal run in the autumn. The charity run that is donations made to political parties require the approval of the organized from a school close to Freiberg collects money to fund Executive Board of Siltronic AG. the construction of schools in the Gati region of Nepal. In addition, Siltronic AG has made a donation. We do not hold special positions in any association or organization in which we are a member. Siltronic has not participated in legisIn 2018 in Singapore, Siltronic supported the building of reefs in lative procedures. GRI 415-1 the sea to create a coral habitat. At at our Portland/USA location, our employees organized a charTaxes ity campaign in 2018 to help those affected by the consequences of hurricane “Florence”, with the Company doubling the funds In the reporting year, Siltronic’s effective income tax expense donated by the employees. amounted to EUR 105.1 million. Our employees have supported needy families in the region of In each tax jurisdiction where a subsidiary or a permanent establishPortland for more than 20 years. ment gave rise to a tax obligation, significant expenses were incurred for effective income tax (in relation to earnings before taxes). In addition, Siltronic supports local schools and educational institutions. Dialog at regional levels At all locations, we maintain regular exchanges with the authorities in the field of environmental protection. In acknowledgement of this commitment our manufacturing company in the United States has been awarded the “Gold Compliance Award for No Pretreatment Violations” and the “Gold Sustainability at Work Certification Bureau of Sustainability” from the city of Portland, Oregon. Partnerships and membership in associations and initiatives We have taken part in the following initiatives: • CDP Climate change, Water Security (Investor, Supply chain) •  UN Global Compact (member since 2017), Peer-Learning Group Climate strategy, program “Fit for NAP National Action Plan Economy und and human rights” • Charta of Diversity • Responsible Business Alliance 17 Siltronic Annual Report 2018 / Non-financial report / 7. Social responsibility and social aspects United Nations Global Compact Siltronic is a member of the Global Compact and hereby reports on its progress. GRI 102-12 Principles Relevant headings in this report Measures implemented (key examples) Siltronic does not purchase materials, goods, or services from suppliers or service providers who do not undertake to uphold human rights. We implement this aim by requiring suppliers and service providers to accept our relevant purchasing principles. Human rights • Corporate ethics at Siltronic We train our employees at specific seminars to ensure compliance with Principle 1: internationally proclaimed human rights. Support of human rights • The impact of ethical principles on the organization of Siltronic In our Code of Conduct we explicitly commit ourselves to all ten Principle 2: principles of the Global Compact. Exclusion of • Human rights human rights abuses In our dealings with customers, we commit to uphold human rights and exclude any abuses thereof. We participated in the qualification program Fit for NAP of the German Global Compact Network We have taken steps to ensure that an employee can turn to authorities Labor standards for information on violations of the Labor standards. Apart from their manager employees can report to compliance officers based at the variPrinciple 3: ous locations, the personnel department, and an external ombudsman. Uphold freedom of association • Corporate ethics at Siltronic We will punish proven misconduct according to its degree of severity. Principle 4: • Relationship with employee representatives Eliminate all forms Some 62 percent of employees work in units that have independent and employees’ rights of forced and compulsory labor employee representation. • Diversity and equal opportunity Principle 5: As a supplier to the electronics industry, Siltronic observes the code of • Sustainability with regard to customers Abolition of child labor conduct set out by the Responsible Business Alliance RBA. Principle 6: In our dealings with customers, we commit ourselves to respecting the Elimination of discrimination freedom of association, to the abolition of all forms of forced labor, the abolition of child labor and the avoidance of discrimination. Worldwide certification of our environmental management system according to ISO 14001 and the energy management system at the GerEnvironmental protection man sites in accordance with ISO 50001. Principle 7: • Environmental protection measures Implementation of defined non-financial performance indicators aimed Precautionary environmental at reducing the specific use of raw materials, specific energy consumpprotection • The impact of ethical principles on the tion, and increasing the utilization rate of reusable packaging that can organization of Siltronic be reused to package wafers. Principle 8: Initiatives for greater • Dialog at regional levels Annual preparation of a sustainability report that is subject to an environmental responsibility external audit (non-financial report). • Influence of climate change Principle 9: Our technologies form the basis for manufacturing smaller and more Development and diffusion of energy-efficient components in the modern world of electronics. That environmentally friendly technologies way, we contribute towards preserving precious resources and reducing carbon dioxide emissions worldwide. Regular training courses Anti-corruption • Corporate ethics at Siltronic Setting up of a compliance Principle 10: • Combating legal violations, particularly In dealing with our customers, we are committed to taking measures Measures to fight corruption corruption and bribery designed to combat corruption. Appointing of an external ombudsman 18 Siltronic Annual Report 2018 / Non-financial report / Report of the independent auditor for the purpose of obtaining limited assurance regarding the separate non-financial report Report of the independent auditor for the Responsibility of the auditor Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Report based purpose of obtaining limited assurance on our work performed within our limited assurance engagement. regarding the separate non-financial report We conducted our audit work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): To the Supervisory Board of Siltronic AG, Munich “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” published by IAASB. This Standard We have performed an independent limited assurance engagement requires that we plan and perform the assurance engagement to on the combined non-financial report („Report“) of Siltronic AG, obtain limited assurance whether any matters have come to our Munich, (“Siltronic”) and the group according to §§ 315b and 315c attention that cause us to believe that the Report of the entity for in conjunction with 289b to 289e German Commercial Code (HGB) the business year [Kategorie] has not been prepared, in all material for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2018. respects, in accordance with §§ 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289b to 289e HGB. We do not, however, provide a separate Responsibility of the legal representatives conclusion for each disclosure. In a limited assurance engagement The legal representatives of Siltronic are responsible for the prepathe evidence gathering procedures are more limited than in a ration of the Report in accordance with §§ 315b and 315c in reasonable assurance engagement and therefore significantly less conjunction with 289b to 289e HGB. assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. The choice of audit procedures is subject to the auditor’s own This responsibility of the legal representatives includes the selecjudgement. tion and application of appropriate methods to prepare the Report and the use of assumptions and estimates for individual disclosures Within the scope of our engagement, we performed amongst which are reasonable under the given circumstances. Furthermore, others the following assurance procedures: this responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining systems and processes relevant for the preparation of the – Inquiries of personnel on corporate level, who are responsible Report in a way that is free of – intended or unintended – material for the materiality analysis, in order to gain an understanding misstatements of the processes for determining material sustainability topics and respective reporting boundaries of Siltronic Independence and quality assurance – A risk analysis, including a media search, to identify relevant on the part of the auditing firm information on Siltronic sustainability performance in the We are independent from the company in accordance with the reporting period requirements of independence and quality assurance set out in – Reviewing the suitability of internally developed reporting legal provisions and professional pronouncements and have criteria fulfilled our additional professional obligations in accordance with – Evaluation of the design and implementation of the systems these requirements. and processes for determining, processing and monitoring disclosures relating to environmental, employee and social matOur audit firm applies the national statutory provisions and proters, respect for human rights, and combating corruption and fessional pronouncements for quality assurance, in particular the bribery, including the consolidation of the data Professional Code for German Public Auditors and Chartered – Inquiries of personnel on corporate level who are responsible Accountants (in Germany) and the quality assurance standard of for determining disclosures on concepts, due diligence prothe German Institute of Public Auditors (“Institut der Wirtschaftscesses, results and risks, for conducting internal controls and prüfer” or “IDW”) regarding quality assurance requirements in consolidation of the disclosures audit practice (IDW QS 1). – Evaluation of selected internal and external documentation – Analytical evaluation of data and trends of quantitative information which are reported by all sites for consolidation on corporate level – Evaluation of local data collection, validation and reporting processes as well as the reliability of reported data based on a sample of the site in Singapore – Assessment of the overall presentation of the disclosures 19 Siltronic Annual Report 2018 / Non-financial report / Report of the independent auditor for the purpose of obtaining limited assurance regarding the separate non-financial report Conclusion Based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Report of Siltronic for the business year from January 1 to December 31, 2018 is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with §§ 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289b to 289e HGB. Restriction of Use/Clause on General Engagement Terms This report is issued for purposes of the Supervisory Board of Siltronic AG, Munich, only. We assume no responsibility with regard to any third parties. Our assignment for the Supervisory Board of Siltronic AG, Munich, and professional liability is governed by the General Engagement Terms for Wirtschaftsprüfer and Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften (Allgemeine Auftragsbedingungen für Wirtschaftsprüfer und Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften) in the version dated January 1, 2017 (https://www.kpmg.de/bescheinigungen/lib/aab_english. pdf). By reading and using the information contained in this report, each recipient confirms notice of provisions of the General Engagement Terms (including the limitation of our liability for negligence to EUR 4 million as stipulated in No. 9) and accepts the validity of the General Engagement Terms with respect to us. Munich, March 1, 2019 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Hell ppa. Graff 20
