CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Polpharma Group 2017-2018 Table of contents Table of contents.................................................... 3 Introductory Letter..................................................................................................................................................................... 4 Polpharma in a nutshell...........................................................................................................................................................6 Management principles.......................................................................................................................................................... 18 External cooperation...............................................................................................................................................................24 Ethical business conduct...................................27 Ethics................................................................................................................................................................................................ 28 Values............................................................................................................................................................................................... 30 Product quality and safety..................................................................................................................................................32 Occupational safety standards........................................................................................................................................ 36 Employee development and satisfaction.................................................................................................................. 38 Diversity.......................................................................................................................................................................................... 45 Care for the environment..................................................................................................................................................... 46 Sustainable supply chain...................................................................................................................................................... 52 Serving patients and our communities....57 Pharmaceutical security in Poland................................................................................................................................. 58 Health Education and Preventive Care........................................................................................................................ 59 Local community development........................................................................................................................................ 62 Innovation and advancing knowledge......67 Digital transformation............................................................................................................................................................68 Innovation....................................................................................................................................................................................... 71 Science-Business Cooperation...........................................................................................................................................74 Educational initiatives for physicians and pharmacists......................................................................................77 About the report.................................................... 81 Tables with GRI numeric indicators................................................................................................................................ 83 GRI content index.....................................................................................................................................................................89 2 3 Introductory Letter ness providing end-to-end prevention and health care mented the necessary analytical methods, and we work support for patients. We also want to participate closely with the European Medicines Agency in assessing in the shift towards a patient-centric health care system. the risk of NDMA presence in medicinal products. Environmental issues and the fight against climate change Some of the developments in our business environment are a major global problem today. One of the important in recent years have encouraged us to take steps towards processes implemented in 2018 was an analysis of the a long-term transformation of our Group. We are facing opportunities for wider adoption of circular economy solua slowdown of the pharmaceutical market and a significant tions within the Polpharma Group. As a result, a list increase in the costs of raw materials, utilities, and other of recommended actions was developed which we are resources. It is increasingly difficult to resist the growing going to implement in the coming years. We also intend competition or respond to new patient expectations while to work even more closely with our suppliers to jointly continuing to invest in development. Our existing way minimise the environmental impact of the goods and serof working may just not be enough in the long term. vices sourced by the Polpharma Group. At the same time, Therefore, to succeed in the future, we devised our transwe will continue to promote the Ten Principles of the UN formation concept in 2018, which will be implemented Global Compact, which we are part of, and to implement in the next three years or more. We want to become the UN Sustainable Development Goals. the best performing and most effective business in the healthcare sector while being an innovative and contiSome of the challenges faced in the period covered nuously learning organisation. To do that, we need to be by this report affected the entire pharmaceutical industry, faster, more agile and effective. We need to improve especially with regard to the quality standards and safety cooperation among the teams and build a culture based of medicinal products. In 2018, we faced a global recall of on mutual respect, openness, and creativity. In many areas, medicines containing valsartan as the active substance. the transformation will call for a fresh perspective on our The recall spanned a broad range of products from many processes, requiring us to give up old habits and develop Dear All, the first domestically-owned company to win the 2018 manufacturers, including one of our drugs. The recall was innovative solutions. We need to focus on simplifying Responsible Business Ranking in Poland. It is our great due to the detection of N-nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA) our processes and procedures, making smarter use of the We are happy to present to you the latest edition of the pride and it drives us in our continued efforts. in the products. This chemical compound is commonly resources, and increasing productivity through automation, Corporate Social Responsibility Report of the Polpharma present in our daily lives, for instance in foods. Per the digitisation, and standardisation. Group in Poland. In addition to an overview of the Group’s In an employee survey conducted for the Polpharma Group WHO International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) indicators and achievements in 2017-2018, this Report also in October 2018, an overwhelming 90% of the responclassification, NDMA has been classified as category 2A We want to be an even better employer and an even provides a summary of our first CSR strategy for 2015dents stated that it was important for them to work for – “probably carcinogenic in humans”. However, this effect better partner for patients, customers, and other stakehol2018. It is founded on three pillars: serving patients and a company that continues developing its CSR practices. has not been confirmed in humans; the only available data ders. We believe that by working together, we will prepare our communities, ethical business conduct, and innovaI am particularly pleased with our employees’ involvement comes from animal testing. Polpharma for the challenges of the future. tion and advancement of knowledge. It was designed in CSR projects, including initiatives dedicated to building to support us in the achievement of 6 global Sustainable our corporate culture and innovation, among other causes. The presence of NDMA in drugs has not been subject Development Goals. Together with our team, we developed a new annual to any additional evaluations or analyses in the past, and assessment system based on our values and behaviours there have been no requirements in Europe to identify Our CSR strategy is crucial to the development of our which will be implemented in 2019. Also, we engaged our NDMA. The detection of NDMA in valsartan brought new business. The implementation of advanced programmes, employees in a discussion on digital transformation which knowledge to the global pharmaceutical industry and such as the Ethics Programme or Sustainable Supply Chain, is one of the most important trends that is changing the Kind regards, helped improve drug-testing standards. This improved the raising CSR awareness among our employees and suppliers, entire healthcare system. Thanks to the Polpharma Digital detection of NDMA, previously absent in any product speand strengthening a culture of quality and stakeholder diaMarkus Sieger Community, we have devised about 200 ideas leveraging cifications, contributing to enhanced patient safety. logue are just some of the processes and initiatives that advanced technology to improve our business performance President of the Management have redefined the Polpharma Group. This allowed and create innovative solutions for patients. We wish Polpharma took the NDMA issue very seriously. We have Board of Polpharma S.A. Polpharma to achieve a historic success by becoming to evolve from a traditional drug manufacturer into a busiestablished a special team within the company and impleCEO of the Polpharma Group 4 5 Our motto is People Helping People Polpharma in a nutshell We are the largest Polpharma STAROGARD GDAŃSKI headquarters, laboratory, WARSAW commercial office, laboratory, manufacturer of medicines and active pharmaceutical ingredients in Poland and one Group manufacturing site manufacturing site of the largest pharmaceutical groups in Central and Eastern Europe in Poland NOWA DĘBA SIERADZ manufacturing site laboratory, manufacturing site We are one of Poland’s economic champions and the DUCHNICE GDANSK (until 31 Dec 2018) leader of the Polish pharmaceutical market manufacturing site laboratory, manufacturing site in terms of sales 6 7 Locations of the Polpharma Group and its strategic partners and the key markets for Polpharma’s medicines POLPHARMA GROUP FARMAPROJECTS in Poland a strategic partner in Spain SANTO MEMBER OF GEOGRAPHICAL RANGE POLPHARMA GROUP of representative offices in Kazahstan AKRIKHIN DISTRIBUTION MODEL a strategic partner in Russia 8 9 Sales of active pharmaceutical Management of Polpharma Group ingredients by regions companies (as at 31 December 2018) Composition of the Management Board of Zakłady Farmaceutyczne Polpharma SA 49% Europe Markus Sieger President of the Bożenna Kozakiewicz Vice-President of the Ireneusz Martyniuk Vice-President of the Tomasz Moys Vice-President of the Management Board Management Board Management Board Management Board 23% North Gertjan Noordermeer Vice-President of the Sebastian Szymanek Vice-President of the Andrzej Dziuban Member of the America Management Board Management Board Management Board Composition of the Management Board of Polpharma Biuro Handlowe Sp. z o.o. 20% Asia Sebastian Szymanek Marcin Bruchmann Mateusz Lesiński Agata Łapińska-Kołodzińska President of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Management Board Management Board Management Board Management Board 5% Middle East Artur Makarewicz Marcin Smoliński & North Africa Member of the Management Board Member of the Management Board Composition of the Management Board of Medana Pharma S.A. 2% Latin Anna Durdyn President of the Sławomir Adamiak Vice-President of the Elżbieta Man Vice-President of the America Management Board Management Board Management Board Composition of the Management Board of Polfa Warszawa S.A. 1% Rest of the Tomasz Moys Krzysztof Raczyński Małgorzata Cegielska-Matysiak World President of the Management Board Member of the Management Board Member of the Management Board pln 2,910 revenue generated by Polpharma Group’s m 5,094 Polpharma Group’s employees in Poland 1 8 8,089 78% in Polish companies in 2018* (as at the end of 2018) medicine packages in Polish pharmacies and 1 in 3 in Polish hospitals come from the suppliers working with the Group’s Polish companies in 2018 of our suppliers come from Poland (data for 2018) pln 2,739 revenue generated by Polpharma Group’s Polish m *Revenue information based on Polpharma Group’s consolidated financial statements for 2017 and 2018. The revenue from the Group’s operations in Poland is exclusive of the revenues generated by Ipochem which is not in scope for reporting and by companies operating outside Poland. The revenue is inclusive of the revenue from the sales of phytopharmaceuticals manufactured by Herbapol-Lublin, to which Polpharma Biuro Polpharma Group companies in 2017* Handlowe Sp. z o.o. provides sales and marketing services. 10 11 Core products and services Prescription OTC Medical drugs products devices Cosmetics Food Active supplements pharmaceutical ingredients B2B market Dietary foods for special medical purposes Products available in the Group’s portfolio* in different forms, dosages, and package sizes: Sales Out-licensing Contract development of active pharmaceutical of Polpharma Group and manufacturing services 816 1,131 ingredients products products (SKUs) on the Polish market products (SKUs) on export markets** Our customers include patients and consumers using * Our portfolio consists of products for which the marketing authorisation holders are Zakłady Farmaceutyczne Polpharma S.A., Medana Pharma S.A., and Polfa Warszawa S.A., as well our products, drug distributors and other pharmaceutical as products manufactured by Herbapol-Lublin to which Polpharma Biuro Handlowe Sp. z o.o. provides sales and marketing services. **A product with the same active ingredient content, dosage form, and route of administration sold on several markets is counted as a separate product on each market as it requires a separate marketing authorisation and has a different packaging, patient information leaflet and/or name in each country. companies (B2B market). 12 13 Economic impact – the contribution Three areas of impact: of the Polpharma Group to the Added value measures the company‘s contribution to Poland‘s gross domestic product. It is the increase in the value of goods resulting from a specific production process or the creation of a service. growth of Poland‘s economy pln 2.068 bn added value generated in 2018 from business operations of the Polpharma Group in Poland, of which: Through its investments, spending on goods and services, and the creation of many new jobs, the Polpharma Direct effect Indirect effect Induced effect pln 397.69 m pln 948.38 m pln 722.13 m Group contributes to the growth of the Polish pharmaceutical industry as well as the entire Polish economy. Each zloty of added value generated by the Polpharma Group in Poland helps bring a total of PLN 5.2 into the domestic economy. pln 1,228.6 m is the total value of materials and services purchased from Polish suppliers As at the end of 2018, the number of direct employees of the Polpharma Group in Poland was 5,094 people. by the Polpharma Group in 2018. 15 860 jobs were created and maintained in 2018 thanks to the Polpharma Group in Poland, of which: Direct effect Indirect effect Induced effect pln 292.9 m total amount of taxes paid to the state and local governments by Polpharma Group in 2018, of which: 5,094 6,228 4,539 Corporate income tax Personal income tax Each job maintained by the Polpharma Group contributes to maintaining a total of 3.11 jobs in Poland. (CIT): (PIT): Value added tax (VAT) Other: pln 84.5 m pln 63.9 m pln 61.2 m pln 83.3 m The condition of the labour market largely determines the economic situation of households. Increased employment and wages have an impact on the quality of life of employees and their families. pln 718.09 m total amount of remuneration generated by Polpharma Group in Poland in 2018, of which: Three levels of Polpharma Group’s impact on the domestic economy: Direct effect Indirect effect Induced effect » Direct impact resulting from the company’s core business operations pln 355.64 m pln 197.82 m pln 164.63 m » Indirect impact generated through engagement of suppliers and companies from related industries » Induced impact generated through the spending made by the company‘s employees and the employees Each zloty of remuneration (net) paid by the Polpharma Group in Poland helps generate a total of PLN 2.1 of income for of the Group’s affiliates other households. 14 15 Awards and distinctions Most Attractive Employer Polityka magazine’s based on the Universum 1st place Student Survey Polpharma was recognised as the Golden Leaf in the 12th Perfect Employer in the Science category (2017) and in the category CSR Award Responsible of Science, Health and Medicine (2018) 2016 and 2017 Companies Ranking (2018) Wprost magazine’s Eagle Award Winner Pomeranian Region’s Innovation Leader (2017) of the Fair Play Enterprise Certificate (2017) “Company with a Good Image” Brown Hoopoe Award title awarded in a Business Centre Club compein the Ekoaktywni programme (2017) tition (2017) Polish Economy Promoter Winner of the 22nd edition of the IT Leader title awarded by the Polish Promotional Emblem competition Foundation “Teraz Polska” (2017) organised by the editorial team of the Computerworld magazine (2018) „Computerworld” (2018) Giant of Pharmacy honorary title Winner awarded by Gazeta Farmaceutyczna magazine (2017) of the Fair Play Enterprise Certificate (2018) “Advocate for the Standard of the Ethics Program” Diamond to the Polish Business Leader Statuette title awarded by the United Nations Global Compact awarded in a Business Centre Club competition (2017) Poland (2018) EB Creator Award “Investor Without Borders” honorary title for running Poland’s first internship programme for awarded by the editorial team of the WNP.PL economic students and graduates in biotechnology and related portal and the organiser of the European Economic sciences (2017) Congress (2018) Also, Polpharma was awarded 6th place in the National Champions ranking compiled by the Polityka Insight analytical centre. The following criteria were taken into account: the company’s importance for Polish economy, position in the industry, international presence, and innovation. The company received its highest score for innovation, ranking 3rd among all champions in this category. 16 17 Management principles Polpharma Group’s CSR efforts are coordinated by the Our CSR priorities and the resulting specific commitHead of Corporate Communications and CSR reporting ments have been defined in Polpharma Group‘s Social to the President of the Management Board of PolResponsibility Strategy. This has allowed us to better pharma SA. Management representatives are regularly respond to the needs of those around us while develoupdated on the progress in the implementation of ping the business based on our system of values. specific programmes and initiatives as part of the CSR In 2015-2018, the Group’s CSR efforts focused on patistrategy. The Company has also set up the Compliance ent and community service, ethical business conduct, Committee and the Sustainable Supply Chain Team. and innovation and the advancement of knowledge. The first one is composed of representatives of the Management Board and top managers, and the second Within these focus areas, we have pursued 14 specific commitments. In 2019, we updated our Social ResponServing patients and one – of managers of various functions, including Prosibility Strategy until 2021. our communities curement, Quality, OHS, Environmental Protection, and Compliance. WE ENSURE PHARMACEUTICAL WE SUPPORT SECURITY IN POLAND PATIENT COMPLIANCE » We provide Polish patients with access to cutting» We distributed 8,000 copies of the handbook “TheraHow did we implement our edge therapies at affordable prices peutic Non-Compliance: From Causes to Practical » In 2015-2018, we invested over PLN 2 bn into fixed Solutions” issued by the Polpharma Scientific Founassets and Research & Development, of which over dation to libraries at medical universities and science PLN 1.1 bn in 2017-2018 institutes, as well as to students and doctors 2015-2018 CSR strategy? » In Poland, we are the only manufacturer of 42 essential products, including life-saving medicines WE PROMOTE DISEASE PREVENTION AMONG PATIENTS WE SUPPORT THE DEVELOPMENT AND EMPLOYEES OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES » We provide extended health care and we run health » We engage in a regular dialogue with local commupromotion initiatives for our employees nities » Our health educational and preventive initiatives » In 2015-2018, our volunteers worked 9,683 hours reached many more people than the million we initially to benefit local communities, of which 4,862 hours defined in our strategy. Some people saw, heard or read in 2017-2018 our health campaign communications more than once 18 19 Ethical business conduct WE ENSURE HIGH QUALITY WE STRENGTHEN OF OUR PRODUCTS AND SAFE THE COMPANY’S ETHICS CULTURE PHARMACOTHERAPY Innovation and » We have developed a new employee assessment system which includes ethical conduct » We have implemented the Quality Plus programme to increase our employees’ commitment to the contiadvancing knowledge in line with Polpharma Group’s values as one nual improvement of the quality of our products and of the assessment criteria services » Every employee receives ethics training at least » In 2017-2018, we reviewed 1,927 adverse event reports WE IMPLEMENT INNOVATIVE WE EDUCATE THE MEDICAL AND once every two years SOLUTIONS PHARMACEUTICAL COMMUNITIES WE NURTURE EMPLOYEE » In 2018, we invested more than 9% of our revenues » Since 2012, more than 9,500 physicians have attenWE ENSURE AND PROMOTE GROWTH AND COMMITMENT (PLN 271 M) in R & D ded the central conferences under Polpharma’s ENHANCED OHS STANDARDS » In 2018, we submitted the largest number of EuroEuropean Educational Programme » We have implemented a new competency model pean patent applications among Polish companies » During the implementation of the strategy, no and extensive development programmes for severe workplace accident occurred at any of our managers within the Polpharma Group plants » We have introduced teleworking and home office WE BRIDGE SCIENCE AND BUSINESS » With the Stop Accidents programme in 2015-2018, solutions » We have changed the rules of competitions run by the Polpharma Scientific Foundation by dedicating our supwe eliminated 4,316 near misses, including 2,383 port to young researchers (aged up to 35 years) events in 2017-2018 WE CARE ABOUT THE » We participate in the Implementation Doctorates Programme, which enrolled 11 Ph.D. students to work ENVIRONMENT at Polpharma in 2018. WE BUILD A CULTURE OF » In collaboration with the Medical University of Gdańsk, we have created a new M.Sc. programme called the DIVERSITY » 67.8% of our waste is sent for recovery or recycling Pharmaceutical and Cosmetic Industry. » 27.8% of all materials used by Polpharma come » We have developed a partnership with the Technical Secondary School No. 1 in Starogard Gdański (2 class profi» We continued our participation in the Diversity from recycling les: analytical lab technicians and automation technicians). Charter project » We have been granted the Green Office Certificate 69% 66% 90% » We implemented a number of intergenerational for our Warsaw office for management solutions » In 2015-2018, we spent nearly PLN 27 million » We obtained the “Building without barriers” certion environmental protection investments, ficate for our Warsaw office. of which approx. PLN 16.6 million in 2017-2018 WE BUILD A RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN of our employees recognise of our employees recognise its of our employees consider the impact of our CSR impact on their daily work it important to work in » 100% of our suppliers received the Polpharma Group Code of Conduct for Suppliers strategy on the company‘s a company that develops CSR » We performed screening of 3,919 suppliers operations practices* » 64% of our key suppliers meet the Code requirements » We have started preparations to implement the ISO 20400 Sustainable Procurement – Guidance * Results of the Polpharma Group employee survey conducted in October 2018 20 21 Polpharma Group’s Social Responsibility The activities undertaken as part of our CSR Strategy for 2015-2018 contributed to the implementation of 6 out of the Strategy for 2019-2021 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals: Innovation and advancing knowledge We implement innovative solutions Implementation of 10 Global Compact We forge collaboration between science and business Principles Human rights Ethics programme and values – pp. 28-31 Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internaRequirements for suppliers We ensure pharmaceutical Serving patients tionally proclaimed human rights. – pp. 52-55 security in Poland and our Principle 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human Health education and prevention rights abuses. – pp. 59-61 We raise awareness about modern prophylactic We support the development communities measures among patients of local communities and employees Labour standards Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Diversity management – p. 45 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Collective bargaining agreements Principle 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced – p. 39 We strengthen the We ensure high and compulsory labour. ethical culture in quality of our Requirements for suppliers – pp. 52-55 We ensure and promote Principle 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. our company and products and safe improved OHS standards the pharmaceutical pharmacotherapy industry Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We build a culture of dialogue We care about We are committed We build Environment Environmental Impact Management and employee the environment to responsible a Sustainable System – p. 46 marketing Supply Chain engagement Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environOur environmental goals – p. 47 mental challenges. Initiatives to reduce environmental Ethical business conduct Principle 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. impacts – pp. 48-51 Principle 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. In 2019, we updated our Corporate Social Responsibility innovation and advancing knowledge. Within these three Strategy. The document was created with the involvement areas, we have defined 12 commitments that will be purCombating corruption Code of Ethics – p. 28 of key external and internal stakeholders. The focus sued until 2021. Anti-Corruption Code, Conflicts of our CSR efforts in the next 3 years remained on ethical Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, incluof Interests Management Procedure, business conduct, serving patients and the community, ding extortion and bribery. Transparency Report – p. 29 22 23 External cooperation Memberships in organisations The key stakeholders, or the groups and people that influence or are influenced by our activities, include: » our employees » suppliers » patients and consumers of our products » regulators and public administration representatives We seek to actively participate in the work of various organisations and associations to share our knowledge and » doctors » healthcare payer (National Health Fund) experience, and to maximise the impact of our activities through joint initiatives. We are a member of the following » pharmacists » researchers and opinion leaders organisations: » customers (medicinal product distributors) » NGOs/civil society organisations » customers (other pharmaceutical companies) » business and industry organisations » Medicines for Europe » Digital Poland Foundation » Polish Association of Pharmaceutical Industry Employ» Coalition for Polish Innovations (KPI) ers (PZPPF) » Council of the Agreements for the Pomorskie Smart » Polish Association of Self Medication Industry (PASMI) Specialisation » Business Centre Club » Consumer and Innovation Working Groups for Sus» Lewiatan Confederation (through membership tainable Development and CSR at the Sustainable in PZPPF) Development and Corporate Social Responsibility » Ethics Officers Coalition Task Force at the Ministry of Investment and » Responsible Business Forum Economic Development Additionally, Jerzy Starak, President of the Supervisory Board of Polpharma SA, is a member of the Polish Business Roundtable (PRB), while Markus Sieger, President of the Management Board, is a member of the Global Compact Network Poland Programme Board. External initiatives and declarations » United Nations Global Compact » Partnership for common implementation of environ» Diversity Charter ment-related SDGs „Together for the Environment“ » Partnership for Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Stakeholders We ensure that the needs and expectations of both internal and external stakeholders are reflected in our business. We engage in a long-term dialogue with them through: » face-to-face conversations and regular meetings with » surveys of the expectations of our local employees communities » internal discussion fora » qualitative surveys conducted among pharmacists » employee and customer satisfaction surveys » public discussions » surveys for conference and event participants » consumer surveys » focus groups » industry trade fairs 24 25 Ethical business conduct 26 27 Ethics We believe that pharmaceutical companies have particular responsibility for upholding the fundamental value of patient well-being. Therefore, ethics should be at the core of every pharmaceutical company’s operations. In 2018, we adopted the Anti-Corruption Code, a basic document aimed at mitigating the risk of corruption at the Polpharma Group. It lays down the rules of cooperation between the Polpharma Group and healthcare professionals, business To build the company‘s ethical culture and promote to contact his/her line manager or if the problem involves partners, and government officials. The Code complies with the Medicines for Europe it among our employees, we guide ourselves on our Ethics the line manager, the employee may contact the CompliCode of Conduct and is inspired by the best market practices. To effectively inform Programme. It has been designed based on the Polpharma ance Officer. Polpharma Group employees and external employees about the document, several appealing supporting materials were prepaGroup Code of Ethics, which highlights the values that stakeholders may report behaviours that potentially violate red, including animation, a comic story, and a series of articles shared matter the most to us, shows us what we should do, and the law, the Code of Ethics or other internal procedures in the company’s internal media. All employees are required to read and acknowledge what we can expect from others. through the whistleblowing system. It protects whistleblounderstanding of the Code. We also provide regular refresher training to make sure wers against possible retaliation. our employees are aware of the binding rules (e.g. as part of classroom training). The remaining components of the Ethics Programme include institutional solutions (including a whistleblowing Number of grievances about labour practices, mobbing, and system), internal and external communications, and ethical discrimination filed through the formal grievance mechaeducation. All employee groups, including the Management nisms: Board, are required to participate in these educational activities. Training is regularly provided in the form of e-learning, 2017: 20 reports submitted to the Compliance Officer with a knowledge test at the end. For employees without (of which all were reviewed), 5 court proceedings In 2017, we implemented a Conflict of Interests Manageis transparent to the public. As a signatory to the computer access, on-site training is provided. ment Procedure to prevent non-compliances that may Medicines for Europe Code, since 2018, Polpharma Group 2018: 12 reports submitted to the Compliance Officer (of arise from conflicts of interest and to protect the Polhas published its annual Transparency Report available Suppliers can use a separate e-learning course on ethical which all were reviewed), 5 court proceedings pharma Group from their consequences. The procedure on our website. It provides information on the cooperacooperation. describes the situations where a conflict of interest may tion between Polpharma Group companies and healthcare occur. It also explains what to do if a conflict arises and professionals (including remuneration and support for Line manager is the employee’s first point of contact for what measures the employer may take. participation in educational events), as well as monetary ethical issues. If it is difficult or impossible for an employee compensation and support (e.g. in the form of medicine, We also use our best efforts to ensure that our partnerin-kind or cash donations) provided to healthcare and ship with the medical and the patient communities patient organisations. No cases of corruption were registered in 2017-2018. 28 29 Values Seeking to ensure that we are guided by Polpharma Group’s values in our daily work, we have deveWe appreciate, recognise, and reward employees whose attitude makes them a role loped a new Performance Management system, where employees are evaluated not only on their model for others. This is the intention behind the most important distinction awarded to Polpharma Group employees, the Amber Galen Award. It is given to both performance but also on compliance with these values. individuals and teams. Candidates for the Award are nominated by the employees. The Jury then selects the Nominees and finally the Winners. The Jury evaluates the extent to which each candidate demonstrates Polpharma Group’s values, as well The first stage was completed in 2018 and involved the creation of a list of specific behaviors based on our values. as their skills, such as communication, knowledge sharing, creativity and innovation, We made sure that they were comprehensible to all our employees, regardless of their seniority level, age, or role and teamwork and cooperation within the organisation. Since its first edition in the company, by conducting extensive consultations at all levels of the organisation, from manufacturing staff in 2002, 239 employees have been awarded the Amber Galen Award. to the Management Board. As a result, we created a set of behaviours for each value, serving as the standard of showing respect, quality teamwork, and efforts for the common good. Responsibility Cooperation Solidarity Respect Honesty 30 239 employees have been awarded the Amber Galen Award 31 Product quality and safety Pharmacovigilance Complaint procedure Another important responsibility of any pharmaceutical All product complaints are recorded in accordance with the The quality, efficacy, and safety of our products is a top priority for the Polpharma Group. We ensure the quacompany is to supervise the safety of its products. Pharapplicable regulations and the company’s internal procedulity of our products at every stage of product development, manufacturing, testing, warehousing, distribution macovigilance refers to activities undertaken by healthcare res. Every complaint is treated separately, and an investiand pharmaceutical professionals to ensure that a product gation is launched to determine the causes of the defect and sale, always keeping the patients’ well-being in mind. Compliance with the requirements of Good Manuis as safe as possible for patients. One of the key eleand plan the necessary measures to minimise its impact. facturing Practice and other laws and regulations is of utmost importance for us. We continuously improve our ments of the pharmacovigilance system is to monitor Patient/consumer safety is a top priority for us, and thereadverse events and document the pharmacovigilance fore we assess all complaints to determine if the product quality assurance processes and reinforce our culture of quality. We also promote a sense of responsibility for process, e.g. through structured reports. All our employees reported as defective is safe to use. quality among all our suppliers. are required to report signals of adverse reactions to Polpharma Group‘s products. Mandatory training is provided If a quality defect of one of our products is suspected, to ensure that all staff can do this properly. We also we request market withdrawal of the affected product We attach great importance to the appropriate training Our suppliers of packaging materials, excipients, and active provide patients and healthcare professionals with reliable by the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector. In 2017-2018, withof our employees, as provided for in the regulation on Good ingredients, as well as laboratories, contract manufacturers, and accurate information on Polpharma Group‘s products drawal was requested for affected batches of 19 products. Manufacturing Practice requirements. To ensure more and other vendors also undergo regular quality audits. reflecting current scientific knowledge, thereby contribuIn addition to being an important preventive measure, comprehensive and effective control, we have implemented ting to increased awareness and safe pharmacotherapy. market withdrawal is proof of the company’s responsibility electronic systems to manage quality assurance training. We We support our employees‘ proactive efforts to prevent towards patients and reflects conscious quality manageanalyse any events resulting from mistakes made by the quality incidents. This helps us build an increased commitPharmacovigilance activities ment. ment and awareness of Good Manufacturing Practice. staff on an ongoing basis and monitor the effectiveness in 2017-2018: Customer data of corrective actions. In 2018, we launched the Quality Plus pilot programme in our Nowa Dęba plant. As part of this programme, emp» 1927 adverse event reports* We conduct regular internal audits to ensure that the loyees submit ideas that may improve the quality of our security » 3527 patient interviews, the overwhelming majority manufacturing conditions comply with the requirements products, services, and internal processes. All submissions of which concerned medical issues and/or side effects of Good Manufacturing Practice. These inspections are are evaluated by a dedicated team, and the most valid ideas observed* conducted both by manufacturing supervisors and quality are rewarded. » Direct Healthcare Professional Communication (DHPC) We assure customer data security by complying with the assurance personnel. Our auditors undergo a certification was used to warn HCPs of the risks associated with We manage quality-related processes by defining and data protection regulations. We have adapted data procesprocess where their skills are assessed and recognised. the use of certain products monitoring key indicators. With online reporting, we are able sing and protection to the requirements set by the General » Approx. 3000 employees completed e-learning traiData Protection Regulation (GDPR). We have appointed to monitor the parameters that affect quality on an ongoning on adverse event reporting a Data Protection Officer who oversees the organisation’s ing basis to continuously improve our processes. Results, » More than 1,100 employees attended face-to-face activities in the area of customer data security together such as the number of complaints, are reported to the training with the team. We provide data protection and information Management Board. » Analysis of out-of-specification results (evaluation security training and constantly raise employee awareness of the impact of deviations in the manufacturing of this issue. process on patient safety) 405 submissions received in the Quality Plus pilot programme between March and the end of December 2018 * Our pharmacovigilance activities are conducted in respect of products for which the marketing authorisation holders are Zakłady Farmaceutyczne Polpharma S.A., Medana Pharma S.A., and Polfa Warszawa S.A., as well as products manufactured by Herbapol-Lublin offered in our portfolio. 32 33 Change of prescription drug packaging Once finalised, the selected design was launched in mid-2018. » 24 months were spent on the new packaging design » More than ten teams were involved in the project and architecture The commitment to the safe use of our products includoses are too similar to each other, which could lead » Approx. 700 drugs sold in Poland were aligned to the des appropriate packaging. In 2017, we launched a process to medication errors. In response to this feedback, a pronew packaging design to improve the functionality and safety of the packaging ject was launched to completely change the packaging of all our prescription drugs, and to reduce the risk of medicines manufactured by our four companies: Polof dispensing errors by pharmacists and errors in the admipharma, Medana, Polfa Warszawa, and Santo in KazakhsOur new prescription drug packaging system received positive feedback from the Supreme Pharmaceutical Chamber and was nistration of our products by patients. tan. As part of this initiative, we conducted extensive a finalist in the 2019 Good Design competition, the oldest and most credible Polish design contest. dialogue with our stakeholders. The existing packaging of our medicines was designed in 2005. We were approached by pharmacists who told us that the packages of our products and the different The new packaging system offers: » a different colour for each dosage form which mini» a table with instructions for use (“communication The project started with market research based on interviews with individual pharmacists and patients. The mises the risk of dispensing errors and makes the window”) which supports patient compliance by allaim was to identify the weaknesses of the existing system and to design the perfect packaging. product easier to use by the elderly, visually impaired, owing the patient or pharmacist to note down the or patients with mild cognitive impairment dosage times on the package » 7 creative agencies were invited to participate » 5 best designs were tested in ethnographic market » legible information architecture which makes it easier » therapeutic group indication (e.g. cardiology, neurology) » 11 graphic designs were selected from over 50 submisresearch in the Point of Sale to find the product at the pharmacy which makes cataloguing easier at the pharmacy sions » 12 pharmacies evaluated the package mock-ups after » product information provided on at least 3 sides of the » several hundred pharmacists and Polpharma Group hours for legibility, functionality, ease-of-use in diffepackaging which makes it easier to store the product at employees evaluated the designs via an online survey rent lighting conditions, positioning in the drawers, etc. the pharmacy in any type of drawer or shelf 34 35 Occupational safety standards Our comprehensive approach to employee health and safety is ensured by a certified Integrated EnvironmenEach year, we organise the Workplace Health & Safety nuous improvement of working conditions and helps build Week. During this Week, educational activities are conducand maintain a culture of workplace safety. Being one of the tal and OHS Management System. As part of this system, we have implemented the Occupational Health and ted at all Polpharma Group locations, including preventive leaders in this field is an honour for us and shows recogniSafety Policy. We continuously make every effort to make working at Polpharma even safer and more comhealth screening, fire-fighting training, first aid courses, tion of the high level of work safety at Polpharma Group. as well as workshops and conferences with external It is also a form of appreciation for our employees‘ commitfortable. Mandatory OHS training is provided not only to employees working in the Group companies but also partners to raise safety awareness. In 2017, we hosted ment to creating a friendly and comfortable workplace. The to third-party employees working on our premises. a workshop called “Safely from the start”, highlighting the Forum gives us an opportunity to exchange experiences and key role of training for inexperienced employees. In 2018, best practices with other companies and ensure continuous a conference took place entitled “Hazardous Substances improvement of our solutions. Under Control”, which was the finale of a week-long event dedicated to precautions to be taken when handling or being in contact with substances that can be life-threatening or harmful to human health or the environment. In place since 2012, the Stop Accidents Programme is a system for reporting and Over many years, we have implemented a culture of safety responding to potentially hazardous situations. Programme performance is assessed by continuously raising employee awareness. As part based on the number of accidents in each location. The more accidents a location has, of our efforts, we publish articles encouraging safe behavithe greater the expectations we place on the managers and employees in terms ours in our company journals and the intranet, host internal of occupational safety. competitions, and promote those organised by our partners. In 2018, we sponsored a special award in the photography competition O!ZNAKI PRACY organised by the Central Institute for Labour Protection. The measures to improve workplace safety are also addressed to our subcontractors’ employees whose safety matters just as much to us as the safety of our own staff. Number of near misses eliminated: Our work safety requirements are included in the contracts we enter with our subcontractors who are made aware of 1,267 the rules of conduct and potential hazards. Before starting In 2017-2018, no fatal work, all subcontractors‘ employees must undergo special 1,039 1,116 training based on the type of work to be performed. work injuries were 894 We have also created a website to collect information reported. on what is required from our subcontractors. Each empIn 2018, 1 case of an 547 580 loyee’s work is monitored, and any undesired or dangerous behaviours are recorded. occupational disease was We also engage in the activities of the Safe Workplace Leaders Forum at the Central Institute for Labour Protection. identified. It brings together companies that contribute to the conti2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 36 37 Employment year-by-year Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 4,732 5,094 63.4% 63% Employee development and satisfaction We support our employees in reaching their full potential. We give them access to a vast training programme tailored to their skill level, performance, and needs based on their career pathway. We co-finance our employees‘ training, postgraduate courses, and foreign language classes (English and Russian). 2017 2018 2017 2018 For our employees, we offer: Recognised as one of the strategic sectors of the Polish Karolkowa has been closed. The BIO Academy enables them » a competitive remuneration and a comprehensive benefits package (medical and life insurance, MultiEmployment 44% men (2,102) economy and one of the world’s fastest-growing industries, Biotechnology has been included in the Strategy for Responsible Development. In 2015, we started building to gain highly specialised skills and work in a state-of-theart biotechnology contract manufacturing plant. Sport card, holiday allowance) During the 15-week course, the participants gain the necesin 2017 a new factory to provide contract manufacturing services 56% » extensive career development opportunities to biotech companies from all over the world. However, the sary knowledge and skills from experienced biotechnology » equal treatment in every respect (4,732) challenge we faced was the shortage of qualified empexperts. Since the beginning of 2019, they can also enhance » a transparent HR policy, including clear rules for perioloyees with experience in this new field in Poland. their skills in a newly-opened training and research laboradic employee reviews women (2,630) tory. Scheduled to be launched in 2020, the Duchnice plant » responsiveness to any issues raised To address it, we have launched the BIO Academy, the will employ approximately 450 people. » friendly atmosphere largest practical training programme in Poland in the area of biotechnology. It is a one-of-a-kind opportunity for All staff members hired under an employment contract, including both full-time and part-time employees, have Employment 45% men (2,281) Polfa Warszawa employees who will be moving to the newly opened plant in Duchnice once the Polfa plant at ul. the same access to fringe benefits and other benefits 7 in 2018 55% to which they may be entitled under the regulations of the relevant company. Employees hired under an (5,094) advisory agreement have access only to medical and life insurance and a MultiSport card. women (2,813) graduates of the 1st edition of the BIO Academy (2018) 38 39 Since 2012, Polpharma has been running its Award and As a way to attract and retain competent and committed The improvement of managerial skills through coherent Recognition Programme based on the MyBenefit cafeteria employees, we offer a variety of solutions that help our development programmes and regular activities system. It is a tool used by managers to reward the desired staff members maintain a work-life balance. We also want is an important driver behind the change of Polpharma‘s behaviours and attitudes on a day-to-day basis. The points to offer employment support for people with disabilities corporate culture to a more open and inclusive one. The earned by employees in the programme can be exchanged and parents of children with disabilities. Leadership Go! programme helps managers practice and for products and services, selected by the employees from use various leadership styles to manage the staff and build many available options. Since July 2018, MyBenefit cafeteria Home office is a solution offered to employees whose employee commitment. is not only used as an Award and Recognition Programme primary place of work is the office where they are allowed but also serves as an employee benefits management systo spend 2 days per month working from home. In the long approx. 90 tem. Each employee’s account has been extended to include run, we plan to increase the number of home office days. an Extra Points Bank to which 100 points are credited on a quarterly basis. 400 800 programme participants in Poland (Polpharma Group managers) 240 jobs qualified for home office employees entitled to work from home office over Teleworking or telecommuting, on the other hand, means that work is regularly performed outside the company premises 240 feedback sessions using electronic communications, on the basis of an agreement between the employee and the employer. » 7 employees telecommuting for health reasons » 3 employees with disabilities (fixed-term employment) » 4 employees providing care to people with disabilities approx. tutoring and coaching sessions 300 nearly 500 hours of teamwork improving workshops 40 41 We continue running the Leader Programme for newly hired at all management levels from Leader to Production ManaCultural, entertainment, and educational events addressed to both our employees and local communities where Polpharma and newly appointed managers, which gives them the ger, as well as to improve communication and cooperation. Group’s plants are located are an important part of the company’s social commitment efforts. opportunity to develop the skills they need to motivate, recognise, and nurture the development of their employees. In 2017 and 2018, we performed a 360-degree assessment » The Polpharma Day is an event that has been hosted of the Leaders and Coordinators at various departments, in Starogard Gdański for several decades to mark the In 2017, we also launched the Informed Leader development with feedback provided by production employees. The proChemist’s Day. Everyone is invited to join us on this project for our Production Plant in Nowa Dęba, followed cess was fully digital and led to the development special day, including our employees and their famiby the Production Plant in Duchnice and Sieradz-based of individual production managers‘ development plans and lies and friends, as well as inhabitants of Starogard Medana in 2018. Their aim was to improve managerial skills dedicated development activities (workshops, coaching). Gdański and the entire Kociewie region. Each year, Polpharma Day celebrations are attended by some 5,000 people. » The Open Day event has been organised since 2008 to show our facilities to the public. Each year during the event, around 2,000 people have the opportunity to see how medicines are manufactured and what a pharmaceutical laboratory and warehouse look like. In 2018, the Open Day event was held at Medana in Sieradz for the first time. » The Christmas concert in Pelplin is a meeting organised for employees from all Polpharma Group locations, as well as members of the scientific and medical communities, local authorities, and business partners. This is a unique event for us as it brings all of our employees together. As part of our efforts to promote a healthy lifestyle Employees commuting to work among our employees, we created a special Inpulse sports platform in 2016. Each employee can create an account by bicycle to keep a record of his/her sports activities. Those with the 770 most regularly updated activity record are rewarded with sports gifts. Other initiatives to motivate our employees to be physically active include charitable challenges where participants can support orphanages, foundations or animal 645 shelters by practicing sports. On 8 May 2018, Polpharma‘s top management had the Production Department in Starogard Gdański. Elżbieta DziAs part of a healthy lifestyle promotion, we also encouchance to appreciate the work of our operational departkowska, Secretary of the Supervisory Board of Polpharma, rage our employees to cycle to work on a regular basis. ments and to better understand the responsibility that President Markus Sieger, members of the Management To support our cyclists, we have built bicycle parking racks is involved in manufacturing products that help patients. Board, and other top management representatives of the next to the workstations, provide an abbreviated road code On that day, Jerzy Starak, Chairman of the Supervisory Board Polpharma Group, also swapped their jobs for a day, joining to every employee, arrange for free bicycle check-ups, and of Polpharma, was hired as a production operator, underthe production department, quality control laboratory, and provide training for our employees in cooperation with the 2017 2018 went the necessary GMP and OHS training, and joined the high-stacking warehouse. local police. packing team in the Solid Dosage Forms 42 43 Diversity Seniority anniversaries are always celebrated as a special milestone in our company. To mark 25 years of service, we host a special gala with gifts and wishes from the management. We recognise the differences between our employees and see them as a value, as emphasised in our Code 688 of Ethics (this is also mentioned in the Diversity Charter signed by us). We continually develop policies and programs that enable us to consciously manage diversity. We do not tolerate discrimination, isolation, harassment or bullying on any grounds, including gender, age, origin, nationality, religion, sexual orientation, physical appearance, health status, and physical capacity. A separate Procedure on Prevention of Workplace Mobbing employees completed 25 years of seniority and Discrimination is in place at the Polpharma Group. at Polpharma Group in January 2018 0 confirmed cases Intergenerational management is a key aspect of diversity We are proud to be the employer of choice for the children management in our company. As part of our efforts in this and grandchildren of our employees. We want to keep area, we conducted the “Polpharma brings generations in touch and maintain loyalty not only to the existing but also retired employees. For this reason, Polpharma offers together” survey to identify key business risks and opportunities related to generational diversity. of discrimination various types of support to approx. 1,400 of its retirees We held meetings with managers to summarise the survey (In 2017-2018, 7 reports of suspected and disability pensioners. We pay for their extended mediresults and to make them aware of the benefits of working discrimination were submitted, all of which cal package and the use of MultiSport cards. We organise in an intergenerational team. In 2017-2018, about 100 empwere reviewed) regular meetings where we communicate the company’s news. We invite retirees to take part in trips, cultural events, loyees from various departments and locations participated and intergenerational meetings at their former workplace. in training sessions on intergenerational management and We run a Facebook fan page for our retirees which has collaboration delivered by external experts. In October 2017, enabled many seniors to learn how to use a computer and we invited interested managers and coordinators to partisocial media. We encourage retirees to actively participate cipate in a moderated meeting to create ideas for specific in the community’s life by supporting local charity and activities in the field of multi-generation management. The volunteering initiatives. We also support vulnerable seniors result of this meeting is a list of initiatives and projects that by offering monetary allowances and medical equipment. we regularly review and implement. For several years now, we have been working with the Integracja Foundation to make our offices fully accessible to people with various disabilities. In February 2017, our office in Warsaw was awarded the “Building Without Barriers” certificate as proof of compliance with the accessibility requirements. 44 45 Our key environmental objectives: reduce electricity and heat reduce water consumption withdrawal increase the use of recycled maximise the recovery and Care for the environment packaging materials re-use of solvents We are a manufacturing company, and all manufacturing Environmental management is based on the Integrated processes have an impact on the environment, especially Environmental and OSH Management System. The following those using chemical substances. In an effort to minimise policies are implemented as part of this System: Environthis impact, we: mental Sustainability Policy, Occupational Health and Safety Policy, and Laboratory Management Policy. » continuously improve process efficiency » reasonably manage our energy and water consumpPolpharma Group’s Integrated Environmental and OSH tion and pollutant emissions » make sure that the chemicals we use are safe Management System complies with the following internareduce the amount of waste reduce CO2 emissions tional standards: » explore the possibilities to minimise our environmengenerated and increase waste in passenger tal footprint at the technology and product develop» ISO 14001 (Environmental Management) recycling and recovery transport ment stage » OHSAS 18001 and PN-N-18001 (OHS Management) » monitor changes in the environment and respond » PN-EN ISO/IEC 17025 (Quality Management in the Enviaccordingly ronmental Monitoring Laboratory) » continuously improve our management systems 46 47 We are aware of the impact of active pharmaceutical The Energy Saving Programme is a set of technical and ingredients (APIs) on water ecosystems. We have partnered organisational measures in the Group to reduce the conwith the Gdańsk University of Technology to reduce the sumption of heat and electricity. Key activities carried out amount of APIs released in wastewater discharged from in 2017 and 2018 included: modernisation and optimisation the on-site treatment plant to the Wierzyca River. We have of technological systems (e.g. central dust extraction, The Green Process Award was created to reward employees‘ efforts that contribute determined the level of wastewater treatment and its compressed air, chilled water, heat distribution centres), conto reducing the company‘s negative environmental impact (energy and water consumption, impact on the effectiveness of the treatment process. version from the existing internal lighting technology to LED waste and wastewater production, air emissions of gases and dust). The programme also We tested the API content, identified its impact on the in production and warehouse buildings, use of heat recovery provides an opportunity to recognise the employees‘ competencies, such as creativity, aquatic environment, and identified the most burdensome systems, and improvement of thermal insulation in heating problem solving skills, application of theoretical knowledge in practice, and teamwork. The substances. Next, we determined the efficiency of purificasystems. Thanks to these initiatives, we saved 700 MWh initiatives are evaluated based on four criteria: environmental benefits, financial benetion processes with respect to API content reduction. This of electricity and 1239 GJ of heat in 2017, and 1340 MWh of fits, knowledge transfer, and scientific value. The authors of the three best initiatives are helps us develop more effective methods of API deactivaelectricity and 1488 GJ of heat in 2018, respectively. rewarded with a financial bonus and points in the MyBenefit cafeteria system, as well tion or elimination from the waste liquors and wastewater. as statuettes created by those supported by the SYNAPSIS Foundation. These tests and solutions have prepared us for the implementation of the planned changes in environmental law with regard to API content in treated wastewater. Electricity savings Heat savings 1,488 GJ 1,340 MWh 1,239 GJ In 2018, we celebrated the 10th 700 MWh anniversary of the Green Process Award. 129 approx. pln 18 initiatives submitted in 2009-2018 million benefits from submissions to date In 2017-2018, our employees 2017 2018 2017 2018 submitted 31 initiatives. 48 49 In 2018, after fulfilling numerous criteria set out by the of meetings called “Let‘s talk about the environment”. In 2018, we looked into the possibility of a broader use of solutions that are in tune with the concept of circular economy Foundation for Ecological Education, the Trade Office During the Green Week, Polpharma employees get practical and the BS 8001 standard. We analysed our waste, packaging, water, energy, and supplier policies to see how they could in Warsaw received the Green Office certificate. The tips on how to prevent food waste, travel in an eco-friendly be aligned. The result of this review is a list of recommended measures to be taken in the coming years. Group’s other locations also meet these environmental way, mitigate the problem of smog and low-stack emissicriteria. We organise events to promote environmental proons, properly segregate household waste, and save energy These include: tection. Since 2014, we have shared our knowledge and best and water at home. » inclusion of environmental criteria in the supplier selection process practices with other companies from Poland during a series » efforts to achieve the “zero waste to landfill” goal, i.e. not to generate any waste that is disposed to a landfill » reducing the use of disposable packaging (procurement, canteens, events) » educating employees on sustainable consumption We also carried out a diagnosis of Polpharma Group’s maturity to meet the circular economy targets and it was classified as level 2. This means that we have defined and started implementing measures to meet the key circular economy principles. These include waste recovery and recycling, solvent recovery, use of unit packages made from waste paper, and implementation of the Energy Saving Programme. Level of the organisation’s maturity based on BS 8001 OPTIMISING NEW BUSINESS MODELS ENGAGED We take steps to minimise our carbon footprint, reduce energy consumption, improve transport efficiency (including passenPRODUCT AND PROCESS INNOVATIONS ger transport), monitor our suppliers for compliance with the Sustainable Supply Chain Policy, and use proper waste manageImplementation of innovative solutions in business processes directly related to the product or service supplied ment practices. IMPROVED 107,034.32 Polpharma Group’s carbon footprint in 2017 t CO 2 PROCESS IMPROVEMENT The organisation has defined and started implementing measures for all key principles BASIC 112,349.15 The organisation has taken the first steps by identifying key areas of influence and t CO 2 is implementing the first strategic projects UNFORMED The measures taken by the organisation are relatively limited, typically to waste-related Polpharma Group’s carbon footprint in 2018 activities arising from legal obligations 50 51 Sustainable supply chain In 2017-2018, we continued to implement the Sustainable Supply Chain Strategy announced in 2015. Our Sustainable Supply Chain measures also include regular educational workshops for our suppliers. In 2017, we held It is based on the Polpharma Group Code of Conduct for Suppliers which reflects our values and standards a conference in Warsaw to educate and share our experecognised by the international community. The suppliers’ willingness to run their business in accordance with riences, as well as to provide practical support to suppliers adjusting to the Code‘s requirements. In 2018, we invited our the Code‘s requirements is one of the prerequisites for becoming a Polpharma supplier. suppliers to attend a workshop on the importance of business values, held in Warsaw and Gdańsk. The Code also describes our expectations towards suppliers In 2017-2018, we started preparing for the implementation in the following areas: of the ISO 20400 – Sustainable Procurement Guidance. 120 As part of our preparations we: » Employment conditions and employee rights » Occupational health and safety » adopted the Sustainable Supply Chain Policy, which » Product safety and quality prevails over the purchasing procedures » Environmental impact » updated the Company‘s documents to ensure they are » Management and ethics consistent with the Policy suppliers took part in the knowledge » Human and animal studies » drew up the Supplier Code of Conduct exchange forum in 2017. » developed a deviation procedure for suppliers who In 2017, we developed a tool for supplier verification and have not signed a declaration of commitment to com110 risk assessment in the supply chain. Suppliers were divided ply with the Code into five groups, based on their importance for maintaining » initiated a periodical review process for all suppliers business continuity at Polpharma Group. The review is perto classify them into the appropriate risk group formed periodically and is based on three basic criteria: » incorporated the sustainable supply chain criteria in the bid analysis in all purchasing areas » level of compliance with Polpharma Group‘s Code » developed tools to support the development of supof Conduct for Suppliers, including evaluation of the pliers in the areas regulated by the Polpharma Group suppliers attended our meetings in 2018. risks of non-compliance Code of Conduct for Suppliers » the supplier’s country of origin » incorporated the sustainable supply chain criteria » annual sales with the supplier in the annual review of all Procurement Department We have also launched an online platform for our suppliers employees (www.dostawca.polpharma.pl). It provides key information Since 2018, we have conducted an additional regular review on supply chain sustainability and an e-Learning training of our key suppliers using a self-evaluation questionnaire. module. The module contains a detailed description of our In the first year, 64% of our key suppliers scored positively requirements in each area of the Code and how to impleon these items. Based on the information collected, only ment them, as well as useful tools. The e-learning module one key supplier did not meet the Code requirements. is available in Polish, English, and Russian. 52 53 Sustainable supply chain in numbers: 8,089 3,919 suppliers working with the Group’s suppliers underwent a review and Polish companies in 2018 risk assessment in 2017 Our suppliers include: The success of the supply chain sustainability project has 78% 100% 230 been possible thanks to the commitment of our employees. » manufacturers of machinery, equipment, input mateWe have appointed a team of coordinators in each Procurerials and packaging ment Department and experts on quality, OHS, the environ» transport companies ment, and ethics to implement the necessary measures. » logistics centres These employees attend educational meetings, are involved » non-manufacturing, marketing, and engineering service in the creation of tools and solutions and in building relaproviders of our suppliers come from of our suppliers received the Code suppliers participated in our tions with our suppliers. The project group submits » waste treatment companies Poland (data for 2018) of Conduct for Suppliers workshops in 2017-2018 an annual report on its activities to the Sustainable Supply The vast majority of our suppliers are from Poland. The Chain Steering Committee. other countries where more than 100 of our suppliers are based include Germany, Bulgaria, the UK, and Lithuania. 54 55 Serving patients and our communities 56 57 Pharmaceutical Health Education and Preventive Care security in Poland With the aging population and the growing pace of life, health prevention and early disease detection are becoming increasingly important. To meet the emerging needs in this field, we run preventive care programmes As the largest Polish pharmaceutical company, Poland develop websites for the general public offering education and advice. pharma plays a key role in ensuring Poland’s pharmaceutical security. This means that we ensure a continuous supply of products in key therapeutic groups, and provide Polish patients with access to modern therapies at affordable prices. We are Poland’s only large-scale manufacturer of both active pharmaIn 2018, we implemented the National Programme for the Detection of COPD. ceutical ingredients and finished dosage forms. This It involves screening tests conducted allows us to be less dependent on the raw materials throughout Poland to improve the efficacy of diagnosing chronic obstructive offered by third-party suppliers and mitigate the pulmonary disease. Screening associated risks. is accompanied by educational campaigns to raise awareness of this condition. » We supply the domestic market with 266 products (brands)* used in the treatment of the most common health problems. Including all dosage forms and package sizes, our Polish portfolio features a total Public awareness of COPD is still very low. What makes of 816 SKUs**. it difficult to diagnose is the fact that it may not present » We have a 13% share in the reimbursable drug market any specific symptoms at first and can be easily mistaken in volume terms, and only a 6% share in value terms for another disorder. Spirometry is required to confirm the (2018 data). diagnosis of COPD. Although it is a simple procedure, it is » 1 in 8 medicine packages sold in Polish pharmacies and performed too rarely. The number of spirometry examina1 in 3 packages used in Polish hospitals come from the tions must be increased. To facilitate patient access to this Polpharma Group. test, we have established a partnership under the National » We maintain the production of 42 medicinal products, Programme for the Detection of COPD with a Polish startup including life-saving ones, for which there are no subscompany called HealthUp, the creator of the comprehensive titutes on the Polish market. spirometry system AioCare. » We are Poland’s only large-scale manufacturer of 42 * A brand is a product category that does not differentiate between the pharmaceuactive pharmaceutical ingredients used as raw mateWe have provided primary care physicians with AioCare exam performed in 260 patients were alarming: as many tical form, dosage, or package size. ** SKU is a product category which differentiates between the pharmaceutical form, rials in the production of finished dosage forms. spirometry devices and access to a smart mobile app. as 38% of previously undiagnosed patients had a bronchial dosage and package size; the numbers quoted above refer to products for which the marketing authorisation holders are Zakłady Farmaceutyczne Polpharma S.A., Medana » We participate in the supply of medications for straThe AioCare System allows doctors to easily and quickly obstruction, which is a common sign of COPD. Following the Pharma S.A., Polfa Warszawa S.A., as well as products of Herbapol-Lublin, to which Polpharma Biuro Handlowe Sp. z o.o. provides sales and marketing services. tegic military reserves. perform the examination, whether at the office or during successful pilot, more mobile AioCare devices have been a home visit. In 2018, we carried out a joint pilot project distributed throughout the country since November 2018 at 20 primary care physicians‘ offices. The results of the (400 pieces in total). 58 59 Pressure For Life is the largest national educational campaign on hypertension Since 2012, we have been running the We run educational and product-related websites, as well as themed social media channels/profiles. The content 6 YouTube channels (with a total of more in Poland. The 2017/2018 edition Health Zone Programme offering easier published on these websites is practical, credible, exhausthan 8,500 subscriptions) of the programme focused on first aid access to medical examinations and tive, and up-to-date. in myocardial infarction. Education was specialist consultations to patients provided not only through the media » 52 websites over 40 years of age living in small 8 but also in practical workshops where » Nearly 8,000,000 unique visitors in 2017-2018 towns and villages. This is probably patients, pharmacists, doctors, and the largest initiative offering free journalists were taught how to react Most popular websites: medical check-ups and consultations and use every minute if a heart attack to patients in Poland. is suspected. » www.biotebal.pl » www.odetchnijspokojnie.pl » www.abcmigrena.pl Facebook pages (with a total of more than Campaign outcomes from December 2017: » www.ibufen.pl 1,000,000 followers) 2012 until the end of 2018: » www.mojeoczy.pl » 12 towns and cities » 250 locations visited across the » More than 2,000 patients country » Over 3,300 examinations 3 » More than 380,000 people had their blood pressure measured 2018: » 850,000 copies of educational materials distributed » 8 cities » Approx. 4,000 patients » Nearly 4,500 examinations and Instagram profiles (with a total of more consultations than 11,000 followers) 60 61 Local community development We want to participate in the life of the communities where we operate. It’s an important part of our CSR Volunteering From the beginning of Strategy reflected by our motto: “People helping people”. To Polpharma Group, community engagement means in numbers the competition in 2013 efforts and activities in the field of education, disease prevention, and promotion of a healthy lifestyle. (2017-2018) until the end of 2018 The Employee Volunteering Programme has been develoOur employees can also participate in the “Letters to Santa” ped at Polpharma Group since 2013. Each year, we finance campaign. Each year, some 300 staff members get involved 20 most interesting projects submitted by our employees and prepare Christmas presents for children living in child315 815 in the following categories: care homes and orphanages in response to their “letters to Santa”. » health and preventive care » quality of life improvement In 2018, a meeting was held for our volunteers, providing » education and equal opportunities them with an opportunity to meet their colleagues from » humanitarian aid other parts of the country to exchange experiences and volunteers volunteers » local development and ecology share their inspiration. We also invited volunteering specia» animal support (since 2018) lists to share their knowledge. The workshop involved group work and encouraged the participants to come up with new ideas on how employee volunteering could be developed. 4,862 15,484 The meeting was hosted in cooperation with the Ashoka Polska Foundation. hours worked hours worked 2,841 18,401 beneficiaries beneficiaries 62 63 Development Initiation The Calm Parent Island is a programme which we run together with the Dajemy Dzieciom Siłę Foundation at the Children‘s Memorial Health Institute in Warsaw and the University Clinical Centre in Gdańsk. It is addressed to children requiring prolonFund and the Development ged hospitalisation and their parents. The participants receive support from psychologists and volunteers who help them with everyday needs and organise meetings, events as well as support groups. Interactive information points have been launched in the hospital to give parents access to the materials they need. Together with psychologists, we have created the “Calm Parent Guide”. Initiation Forum Programme outcomes (2017-2018): » 700 children received assistance from volunteers » 325 parents received support The Development Initiation Fund is an intersectoral partnership co-founded by Pol» 560 hours of volunteer on-call time at hospitals » 928 hours of psychologist on-call time pharma Group to support local communities in the Pomorskie region. It brings together representatives of the business, local governments, and non-governmental organisations. The purpose of the Fund is to provide funding and expertise to support initiatives contributing to the social and economic development of the Pomorskie region. Thanks to the support received in the 4th edition of the initiative announced in 2018: » The Kobiety Wędrowne Foundation addressed the challenges of the social integration of immigrants by implementing a project entitled “Together in the Labour Market” » The Miszewo School Friends’ Association staged the first performance by the Children‘s Theatre Jantark » The reach of the Sensitive Festival organised by the Zostaw Swój Ślad Foundation was further extended » The first Pomeranian social economy brand Zeroban was created, combining ecology and re-employment through the creation of recycled products » Landscaping elements were added to the playground in the village of Tuchom Each year, we provide financial and substantive support to the Development Initiation Forum, which is the largest conference in the Pomorskie region dedicated to building intersectoral partnerships to promote corporate social responsibility and sustainable development. 64 65 Innovation and advancing knowledge 66 67 Digital transformation Polpharma‘s digitisation model: Digital transformation is an important trend in the global healthcare industry. The role of the pharmaceutical industry is changing – it is no longer merely to supply drugs but to support patients in their efforts to prevent Digital Busi w ne diseases and keep in good health. Ne s s Digita l Co m ct This is also the direction Polpharma has chosen to follow. For transformation purposes, we created Polpharma’s digiarketing Digital e/M We believe that digitisation can help us implement innovatisation model to help us change our corporate philosophy. Pro erc tive solutions for patients and new models of cooperation We want to make the best use of technologies du Digital with our partners within the health care system. It can also in the company‘s everyday business, use new methods Organization m significantly streamline our business processes, enhance of communication, and work as part of interdisciplinary performance, and improve communication and teamwork. teams. Being digital also allows for continuous learning and As the market leader, we are keen to engage in initiatives, quick testing of new ideas. It will help us think out-of-theD ig it a l O p e r a ti o n such as the Digital Poland Foundation, which aims to probox and develop new decision-making processes to adapt mote the digital transformation of Poland and create to the rapidly changing environment. Di e m g it al E c o s y st an innovation-friendly ecosystem. Digital Organisation is the foundation of the transforDigital Operation refers to the digitalisation of manufacmation process because it encompasses people and their turing and quality management activities, including digital culture, cooperation, communication, support processes innovations that have an impact on how we carry out key provided by HR, IT, Administration or Finance, as well operational processes (manufacturing, supply chain, engias a modern ways of working. neering). It focuses on ensuring availability and high quality of products that are essential for patient health and safety. Digital Commerce/Marketing is about our digital presence, image in the market, ways of communicating and building Digital Ecosystem refers to how we work with the orgarelationships with our stakeholders (e.g. patients, pharmanisations around us (government, business, or scientific) cists, healthcare professionals). It’s about finding out how to maximise the added value for our customers and growth we can work together to better meet the patient‘s needs. opportunities for our company. Digital Product refers to digital solutions for our products New Digital Business refers to the search for new business which add value for patients and healthcare professionals, opportunities created by digital healthcare revolution that such easier drug administration, convenience, or additional will help us provide health solutions in a more complemensupport to improve treatment efficacy and patient complitary and integrated way, with a strong focus on preventive ance. care and healthier lives. 68 69 Innovation Our digital revolution will not become real unless all of discussion and exchange of ideas on the digitisation of our our employees are committed to making it happen. Digital company and the healthcare system. PDC leverages staff transformation is characterised by complexity and rapid potential to create innovation and facilitate information change. The key success factor is the proactive role of our flow. The Community uses MS Teams as its digital coopestaff and the promotion of changes across all of our organiration platform. The tool makes online dialogue easy which For us, innovation is at the core of development. For us, innovation means not only investment in state-ofsation’s locations simultaneously. Therefore, we have inviis crucial considering that members of the Community work the-art laboratories or the development of new medicines, but also the everyday improvement of therapies ted our employees to work together as part of an informal in different locations in Poland. In addition, meetings and interdisciplinary digital transformation team. The Polpharma workshops are held (e.g. Digital Exploitation). The Polpharma provided to our patients. We develop technological, marketing, and organisational innovations. This helps us Digital Community (PDC) connects people from different Digital Community has become the driver behind the comimprove the form of our products to better meet patient needs, as well as increase operational efficiency, departments and different levels of the organisation, pany’s digital transformation and generated many initiatives breaking down the silos in the company. It is a platform for that will be gradually implemented. hone our production processes and substance synthesis methods, reduce our environmental impact, and communicate with patients and doctors more effectively. We are continuously developing our R&D facilities and implement innovative technology and scientific solutions. Our strategy is to reinvest profits from the sale 100 of medicines in the development of products that patients need. approx. members of Polpharma Digital Community representing 40 departments and organisational units from 4 locations 8 themed groups and channels 94 R&D projects 200 initiatives and ideas supporting the company’s digital 92 drug licensing projects being transformation generated by the Community in 2018 implemented as at the end alone of December 2018 70 71 Key innovations in our development projects: Number of patent applications: Patents granted: 28 In 2017-2018, we developed an innovative package We are working on innovative technologies to provide of ophthalmology medicines. Keeping the patient’s best patients with access to modern products in the inhaled interest in mind, we didn’t use preservatives in the product medications and the central nervous system categories. formulation as they may affect the conjunctiva when used Medicines manufactured as a result of this project will long-term. Polpharma Group is the first company in Poland and one of the first ones in Europe to have launched prebe cheaper than those currently available on the market by at least 25-30% depending on the target market. This 10 servative-free multi-dose eye drops. Sterility is maintained is particularly important for elderly people who have the thanks to a specially designed air-filter closure and silver highest incidence rate for Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary 6 ions in the dropper. Disease (COPD), and at the same time, they often struggle 1 financially. For this group of patients, the development of a cheaper drug in optimal pharmaceutical form is a great treatment opportunity. 2017 2018 2017 2018 Following the current guidelines in cardiology, we are working on innovative combinations of two or more molecules As stated by the report of the European Patent Office, we ranked first among Polish companies in 2018 in terms of the in one drug (combo products). number of European patent applications. In 2018, we employed 494 people in Research and Development in Poland. Polpharma Group’s investment in Research and Development in Poland: 11% more than 9% Mobile apps have great potential to improve healthcare. development of neurological disorders (Parkinson‘s disease, We want to develop this area within our organisation, Alzheimer‘s disease) using a simple PC and smartphone while contributing to the implementation of new projects game. in the Polish medical industry. In 2018, the Polpharma Scientific Foundation ran a new competition in the field The second place and a cash prize of PLN 80,000 was of its revenues in 2017 of its revenues in 2018 of e-health entitled “Use of mobile technologies in the awarded to two participants: Łukasz Kołtowski for AioCare, prevention, diagnosis and treatment of lifestyle diseaa mobile telemedicine system for diagnosing, monitoring, We also actively sought financing from the European Union to implement our innovative projects. In 2015-2018, we receises”. We received 45 applications from mobile app develoand treatment of patients with lung diseases, and Izabela ved a total of PLN 120 million of support for 7 projects. pers, from which three winning submissions were selected. Rozmiłowska for a mobile application supporting stroke prevention. The first place and a cash prize of PLN 100,000 was awarded to Norbert Żołek for an application monitoring the 72 73 Science-Business Cooperation The development of a pharmaceutical company relies on constant improvement of technologies, implementation of modern dosage forms, and continuous improvement of knowledge and skills. Cooperation with scientific centres and educational institutions is crucial in this process. The Implementation Doctorate Programme launched The aim of the new course is to produce graduates who by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, is an will be well-prepared to work for companies manufactuopportunity to enhance this cooperation and bring benefits ring medicinal products or cosmetics, including Polpharma. to the company, the researcher, and the university. AddresLectures are held at the Faculty of Pharmacy of the Medical sed to students undertaking their Ph.D. studies, the ProUniversity of Gdańsk. The practical subjects are taught gramme aims to provide educational opportunities in close by 24 experts from our company who have also contributed cooperation with their employer other businesses, by using to the curriculum. Also, every student undergoes a 9-week company equipment and resources. The main objective internship at Polpharma’s production plants and laboraof the programme is to ensure that Ph.D. dissertations tories. The first class enrolled 33 students who started contribute to improving company operations. The task of classes on 1 October 2017, followed by 21 students in the the Ph.D. student working under two supervisors, scientific following academic year. and an industrial, is to solve a technological challenge faced by the company. The student receives a salary from the company and a scholarship from the Ministry of Science and 54 Higher Education. In 2018, 11 Ph.D. students were enrolled in the programme to work at Polpharma. The doctoral programme is conducted in cooperation with the Medical University of Gdańsk and the University of Warsaw. students enrolled in the Pharmaceutical and In an effort to develop our cooperation with the academic Cosmetic Industry course community, together with the Medical University of Gdańsk Together with the Technical Secondary School No. 1 of the cycle covers as least 750 hours of practical vocational we have created a new M.Sc. programme in Pharmaceutical Starogard Gdański Economic School Complex, we launched training and 240 hours of apprenticeship. In the school year and Cosmetic Industry. This has allowed us to fill a gap as an “laboratory technician” training curriculum in 2016. The of 2016/2017, 16 students started first grade (almost three no university courses had existed in Poland that prepared learning process relies on a dual system, combining theorecandidates applied for one spot). To meet the emerging students for work in the pharmaceutical industry. Traditional tical education at school with practical vocational training needs and adapt to the changes in the labour market, we pharmaceutical studies focus on educating future pharmacy at the employer. Students have the opportunity to learn in co-developed the “automation technician” curriculum in employees. Our project is a unique initiative in Poland comspecially adapted laboratories on the company premises. 2018. At the beginning of the school year of 2018/2019, 32 bining theoretical education with industrial practice. Polpharma’s experts have been included in the developstudents started first grade in both specialties. ment of this curriculum and serve as lecturers, sharing their knowledge and practical experience. The 4-year learning 74 75 Educational initiatives for physicians Another important aspect of our company‘s operations is cooperation with the student community. It aims to support young people in gaining knowledge, nurturing their interests, and broadening their horizons. It also enables them to get and pharmacists to know with Polpharma and our manufacturing standards, and gain a better understanding of the pharmaceutical industry. Support offered as part of this collaboration: We support continuing education of doctors and pharmacists, e.g. by organising and supporting conferences, » Financial and substantive support for conferences is preceded by a three-week science camp where stuworkshops, and debates. and meetings organised by student associations from dents complete an internship at outpatient clinics and Poland. In 2017-2018, we supported 24 events. hospital wards in Starogard Gdański. We have hosted » The Knowledge Pharm – a series of scientific and this event since 2003. The European Educational Programme (EEP) is Polpharconferences, including for primary care physicians (since training conferences held since 2007 and addressed » Visits to Polpharma – each year, we host several ma‘s original programme launched in 2002 which aims 2012) and for ophthalmologists, dermatologists, gynaecoto Medicine and Pharmacy students. Each conference groups of university students, students of profesto provide physicians and pharmacists with information logists and pulmonologists (since 2013). Every year, each of consists of a practical part (workshop) and lectures. sional pharmaceutical and medical colleges, as well on the latest advancements in science. The EEP offers our central conferences is attended by 400 to 800 physiciA tour of the production department is an integral as secondary school students at our company. We workshops in many fields of medicine, as well as central ans. part of each of these events. give them an extensive tour of the company, inclu» 336 participants of the Knowledge Pharm programme ding manufacturing departments, laboratories, and » in 20172018 (217 Pharmacy students, 119 Medicine students). 2,576 participants from the launch of the programme until the end of 2018 (1,653 Pharmacy students, 923 » warehouses. The E(x)plory Science Contest – we are a strategic partner of the largest project in Poland which enables young scientists aged 13-20 to create and devemore than 9,500 4.45 physicians participated in central EEP conferences (on a scale from 1 to 5) is the average score of the Medicine students). lop innovative ideas, broaden their knowledge, and Between 2012 and 2018 lecture content » International Conference of Students‘ Science Clubs exchange experiences with other science enthusiasts. of the Medical University of Warsaw – a conference held since 2002 by medical students from Warsaw. It Physician conferences Internal conferences The Polpharma Scientific Foundation is engaged in the provision of long-term support for Polish science. It offers financial support to Polish scientists to pursue our mission reflected by the motto: “We support people of science”. The Foundation’s 2017 r. 2018 r. flagship programme is its annual grant competition. Since the Foundation’s establishment in 2001, 72 research grants have been awarded, with a total value of PLN 21,269,422. 31 conferences 49 conferences 2017 r. 2018 r. 5,940 participants 6,548 participants 2 grants totalling 2 grants totalling PLN 1,148,840) External conferences pln 1,065,800 pln 1,148,840 2017 r. 2018 r. Additionally, the Foundation grants scientific scholarships to Ph.D. students of medical universities and the Postgraduate 102 conferences 142 conferences Medical Education Centre (a grant recommended for young scientists and members of the Medical Science Society), and supports the National M.Sc. Thesis Competition for Pharmacy Students. 2,242 participants 5,116 participants 76 77 Since 2005, we have also organised EPE conferences for pharmacists. Conferences for Pharmacists 2017 r. 2018 r. 18 conferences 16 conferences We also educate doctors using state-of-the-art technologies. Polpharma.tv was launched in late 2016 as a VOD platform 2,376 2,142 for physicians and pharmacists, and patients. In 2018, it was transformed into a platform dedicated to doctors and pharmacists only. pharmacists and pharmacists and pharmacy managers pharmacy managers As at the end of 2017: As at the end of 2018: 40 lectures available online 60 lectures available on the platform approx. registered users 3,000 over registered users 5,400 17,000 views 39,000 total content views In 2015, as part of its targeted efforts to promote patient A total of 8,000 copies of the textbook were published compliance, the Polpharma Scientific Foundation published and distributed to libraries at medical universities, science a textbook for medical students and physicians in speciainstitutes, scientific associations, and directly to students lity training entitled “Nieprzestrzeganie zaleceń terapeuand doctors. The publication is also available on the Foundatycznych. Od przyczyn do praktycznych rozwiązań” (Patient tion‘s website www.polpharma.pl/fundacja. Non-Compliance. From Root Causes to Practical Solutions). 78 79 About the report 80 81 Key aspects for external stakeholTables with GRI numeric indicators Polpharma Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report for 2017-2018 has been drawn up in accordance with GRI ders:* Standards: Core Option and submitted for an independent external assurance. It covers the results from 1 January 2017 » financial performance to 31 December 2018 for the following Polpharma Group » indirect economic impacts Raw materials/materials used* » anti-corruption » prevention of anti-competitive behaviours 2017 2018 companies and divisions in Poland: Zakłady Farmaceutyczne » transparency of the company‘s operations Raw materials used [Mg] 7,027 6,922 Polpharma SA with the Manufacturing Plant in Nowa Dęba, » use of materials and raw materials Manufacturing Plant in Duchnice, Biotechnology Division Packaging materials used [Mg] 7,054 8,054 » energy consumption in Gdańsk; Medana Pharma S.A.; Polfa Warszawa S.A. with » water consumption Solvents used [Mg] 1,802 2,040 » waste and wastewater management Total [Mg] 15,883 17,016 Research and Development Department; Polpharma Biuro » compliance with environmental regulations Handlowe Sp. z o.o., as well as Centrum Usług Nowoczes» employment nych Sp. z o.o. and ZFP Inwestycje Sp. z o.o. This report does » » Occupational Health and Safety employee training and education Percentage of recycled input materials* not include data on Ipochem. » diversity and equal opportunity 2017 2018 » respect for human rights Materials and raw materials used [Mg] 15,883 17,016 The organisation reporting on behalf of these companies » customer health and safety » marketing and labelling Recycled materials used in the production process [Mg] 4,473 4,726 is Zakłady Farmaceutyczne Polpharma SA. The names » customer privacy Percentage of recycled input materials 28.2% 27.8% “Polpharma Group” and “Polpharma” are used in the report » medical education for physicians » the company development in the evolving pharmainterchangeably and refer to the companies listed above. ceutical industry Direct energy consumption within the organisation* » robotic automation of manufacturing processes This is Polpharma‘s fourth CSR report. The previous CSR Energy consumption from non-renewable sources by fuel type [GJ] report covered 2015-2016 and was published in December Fuel type 2017 2018 2017. The Group‘s reports are prepared once every two Key aspects for internal Natural and coke oven gas 61,917 61,777 years. The Report’s contents were defined by the compastakeholders:** Diesel fuel 96,163 96,723 ny’s representatives and external stakeholders. The report Coal 0.0 0.0 was prepared on the basis of the updated CSR strategy. » financial performance Purified natural gas and gasoline 0.26 0.31 » indirect economic impacts The materiality of each of the topics covered for the » ethics programme Total 158,080.26 158,500.31 company was determined during a meeting of the manage» anti-corruption ment, which took place in May 2019, and on the basis of the » prevention of anti-competitive behaviours » use of materials and raw materials results of the employee survey the company’s CSR strategy » energy consumption » water consumption Energy consumption by type of energy [GJ] taken by 725 participants. The materiality of the topics for » waste and wastewater management Type of energy 2017 2018 external stakeholders was defined at the Foresight CSR » compliance with environmental regulations meeting held on 11 June 2019 in Warsaw. During the meeting, » employment Cooling energy representatives of 11 stakeholder groups defined the roles, » Occupational Health and Safety Heat energy 367,442 362,408 » employee training and education responsibilities, and tasks to be adopted by Polpharma Electricity 242,363 262,580 » diversity and equal opportunity Group as Poland’s pharmaceutical industry leader. » respect for human rights Steam » customer health and safety Total 609,805 624,988 » marketing and labelling To define the report contents, the authors also refer» customer privacy red to internal policies and strategies, previous company » employee volunteering » culture of quality Energy sales by type of energy [GJ] reports, CSR reports of other pharmaceutical companies, » community engagement Type of energy 2017 2018 and key issues for the sector. » health education and preventive care » dual education and collaboration with the scientific Heat energy 2,134 2,252 community * Data exclusive of Centrum Usług Nowoczesnych Sp. z o.o. and ZFP Inwestycje Sp. z o.o. * These aspects are important for all stakeholders outside the organisation. ** These aspects are important within the organisation. 82 83 Reduction of energy consumption* Fines and non-financial sanctions for non-compliance with environmental Reduction of energy consumption [GJ] laws and regulations* 2017 2018 Amount of fines for non-compliance with the law and/or environmental regulations [PLN] 3,773 6,319 2017 2018 2099** 0 Reduction of energy consumption by type of energy [GJ] ** The permissible level of impurities in treated effluents discharged to Wierzyca River in 2017 was exceeded. Type of energy 2017 2018 Heat energy 1,239 1,488 Electricity 2,534 4,831 Total 3,773 6,319 Employment All calculations are based on direct measurements monitored under the Energy-Saving Programme. Employment by gender and type of contract [number of individuals] 2017 2017 2018 2018 Total water withdrawal* Type of contract Men Women Total Men Women Total Water withdrawal by source [m3] Open-ended 1,829 2,237 4,066 1,913 2,384 4,297 contract Water source 2017 2018 Fixed-term Groundwater 484,197 498,119 273 393 666 368 429 797 contract Surface water 2,887,689 3,114,217 Total 2,102 2,630 4,732 2,281 2,813 5,094 Water companies 276,592 259,677 Total 3,648,478 3,872,013 Employment by gender and basis of employment [number of individuals] Total wastewater discharge* 2017 2017 2018 2018 Basis of empMen Women Total Men Women Total Wastewater by discharge site [m3] loyment Wastewater discharge site 2017 2018 Part-time 24 17 41 23 25 48 Municipal water and sewage company 264,087 255,734 Full-time 2,078 2,613 4,691 2,258 2,788 5,046 Rivers 3,196,288 2,331,782 Total 2,102 2,630 4,732 2,281 2,813 5,094 Total 3,460,375 2,587,516 Less than 1% of all employees are employed outside the organisation. Total weight of waste* Employment of new staff members Waste by type and disposal method [Mg] Employment of new employees by gender and age [number of individuals] 2017 2017 2018 2018 2017 2017 2018 2018 Disposal method Safe Hazardous Total Safe Hazardous Total Age Men Women Total Men Women Total Recovery 1,135 295 1,430 858 440 1,298 < 30 124 185 309 164 196 360 Recycling 1,222 0 1,222 1,245 0 1,245 30-50 160 171 331 201 185 386 Landfill 180 18 198 267 19 286 50+ 11 9 20 12 7 19 Incineration 72 431 503 236 332 568 Total 295 365 660 377 388 765 Other 24 304 328 67 286 353 Total 2,633 1,048 3,681 2,673 1,077 3,750 * Data exclusive of Centrum Usług Nowoczesnych Sp. z o.o. and ZFP Inwestycje Sp. z o.o. Waste in the “Other” category (safe and hazardous) is disposed of by third parties. 84 85 Percentage of newly hired employees (by gender and age) Lost working days ratio (by gender) 2017 2017 2018 2018 Gender 2017 2017 Age Men Women Total Men Women Total Women 0.0001 0.0 < 30 0.46 0.49 0.48 0.51 0.44 0.47 Men 0.0001 0.0001 30-50 0.12 0.1 0.11 0.14 0.1 0.12 Total 0.0001 0.0001 50+ 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.02 Total 0.14 0.14 0.14 0.16 0.14 0.15 Absence rate (by gender) [%] Gender 2017 2017 Employees whose employment has been terminated, by gender and age [number of individuals] Women 0.07 0.04 2017 2017 2018 2018 Men 0.04 0.04 Age Men Women Total Men Women Total Mean 0.055 0.04 < 30 41 39 80 45 43 88 In 2017, 24 employee accidents were recorded (minor incidents only, including torsion, injury, cut wounds, or fractures) and 1 30-50 104 89 193 115 116 231 accident of a non-employee (cut finger injury). 50+ 20 33 53 42 37 79 In 2018, 16 employee accidents were recorded (minor incidents only, including torsion, injury, cut wounds, fractures, or neck Total 165 161 326 202 196 398 distortion) and 1 accident of a non-employee (sprained ankle). Employee turnover ratio (by gender and age) Average hours of training per employee 2017 2017 2018 2018 Average hours of training per employee (by gender) [h] Age Men Women Total Men Women Total Gender 2017 2017 < 30 0.15 0.1 0.12 0.14 0.1 0.11 Women 13.5 20.2 30-50 0.08 0.05 0.06 0.08 0.06 0.07 Men 14.1 18 50+ 0.04 0.06 0.05 0.09 0.07 0.08 Total 13.8 19.2 Total 0.08 0.06 0.07 0.09 0.07 0.08 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and Average hours of training per employee (by employee category) [h] absenteeism, and total number of fatal work accidents* Employee categories 2017 2017 Managers and executives 63.6 68.5 Lost working days by gender Individual contributors 8.9 14.2 Gender 2017 2017 Total 13.8 19.2 Women 463 247 Men 220 253 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Total 683 500 development reviews Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews (by gender and Occupational diseases rate (by gender) employee category) [%] Gender 2017 2017 Total 2017 2017 2018 2018 Women 0.0 0.0** 0.0 Employee categories Men Women Men Women Men 0.0 0.0 0.0 Managers and executTotal 0.0 0.0 100 100 100 100 ives * Data exclusive of Centrum Usług Nowoczesnych Sp. z o.o. and ZFP Inwestycje Sp. z o.o. Individual contributors 99.8 100 99.9 100 **In 2018, 1 case of occupational disease was identified. 86 87 GRI content index Comment/ Reporting External Composition of governing bodies and staff by gender and age Indicator No. Indicator name status description/ page review No. Percentage of supervisory body members (by gender) [%] Profile indicators Gender 2017 2017 Organisation profile Women 18.5 18.5 GRI 102-1 Name of the organisation Complete 11 Yes Men 81.5 81.5 GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Complete 12-13 Yes Total 100 100 GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters Complete 7 Yes GRI 102-4 Location of operations Complete 8 Yes Percentage of supervisory body members (by age) [%] GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form Complete 11 Yes Age 2017 2017 GRI 102-6 Markets served Complete 8 Yes < 30 0 0 30-50 59.3 55.6 GRI 102-7 Scale of the organisation Partial 10-11 Yes 50+ 40.7 44.4 GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Complete 85 Yes Total 100 100 GRI 102-9 Supply chain Complete 55 Yes Significant changes to the organisation and its supply GRI 102-10 Complete 52, 82 Yes chain Percentage of employees (by gender and category) [%] GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Complete 5, 46 Yes 2017 2017 2018 2018 Employee cateGRI 102-12 External initiatives Complete 24 Yes Men Women Total Men Women Total gories GRI 102-13 Memberships of associations Complete 24 Yes Managers and 5 3.9 8.9 5.1 4 9.1 Strategy executives Individual contriGRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Complete 4 Yes 39.4 51.7 91.1 39.6 51.2 90.8 butors Total 44.4 55.6 100 44.8 55.2 100 Ethics GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour Complete 30 Yes Percentage of employees (by age and category) [%] Governance 2017 2017 2017 2018 2018 2018 GRI 102-18 Governance structure Complete 11, 18 Yes Employee cateStakeholder engagement < 30 30-50 50+ Total < 30 30-50 50+ Total gories GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Complete 25 Yes Managers and 0 7.1 1.8 8.9 0.02 7.2 1.9 9.1 executives GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Complete 39 Yes Individual contri13.5 58.6 18.9 91.1 15 57.4 18.4 90.8 GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Complete 24 Yes butors Total 13.5 65.7 20.7 100 15 64.7 20.3 100 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Complete 24, 82 Yes GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Complete 82 Yes Reporting practice Entities included in the consolidated financial stateGRI 102-45 Complete 82 Yes ments GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Complete 82 Yes GRI 102-47 List of material topics Complete 82 Yes GRI 102-48 Restatements of information Complete No corrections Yes GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting Complete No significant changes Yes GRI 102-50 Reporting period Complete 82 Yes 88 89 Comment/ Comment/ Reporting External Reporting External Indicator No. Indicator name description/ page Indicator No. Indicator name description/ page status review status review No. No. GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report Complete 82 Yes Energy GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle Complete 82 Yes GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Complete 46 Yes Magdalena Rzeszotalska, GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Complete 46 Yes Corporate CommunicaGRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Complete tions and CSR Director, Yes GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Complete 46 Yes magdalena.rzeszotalska@ polpharma.com GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Complete 83 Yes Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI stanGRI 102-54 Complete 82 Yes GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Complete 84 Yes dards GRI 102-55 GRI content index Complete 89 Yes Water GRI 102-56 External assurance Complete 82 Yes GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Complete 46 Yes Specific indicators GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Complete 46 Yes Economic topics GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Complete 46 Yes Economic Performance GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal Complete 84 Yes GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Partial 6 Yes Effluents and Waste GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Partial 6 Yes GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Complete 46 Yes GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Partial 6 Yes GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Complete 46 Yes GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Partial 11 Yes GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Complete 46 Yes Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Complete 84 Yes GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Complete 14 Yes GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Complete 84 Yes GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Complete 14 Yes Environmental Compliance GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Complete 14 Yes GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Complete 46 Yes GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Complete 14 Yes GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Complete 46 Yes Anti-corruption GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Complete 46 Yes GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Complete 29 Yes Non-compliance with environmental laws and reguGRI 307-1 Complete 85 Yes lations GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Complete 29 Yes Social disclosures GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Complete 29 Yes Employment GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Complete 28 Yes GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Complete 38 Yes Anti-competitive Behaviour GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Complete 38 Yes GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Complete 28 Yes GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Complete 38 Yes GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Complete 28 Yes GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Complete 85-86 Yes GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Complete 28 Yes Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not GRI 401-2 Complete 38 Yes In 2017-2018, no violation provided to temporary or part-time employees Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, of free competition or GRI 206-1 and monopoly practices Complete monopoly practices was Yes Occupational Health and Safety identified GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Complete 36 Yes Environmental disclosures GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Complete 36 Yes Materials GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Complete 36 Yes GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Complete 46 Yes Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational GRI 403-2 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of Complete 36, 86 Yes GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Complete 40 Yes work-related fatalities GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Complete 46 Yes GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Complete 83 Yes GRI 301-2 Recycled input materials used Complete 83 Yes 90 91 Comment/ Comment/ Reporting External Reporting External Indicator No. Indicator name description/ page Indicator No. Indicator name description/ page status review status review No. No. Training and Education In 2017-2018, no justified grievances about violatiGRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Complete 38 Yes Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of ons of customer privacy GRI 418-1 Complete Yes customer privacy and losses of customer data or leak, theft or loss GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Complete 38 Yes of customer data were recorded. GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Complete 38 Yes Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Complete 87 Yes GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Complete 29, 33 Yes Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition GRI 404-2 Complete 39 Yes GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Complete 29, 33 Yes assistance programs Percentage of employees receiving regular perforGRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Complete 29, 33 Yes GRI 404-3 Complete 87 Yes mance and career development reviews In 2017, no fines or nonDiversity and Equal Opportunity monetary sanctions for non-compliance with GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Complete 45 Yes the law and/or social and economic regulations GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Complete 45 Yes were recorded. In 2018, Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the a fine was imposed GRI 419-1 Complete Yes GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Complete 45 Yes social and economic area on Polpharma by the National Sanitary InspecGRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Complete 88 Yes torate for non-compliance with the labelling Non-discrimination requirements of the food supplement “Scorbolamid GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Complete 45 Yes Kids Hot” 8 sachets. GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Complete 45 Yes GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Complete 45 Yes Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions GRI 406-1 Complete 45 Yes taken Customer Health and Safety GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Complete 32 Yes GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Complete 32 Yes GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Complete 32 Yes Assessment of the health and safety impacts of GRI 416-1 Complete 33 Yes product and service categories Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and GRI 416-2 Complete 33 Yes safety impacts of products and services Marketing and Labelling GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Complete 30 Yes GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Complete 34 Yes GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Complete 34 Yes Requirements for product and service information and GRI 417-1 Complete 34 Yes labelling In 2017, we received one decision of the administrative authority, the Chief Pharmaceutical Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing GRI 417-3 Complete Inspectorate (GIF), and Yes communications one decision of the selfregulation body PASMI to stop the advertising questioned. Customer Privacy GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Complete 33 Yes GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components Complete 33 Yes GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Complete 33 Yes 92 93 94 95
