S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 20 1 8 Toward a Circular Future A Message from Our Chairman GRI 102-14. 130 years ago, in a small Dutch kitchen, a company sparked to life when two brothers-in-law audaciously started a spice and essence business. They were Josef Polak and Leopold Schwarz. Along with the many entrepreneurial founders of companies that would ultimately become IFF, Polak and Schwarz started their business in an era of industry and innovation, built on the growing tapestry of a global community. Today is not so different, except and strategy drive us to meet these We consistently strive for better, more now technology and environmental global trends, and we are excited to efficient ways to operate our business, responsibility are helping direct our share some of our greatest achieveand it’s always exciting when these advances. The passion for discovery ments from last year with you. efforts are externally noted. Last that drove our founders continues year, we received a CDP “A” for Water to be our guidepost as we look to In 2018, we used our three-platform Security for the first time and were create transformative, high-quality strategy – Positive Principles, recognized for the fourth consecutive and safe products for our customers Sensational People and Regenerative year on CDP’s Climate Change A list. and consumers. Products – as a touchstone. Having We also were finalists in the Circular achieved three of our four 2020 Awards and named to the FTSE4Good A grassroots effort, our view of eco-efficiency targets, we launched Index series, Barron’s 100 Most sustainability developed along with EcoEffective+, establishing environSustainable Companies List for the our evolving sense of responsibility mental goals with a clear focus on second year in a row and the Euronext to our stakeholders. Led by our vision science-based emission reductions, Vigeo World 120 Index for corporate and business strategy, we work to zero waste to landfill and water social responsibility. move past a linear existence and stewardship. Our accomplishments embrace a circular economy that over the years were made possible With our historic acquisition of places us on a path of continuous due to the continuous efforts of IFF Frutarom, we are now better-positioned improvement and greater environGreen Teams at our manufacturing to build on our focus on naturals and mental stewardship. Around the world, facilities. With true dedication, they to lead in taste, scent and nutrition. we see consumers making thoughtful worked to increase our sustainability Exploring innovations beyond our purchasing decisions based on performance without compromising traditional offerings allows us greater whether products are responsibly production excellence. insight into different aspects of the sourced and environmentally multifaceted health and wellness space conscious. Our sustainability vision and offers opportunities for growth. 2 I ntro d u c tion Andreas Fibig Chairman and Chief Executive Officer As one of the leaders in circular on our experiences we will continue to knowledge-sharing in bringing our design, we are vested in creating create resilient socioeconomic partwork to scale. Internally, I experienced regenerative, socially fair products nerships with our farmers, suppliers first-hand the benefits of engaging that are more renewable, biodegradand customers. with junior employees through the IFF able and made with alternative energy Diversity & Inclusion reverse-menand minimal water. Along with our As a corporate witness to the detritoring initiative, even as I continued portfolio of nine For Life-certified mental effects of climate change, to serve in other external leadernaturals and 90 vegan-certified we remain steadfast in upholding ship roles, including on the World ingredients, we are demonstrating our the United Nations Sustainable Business Council for Sustainable ability to design and market products Development Goals, especially in Development’s Executive Committee. that positively contribute to society igniting a transformational shift in the and the environment. Our upcoming global food system. POWDERPURE, Juxtaposing fresh ideas with seasoned harvest of Peru Balsam – the first an IFF company that uses patented guidance bolsters our ability to do FairWild-certified flavor or fragrance drying technology to create food all we can to build a restorative and ingredient to be commercially availpowders from fruits and vegetaregenerative future. able globally – is an example of what bles, has potential to decrease food is possible. waste within the supply chain. With IFF’s Re-Imagine Protein Innovation We’re also committed to driving program, we’re designing taste for sustainable practices throughout plant-forward protein alternatives. our supply chain. In Indonesia, we launched a patchouli initiative to Personally, 2018 was exceptional. Andreas Fibig support the livelihoods of smallholder Working with our various stakeChairman and Chief Executive Officer farmers, and in Haiti we completed the holders reinforced the importance pilot program Vetiver Together. Based of traditional and nontraditional 3 Table of Contents OUR COMMITMENT INTRODUCTION 2 TO SUSTAINABILITY 27 A Message from Our Chairman . . . . . . . . 2 Our Sustainability Vision & Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27 IFF’s Performance Highlights . . . . . . . . . 6 Materiality . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 IFF’s Sustainability Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . 7 IFF’s Material Topics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33 Positive Principles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Stakeholder Engagement . . . . . . . . . . . 34 Sensational People . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 Regenerative Products . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 ABOUT THIS REPORT 15 ENVIRONMENT 39 Our Approach to Reporting . . . . . . . . . . . 15 Managing Our Footprint . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39 Energy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42 Emissions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 Water . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44 Waste Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46 ABOUT IFF 19 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 49 Organizational Profile . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 Engaging with Our Suppliers . . . . . . . . . 49 Our Operating Footprint . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 Engaging with Other Responsible Sourcing Partners . . . . . . 53 Our Supply Chain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 Sustainability in Our Expanding Our Business . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 Botanicals Supply Chain . . . . . . . . . . . . 55 External Initiatives, Memberships & Strengthening Associations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 Local Communities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58 Working to Source Palm Oil Responsibly . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60 4 OUR PEOPLE 63 PRODUCT SAFETY & QUALITY 93 Employment Practices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63 Product Safety & Quality . . . . . . . . . . . . 93 Workforce Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64 Product & Service Labeling . . . . . . . . . . 95 Commending Sustainability Performance . . . . . . . . . . 65 Occupational Health & Safety . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66 Diversity & Inclusion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68 Cultivating Talent . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71 REGENERATIVE PRODUCTS 75 APPENDIX 97 Circular Design . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75 Appendix . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97 Green Chemistry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78 External Assurance Statement . . . . . . . 98 Health & Wellness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79 GRI Content Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101 Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements . . . . . . . 105 IFF Performance Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106 IFF Facility Certifications . . . . . . . . . . . 109 Stay Up to Date . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110 GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE 83 Governance & Compliance . . . . . . . . . . 83 Risk & Crisis Management . . . . . . . . . . . 87 Human Rights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .89 5 I ntro d u c tion Piloted blockchain Achieved FairWild Named a finalist in Launched an agroforestry program technology as a tool social responsibility The Circulars, the world’s in Indonesian patchouli farming for ensuring certification for Peru premier circular economy communities to support ingredient traceability Balsam from El Salvador awards program reforestation and empower women 2018 CEO Andreas Fibig signed the United Nations Global IFF’s Performance Compact CEO Water Mandate Highlights Achieved Gold status with EcoVadis, a social responsibility rating system that assesses Performance Highlights suppliers’ sustainable business practices Named to Euronext Vigeo’s World 120 Achieved RSPO Supply Chain Joined Barron’s Index and qualified 100 Most Sustainable for the FTSE4Good Certification at 3 additional facilities U.S. Companies list Developed Market Index in sustainability (13 total) 0 Surpassed three of our four 2020 environmental targets A Waste Awarded a place on the CDP Climate A Launched the EcoEffective+ Certified 90 natural extracts List for the 4 th year in environmental initiative featuring a to EVE (Expertise Vegan Europe) a row and received an Science-Based Target and zero waste to VEGAN standards. A for Water Security landfill and water stewardship goals Lister for the first time 6 IFF’s Sustainability Strategy Inspired by the Design for a Circular Economy Positive Principles Sensational Regenerative People Products I ntro d u c tion 8 I ntro d u c tion Positive Principles Positive Principles is the pillar of our sustainability strategy focused on our environmental footprint – specifically, our commitment to eliminating waste, using clean, renewable energy and water stewardship. We engage our global employee base to accomplish these goals through local, employee-led Green Teams. 2018 was a milestone, as we launched the next generation of our environmental goals, known collectively as EcoEffective+, that will take us to 2025 and beyond. W AT C H O U R P O S I T I V E P R I N C I P L E S V I D E O u 9 I ntro d u c tion 10 I ntro d u c tion Sensational People Sensational People are the heart of IFF. Whether it’s our employees, our suppliers or the global communities in which we live and work, we seek to ignite passion, creativity and a spirit of inclusiveness that defines our culture as an organization. Promoting diversity and inclusion leads to engagement, which fosters the collaboration and innovation that will drive our long-term growth. Through programs like Diversity & Inclusion and IFF University, we honor our commitment to making a positive difference in the world, starting with our Sensational People. W AT C H O U R S E N S AT I O N A L P E O P L E V I D E O u 11 I ntro d u c tion 12 I ntro d u c tion Regenerative Products Regenerative Products are the realization of the IFF sustainability strategy. We aim to create products that are designed to accelerate a circular economy, improve the climate, do more with less and delight our customers and consumers. Delivering innovative, sustainable solutions in taste, scent and nutrition is what inspires us every day. W AT C H O U R R E G E N E R AT I V E P R O D U C T S V I D E O u 13 A bout T his R eport Best practices in action A bout T his R eport Our Approach to Reporting GRI 102-45. GRI 102-46. GRI 102-50. GRI 102-52. GRI 102-54. GRI 103-1. We annually report our sustainability performance in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. It describes our strategy and performance with respect to environmental, social and governance issues in 2018. A GRI Content Index is available at the end of this report. REPORTING BOUNDARY The scope of this report includes facilities owned and operated by International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. during calendar year 2018 and all entities included in IFF’s 2018 consolidated financial statements, excluding those referenced below. For more information on our legal entities, see Exhibit 21 of our 2018 Annual Report. RESTATEMENTS AND CHANGES IN REPORTING GRI 102-48. In recent years, we have acquired several new companies. The data from these entities, excluding Frutarom, represent a small percentage of our overall operating footprint. Their inclusion in our dataset for this report is outlined below. Consistent with best practices and applicable reporting framework guidelines such as the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, where applicable, we generally include acquisitions’ environmental data in our reporting boundary for their first full year of operation following their acquisition. Prior years’ environmental data, where possible, have been restated based on historical data and/or estimates. Our 2020 environmental sustainability goals are based on a 2010 environmental target baseline and have been adjusted to reflect these acquisitions. Our new EcoEffective+ goals are currently based on a 2015 baseline.1 DATA INCLUSION IN 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ACQUISITION YEAR ACQUIRED ENVIRONMENTAL HUMAN RESOURCES HEALTH & SAFETY Aromor 2014 Yes Yes Yes Ottens Flavors (Tastepoint South) 2015 Yes Yes Yes Lucas Meyer Cosmetics 2015 Yes Yes Yes David Michael (Tastepoint North) 2016 Yes Yes Yes Fragrance Resources 2017 No2 Yes Yes POWDERPURE 2017 Yes Yes Yes Frutarom 2018 No 3 No 3 No3 1 Consistent with best practices and applicable reporting framework guidelines, the Company’s targets and baselines are based on current operations and may be adjusted to reflect material changes to the business, including the acquisition of Frutarom. 2 Fragrance Resources environmental data is being collected and will be included in the 2019 reporting boundary. 3 Consistent with best practices and applicable reporting framework guidelines, where applicable, we generally include acquisitions’ data in our reporting boundary for the first full year of operation following their acquisition. Due to finalization of the acquisition of Frutarom late in 2018, as well as the size and complexity of its operations, we plan to begin reporting integrated data in the 2021 reporting year. As such, the scope of this report excludes Frutarom unless stated otherwise. Frutarom results may be included in financial and operational data in order to be consistent with our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. 15 A bout T his R eport We also include safety data from acquired sites in our corporate totals for the first full year of operation following acquisition. An exception to this is if an acquired site has a recordable incident during the year it is acquired, in which case we include the incident(s) and manhours for the affected site beginning with the month in which the incident(s) occurred. Exceptions to the above methodologies may be made in limited cases due to data availability, and we consistently report exceptions to these boundaries where applicable. For example, due to finalization of the acquisition of Frutarom late in 2018, as well as the size and complexity of its operations, we plan to begin reporting integrated data no later than the 2021 reporting year. Aside from these acquisitions, no significant changes have been made from previous reporting periods to the scope and topic boundaries, as defined by the GRI Standards. Financial and governance information, including our 2018 Annual Report and 2019 Proxy Statement, is available on our website. Prior years’ sustainability reports can also be found on our website. REPORTING PROCESS The content of this report is based on our sustainability strategy and materiality assessment and is developed (with consideration of the GRI reporting principles) through an in-depth consultation process with relevant subject matter experts. The report is then reviewed by representatives from each business function. Feedback is incorporated, and our senior management and CEO review the final report prior to publication. Additionally, our process includes third-party assurance of our sustainability report, including environmental, health and safety data as well as key claims throughout the report. See External Assurance on the following page for more information. 16 A bout T his R eport DATA MEASUREMENT TECHNIQUES AND BASIS OF CALCULATIONS We have internal systems to ensure consistent and accurate data collection and aggregation from our facilities. For the majority of our environmental indicators, we conduct quarterly quality assurance/quality control checks to evaluate the reliability of facility-specific and aggregated data and correct any errors. ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) conducts third-party assurance of selected current-year environmental and safety data that we report externally. More detail about our energy and greenhouse gas emission calculation methodologies is provided in the Environment section. Due to rounding, individual numbers in text, charts and tables may not sum to the totals shown. The unit of currency used in this report is the U.S. dollar. EXTERNAL ASSURANCE GRI 102-56. We retained ERM CVS to conduct a third-party assurance of our sustainability report. Our Vice President, Global Sustainability seeks this assurance in accordance with GRI best practices. The assurance scope covered specific 2018 data for a number of key indicators as well as the overall presentation of our 2018 sustainability performance, including completeness and balance. As part of this process, ERM CVS conducted representative site visits and interviews and reviewed our data collection and aggregation systems. ERM CVS also provided an opinion on this report’s conformance with the GRI Standards “In Accordance – Core” option. ERM CVS’ Assurance Statement, which details the scope, activities and conclusions of their engagement, is included at the end of this report. FEEDBACK GRI 102-53. For copies of our publicly available policies, or for more information regarding our operations, please visit our website at iff.com. For questions, comments and suggestions about our report, please email us at sustainability@iff.com. 17 A bout I F F Transforming the everyday A bout I F F Organizational Profile GRI 102-1. GRI 102-2. GRI 102-3. GRI 102-5. International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. (IFF) is a leading innovator of sensory experiences that move the world. We co-create unique products that consumers taste, smell or touch in fine fragrances and cosmetics, detergents and household goods, and food and beverages. We recently celebrated our 130-year anniversary – and while IFF has changed and reinvented itself many times over the years, our acquisition of Frutarom in October 2018 marks an unprecedented shift for our company. The Frutarom acquisition considerably increased our product portfolio, giving us new access to attractive adjacencies, and expanded our customer base to include a significant number of faster-growing small and midsized customers. IFF is headquartered at 521 West 57th Street, New York, New York, U.S.A. Detailed information about the scale of our organization, operational structure, markets served and geographical footprint is available in our 2018 Annual Report and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-K (collectively, “2018 Annual Report”). 19 A bout I F F Our Operating Footprint GRI 102-4. GRI 102-7. GRI 102-10. Prior to our acquisition of Frutarom, IFF had 37 manufacturing facilities and 21 creative centers and application laboratories located in 35 different countries. Upon our acquisition of Frutarom, we gained 60 additional manufacturing facilities and 84 additional R&D/application laboratories globally, including many in countries where we currently operate. Including Frutarom, we now have a combined total of approximately 13,000 employees and more than 90,000 individual products that reach customers in approximately 195 countries. The combined, full-year 2018 sales of IFF and Frutarom together were approximately $5.1 billion, making us the second-largest company in the flavors, fragrances and nutrition industry. 1 OUR MARKETS GRI 102-6. We operate in three business segments: Taste (previously “Flavors”), Scent (previously “Fragrances”) and, commencing upon its acquisition, Frutarom. The flavors and fragrances market is part of a larger market that supplies a wide variety of ingredients and compounds used in consumer products. The broader market includes large multinational companies and smaller regional and local participants that supply products such as seasonings, texturizers, spices, enzymes, certain food-related commodities, fortified products and cosmetic ingredients. In our Taste business, our flavor compounds are ultimately used by our customers in the following four end-use categories of consumer goods: • Savory, for use in soups, sauces, condiments, prepared meals, meat, fish and poultry, potato chips and other savory snacks • Beverages, for use in juice drinks, carbonated beverages, flavored waters and spirits • Sweet, for use in bakery products, candy, chewing gum and cereal • Dairy, for use in all dairy products, such as yogurt, ice cream, cheese and other products that have a creamy texture Our Scent business consists of fragrance compounds and ingredients. Our creative and commercial teams within Fragrance Compounds are organized into two broad categories: Fine Fragrances and Consumer Fragrances. Consumer fragrance applications include fabric care (laundry detergent, fabric softeners and specialty laundry products), home care (household cleaners, dishwashing detergents and air care, including candles and air fresheners), personal wash (including bar soap and shower gel), toiletries and hair care products. 1 Consistent with best practices and applicable reporting framework guidelines, where applicable, we generally include acquisitions’ data in our reporting boundary for the first full year of operation following their acquisition. Due to finalization of the acquisition of Frutarom late in 2018, as well as the size and complexity of its operations, we plan to begin reporting integrated data in the 2021 reporting year. As such, the scope of this report excludes Frutarom unless stated otherwise. Frutarom results may be included in financial and operational data in order to be consistent with our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. 20 A bout I F F 2 0 1 8 R E P O R T E D 7.8% of Sales $337.3 Million Spent on R&D in Net Income 13,000 $4 Billion Employees Worldwide in Net Sales 195 Countries in which IFF’s Customers’ Products Are Sold Our End-Use Percentage of 2018 Sales Product Categories 15% TASTE SCENT 35% Beverages Fabric Care Dairy Fine Fragrance Savory Fragrance Ingredients 25% Sweet Home Care Personal Wash OTHER Hair Care Cosmetic Actives Toiletries 25% Europe, Africa, Middle East Greater Asia North America Latin America Source: 10-K 21 A bout I F F The fine fragrances we create include some of the industry-leading fine fragrance classics, as well as cutting-edge niche fragrances. We also source and distill natural fragrance ingredients and create and commercialize synthetic fragrance ingredients for use in our own formulations or for sale to the larger market. We expanded our business into the cosmetic active ingredients market with our 2015 acquisition of Lucas Meyer Cosmetics. Our Frutarom business creates and manufactures a naturals-focused suite of flavor compounds and specialty fine ingredients, largely targeting local and regional customers. Frutarom seeks to capitalize on the health and wellness focus of consumers and deliver growth by offering customers natural flavor products that combine solutions to create natural colors and natural functional food ingredients, which promote health benefits and extend shelf life. Frutarom’s products are focused on four principal areas: • Savory Solutions, which include blends of spices, functional ingredients, natural colors, natural antioxidants and flavors that are primarily designed for the meat and fish industry • Natural Product Solutions, which include the use of natural health ingredients, colors and shelf life extenders • Taste Solutions, which include flavor compounds and foods • Specialty Fine Ingredients, which include natural flavor extracts, specialty essential oils, citrus products, aromatic chemicals and natural gums and resins We sell our products to many global, regional and local consumer product companies. The global market for flavors and ingredients has expanded consistently, primarily as a result of an increase in demand for, as well as an increase in the variety of, consumer products containing flavors and fragrances. For more information, see Item 1 of our 2018 Annual Report. 22 A bout I F F Our Supply Chain GRI 102-9. GRI 102-10. We have a complex supply chain – from raw material sourcing through manufacturing, quality assurance, regulatory compliance and distribution – that permits us to provide our customers with consistent quality products on a timely and cost-effective basis. We use both natural and synthetic ingredients in our compounds. With the acquisition of Frutarom, we significantly increased our natural products, and, therefore, we expect that the percentage of our ingredients that are natural or crop-related – those derived from flowers, fruits and other botanical products, as well as from animal products – has increased. More information about our supply chain is available in our 2018 Annual Report and the Responsible Sourcing section later in this report. 23 A bout I F F Expanding Our Business We believe that our diversified business platform, consisting of expansive geographic coverage, a broad product portfolio and a global and regional customer base, positions us to achieve long-term growth as the flavors and fragrances markets expand. As part of our strategy, we continue to strengthen and expand our portfolio through acquisitions. We purchased Frutarom in October 2018. Frutarom is an Israel-based company that, through its subsidiaries, develops, produces and markets flavors and fine ingredients used in manufacturing food, beverages, flavors and fragrances, pharma/nutraceuticals, cosmetics and personal care products. This acquisition strengthened IFF’s customer base, enlarged our capabilities and geographic reach, and is expected to result in more exposure to numerous end markets, including those with a focus on naturals and health and wellness. This acquisition allowed us to expand our customer base into the faster-growing midsized and smaller companies and expand our product portfolio to include natural colors, antioxidants for food preservation, nutraceuticals, ingredients for infant formula and proteins for elderly nutrition. It also expanded our core product lines with savory solutions aimed at the meat and fish industry, citrus and other naturals flavors, specialty ingredients and new cosmetic actives. 24 A bout I F F External Initiatives, Memberships & Associations GRI 102-12. GRI 102-13. We are members of a number of organizations and associations, including the following (parentheses indicate leadership positions held): American Chemical Society American Cleaning Institute Association for Chemoreception Sciences Cosmetic Executive Women (Board of Governors) Flavor and Extract Manufacturers Association (Board of Governors) Fragrance Creators Association (Board of Directors) Fragrance Foundation (Board of Directors) Household and Commercial Products Association International Federation of Essential Oils and Aroma Trades International Fragrance Association (Board of Directors) International Organization of the Flavor Industry (Board of Directors) Monell Chemical Senses Center Personal Care Products Council (Board of Directors) Research Institute for Fragrance Materials (Board of Directors) Society of Flavor Chemists World Economic Forum We also engage in the following environmentaland sustainability-related organizations and partnerships: AIM-PROGRESS EcoVadis Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil Sedex Together for Sustainability World Business Council for Sustainable Development (Executive Committee) We formally support the following initiatives: United Nations Global Compact RE100 CEO Water Mandate CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion™ 25 O U R C O M M I T M E N T to S ustainability Leading positive transformational changes O U R C O M M I T M E N T to S ustainability Our Sustainability Vision & Strategy Although we are only one company, we understand how our decisions and actions can impact and influence the global value chain. In order to embed a sustainable mindset deeper into our company and throughout our culture, we consider sustainability to be a key enabler of our business strategy, and we are executing on an ambitious sustainability vision and strategy. Our sustainability vision – to lead positive transformational changes toward a regenerative, healthy and abundant world – is based on the concept of a circular economy, one that is restorative and regenerative by design. We aim to leverage this mindset to transform how we design and manufacture our products and in the way we engage our employees, customers, suppliers and communities. Transformation is an ambitious goal, and to accomplish it, we will focus on the three platforms of our sustainability strategy: Positive Principles, Regenerative Products and Sensational People. 27 Our Roadmap to Circularity Our sustainability vision is to lead positive transformational changes toward a regenerative, healthy and abundant world Sensational Positive Regenerative People Principles Products Engage our employees and Embed the principles of Intentionally design our products stakeholders to make a eliminating the concept of to continuously support wellbeing positive difference in the world waste, using clean renewable and have a positive contribution • Our CEO signed the CEO Action energy, and water stewardship to society and the environment in a circular economy 1 for Diversity & Inclusion™ pledge into our company and culture which is the largest CEO-driven • Continue to leverage the principles • By 2025, reduce absolute business commitment to-date in of circular design to increase the greenhouse gas emissions by advancing diversity and inclusion renewability and biodegradability 30%1 and work with our suppliers2 in the workplace. of our products and reduce waste so that they set their own • IFF University connects science-based reduction targets employees to learning and and report annual emissions; also development opportunities procure 75% of our electricity critical to career advancement. portfolio3 from renewable sources • By 2025, achieve zero waste to landfill status at all major manufacturing facilities4 • Further reduce our freshwater consumption by using recycled water for more than half of our non-product operations • Drive collective action for water stewardship in targeted communities where we source and operate5 1 Scope 1 and 2 emissions from a 2015 baseline. 2 Representing 70% of our supply chain emissions. 3 Based on our 2015 site portfolio. 4 A major facility is defined as a site that generates more than 100 metric tons of waste (hazardous and non-hazardous) annually. 5 Facility communities were identified based on risk profiles using the World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct and Ecolab’s Water Monetizer tools. 28 Going Circular Throughout Our Value Chain ~50% of the ingredients in our fragrances catalog are renewable1 INNOVATION Our R&D teams work to define and identify renewable and biodegradable feedstocks, leverage green chemistry principles and develop innovative products with health and 75% wellness attributes. of supplier spend CONSUMER INSIGHTS assessed through By developing a deep the EcoVadis or understanding of what Sedex platforms1 consumers value and prefer, we are better able to focus our R&D and creative efforts. SOURCING Our Responsible Sourcing program aims to conserve natural resources and improve the livelihoods of local farming communities. CUSTOMERS & CONSUMERS We create ways for our customers to make products that are lower MANUFACTURING in sodium, fat, sugar and calories, We are doing our part to address without sacrificing flavor. critical environmental issues, We’re also developing ingredients such as global climate change for plant-based meat alternatives – and water scarcity. 66% products that are not only part of a healthy diet, but also a healthier planet. reduction in water use since 20101 1 Numbers exclude Frutarom Data 29 O U R C O M M I T M E N T to S ustainability IFF AND THE UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The United Nations (UN) 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) define global priorities and aspirations to address the many social, economic and environmental challenges facing companies and the world. By focusing on progress with respect to human rights, health, the human and natural environment and economic growth, the SDGs provide a critical roadmap to meeting these challenges and securing a socially and environmentally sustainable future. We believe the business sector is uniquely positioned to advance sustainable development and achieve real progress against these goals. We embrace and support the SDGs. We have mapped them to our sustainability strategy and business and are focusing our efforts in areas where we can add the most value in advancing these goals. We partnered with the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) to pilot the SDG Compass Tool, which guides companies in aligning their strategies with the SDGs and measuring and managing their progress. IFF’s sustainability strategy was informed by this analysis and designed to support the advancement of the SDGs. From this analysis, we have identified two SDGs that are most relevant to our business and where we feel we can have the most impact. We have already made significant progress through our sustainability strategy, and we will continue to do our part to drive transformational change. 3 GOOD HEALTH AND WELLBEING With consumers’ growing demand for better-for-you products, we are increasingly focused on developing taste, scent and cosmetic solutions that help our customers provide healthier options to consumers. We continue to leverage our Re-Imagine innovation programs in our Taste business and are building circular concepts into the earliest stages of fragrance design. 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION In 2018, we launched the EcoEffective+ environmental initiative, which features a Science-Based Target and zero waste to landfill and water stewardship goals. These goals support our commitment to sustainable production patterns, and we continue to innovate our products and shrink our footprint by embedding a circular mindset through our company. We formally support the RE100 initiative and were awarded a place on the CDP A Lists for Climate and Water Security. 30 O U R C O M M I T M E N T to S ustainability Materiality GRI 102-46. GRI 102-47. GRI 102-49. We conducted a formal materiality assessment in 2014 by surveying internal stakeholders, including members of our senior leadership team and Sustainability Business Council and representatives from our business units. We also interviewed external stakeholders, including representatives of customer companies, nongovernmental organizations and regulatory bodies. We conducted in-depth interviews with key representatives from customer companies to better understand their sustainability needs and expectations of our business. This assessment allowed us to prioritize topics based on their importance to our business and society. In the following years, we continued to engage internally and externally with our customers and suppliers and leveraged this engagement in the development of our circular-design-focused sustainability strategy. Based on these assessments, our reporting focuses on those topics identified as most material and those of increasing importance to stakeholders. HIGH HIGH Product Safety Responsible Sourcing Human Rights Health and Wellness IMPORTANCE TO SOCIETY Transparency Traceability Community Support Climate Change Biodiversity Eco-Efﬁciency: Water Green Chemistry Diversity and Inclusion Eco-Efﬁciency: Waste Workplace Health and Safety Renewable Raw Materials Eco-Efﬁciency: Energy Governance Stakeholder Engagement Product Innovation Employee Engagement MEDIUM HIGH IMPORTANCE TO BUSINESS High Low High The matrix illustrates the topics IFF has identified as our overall most material aspects, as defined by the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards: “relevant topics that may reasonably be considered important for reflecting the organization’s economic, environmental and social impacts, or influencing the decisions of stakeholders.” Throughout this report, our use of the terms “material” and “materiality” refer to GRI’s definition. 31 O U R C O M M I T M E N T to S ustainability We continually identify emerging topics and changes in our business that may affect our materiality determination, including recent acquisitions. For acquisitions that expand our footprint into new market areas, we assess the need for a more formalized review of their material topics in addition to their incorporation in our periodic companywide materiality assessments. The acquisition of Lucas Meyer Cosmetics (LMC), for example, expanded our capabilities into the cosmetic actives market. This led us to perform an overview of LMC’s material topics and identify the areas in which LMC is best-positioned to create a positive impact in the context of IFF’s overall sustainability strategy. While we have not identified any changes to material topics since our formal materiality assessment in 2014, we plan to refresh the assessment as needed to identify new opportunities and risks, especially in the context of our 2018 acquisition of Frutarom. The results from that assessment will be used to determine our material topics for future reporting. 32 O U R C O M M I T M E N T to S ustainability IFF’s Material Topics GRI 103-1. GRI 103-2. GRI 103-3. The following table shows IFF’s material topics and boundaries and how they relate to the material topics outlined by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. TOPICS MATERIAL TO IFF CORRESPONDING GRI STANDARDS MATERIAL TOPIC BOUNDARIES WITHIN IFF OUTSIDE IFF: OUTSIDE IFF: OUR SUPPLY CHAIN OUR CUSTOMERS AND CONSUMERS GOVERNANCE, ETHICS AND SOCIETY Governance Anti-Corruption; Public Policy l l Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement; General Disclosures l l l Community Support Procurement Practices l ENVIRONMENT Eco-Efficiency: Water Water l Eco-Efficiency: Energy Energy l Eco-Efficiency: Waste Effluents & Waste l Climate Change Emissions; Economic Performance l Green Chemistry Energy; Effluents & Waste l Biodiversity Biodiversity l SUPPLY CHAIN Responsible Sourcing Procurement Practices l Supplier Environmental Assessment l Child Labor: Forced or Compulsory Labor; Supplier Social Assessment l Supplier Social Assessment l Traceability Procurement Practices l Supplier Environmental Assessment l Marketing and Labeling l Supplier Social Assessment l LABOR PRACTICES Employee Engagement Employment; Training and Education l Workplace Health and Safety Occupational Health & Safety l Diversity and Inclusion Diversity and Equal Opportunity l HUMAN RIGHTS Human Rights Child Labor; Forced or Compulsory Labor; Freedom of Association l l & Collective Bargaining; Supplier Social Assessment Workplace Health and Safety Employment; Supplier Social Assessment l l PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Product Safety Customer Health & Safety; Marketing and Labeling l l Health and Wellness Customer Health & Safety l l Transparency Marketing and Labeling l Renewable Raw Materials Supplier Environmental Assessment l l Product Innovation Marketing and Labeling l 33 O U R C O M M I T M E N T to S ustainability Stakeholder Engagement GRI 102-40. GRI 102-42. GRI 102-43. GRI 102-44. ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS We enhance our sustainability strategy by engaging with our internal and external stakeholders – which include employees, customers, investors, regulators, suppliers, consumers, communities and the sustainability community – on issues that are important to them and to our company. Our engagement with these groups highlights evolving consumer and societal expectations and provides us with unique insights into risks and opportunities for our company. These engagements occur at varying frequencies, depending on the stakeholder group and the specific need. Specific examples of recent engagement with each of these groups are detailed in this section. EMPLOYEES IFF informs employees about company strategies, performance, policies and procedures through regular communications, which include emails, newsletters, videos, town halls, the company intranet, our CEO’s blog, and face-to-face meetings. Sustainability issues and other happenings are communicated through the company intranet. Employees have the opportunity to communicate thoughts and concerns throughout the year via multiple mechanisms, including works councils (in Europe), a confidential hotline and other informal mechanisms. More formalized engagement mechanisms are also planned through our Diversity & Inclusion program. CUSTOMERS Our customers are increasingly interested in our policies and performance with respect to sustainability issues. In 2018, we engaged with our customers via meetings, expos, presentations and formal and informal sustainability performance reviews. We also responded to customer requests for information regarding our environmental and social performance via customer-specific surveys and platforms such as EcoVadis and Sedex. And, we attended and presented at industry events with dedicated sustainability agendas, such as the American Cleaning Institute’s annual meeting. 34 O U R C O M M I T M E N T to S ustainability SHAREHOLDERS AND INVESTORS We regularly engage with our shareholders to better understand their perspectives on our company, including on our strategies, performance, matters of corporate governance and executive compensation. This dialogue has helped inform the Board’s decision-making and ensure that our interests remain well-aligned with those of our shareholders. During 2018, we interacted with our largest active shareholders, representing approximately two-thirds of our outstanding shares. We believe this shareholder engagement provides valuable feedback, and this feedback is shared regularly with our Board and its relevant committees. The information received from our shareholders in the past few years has, among other things, resulted in raising our annual dividend, executing our share repurchase program, pursuing value-creating acquisitions, completing a perception study on capital allocation preferences, and increasing our investor relations exposure with enhanced marketing in key markets in the U.S. and across continental Europe. REGULATORS IFF is an active member of the Research Institute for Fragrance Materials, the International Fragrance Association and the International Organization of the Flavor Industry, which are the principal trade associations that represent the interests of the global flavors and fragrances industry. IFF belongs to, actively participates in, and leads where appropriate, the activities of the key industry organizations that defend our interests and those of our customers. In addition, we are actively engaged in other global and local trade associations both upstream and downstream from our primary business. IFF also interacts directly with governmental agencies and legislators as needed to align on interpretation, ensure a clear understanding of our business needs and shape upcoming regulations where possible. This interaction has been successful in supporting key flavor ingredients in Europe, being the first company to have a chemical cleared under the revised Toxic Substances Control Act in the U.S., and defining an acceptable path forward for the evaluation of an IFF fragrance ingredient with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Our external engagement is focused on ensuring that we continue to protect consumers while increasing consumers’ and governments’ confidence in our industry, and more specifically in IFF. SUPPLIERS Relationships with our suppliers are primarily managed by our Global Procurement group, and we partner and share best practices with suppliers to ensure a resilient and sustainable supply chain. We continue to leverage global platforms such as Sedex and EcoVadis to assess the performance of our suppliers and communicate our sustainability performance to our customers. Our Global Quality team monitors our suppliers through periodic audits, and our IFF-LMR Naturals division works directly with growers on research and development projects. In addition, we were the first flavors and fragrances company to join Together for Sustainability, an initiative to assess, audit and improve sustainability practices in the supply chains of the chemical industry. 35 O U R C O M M I T M E N T to S ustainability CONSUMERS Because IFF is a supplier to some of the world’s largest companies in the food and beverage, consumer packaged goods, cosmetics and pharmaceutical industries, consumers are an important stakeholder to us. Although we are primarily a business-to-business company, our Consumer Research, Consumer Insights and Marketing teams engage with consumers through extensive market research, interpreting key trends, monitoring product launches and conducting interviews throughout the year. COMMUNITIES IFF is actively involved in communities around the world, including those where we operate and those in our supply chain. Through a range of volunteer and charitable activities that are implemented locally by our sites, we aim to address the specific needs of local communities, and as part of our Responsible Sourcing program, we have several initiatives to support communities where our ingredients are grown. SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY We are active members of several sustainability-focused organizations. We formally support the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, and in 2018 our Chairman and CEO Andreas Fibig signed the UN Global Compact’s CEO Water Mandate. Mr. Fibig also serves on the WBCSD’s Executive Committee. Other organization memberships include the Environmental, Health, Safety & Sustainability Management Roundtable and the Sustainability Leadership Forum. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT TOPICS We continually work to address some of the key interests and concerns identified during the course of our numerous stakeholder engagements. Below are a few select examples. Customers and other stakeholders are interested in evaluating their supply chains and are increasingly calling for traceable, responsibly sourced products. In the Responsible Sourcing section, we discuss what we’re doing to assess and improve the sustainability of our supply chain. Consumers are increasingly demanding products that are healthy and environmentally and socially responsible. We discuss our focus on innovative products in the Regenerative Products section. Climate change is an issue of interest to many of our stakeholder groups globally. We are engaged in several initiatives to support climate action. After achieving our 2020 greenhouse gas emissions target three years early, we launched a next-generation set of goals in 2018, including a Science-Based Target and a 75% renewable energy goal by 2025. These efforts are described in greater detail in the Environment section. 36 E nvironment Dedicated to helping nature thrive E nvironment Managing Our Footprint OUR COMMITMENT KEY HIGHLIGHTS Our sustainability strategy is underpinned by the concept of a circular economy. Launched EcoEffective+, a set of One of the main platforms of this strategy – Positive Principles – highlights our environmental goals focused on commitment to eliminating the concept of waste and using clean renewable energy. emission reductions, zero waste to Building on our success in surpassing our 2020 targets for emissions, water and landfill and water stewardship waste, in 2018 we launched new environmental goals to take us to 2025 and beyond. The initiatives, which focus on emission reductions, zero waste to landfill and water Named to CDP’s A List for Climate Change and Water Security, stewardship, are known collectively as “EcoEffective+.” recognizing IFF as a leader in climate and water management strategies OUR APPROACH We use a centralized management system to track the majority of our environmental Procured renewable energy performance metrics at each site. Our Eco-Effectiveness Leadership Team, which certificates for two new facilities, resulting in a companywide increase comprises senior management from our Operations and Sustainability Teams, in renewable energy usage to 45% reviews performance for most environmental indicators on a quarterly basis. To ensure integration of the Positive Principles across IFF globally, Green Teams ECOEFFECTIVE+ GOALS are in place at all of our manufacturing facilities (excluding recent acquisitions) and several of our creative centers and offices. Green Teams are cross-functional groups Science-Based Target: of employees who have a demonstrated passion for sustainability. They identify and By 2025, IFF commits to reduce implement eco-effectiveness projects to drive progress at their locations, and they absolute greenhouse gas emissions connect monthly with the other teams to share global best practices. Through this by 30%1 and to work with our structure, facility leadership and the Green Teams take responsibility for minimizing suppliers2 so that they set their own the footprint at their own facilities, while benefiting from the resources and learnings science-based reduction targets and report annual emissions; and of other sites. This autonomy allows each site to focus on the projects that will result in the most significant improvements. Procure 75% of our electricity portfolio3 from renewable sources. PERFORMANCE IN 2018 By 2025, IFF will achieve zero Through the implementation of our sustainability strategy, we are doing our part waste to landfill status at all major manufacturing facilities.4 to address critical environmental issues, such as global climate change and water scarcity. We were pleased to be recognized on CDP’s A List for Climate Change for Building upon our reductions since the fourth consecutive year and to receive an “A” for Water Security for the first 2010, IFF will further reduce our time, placing us in the top 2% of responding companies. In addition, we have a Gold freshwater consumption by using rating in EcoVadis. Our performance in energy, emissions, water use and waste are recycled water for more than half of our non-product operations; and described on the following pages. Drive collective action for water stewardship in targeted communities where we source and operate.5 1 Scope 1 and 2 emissions from a 2015 baseline 2 Representing 70% of our supply chain emissions 3 Based on our 2015 site portfolio 4 A major facility is defined as a site that generates more than 100 metric tons of waste (hazardous and non-hazardous) annually. 5 Facility communities were identified based on risk profiles using the World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct and Ecolab’s Water Monetizer tools. 39 E nvironment ASSURING THROUGH CERTIFICATION We rely on external certification systems to measure and manage our environmental footprint throughout our value chain. Implementing the ISO 14001 environmental management system at our facilities helps us improve resource efficiency, reduce waste and manage costs. It also demonstrates our commitment to continuous improvement. All major manufacturing facilities (aside from recent acquisitions) are currently ISO 14001 certified and intend to maintain their certifications. DATA MEASUREMENT TECHNIQUES AND BASIS OF CALCULATIONS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL DATA EMISSONS & ENERGY Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are calculated according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol). This report includes all Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. Of the 15 Scope 3 categories, 10 are relevant to IFF and have been calculated, and two of those categories – upstream fuel and energy-related activities and employee business air travel – are externally assured. Annual energy data used to calculate Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions are based on utility bills dating back to 2010. The organizational boundaries for this report align with the Operational Control approach outlined in the GHG Protocol. Following Scope 1 Guidance for Direct Emissions, we use appropriate emission factors from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 2006 Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Fugitive Emissions Guidance. For electricity (Scope 2 emissions), we follow the EPA’s 2016 eGrid Subregion emission factors and the latest International Energy Agency emission factors. Emission factors for steam are specific for each site and are provided by the suppliers. Emissions for process-derived fuels are specific to each site and are calculated by mass balance based on product mix. The emissions calculations include GHGs covered by the Kyoto Protocol – carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs) and sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) – and are reported as CO2 equivalents. This year, we are using the global warming potentials provided in the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report. We report market-based emissions in this sustainability report, as our Science-Based Target is based upon this calculation method. Market-based emissions use supplier-specific emission factors and include renewable energy credits. We also disclose location-based emissions data in our annual CDP Climate Change disclosure. Both calculations follow the methodologies provided in the Scope 2 Guidance of the GHG Protocol. 40 E nvironment The Solar Renewable Energy Credits generated from the Hazlet, New Jersey, U.S., solar array are retained by the array’s owner, and IFF is supplied with equivalent Green-e® certified Renewable Energy Credits (RECs), along with the electricity generated by the solar array. Qualifying RECs are also purchased for our facilities in Benicarló, Spain; Tilburg, Netherlands; Jacksonville, Florida, Carollton, Texas, U.S.; Haverhill, U.K.; and our creative center in Hilversum, Netherlands. Tilburg also generates wind energy on site, with the remaining energy needs provided by the aforementioned RECs. All of these are accounted for in this report. In 2018, we did not purchase carbon offsets. WASTE Our South Brunswick, New Jersey, U.S., facility’s GreenCircle zero waste to landfill certification ensures that the location does not send any materials directly to landfill, and the residual materials coming from South Brunswick’s material management organizations fall within the 2% allowance. 41 E nvironment Energy ANNUAL ENERGY INTENSITY BY TYPE GRI 302-4. Gigajoules per metric ton of production OUR COMMITMENT 12 11.04 GRI 103-2. GRI 103-3. 0.53 10 9.51 Energy efficiency provides two important benefits. It reduces environmental 1.99 8.98 1.00 impacts as well as operating costs. Direct GHG emissions are highly dependent on 0.80 8 0.93 1.52 energy use, so our carbon reduction strategy focuses on minimizing energy use and 1.61 1.34 0.57 increasing the amount of renewable energy we purchase. We have a goal in place 6 0.89 0.59 1.21 to reduce our energy intensity by 20% (per metric ton of production from a 2010 1.35 0.20 0.20 baseline) by 2020, as well as a 2025 goal to procure 75% of our electricity from 4 renewable sources. 5.36 2 4.43 5.01 PERFORMANCE IN 2018 0 GRI 302-3. 2010 2017 2018 Our Green Teams and senior leadership are working diligently to reduce energy ■ Green Electricity ■ Process-Derived use throughout our operations. In 2018, we experienced a shift in product mix ■ Electricity ■ Fuel Oil & LPG to more energy-intensive products. Supply chain disruptions also required us to manufacture intermediate products in house that would normally be sourced. As a ■ Steam ■ Natural Gas result, our energy intensity increased by 5.9% in 2018. However, since 2010 we have achieved an overall energy intensity reduction of 13.8% due to numerous facilitytargeted eco-effectiveness projects, new equipment and operational changes at several of our sites. Key energy reduction projects in 2018 included the following: 2018 TOTAL ENERGY • Our Jacksonville, Florida, U.S., fragrance ingredients facility upgraded their CONSUMPTION steam distribution system for improved efficiency, saving approximately 45,000 GRI 302-1. gigajoules (GJ) per year 3,183,290 gigajoules 1% • Our Aromor fragrance ingredients facility in Israel installed LED lighting systems to save approximately 240 megawatt hours (MWh) per year 10% 16% • Our Karawang, Indonesia, flavors facility installed variable speed drives on their 13% 6% compressors and chiller to save approximately 532 MWh per year 2% .360 • We continue to find ways to manufacture more efficiently and effectively, and, in spite of the 2018 challenges, we are progressing toward our 2020 goal of reducing energy intensity by 20% 53% For details on our global initiatives, including the corresponding reductions in GHG emissions, see our CDP Climate Change response on our website. ■ Electricity ■ Process-Derived ■ Steam ■ Renewable Electricity ■ F uel Oil & LPG (Propane) ■ On-Site Renewable ■ Natural Gas Electricity 42 E nvironment Emissions ANNUAL MARKET-BASED EMISSIONS INTENSITY BY SCOPE GRI 305-4. Metric tons CO2e per metric ton of production OUR COMMITMENT GRI 103-2. GRI 103-3. 0.976 1.00 We see GHG emissions as a significant contributor to global climate change and are committed to reducing our Scope 1 emissions (those we directly control) and Scope 2 emissions (those generated through purchased electricity and steam). We 0.75 0.478 also track and aim to reduce Scope 3 emissions (indirect emissions in our value 0.650 0.629 chain). In 2012, we set a 2020 goal of a 25% reduction in Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions intensity against our 2010 baseline. We are very pleased to report that we 0.50 0.362 0.375 achieved this goal in 2017 and continued to decrease our emissions in 2018. Our Science-Based Target, which we announced as part of our EcoEffective+ 0.25 0.498 initiative in 2018, commits us to reduce absolute GHG emissions by 30% by 2025 and to work with our suppliers so that they set their own science-based reduction 0.288 0.254 targets and report annual emissions. 0.00 2010 2017 2018 PERFORMANCE IN 2018 ■ Scope 1 ■ Scope 2 SCOPE 1 AND SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS GRI 305-5. We surpassed our 2020 goal by reducing our overall energy intensity and procuring 2018 TOTAL STATIONARY more renewable electricity. In 2018, we are pleased to report that our market-based SCOPE 1 AND SCOPE 2 global GHG emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) decreased 3.3% per metric ton of MARKET-BASED EMISSIONS production from the prior year, resulting in an overall reduction of approximately GRI 305-1. GRI 305-2. 35.6% from the 2010 baseline. 210,426 metric tons of CO2e Reducing emissions has been successful so far because of our efforts to reduce our overall energy consumption, procure more renewable electricity and switch to 9% lower-carbon fuel sources such as natural gas. 17% 31% As a member of RE100, an initiative among companies committed to procure 100% renewable electricity, we have set – and are making progress toward – an interim goal .360 to procure 75% of our electricity from renewable sources by 2025. In addition to prior efforts, in 2018 we began purchasing green electricity for our facilities in Haverhill, U.K., 3% and Carrollton, Texas, U.S., increasing our overall renewable electricity percentage 40% to 45%. With this notable progress, we are now more than halfway toward our 2025 goal of 75% of electricity procured from renewable sources. This included 5.6 MWh generated by our on-site wind turbine at our Tilburg, Netherlands, facility and 4.5 ■ Electricity MWh generated by the solar field in Hazlet, New Jersey, U.S. In 2018 we began plans to ■ Fuel Oil, LPG (Propane), Mobile construct a new solar field at our Union Beach, New Jersey, U.S., facility. Vehicles, and Refrigerants ■ Natural Gas SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS ■ Process-Derived GRI 305-3. ■ Steam We generated 1,015,362 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) Scope 3 emissions from the 10 categories relevant to IFF. CO2, CH4 and N2O are included in these emissions calculations. 43 E nvironment Water OUR COMMITMENT We earned a spot Since 2012, we have made significant strides in reducing our global water footprint – on the A List for the surpassing our 2020 goals twice to date. By 2018, we achieved a 66% reduction in first time last year, water use intensity against our 2010 baseline. recognizing IFF We announced a water stewardship goal as part of our next-generation as a leader in environmental goals, EcoEffective+. Our strategy addresses our direct water use and associated impacts in the context of local water stress and management corporate water strategies at the facility level. This context-based approach – “think globally, act management locally” – led us to set a goal to use recycled water for more than half of our nonstrategies. product operations, and to drive collective action for water stewardship in targeted communities where we source and operate. A first step in achieving the collective action goal will be for each of the identified sites to develop a water stewardship plan. Our CEO confirmed our commitment by signing the UN Global Compact CEO Water Mandate to advance water stewardship in partnership with the United Nations, governments, civil society and others. OUR APPROACH GRI 103-1. GRI 103-2. GRI 103-3. GRI 201-2. In order to map our water footprint and identify possible risks, we use several publicly available tools. Globally, we have used the World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct Tool to identify water stress, flood occurrence and drought severity risks for all our manufacturing facilities. On a project basis, we have used other tools, such as the World Business Council for Sustainable Development’s Global Water Tool and the EPA’s Surf Your Watershed Tool. We also use Ecolab’s Water Monetizer Tool to help understand water-related risks and to quantify risks in financial terms. While we have not identified any substantive risks to our business associated with water, we recognize that water is a growing global issue and will continue to focus on it. The insight gained from the use of these tools informed our context-based water stewardship strategy and goals. Globally, 80% of our water usage is from 10 of our facilities, which have varying risk profiles according to their location. These facilities will be the primary focus of our watershed management and community engagement efforts. We continue to disclose our water use data and assess our performance through CDP’s Water Security response and earned a spot on the A List for the first time last year, recognizing IFF as a leader in corporate water management strategies. The assessment gives us access to performance benchmarks and helps us focus our efforts where we can have the greatest positive impact. Completion of the assessment requires a solid understanding of how our operations are affected by potential water risks and how we manage those risks. More information about IFF’s water-related risks and opportunities is available in our CDP Water response on our website. 44 E nvironment PERFORMANCE IN 2018 ANNUAL WATER USE We have achieved a 66% water use intensity reduction since 2010 due to several INTENSITY water-saving initiatives, including eliminating once-through cooling; optimizing Cubic meters per metric ton of production cleaning procedures, such as clean-in-place systems; and repairing or upgrading piping to prevent water leaks. Our Tilburg, Netherlands facility implemented 35 an air vortex cleaning-in-place system to reduce the water required to achieve 29.77 30 increasingly stringent product purity specifications. 25 In 2018, we withdrew approximately 3.4 million cubic meters of water from groundwater, surface water and municipal sources. We experienced a year-over20 year increase in water use intensity of approximately 6.9% due to a shift in product mix to more water-intensive products, as well as supply chain disruptions leading 15 10.12 us to manufacture more intermediate products rather than sourcing them. Smaller 9.47 10 batch sizes require more frequent cleaning cycles, which then drive water use higher. We are continuously optimizing our cleaning processes and are investing in 5 projects to address the issues identified through total plant water assessments. 0 2010 2017 2018 2018 WATER USE BY SOURCE GRI 303-1. 3,387,688 cubic meters 37% .360 63% ■ Groundwater ■ Municipal System 45 E nvironment Waste Management OUR COMMITMENT ANNUAL HAZARDOUS GRI 103-2. WASTE INTENSITY Our original goal was to reduce our hazardous waste intensity by 25% by 2020 Metric tons per metric ton of production (from a 2010 baseline), which we achieved in 2017. Also, as part of our recently announced EcoEffective+ environmental goals, we aim to achieve zero waste to 0.12 landfill status at all major manufacturing facilities6 by 2025. 0.096 0.10 PERFORMANCE IN 2018 0.08 Overall, we have reduced hazardous waste intensity by 44.2% against the 2010 0.056 0.054 baseline, surpassing our 2020 goal. Due to improvements at several facilities, our 0.06 hazardous waste intensity decreased by 3.7%, in 2018, from .056 to .054 metric tons of hazardous waste per metric ton of production. 0.04 Our success stems from systematically targeting production processes that 0.02 generate the highest volumes of hazardous waste. We completed projects at several 0.00 sites to address waste during the washing phases of production, so every efficiency 2010 2017 2018 improvement will also result in water savings. Our Operations and R&D Teams made other improvements through process and product innovations. We will continue to deepen our understanding of the impact that acquisitions and our product portfolio can have on our global hazardous waste generation. Our product mix continually shifts to meet market demands, which poses a challenge in targeting specific waste streams. However, we continue to identify and monitor trends that affect our waste, track and report our progress, and then update our commitments accordingly. We also continue to expand and define our non-hazardous waste disposal metrics and methods, with a focus on increasing recycling rates and eliminating the concept of waste in our operations to meet our zero waste to landfill goal. 6 A major manufacturing facility is defined as a site that generates more than 100 metric tons of waste annually. 46 E nvironment ZERO WASTE TO LANDFILL 2018 HAZARDOUS WASTE GRI 103-3. BY DISPOSAL METHOD A circular economy is restorative and regenerative by design, in contrast to a GRI 306-2. “take-make-dispose” linear economy. Eliminating the concept of waste is one of 17,992 metric tons the core principles of the circular economy and one of IFF’s Positive Principles in 2% our sustainability strategy. In support of this, we have pursued ways to increase efficiency and innovatively cut costs while creating a positive impact on society and the environment. One of these ways is through our zero waste to landfill goal, which encourages employees to implement innovative solutions to reduce waste by reusing 33% and recycling materials. .360 50% In 2017, our South Brunswick, New Jersey, U.S., flavors facility became the first in our industry to be certified Zero Waste to Landfill from the third-party GreenCircle Certifications. South Brunswick diverts waste through the 4Rs – reducing, reusing 15% and recycling waste, as well as recovering energy through a waste-to-energy facility. Our South Brunswick facility Green Team is now working with other locations to share their learnings in pursuit of our zero waste to landfill goal. ■ Landfill ■ Incineration ■ Recovery ■ Other Disposal 2018 NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE BY DISPOSAL METHOD 26,850 metric tons 2% 1% 1% 6% 11% .360 79% ■ Recycling ■ Composting ■ Energy Recovery ■ Incineration ■ Landfill ■ Other 47 R esponsible S our c ing Committed to positive practices in our supply chain R esponsible S our c ing Engaging with Our Suppliers OUR COMMITMENT KEY DEVELOPMENTS IFF’s supply chain is broad and complex. We purchase thousands of natural and Obtained new organic certifications synthetic ingredients from supplier companies around the globe. We recognize for six naturals and EVE VEGAN that our footprint extends beyond our fences and that, in order to make a positive certification for 90 natural extracts impact, we must influence our entire value chain. in our IFF-LMR Naturals division Initiated a responsible sourcing OUR APPROACH initiative for patchouli in Indonesia GRI 103-2. GRI 103-3. GRI 414-1. GRI 308-1. Achieved FairWild certification for All of our responsible sourcing efforts are underpinned by the Sensational People Peru Balsam from El Salvador platform of our sustainability strategy, through which we engage our employees and stakeholders to make a positive difference in the world. We engage with our suppliers to help ensure they operate responsibly, which also has the direct LOOKING AHEAD business benefit of reducing risk in our supply chain. Continue to engage our suppliers Our Responsible Sourcing Committee oversees all of our responsible procurement so that they set their own scienceand supplier engagement efforts. The committee is led by our Vice President of based reduction targets and report annual emissions, in pursuit Global Procurement and provides updates to our Sustainability Business Council. of our goal to engage suppliers It comprises senior management from our Procurement, Sustainability, Regulatory representing 70% of our supply and Quality functions, as well as leadership from our Taste and Scent business units chain emissions by 2025 and IFF-LMR Naturals, our natural ingredients division. Our Vendor Code of Conduct (“Vendor Code”) contains many of the same provisions as our Code of Conduct, while being tailored specifically for our vendors. As outlined in the Vendor Code, we expect suppliers to conduct their businesses ethically and honestly and in compliance with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and industry standards, including those concerning workplace safety and human rights. IFF explicitly supports internationally recognized human rights standards. Discrimination, child labor and forced or compulsory labor are prohibited, and we require our vendors to recognize and respect their employees’ rights to freely associate and engage in collective bargaining. We updated the Vendor Code in 2018 to enhance the cybersecurity and confidentiality provisions. 49 How We Source Materials VETIVER IFF’S FOR LIFE-CERTIFIED FACILITIES HAITI • Grasse, France • Aumont-Aubrac, France EL SALVADOR PERU BALSAM Community Development Project Optimization Program: Agronomy / Mechanization / R&D Expertise For Life Ingredient Certification Fair for Life Ingredient Certification FairWild Ingredient Certification 50 ORRIS ROOT TURKISH ROSE BLACKCURRANT BUD FRANCE TURKEY PATCHOULI EGYPT INDIA GERANIUM TOGO INDONESIA JASMINE SAMBAC TUBEROSE NEW CALEDONIA SANDALWOOD CITRONELLA MADAGASCAR CINNAMON VANILLA YLANG-YLANG PATCHOULI 51 R esponsible S our c ing As part of our supplier onboarding process, new vendors are provided with our Vendor Code of Conduct and must acknowledge in our procurement system that they have received and read it. Existing suppliers must acknowledge our Vendor Code of Conduct with each contract renewal. As part of the material approval process, we query suppliers on responsible sourcing practices, traceability and other relevant topics. In 2018, we strengthened these efforts by joining the CDP Supply Chain program, through which we invited suppliers to complete a questionnaire about their greenhouse gas emissions. The results from the returned questionnaires will be used to improve our Scope 3 (value chain) emissions estimates, allowing us to better prioritize future mitigation measures. We are also, as part of our EcoEffective+ goals, planning to engage our suppliers – representing 70% of our supply chain emissions – so that they set their own science-based reduction targets and report annual emissions. To achieve this, we will engage these key suppliers through the CDP Supply Chain platform. RESPONSIBLE SOURCING THROUGH RISK MITIGATION IFF has rigorous quality and sustainability expectations for our suppliers. On the Quality side, our Vendor Management program and auditors help ensure that our suppliers meet these expectations. Select new raw material suppliers undergo initial audits of their operations to confirm that they meet IFF’s quality requirements and standards, while existing suppliers are audited on an ongoing, periodic basis. These auditing efforts are complemented by our Vendor Quality Risk Management program, which tracks vendor performance to help determine audit frequency. Our vendor risk scorecards, which are managed by our Global Quality function, allow us to focus our resources where the needs are greatest. Similarly, our Responsible Sourcing function also categorizes our vendors for environmental and social risks, based on vendor location and social and environmental responsibility, such as supplier platform scores. For material-specific risks, we categorize materials based on country of harvest. In summary, both our Vendor Management program and our Responsible Sourcing program allow us to share best practices and technical advice with our suppliers to support them in making continuous improvements. With respect to evaluating specific naturals and renewable ingredients for environmental and social risks and performance, we use a similar approach to that of our vendor risk management process: identify and prioritize risks so they can be appropriately mitigated. This aligns with our sustainability strategy and efforts to develop regenerative products in a circular economy. In 2017, we engaged The Rainforest Alliance – an international nongovernmental organization working to build strong forests, healthy agricultural landscapes and thriving communities – to review and audit the methodology we developed to conduct this risk categorization. The organization concluded that the results of its review were “very positive and indicate that IFF is aligned with industry expectations for sustainability,” while also providing us with recommendations for further strengthening the methodology. In 2018, we continued to engage with The Rainforest Alliance to implement its recommendations and strengthen our Responsible Sourcing program. 52 R esponsible S our c ing Engaging with Other Responsible Sourcing Partners ECOVADIS AND SEDEX We focus our supplier engagement efforts on certain key suppliers that are We partner with likecritical to our business, reviewing the list annually as our supply chain evolves. We minded organizations require that these suppliers be assessed through EcoVadis or Sedex (the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange), two supply chain information platforms that help us drive and others in our value improvement in labor standards, health and safety, environmental management chain to jointly drive and ethical business conduct. more sustainable, In 2018, 75% of our global supplier spend was with suppliers assessed responsible practices through EcoVadis or Sedex. We also use the EcoVadis platform to assess among suppliers. ourselves as a supplier to our customers, and we achieved Gold status, the platform’s highest rating. TOGETHER FOR SUSTAINABILITY IFF is the only flavor and fragrance company member of Together for Sustainability (TfS), a collaborative chemical industry effort that seeks to assess, audit and improve sustainability practices in the supply chain. Through this partnership, we share our supplier sustainability assessments and audits with all members, avoiding duplicate efforts for our suppliers. TfS assessments and audits cover issues such as labor and human rights, working conditions and the environment, which align with IFF’s Vendor Code of Conduct. We combine the outcomes of these supplier-specific assessments with information based on other criteria (such as country of manufacture) to determine supplier audit schedules. In 2018, we began third-party TfS audits for selected suppliers. We will work with suppliers on corrective action plans and remediation for noncompliances identified during these audits. TfS also enables member companies to work together, engaging in constructive dialogue regarding supply chain complexity, challenges and opportunities. TfS is structured in different work streams, through which specific initiatives are led and executed by members. IFF participates in and provides input to the Governance and Partnerships work stream. 53 R esponsible S our c ing To drive positive change and expand the program, we also lead the TfS U.S. Regional Committee. The goal of this group is to ensure successful implementation of TfS and to engage and promote it with relevant stakeholders in the region. In 2018, the U.S. Regional Committee shared best practices for embedding TfS processes within day-to-day business operations and decisions, allowing member companies to measure and show positive impacts in their supply chains and the chemical industry. Engagement opportunities have included the American Cleaning Institute and continued conversations with the American Chemistry Council. AIM-PROGRESS We also participate in AIM-PROGRESS, a forum of leading manufacturers and suppliers dedicated to promoting responsible sourcing practices and sustainable supply chains through capacity-building and best practice sharing. AIM-PROGRESS is supported and sponsored by AIM (the European Brands Association) and the Grocery Manufacturers Association in North America. AIMPROGRESS gives IFF a platform for collaboration, benchmarking and learning with like-minded organizations that strive to positively impact the lives of people in their supply chains. 54 R esponsible S our c ing Sustainability in Our Botanicals Supply Chain We source botanicals from around the world – Peru Balsam from El Salvador, rose from Turkey and patchouli from Indonesia, to name a few. IFF-LMR Naturals is committed to addressing the environmental and social aspects of sustainability in procuring these products. These efforts help IFF to fulfill our vision of contributing toward a regenerative, healthy and abundant world. INGREDIENT CERTIFICATIONS Ingredient certifications underscore our commitment to responsibly sourcing ingredients, conserving natural resources and improving the livelihoods of the farming communities where our raw materials are grown. In recent years, we have expanded our offerings of certified ingredients. FOR LIFE Our IFF-LMR Naturals division certifies specific supply chains and facilities through ECOCERT’s rigorous For Life program. ECOCERT, a certification body based in France, provides inspections and certification in more than 80 countries. For Life certification recognizes an organization’s adherence to sustainability criteria relating to transparency, environmental responsibility, sustainable agriculture, fair and safe working conditions, human rights, and relationships with producers and local communities. IFF-LMR has For Life-certified supply chains for nine natural ingredients: rose harvested in Turkey, vetiver from Haiti, geranium oil from Egypt, patchouli and ylang-ylang from Madagascar, patchouli from Indonesia, citronella from Togo and orris root and blackcurrant bud from France. IFF-LMR’s operational facilities in Grasse and Aumont-Aubrac, France, are also For Life certified. Achieving these certifications is a challenge, as it often involves years of work with growers and communities to improve their practices so they meet the criteria. In Turkey, for instance, we worked with more than 700 local rose growers to identify sustainable cultivation and harvesting techniques and to determine appropriate dosages of fertilizer and the best times to apply it; we then hired and trained a local agronomist to help all of the growers implement these agricultural practices. We also provided financing to growers well before harvest to ensure they could invest in 55 R esponsible S our c ing their operations. We implemented similar practices in Madagascar where we strive to improve workers’ lives and raise living standards by providing clean drinking water and requiring a minimum wage. Thanks to long-term partnerships, we are positively contributing to the lives of more than 1,400 producers and their families. In addition to the For Life certifications that IFF-LMR Naturals has obtained, we also purchase several For Life-certified ingredients that we use to create sustainable flavors and fragrances. FAIRWILD In 2018, IFF-LMR became the first in our industry to achieve FairWild certification – a certification program for ingredients harvested from the wild – for Peru Balsam from El Salvador. Established in 2008, the FairWild Foundation promotes the sustainable use of wild-collected ingredients, with a fair system for those in the supply chain. Whereas other certification systems tend to focus on cultivated plants, FairWild addresses the major ecological and social challenges created by an ever-increasing demand for wild plant ingredients. The FairWild standards ensure the continued use and long-term survival of wild species and populations, while respecting local traditions and cultures and supporting the livelihoods of harvesters. Achievement of this certification reflects our commitment to conserving natural resources, sustainable harvesting processes and fair working conditions. This is the first FairWild-certified flavor or fragrance ingredient to be commercially available globally. ORGANIC AND VEGAN CERTIFICATIONS Some of our customers are seeking more certified organic ingredients to use in their products. We are proactively addressing this demand by obtaining these certifications for many ingredients. We have three operating locations with organic certification, and in 2018 we obtained new ECOCERT organic certification for several crops: marjoram oil from Egypt, rosemary oil from Tunisia, olibanum oil from Turkey, myrrh oil from Turkey, petitgrain oil from Paraguay and bergamot oil from Italy. We also now have an extensive portfolio of 90 natural extracts that are certified vegan by the EVE (Expertise Vegan Europe) VEGAN standards. EVE VEGAN certification is recognized worldwide and considered one of the most rigorous and complex in the industry. It requires the absence of ingredients, technical agents and packaging of animal origin, as well as the absence of substances tested on animals. The EVE VEGAN certification guarantees that these ingredients respect the essential principles of veganism according to international criteria. 56 R esponsible S our c ing LIFECYCLE ASSESSMENTS IFF-LMR Naturals has gone beyond certification to do something truly unique in our industry – provide comprehensive information to customers on the environmental and health impacts of 10 key botanical ingredients, from vegetal to final extract. To do this, IFF-LMR Naturals conducted detailed lifecycle assessments of these ingredients, based on ISO 14040-14044 standards, to arrive at quantitative measures of climate change impact, water consumed, ecosystem quality, resources used and human health. The ecosystem quality metric, for example, assesses several aspects potentially affecting an ecosystem, such as toxicity affecting wildlife, land use, and the release of substances that cause acidification and eutrophication (when the environment becomes enriched with excessive nutrients). 57 R esponsible S our c ing Strengthening Local Communities GRI 413-1. Our commitment to responsible sourcing means we strive to improve the quality of life in farming communities, helping to make them more stable, resilient and prosperous. Our work in Haiti and Indonesia provides two case studies. WORKING WITH VETIVER FARMERS IN HAITI Vetiver oil is valued for its unique, clean scent and is widely used in perfumes, soaps, cosmetics and skincare products. It is extracted from the roots of vetiver – a perennial grass native to India but produced commercially in tropical regions around the world. We procure high-quality vetiver oil from a distillery in Haiti, which, in turn, sources the raw material from smallholder farmers on the island. Vetiver cultivation presents significant challenges for farmers because the roots are ideally only harvested every 12 to 18 months. Under economic pressure between harvest periods, smallholder vetiver farmers sometimes harvest vetiver roots prematurely, resulting in erosion and low vetiver oil quality and yields. For years, we have worked closely with vetiver farmers in Haiti to share our techniques and know-how to help improve yields and quality and to increase income for their families. We were instrumental in setting up a successful farmer cooperative, and we were one of the first producers to introduce mechanization to the harvesting process. We also contributed to the community through sponsoring the installation of a well and the refurbishment of a local library. To further improve the livelihoods of Haitian smallholder farmers, we partnered with Heifer International and a key customer to support a program called Vetiver Together, launched in mid-2016 as a two-year pilot program. This partnership aimed to improve food security, increase yields and diversify income for vetiver farmers and their families, while also empowering women and supporting reforestation efforts. While we are still evaluating the overall impacts of Vetiver Together, to date its accomplishments have been significant. A plant nursery and microcredit program were established. More than 400 families received animals, either as direct Heifer International livestock-gift beneficiaries or from the Passing on the Gift®, wherein offspring from the original animals are gifted to neighboring families. Program 58 R esponsible S our c ing participants were trained in hygiene practices, nutrition, crop production and animal husbandry techniques, and training sessions for women were held on the topics of nursery preparation techniques, micro-credit management, women’s rights and leadership. Learnings from the project will inform future efforts in the community. SUPPORTING PATCHOULI FARMING COMMUNITIES IN INDONESIA Patchouli is a bushy herb native to Asia that is now extensively cultivated in tropical regions around the globe. The scent of patchouli has been popular for centuries and is commonly used in fine fragrances as well as consumer products such as laundry detergents and air fresheners. We source much of our patchouli oil from Indonesia, where there are significant environmental, social and economic challenges facing supply chains for this botanical: Farmers often view patchouli as an unattractive crop to cultivate, and other concerns, such as deforestation and plastic waste, are challenges. Last year we launched a program in patchouli farming communities on the Indonesian island of Sulawesi. Our partner is an organization that helps companies execute integrated socioeconomic and environmental projects within their supply chains in order to secure a more sustainable future. The project will have multiple components, including the following: • Establish community seedling nurseries, ideally led by women, to support reforestation • Support women’s empowerment through the seedling nurseries as well as training programs and engagement with women’s groups • Implement a pilot waste management scheme in one of the villages, with the intent to eventually scale the program to neighboring villages • Hold training programs for sustainable resources management on topics such as deforestation, and sustainable firewood collection The main objectives of the initiative are to address some of the pressing concerns in the area and support farmers of a key fragrance ingredient in our supply chain. While the program is in the early stages, we are excited about the possibilities and look forward to reporting our progress in the future. 59 R esponsible S our c ing Working to Source Palm Oil Responsibly Palm oil is an ingredient of concern due to complex social and environmental issues associated with the palm oil industry. In particular, its production is linked to deforestation, biodiversity destruction and human rights abuses. Palm oil is used minimally in our products, but we recognize we have an important role to play in ensuring that the palm oil in our supply chain comes from responsible sources. Our Palm Oil Policy outlines seven specific commitments, including a goal to have 100% of the palm oil used in our products be certified according to the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) by 2020.1 We intend to purchase palm oil products from suppliers that have made public commitments to protect human rights and avoid deforestation and development on peat lands or high-conservation-value areas. In order to meet customer demand for certified palm oil products, we currently have more than 10 facilities that meet the standards of RSPO Supply Chain Certification. Collaboration from all stakeholders in the global palm oil supply chain – including industry peers, suppliers, governments, communities and nongovernmental organizations – is critical to ensuring a sustainable supply of palm oil. To that end, we are a member of the RSPO and the associated North American Sustainable Palm Oil Network (NASPON). Our involvement with the RSPO and NASPON supports our commitment to a collaborative approach in addressing issues in the palm oil supply chain. 1 This goal does not include the operations of Lucas Meyer Cosmetics, POWDERPURE or Frutarom. Consistent with best practices and applicable reporting framework guidelines, the company’s targets and baselines may be adjusted to reflect material changes to the business, including the integration of our acquired companies. 60 O ur P eople Developing & engaging our sensational people O ur P eople Employment Practices OUR APPROACH KEY DEVELOPMENTS GRI 103-2. GRI 103-3. Achieved the 2018 Noteworthy We seek to create a work environment in which employees can embody and List from DiversityInc, the premier express our corporate values of passion, creativity, expertise and empowerment. U.S.-based diversity and inclusion We want everyone to bring their most authentic selves to work every day, and publication. The Noteworthy List acknowledges companies that we view diversity as critical to working collaboratively toward shared goals. We have made significant progress in aim to develop and engage employees with effective talent management and diversity and inclusion career development programs that help to drive breakthrough innovation and top performance. We also put a premium on workplace health and safety. Achieved our lowest-ever occupational health and safety IFF operates in many countries worldwide with various legal frameworks governing Lost Time Incident Rate the workplace. Our Human Resources (HR) teams in each region are accountable Launched the Inclusion Competency for ensuring we comply with local employment legislation, as well as IFF policies. Model as part of our Diversity & Additionally, our People Services teams, a segment of our HR department, are Inclusion program empowered to support employee initiatives based on local needs and priorities. Our HR department is organized into three clearly defined centers of expertise: LOOKING AHEAD (1) organizational learning and development; (2) total rewards (i.e., compensation and benefits) and HR information systems; and (3) strategic workforce planning, Continue to pursue safety best diversity and inclusion, and talent acquisition. This structure enables our HR practices globally, especially with respect to aligning safety training staff to focus on driving excellence in their specific areas of focus. Our and systems at acquired sites occupational safety and health activities are overseen by our Environmental, Health & Safety department. Achieve significant progress on diversity and inclusion initiatives EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION In 2018, we conducted a targeted “pulse” survey to assess progress in the areas that were identified as opportunities for improvement in the companywide employee engagement survey in 2016, and to evaluate employees’ work–life balance preferences. The results of this survey are being used to develop more One of the three pillars formalized policies that are tailored to IFF’s specific locations. One example is the of IFF’s sustainability global rollout of a flexible work program in late 2018, which offers flex time and flex strategy is Sensational week options to employees. People, which reflects WORKPLACE 2020 our commitment to Workplace 2020 is the roadmap for our work spaces. Unveiled in 2017, Workplace helping employees 2020 provides specific planning principles, design guidelines and technology excel in their roles, criteria for our architects and engineers to use when building a new IFF facility or stay safe on the job renovating an existing facility. In line with our strategy, sustainability criteria are embedded in the framework and focus on energy efficiency, renewable energy, and make a positive recycling, safe materials and water stewardship. Overall, the guidelines seek to difference in the world. create work environments that foster collaboration and communication and promote health and wellness among our workforce. 63 O ur P eople Workforce Data GRI 102-8. GRI 401-1. PERMANENT EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES AGE <30 AGE 30–50 AGE >50 MALE FEMALE % MALE % FEMALE Europe, Africa and Middle East 2,648 354 1,591 703 1,569 1,079 59% 41% Greater Asia 2,071 364 1,457 250 1,347 724 65% 35% Latin America 1,063 210 702 151 649 414 61% 39% North America 1,857 231 920 706 1,087 770 59% 41% Total 7,639 1,159 4,670 1,810 4,652 2,987 61% 39% NEW HIRES AGE <30 AGE 30–50 AGE >50 MALE FEMALE Europe, Africa and Middle East 164 179 17 212 148 Greater Asia 125 142 6 168 105 Latin America 104 103 5 120 92 North America 96 131 43 157 113 Total 489 555 71 657 458 COMPANYWIDE TURNOVER AGE <30 AGE 30–50 AGE >50 MALE FEMALE Europe, Africa and Middle East 45 120 42 102 105 Greater Asia 59 132 22 131 82 Latin America 38 46 6 52 38 North America 51 109 96 162 94 Total 193 407 166 447 319 COMPANYWIDE TURNOVER RATE AGE <30 AGE 30–50 AGE >50 MALE FEMALE Europe, Africa and Middle East 12.7% 7.5% 6.0% 6.5% 9.7% Greater Asia 16.2% 9.1% 8.8% 9.7% 11.3% Latin America 18.1% 6.6% 4.0% 8.0% 9.2% North America 22.1% 11.8% 13.6% 14.9% 12.2% Total 16.7% 8.7% 9.2% 9.6% 10.7% Employee data on this page are based on actual year-end 2018 headcount and do not include Frutarom employees. For more information on the reporting boundary for this report, see Our Approach to Reporting. Companywide New Hires: 1,115 (10.1% of global, permanent head count). Companywide Turnover: 766. Companywide Total Turnover Rate: 10.0%. Companywide Voluntary Turnover Rate: 5.84%. Turnover rate is based on the total turnover headcount divided by total headcount in that category at year-end 2018. New hire rate is based on the number of new hires divided by total headcount in that category at year-end 2018. IFF does not utilize a significant number of part-time, self-employed or seasonal workers in our workforce. 64 O ur P eople Commending Sustainability Performance Our employees are on the front lines in identifying ways to operate more sustainably and effectively – supporting customer requests for renewable materials, minimizing hazardous waste and pursuing renewable energy options, to name a few examples. Annually, our Sustainability team holds an Eco-Effectiveness Recognition Program to honor our manufacturing facilities that improved their sustainability performance, with a focus on energy, water and waste reductions, renewable energy use and zero waste to landfill status. In 2018, the winners of the Most Sustainable Site awards were as follows: • Our compounding facility in Gebze, Turkey, achieved absolute reductions in energy, carbon, hazardous waste and water compared to the prior year, even with increased production volume • Our fragrance ingredients site in Jacksonville, Florida, U.S., reduced its carbon footprint by purchasing 100% renewable electricity. This facility also helped drive IFF’s overall waste intensity down by operating as one of the company’s most efficient sites. In addition, the following locations achieved the Most Improved Site awards: • Energy: Haverhill, U.K. • Water: Carrollton, Texas, U.S. • Hazardous Waste: Benicarló, Spain These awards demonstrate employees’ continued passion and commitment to progressing IFF’s transition to a sustainable future. As an acknowledgment of their dedication to sustainability in our business, awardwinning sites receive recognition from our Chairman and CEO as well as a trophy to display for the following year. 65 O ur P eople Occupational Health & Safety OUR APPROACH IFF is committed GRI 103-2. GRI 103-3. to an accident-free Our Environmental, Health & Safety (EHS) department is responsible for setting workplace, and we’ve comprehensive safety policies and procedures to guide our employees and operations. Plant managers are ultimately responsible for implementing safety enhanced our efforts procedures at their locations, and they are held accountable for safety-related key in recent years with performance indicators and objectives. training and other The EHS department conducts periodic internal inspections and audits to ensure programs to improve that sites meet our rigorous standards. safety at our facilities. SAFETY TRAINING EHS training for employees is managed at the site level, with each facility customizing local safety and environmental programs based on both local requirements and global IFF policies. Mandatory trainings are held for leaders at all sites. The topics – covering hazard assessments, job safety analysis, fire prevention and handling raw materials safely – are based on key safety priorities and reflect EHS best practices, regulatory requirements and IFF policies. SAFETY COMMITTEES GRI 403-1. 2018 LOST Each site has a cross-functional safety team made up of employees and their TIME INCIDENTS managers. The committees discuss areas of focus for safety efforts, identify and resolve issues, and conduct regular inspections to improve conditions and safety awareness. Manufacturing safety committees meet monthly while creative center 20% 20% safety committees meet quarterly. PERFORMANCE IN 2018 13% 14% In 2018, we achieved the lowest Lost Time Incident Rate since we began tracking global safety rates nearly two decades ago. We attribute this achievement to 13% our continued concerted efforts to incorporate a safety culture throughout our 20% organization. For example, we completed implementation of a forklift visual blindspot installation program, which gives advanced warning to both drivers and pedestrians of forklift movement, in all manufacturing sites in 2018. We will ■ Trips/Falls continue to improve the safety of our forklift operations in 2019 with better Shared ■ Chemical Exposure Movement Area controls, and we are exploring the potential use of a proximity ■ Strains/Sprains system to provide early-warning alarms. ■ Burns ■ Struck by Objects ■ Other 66 O ur P eople We also continue to improve our grounding and bonding (G&B) infrastructure and ANNUAL LOST practices. Enhanced G&B systems, such as alarms and interlocks, are in place in all TIME INCIDENTS of our manufacturing sites. We are now focusing on higher-risk equipment that can GRI 403-2. benefit from more customized G&B controls to meet their unique needs. Per 100 employees To enhance our safety culture, we will continue to roll out our Safety Champions 0.5 program. A successful 2018 trial in Indonesia enabled us to roll out the program 0.42 to more sites in Asia, and we plan to complete the region within the next year. In 0.4 the coming year, we will launch a Safety Observation program, which empowers 0.34 employees to identify potentially unsafe acts or conditions and correct them before 0.3 0.27 an incident occurs. We have incorporated several acquisitions into our safety programs in recent years, 0.2 0.18 and employees at the newly acquired sites are being trained in our safety-related systems, safety policies, engineering standards and incident reporting procedures. 0.1 0.0 2010 2017 2018 ANNUAL TOTAL RECORDABLE INCIDENTS GRI 403-2. Per 100 employees 1.5 1.23 1.2 0.84 0.9 0.73 0.6 0.3 0.0 2010 2017 2018 67 O ur P eople Diversity & Inclusion OUR APPROACH D&I VISION: GRI 103-2. GRI 103-3. Your Uniqueness Diversity and inclusion (D&I) are imperative to our continued success. We are dedicated to nurturing a truly inclusive, fair culture, built on a legacy of pioneering Unleashes Our firsts that pursues new frontiers to explore. While we have a rich history of Potential supporting diversity and inclusion within our workforce, we took a significant step forward in 2017 to better organize and formalize our efforts: Our new Diversity & Inclusion program recognizes and accelerates our journey to full inclusiveness and D&I MISSION: inspires us to lead transformational change from within. In 2018, our CEO signed the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion™ pledge, which is the largest CEO-driven We nurture an business commitment to date in advancing diversity and inclusion in the workplace. inclusive and fair culture that is FORMALIZING OUR EFFORTS fueled by our values. Our D&I program aims for global consistency with local relevance, with Every voice at IFF companywide initiatives that are applied in a way that meets each location’s needs. Following the 2017 formal launch of the D&I program and its vision and is empowered and mission statements, initiative teams were formed for each of the three pillars – heard. All levels of our Our Spirit, Our People and Our World – to make progress on the recommended organization reflect the strategic initiatives. mosaic of the markets OUR PEOPLE: TO ACCELERATE INNOVATION, WE RECOGNIZE THAT we serve. We embrace OUR EMPLOYEE POPULATION MUST BE TRULY DIVERSE AT ALL LEVELS. diversity of thought to Initiative teams formed for this pillar include Mosaic of Talent and Disabilities Inclusion. The teams examined IFF’s overall candidate and employee value transform our future. proposition and held employee focus groups in late 2018 to solicit input from various employee perspectives. OUR SPIRIT: WE ARE DEDICATED TO NURTURING A TRULY INCLUSIVE, FAIR CULTURE, BUILT ON A LEGACY OF PIONEERING FIRSTS THAT PURSUES NEW FRONTIERS TO EXPLORE. Initiative teams formed for this pillar include Perspectives, Value Proposition, Education, and Colleague Communities. The Value Proposition Team launched employee focus groups to gain employee perspectives on how to attract and retain top talent across generations. We also kicked off a reverse mentoring program, in which each Executive Committee member was paired with a Millennial employee to share perspectives and learn from each other. The Education Team developed a “best-in-class” Inclusion Competency Model. Additionally, the Employee Resource Group Team developed a framework for how our Colleague Communities would operate. 68 Inclusion Competency Model An Inclusive Colleague actively fosters a diverse, unbiased culture that unleashes the unique potential of every individual. PURPOSEFULLY An Inclusive Colleague An Inclusive Colleague ACTIVELY UNBIASED develops a conscious advocates for and INCLUSIVE knowledge of their personal consistently acts to support biases, works to address them a culture that values and actively fosters an equal and nurtures the uniqueness and equitable workplace. of each colleague. DIVERSITY & INCLUSION An Inclusive Colleague An Inclusive Colleague demonstrates active proactively seeks to engagement to support IFF's understand how others business imperative of experience the world and inclusive diversity by ensuring adapts their behavior to COMMITTED all levels of our organization collaborate effectively MULTICULTURAL TO DIVERSITY reflect the mosaic of the in a multiculturally AGILITY markets we serve. diverse workplace. OUR WORLD: WE LEVERAGE THE POWER OF OUR DIVERSITY TO CREATE VALUE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND THE COMMUNITIES IN WHICH WE WORK. Initiative teams for this pillar include Fit to Market and Supplier Diversity. The Fit to Market Team held cross-functional workshops in Russia and India on how to provide differentiation and competitive advantage by incorporating diversity considerations into how we go to market. Our D&I program is underpinned by the Inclusion Competency Model, shown above, which defines an inclusive colleague as one who actively fosters a diverse, unbiased culture that unleashes the unique potential of every individual. 69 O ur P eople 4 1 3 2 PROMOTING DIVERSITY AROUND THE GLOBE IFF has always been a global, diverse company. Our formalized D&I program has organized, bolstered and brought consistency to the wide array of D&I efforts already underway. Examples include the following: 1. In Mexico, we sponsored an Inclusion Day in partnership with a local museum 2. In Brazil, we held a training program on unconscious bias for employees at all of our Brazilian locations 3. In India, we support READ India, which promotes the empowerment of women 4. In New York, our headquarters location hosts Women@IFF, a Colleague Community that promotes women in leadership. The group organizes events and activities focused on building internal and external networks, facilitating the integration of work and personal responsibilities, and enhancing professional development. 70 O ur P eople Cultivating Talent OUR APPROACH GRI 103-2. GRI 103-3. Organizational development and talent management, which include a focus on training and education, are critical aspects of IFF’s success. Operating in a dynamic and innovative industry, IFF must remain on the forefront of implementing the best practices that allow us to operate efficiently while always maintaining an emphasis on developing the people who drive business results on a daily basis. Because so many of our career tracks are unique to our industry, we provide a variety of blended opportunities tailored to specific careers. Our flavorists and perfumers, for example, innovate new products and keep our business on the cutting edge of specialized and fast-moving markets. We look for appropriate educational backgrounds and expertise when hiring for these positions, and we have found ways to develop important skillsets in-house as well as in collaboration with wellrespected educational institutions. Leaders from our Human Resources department, together with managers throughout the company, are responsible for owning the talent agenda at IFF. The IFF University concept is the key integrative aspect to the approach, effectively connecting IFF employees to learning opportunities, maintaining a consistent and cohesive approach to our strategy, and providing a continuous learning and development environment. Our iterative approach to assessing and improving that environment ensures a highly adaptive set of tools designed to assist IFF employees at every stage of professional growth. CAREER LADDERS / CAREER JOURNEY Career ladders are designed to provide an accessible global framework for vertical professional development. They outline clear role expectations at all levels to help our managers and employees create more meaningful and focused career development plans. The ladders detail the knowledge, experience, skills, competencies and performance expectations for specific roles and explain the criteria for success. In combination with our training programs, the ladders provide a road map for building a career at IFF. Career ladders are organized according to job function and are tailored for specific commercial and technical positions. In order to provide employees with additional career path awareness, in 2018 the Taste commercial team launched a “career journey” tool. This concept acknowledges that careers are not always vertical in trajectory and encourages employees to explore cross-functional and cross-geographic experiences. This interactive and well-structured online platform helps employees visualize and navigate cross-functional and diverse career paths at IFF. The tool can also provide additional nuance to employee and manager conversations as they consider career progression opportunities. 71 O ur P eople PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT AND REVIEWS The vision for IFF GRI 404-3. University is to create Performance management at IFF is a continuous and personalized process. In 2018, a transformative and we implemented a new system globally and introduced a new employee process to make reviews simpler and more effective. Managers and their direct reports inclusive learning culwork together to develop annual objectives that support core business priorities ture that supports talas well as professional development goals. Employees receive formal progress ent development based evaluations twice a year, creating opportunities for feedback to drive continuous improvement. Beyond those conversations, managers are encouraged to provide on empowerment and feedback throughout the year. The feedback process is further enabled by the innovation principles. implementation of various industry-leading assessment tools. Those targeted tools provide exceptional insights for managers, and when coupled with facilitation elevate the performance of our employees and teams. In addition to regular performance reviews, IFF conducts multi-level internal talent reviews several times each year to engage our most critical talent and demonstrate that IFF supports their careers. Our Board recognizes that one of its most important duties is to ensure excellence and continuity in our senior leadership. This is partially accomplished by overseeing the development of executive talent, and by planning for the effective succession of our Chairman and CEO and other senior members of executive management. As part of this process, our CEO and our executive officers are required to prepare detailed development and succession plans for themselves and for their direct reports on an annual basis. Those reports build upon similar reviews, occurring at multiple levels within IFF. TRAINING AND EDUCATION In 2017, we launched IFF University, consolidating all of our leadership and management programs, technical schools and professional skills training programs under a single framework and point of access. IFF University is enabling greater consistency in our offerings, as well as clearer differentiation among the various programs. Ongoing efforts to enhance and expand IFF University offerings, as with the upcoming implementation of a learning management system, promise to further expand on the developmental opportunities available to IFF employees. Furthermore, in 2018 we launched an IFF University Speaker Series, which makes short videos available to all employees across a range of topics. The aim of the Speaker Series is to engage employees and spark new ideas. TRAINING FOR PERFUMERS AND FLAVORISTS In 2016, IFF began a partnership with ISIPCA (Institut Supérieur International du Parfum, de la Cosmétique et de L’aromatique Alimentaire), the world’s premier fragrance school, to develop the first and only accredited program of its kind: the Master of Science in Scent Design and Creation. Classes are held at ISIPCA’s campus in Versailles, France, and are taught by ISIPCA faculty and industry experts, as well as sessions with IFF experts. Cohorts are composed of a diverse group of students from all over the globe. Upon successful completion, graduates have a strong foundation in olfaction and are well-equipped for careers as perfumers, scent design managers and a range of other roles in our industry. This is a critical talent pool for sustainability and future success. 72 O ur P eople For employees seeking to become flavorists, our internally run flavorist school selects driven, creative students and equips them with the necessary tools. One of the pillars of the flavorist school is the dedicated mentorship of many senior and successful flavorists. The school combines full-time training and on-the-job experience for employees. The curriculum focuses on understanding raw materials and solvents, how to build a flavor language, flavor applications and creation techniques. At the conclusion of the program, participants spend several months in our Research and Development department in New Jersey, U.S., testing their newly acquired skills. MANAGEMENT AND LEADERSHIP PROGRAMS IFF offers three specialized courses to help employees develop their personal leadership abilities. These courses provide blended experiences for IFF employees at every stage of their professional development, while also providing on-demand opportunities to meet specific needs. Participants meet with each other virtually to accomplish assigned group work, and in some cases come together for multiday conferences. Conferences provide exceptional collaboration and networking opportunities to participants, enriching the individual learning experience. Notably, in 2018 we were able to expand the number of IFF employees participating in our internal management and leadership programs by 67%, training 250+ of IFF’s future leaders. Management Essentials, our junior manager training, was offered to approximately 120 first-time managers during 2018. Composed of self-paced courses and live group webinars, Management Essentials lasts two months and covers key concepts such as giving and receiving feedback, managing performance and managing workplace conflict. Our People Leader Program is designed for first-line supervisors, managers with direct reports and employees who are new to management. Participants spend a year building a foundation for understanding leadership while broadening their perspectives and expanding their internal networks. In 2018, 90 employees participated in the program – 30 in Europe, Africa and the Middle East, 30 in Greater Asia and 30 in North America/Latin America. With a focus on leading innovation, strategy execution and change management, the year-long Organizational Leader Program helps midto senior-level managers learn from each other in a highly interactive development process. Thirty individuals participated in the Organizational Leader Program in 2018. IFF also partners with INSEAD, one of the world’s leading graduate business schools, to help participants explore new business opportunities, new markets and enhanced profitability models. In 2018, 28 employees participated in this program, through which midto senior-level managers gain a deeper understanding of marketing, operational and corporate finance, cross-cultural leadership and more. 73 R egenerative P ro ducts Creating sustainable scents & tastes R egenerative P ro d u c ts Circular Design OUR APPROACH KEY DEVELOPMENTS In the face of large-scale global challenges such as climate change and natural Increased the use of renewable resource scarcity, businesses are responding by making more sustainable carbon in our fragrance ingredients decisions. Consumers are also shifting their purchases toward wellness-focused products that are environmentally and socially responsible. We stay ahead of Piloted food waste reduction projects these shifts via our circular design approach. This approach is underpinned by under our POWDERPURE line the Regenerative Products platform of our sustainability strategy: We aim to intentionally design products that have a positive contribution to people, society and the world around us. LOOKING AHEAD Circular design is an emerging business ethos that aims to design waste out and Continue to offer our customers create closed-loop systems in which materials are constantly reused and waste more sustainable fragrance options becomes a resource. It’s a significant shift toward a restorative, regenerative Make strides in embedding circular economy and away from the unsustainable “take-make-dispose” approach of design into our Taste business traditional linear design. through our Re-Imagine innovation programs We have embedded our commitment to circular design across our Taste and Scent businesses. At each step in our design process, we seek to ensure that ingredients come from nature (or are repurposed from other materials) and go back into nature, in a continuous cycle. This generally involves defining and identifying renewable and biodegradable feedstocks, using green chemistry and developing innovative products geared toward health and wellness. We are always seeking to set a higher bar for environmental and social sustainability, both internally and externally. As we continue on this path, we seek to further ingrain the circular design approach into our culture and throughout our value chain. We have initiatives in each business unit to formalize this approach: • Our Scent business drives continuous ingredient and process innovations to create scents that are good for the planet and socially responsible • Our Taste business’s innovation programs focus on the consumer drive toward health, transparency and great taste in food and beverage products Specific examples of our progress are detailed in this section. 75 R egenerative P ro d u c ts PATENT PROGRESS We continue to search for new processes that build circular concepts into the earliest stages of fragrance design. One way we do this is by converting waste streams – from both internal and external sources – into primary fragrance materials. In 2018, a team of IFF scientists and academic partners filed a patent application, entitled “Preparing Unsaturated Carbocyclic Compounds,” outlining a new technology that turns process byproducts into building blocks for fragrance. The approach eliminates a significant amount of waste, compared to other multistep chemical processes, and builds upon another patent filed by IFF in 2017. BRINGING CIRCULAR DESIGN TO SCENT IFF continues to drive the creation of circular design scents, responding to increased consumer demand. Our proof-of-concept PuraVita™ fragrance, for example, launched in 2016, was the world’s first Cradle to Cradle Certified™ fragrance. Cradle to Cradle certification ensures that the scent meets stringent standards in the categories of material health, material reutilization, renewable energy and carbon management, water stewardship and social fairness. In the last few years, we have made the sustainability metrics of our fragrance ingredients more transparent for perfumers, enabling them to more DESIGN SOURCE easily find ingredients that meet WITH THE RESPONSIBLY, PLANET IN MIND SOCIALLY FAIR their renewable or natural-based standards when creating MATERIAL HEALTH sustainable perfumes. Approximately half of the ingredients in our catalog are PLANT renewable or bio-based. Our renewables catalog has every fragrance family – such as musk, floral and fruity – wellCircular Design represented. Still, we are continually addressing gaps in DEGRADATION RENEWABLE & our catalog through a variety REPURPOSED of initiatives, including work on raw ingredient integration and new process and formulation technologies. FRAGRANCE DELIVER MANUFACTURE POSITIVE WITH ZERO WASTE OUTCOMES AND WATER APPLICATION CREATE WITH CONSUMER BENEFITS 76 R egenerative P ro d u c ts POWDERPURE We also incorporate circular design principles into our Taste business. IFF’s patented POWDERPURE INFIDRI™ drying technology, for example, uses infrared light waves to target the water molecules in fruits, vegetables and other food products, leaving nutrients and flavors almost entirely intact. The resulting components are used as simple, clean-label ingredients in a wide variety of food products, including baby food, protein shakes and nutrition bars. While fresh produce deteriorates rapidly, infrared drying technology significantly increases the shelf life and maintains the nutrients of fresh produce across the extended shelf life. We are also actively pursuing food waste reduction initiatives with farmers and food manufacturers. The UN Food and Agriculture Organization estimates that one-third of food globally is wasted, contributing significantly to greenhouse gas emissions. Converting would-be food waste into nutritional fruit and vegetable powders using INFIDRI™ provides both environmental and economic benefits. We successfully piloted a food waste reduction project using farm-fresh excess spinach, and we have a pipeline of potential projects that we are in the process of evaluating. FARM FRESH FARM SIDE STREAM We see an opportunity to reduce food waste by converting SIDE STREAM excess fruits PROCESSING FACILITY and vegetables – such as those directly from a farm or leftover at a food processing facility – CONSUMER FOOD MANUFACTURER into nutritious, valueadded food ingredients. CONSUMER 77 R egenerative P ro d u c ts Green Chemistry PUTTING GREEN CHEMISTRY PRINCIPLES INTO ACTION Green chemistry principles and biotechnology are crucial to IFF’s evolution to a circular design company. These widely used principles – centered around energy efficiency, use of renewable raw ingredients and avoidance of hazardous materials – are well-integrated in IFF’s R&D practices, beginning at the earliest stages of design. For example, at each stage from the research and development phase to commercial production, our scientists use IFF’s proprietary Green Chemistry Assessment Tool to quantitatively score the overall sustainability of our products and processes. Since the introduction of the tool in 2012, we have trained all technical employees on its use and provide annual refresher trainings. One key focus of our green chemistry efforts is finding novel waste reduction methods and biotechnological innovations to create natural products from abundant raw ingredients, rather than depleting important resources such as food. This includes converting the byproducts of our natural product processes into useful fragrance ingredients. For example, IFF’s terpene-based chemistry utilizes an abundant, readily-available natural raw material – a pine-based side product from the paper industry – to create a number of high-performing fragrance ingredients. We also have several patented initiatives, including a “zero-waste” processing method for a high-volume ingredient. In addition, we are moving toward greater use of renewable carbon in our products. Carbon management, besides being an important part of sustainable business practices, is increasingly valued by consumers. We are actively seeking to increase the proportion of bio-based carbon in all our fragrances. EXAMPLES OF EFFICIENCY In 2018, we continued to pursue new green chemistry initiatives to drive improvement in our products and processes. Some additional examples include: • Reducing or eliminating the use of certain chemicals in several fragrance ingredients, thereby avoiding nearly 400 metric tons of hazardous waste each year • Increasing the efficiency of green chemistry processes across our Scent business, contributing to waste reduction and improved product yields. These process improvements have yielded annual savings. • Investing in capital improvements at our processing facilities to improve energy efficiency and expand our capabilities, resulting in annual savings For more information on our efforts to decrease our carbon footprint, please refer to the Environment section of this report. 78 R egenerative P ro d u c ts Health & Wellness TASTE FOR A HEALTHY POPULATION AND PLANET Consumer preferences for food and beverage products with health and wellness attributes continue to evolve rapidly. Also, our industry is affected by the oftenunpredictable impacts of climate change on many of the crops in our supply chain. Our Taste business works to continually stay ahead of the curve on these two trends through our Re-Imagine innovation programs. The Re-Imagine programs focus on six key areas: culinary, citrus, delivery systems, naturals, modulation and protein. Through a combination of future-trends analysis, consumer insights and a sustainability-focused development process, our Re-Imagine programs help IFF serve unmet needs in the food and beverage market, while also contributing to positive environmental and social solutions. Each program is led by a director charged with overseeing innovation and product research and development. Through Re-Imagine Modulation®, for example, we create ways for our customers to make products that are lower in sodium, fat, sugar and calories, without compromising taste. Such products provide alternatives to consumers who are often too busy to cook at home and increasingly turn to convenience food. We have expanded our tools around sweetness modulation, an area of increasing concern among food manufacturers as more governments around the world enact taxes on sugar. Our Re-Imagine Protein® program is developing ingredients for plant-based alternatives. The UN Food and Agriculture Organization estimates that the global livestock industry currently accounts for approximately 15% of global greenhouse gas emissions. Expanding the appeal of plant-based meat alternatives is one important step toward combating the effects of climate change. True to our circular design principles, our Re-Imagine Natural® innovation program is exploring biomass side-stream recovery for flavor products. We are currently targeting leftover materials from several internal and external food and flavor manufacturing processes, including fermentation, enzyme transformation, culinary preparations and isolation/separation. Our global team is applying various processing techniques to transform byproducts into unique natural taste technologies. 79 R egenerative P ro d u c ts INNOVATING SCENTS Mobile technology and ubiquitous connectivity are fast becoming the rule, not the exception, for consumer experience in nearly every industry. IFF has identified fragrance as an area of untapped potential for technological integration. In 2018, we continued our relationship with the MIT Media Lab as a lab consortium member. With more than 30 years of innovation experience, the Media Lab fosters disruptive technologies using an interdisciplinary approach. As a Media Lab member, IFF is able to gain early access to the group’s pioneering work, with a particular focus on how technology can improve our offerings and expertise. One of the projects funded in part through our Media Lab membership is Essence, a wearable, smartphone-connected necklace that can emit scent when the user’s physiological state changes. Created by MIT Media Lab research assistant and PhD student Judith Amores in 2016, the device can react to the wearer’s mood, picking up on feelings of anxiety or stress, for example. Sensors in the necklace monitor and respond to subtle changes in chest vibration related to heartrate and respiration, and can track changes in the user over time. Users can also use a linked smartphone app to control how and when Essence responds to physiological changes. In 2018, Amores continued to refine Essence, introducing a scalable, 3D-printed prototype design. PARTNERSHIPS & MEMBERSHIPS We leverage strategic partnerships and memberships to help us drive innovation and deliver regenerative products. By working with partners – from university researchers to sustainable development experts – we can create products that help both consumers and the environment. For example, we are members of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, to support the acceleration of transformational change in global food systems and an industry-driven shift toward a circular economy. We have also partnered with the Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute to create third-party certified products. And we have a scientific advisory board (SAB), led by our Chief Global Scientific & Sustainability Officer, that brings together multidisciplinary external experts to enhance our R&D programs. One SAB member, Andrew Winston, is a globally recognized thought leader on sustainable business strategy. 80 G overnan c e & Complian c e Committed to high standards of ethics and integrity G overnan c e & Complian c e Governance & Compliance OUR APPROACH GRI 103-2. GRI 103-3. GRI 102-16. Our commitment to good governance starts with our Board of Directors and Executive Committee and is supported by our governance framework. This framework is driven through our organization with continual communication and training on best practices in governance, risk management, business conduct, compliance and ethics. IFF’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (“Code”) serves as a compass outlining the general ethical standards that each member of our organization is expected to follow. The Code, as well as our Anti-Bribery, Political Contributions, Conflicts of Interest and International Business Transaction Policies, applies to all IFF employees worldwide and mandates compliance with all anti-bribery and corruption laws and with our global standards. These documents are updated periodically and available on our intranet. GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE GRI 102-18. IFF’s Board of Directors (“Board”) provides the highest level of oversight in our organization. Our diverse, independent Board of highly accomplished directors brings value to our organization, and we benefit from their guidance. Our Board has three committees: Audit, Compensation, and Nominating and Governance. The Audit Committee oversees and reviews the financial reporting process and the integrity of IFF’s financial statements and related financial information. The Audit Committee is also focused on IFF’s procedures for monitoring compliance with our Code, policies and applicable laws and regulations. We also have an internal audit function that assists in evaluating and improving the effectiveness of our risk management, internal control, financial reporting and governance processes. The Compensation Committee is responsible for ensuring that a proper system of compensation is in place and that compensation plans are appropriate, competitive and properly reflect the objectives and performance of management and the company. The Nominating and Governance Committee handles matters related to Board nominees for election, the size and composition of the Board and Board committees, and evaluations of the Board, Board committees and the CEO. IFF has an Executive Committee (EC), which is chaired by our CEO and comprises IFF’s most senior executives. The EC addresses strategic, operational and financial matters and is the highest approval body before the Board. 83 G overnan c e & Complian c e Our cross-functional Global Compliance and Ethics Committee meets regularly and reports to our General Counsel/Chief Compliance Officer. The purpose of the committee is to oversee IFF’s implementation of programs, policies and procedures that are designed to respond to various compliance and regulatory risks facing the company. For more information about the overall governance structure of our organization, please refer to our 2019 Proxy Statement, the Governance section of our website and our Corporate Governance Guidelines. GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE FOR SUSTAINABILITY Our sustainability governance model provides oversight for the execution of our global sustainability strategy. Our Chief Scientific and Sustainability Officer, an EC member who reports directly to our CEO, provides executive oversight of our sustainability program. Our VP of Global Sustainability is charged with leading and embedding sustainability throughout the organization via the Sustainability Business Council (SBC). The SBC is chaired by our CEO, and cross-functional committees – Responsible Sourcing, Eco-Effectiveness, Corporate Sustainability and Product Design – are each led by the appropriate EC member and supported by a member of the Global Sustainability Team. Each of these committees drives sustainability throughout that function, raises potential issues and provides regular updates to the SBC on progress. This governance model relies on functional integration of our sustainability strategy across IFF, including goal development, implementation and progress toward goals. CODE OF CONDUCT GRI 205-2. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Code of Conduct for the Board of Directors and Code of Conduct for Executive Officers each set the ethical tone for our organization. These Codes apply to each of our employees, officers and directors, respectively, including the employees, officers and directors of our subsidiaries. We expect our employees to comply with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and ensure that they understand it through annual training and/or other communications. The Code was recently refreshed to adapt to a dynamic compliance landscape, making it more user-friendly and highlighting frequently asked questions. It is made available both in hard copy and in seven languages on IFF’s intranet, and we conduct training on a global basis on the Code and other important compliance topics. We maintain a culture of compliance and ethics through regular communications regarding the Code, various related topics and relevant policies. Such communications include headline stories on our intranet, e-mail blasts from crossfunctional senior managers, town halls and other meetings and video messages from various IFF Executive Committee members. We have a designated compliance intranet site to facilitate communication and information-sharing of compliancerelated materials throughout the company. 84 G overnan c e & Complian c e TRAINING Throughout each year, we regularly conduct live and online training on a variety of compliance topics. An important component of IFF’s compliance program is training on a global basis to ensure employees understand and comply with the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. These trainings are a mix of in-person sessions, online webinars and creative contests and events, which keep our employees engaged and focused on compliance. In addition to training on the Code, we provide mandatory online training that covers topics such as anti-bribery and corruption, workplace harassment, reporting concerns, insider trading, cybersecurity and use of company assets. Failure to complete such trainings negatively affects the performance rating of those employees required to participate (including members of the EC). In addition, we have many ways that employees can communicate any ethical concerns they may have, including through the IFF Hotline. Employees who become aware of or suspect violations of our Codes or policies are expected to report any violation, and they will not be subject to disciplinary measures or retaliation for making any reports in good faith. All matters reported to IFF are thoroughly investigated, and appropriate actions are taken, up to and including termination of employment. ANTI-BRIBERY IFF is committed to high standards of ethics, honesty and integrity in its business practices, which includes a strict prohibition on corruption and bribery. Our AntiBribery Policy, which is regularly reviewed and refreshed, prohibits the giving of anything of value to a government official or any other person to influence that person’s decisions to help the company obtain or retain business or gain an unfair advantage. Employees are expected to consult with IFF’s Law department or contact the anonymous IFF Hotline if any situations arise that could potentially violate our policy – even if something simply “doesn’t feel right.” Our comprehensive anti-bribery training program includes eLearning courses and in-person training. As part of the program we also include up-to-date anti-bribery and corruption language in our agreements with relevant third parties. POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS GRI 103-2. GRI 415-1. We participate in industry and customer trade associations that coordinate advocacy and communications on public policy issues related to our business. We work through both industry trade associations (e.g., the International Fragrance Association, International Organization of the Flavor Industry, etc.) and through our customers’ trade associations. The core position of the industry is that our products are safe for their intended use. This assurance is determined through a science-based, safety risk assessment utilizing validated scientific methods and experts. There are no significant differences between our industry lobbying efforts and stated policies and IFF’s goals or public positions. 85 G overnan c e & Complian c e IFF’s Policy on Political Contributions strictly prohibits direct or indirect contributions by the company to any political office and the reimbursement of any such contribution made by an employee. All political activity on behalf of the company must receive prior clearance from the company’s General Counsel. 86 G overnan c e & Complian c e Risk & Crisis Management OUR APPROACH GRI 102-30. IFF has a multidisciplinary enterprise risk management (ERM) program designed to identify and assess global risks to our business, including sustainability risks, and to develop steps to continually mitigate and manage those risks. Our approach relies on our management’s evaluation of current events and our expectations regarding future developments. Our CEO and other senior management oversee the day-to-day execution of the risk management process. The Board receives regular reports on IFF’s ERM process and oversees and reviews with management the company’s enterprise-wide risks and the policies and practices established to manage such risks. Management maintains the ERM program. As part of our risk management practices, we have a Global Risk Committee made up of key members of management to integrate global risk activities (including cybersecurity, compliance, business and crisis management) and to ensure appropriate prioritization of resources and alignment across IFF. Sustainability-related risks – such as water availability and natural disasters and other climate-related risks – are formally incorporated into this process. We evaluated the potential impact of and our vulnerability to these risks and have developed mitigation measures accordingly. Our Board is actively involved in the oversight of IFF’s risks. The full Board focuses on operational risk, financial risk, regulatory risk, litigation risk, cybersecurity and information security risk, tax risk, credit risk and liquidity risk, as well as our general risk management strategy, and how these risks are being managed. The Audit Committee is primarily responsible for assisting the Board in its responsibility to oversee and review with management financial risks and the policies and practices established to manage such risks; this committee also oversees and reviews procedures for monitoring compliance with laws and regulations and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. The Compensation Committee is primarily responsible for overseeing the management of risks associated with compensation policies and practice, our compensation plans (including equity compensation plans and programs), severance, change in control and other employment-related matters. The Nominating and Governance Committee monitors the company’s governance risk and CEO succession risk. Please refer to the Risk Management Oversight section of our 2019 Proxy Statement for more information. 87 G overnan c e & Complian c e THE PRECAUTIONARY PRINCIPLE GRI 102-11. While we do not formally apply the precautionary principle, our ERM program is designed to identify significant risks faced by our company. This involves surveying employees to gauge their assessment of risks (including climate risk) and then consolidating their responses into a set of key risks, such as the quality of or disruptions to our supply chain. The consolidated set is communicated to the Executive Committee and Board of Directors at least annually. Our 2018 Annual Report includes a detailed description of companywide risks. CRISIS MANAGEMENT Like any global company, unexpected events can disrupt our operations. To combat this risk, IFF has a comprehensive Crisis Management Plan, which outlines preparation for and responses to emergency situations that may imperil the safety of our employees, customers, facilities, operations or reputation. We have Crisis Management Teams in place at the global, regional and local levels to ensure that situations are handled quickly and effectively by subject matter experts trained on IFF’s plan. In 2018, we refreshed our Global Crisis Management Plan based on feedback from key stakeholders. We also conducted a crisis simulation exercise with the Executive Committee and Global Crisis Management Team, and we conducted separate training for all members of Global, Regional, and Local Crisis Teams. MANAGING OPERATIONAL CHALLENGES In each of the 35 countries where we conduct business, we take seriously our responsibility to follow local regulations and respond to community and employee concerns. When challenges arise, we do not deviate from the high ethical standards that guide our business practices. For example, in 2015 Chinese authorities notified us of compliance issues pertaining to the emission of odors from several of our plants in China and, consequently, we invested approximately $6.5 million in odor-abatement equipment at these facilities and have built a second flavors manufacturing facility in China, with an estimated cost of $45 million. We also completed the relocation of one of our fragrance ingredients plants to a new site in Jiande, China. In addition, we reached an agreement to relocate our other fragrance ingredients facility in China from Hangzhou to the Jiande site by 2020. 88 G overnan c e & Complian c e Human Rights GRI 102-16. GRI 407-1. GRI 408-1. GRI 409-1. OUR APPROACH GRI 103-2. GRI 103-3. Our approach to human rights is guided by the UN’s Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights, the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. The principles are embedded in our Global Human Rights Policy posted on our website. The policy requires compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and guidelines related to hiring, wages, overtime and working conditions. In addition, the policy recognizes and respects employees’ rights to form and join trade unions and to bargain collectively. It strictly prohibits the illegal employment of underage children as well as involuntary labor of any kind, including prison labor, debt bondage, indentured servitude or forced labor. The policy also reinforces the importance of diversity and equal opportunity and outlines stipulations with respect to wages, hours and working conditions. Issues related to human rights are managed by our Law department, which oversees all legal matters for the company. We also conduct human rights due diligence – on our major suppliers as well as our own operations – through our participation in the Sedex and EcoVadis platforms. The Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex) is a collaborative platform for sharing supply chain information that helps drive continuous improvement in our supply chain in the areas of labor standards, health and safety, environmental management and ethical business conduct. We focus our efforts with Sedex on a core set of suppliers that are critical to our business, reviewing the list annually as our supply chain evolves. The Sedex Risk Assessment Tool allows us to prioritize our suppliers for completion of the Sedex Self-Assessment Questionnaire and Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) 4-pillar audits, which include human rights considerations. In addition to our assessment of our suppliers, all of our own facilities have also undergone SMETA audits, and no major noncompliance was identified.1 IFF has not identified significant risk in our operations for forced or compulsory labor, child labor or violations of the right to freely associate and bargain collectively. In addition, IFF releases an annual Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement that provides additional information on our global human rights due diligence processes. 1 A major non-compliance for an IFF site is defined as a product being recalled. 89 G overnan c e & Complian c e IFF also requires that our vendors comply with our Vendor Code of Conduct (“Vendor Code”), which is distributed to vendors and located on our website. Consistent with our Human Rights Policy, the Vendor Code requires that vendors respect their employees’ rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining, requires compliance with appropriate regulations and guidelines concerning labor practices, and prohibits the use of involuntary labor and child labor. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics requests our employees and others to report concerns and complaints, without risk of retaliation. Complaints or concerns can be submitted through the IFF Hotline, which accepts anonymous calls and e-mails in any language, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. We respond promptly and thoroughly to any reported concerns and take appropriate action where necessary, up to and including termination of employment (or, in the case of third parties, termination of business relations). 90 P ro d u c t R esponsibility Ensuring consumer safety P ro d u c t R esponsibility Product Safety & Quality OUR APPROACH GRI 103-2. GRI 103-3. Our Global Product Safety & Quality Team conducts audits and manages quality control processes for our products. All finished IFF products undergo final quality control testing, which, depending on the product, includes sensory, analytical and microbiological analysis. IFF is an active member of both the International Organization of the Flavor Industry and the International Fragrance Association, the leading trade associations representing the interests of the global flavors and fragrances industries. By taking leadership positions within these trade associations and working with regulators through these organizations, we seek to actively support the use of safe, responsibly produced flavors and fragrances that respect the environment and enrich the lives of consumers. IFF’s Global Regulatory Affairs department manages a comprehensive set of policies and procedures to help us achieve safety compliance in all of the countries where we operate. Our regulatory disclosure policy provides our basic framework for responding to product information requests from regulatory agencies while managing confidential business information. In addition, we are working with a variety of customers on their own initiatives to create and implement additional ingredient disclosure models that provide consumers with valuable information while protecting our proprietary formulations. While our IFF-specific disclosure policy and future outcomes of customer initiatives provide a robust framework for compliance and ingredient disclosure, we understand that information requests will continue to vary by product and customer, and we therefore tailor our disclosures to the requirements of each situation. OUR CULTURE OF QUALITY We refreshed our quality strategy in 2018 with the launch of a Culture of Quality program. This program seeks to build and strengthen our culture of quality to improve tangible business outcomes. The initiative began in May 2018 with a refresh of our Quality Policy. That policy conveys the message of a culture of learning and execution – enabling and empowering our employees to solve problems and focus on the long-term solutions necessary to meet our company’s strategy. Our Global Quality Team identified and educated key personnel, known as Quality Ambassadors, on the new Quality Policy. The Quality Ambassadors are a crossfunctional group of IFF employees from Operations, Manufacturing, Procurement, Customer Service and Planning roles. In all four of IFF’s global regions, the Quality Ambassadors met and were educated on the Culture of Quality program and how our employees influence quality. The Ambassadors, in turn, rolled out the 93 P ro d u c t R esponsibility same training to all of the supply chain employees in their facilities. The trainings WORLD QUALITY DAY consisted of five sessions: an overview of quality, Customer and Vendor Quality, Product Safety, Employee Empowerment and an interactive team simulation that On November 8th, 2018, manufacturing facilities celebrated World Quality Day, an incorporated our Quality Principles. By the end of the five sessions, our employees annual event designed to increase global were speaking our motto, “I am quality!” This motto emphasizes an organizational awareness of the important contribution culture that champions quality at all levels of the organization, rather than as the of quality to organizations. IFFers around sole responsibility of the Global Quality Team. the world celebrated in their own ways. The following are some examples: We aimed to engage 90% of our Supply Chain employees – a group that includes • The team in Jurong, Singapore, employees in Logistics, Procurement, Planning, Transportation, Customer Service, organized a puzzle game with key Manufacturing and Quality roles – in the Culture of Quality program, a goal we product safety phrases and programs. surpassed in 2018 with a 93% engagement rate overall. Quality is at the heart of • The team in Tilburg, the Netherlands, everything we do, and it creates value for our customers, shareholders, suppliers, distributed Good Manufacturing employees and consumers of the thousands of products we make every day. Our Practice booklets and had employees Supply Chain employees who went through this program confirmed this message engage in a program to identify a scent. with their commitment by signing a Quality Pledge. • The team in Jakarta, Indonesia, organized an all-employee celebration utilizing key risk mitigation techniques OPERATING EFFICIENTLY WITH LEAN AND SIX SIGMA to demonstrate how all employees make an impact on quality. While our Quality function’s primary 2018 focus was the Culture of Quality, we have also implemented Lean and Six Sigma techniques throughout our • The teams in China organized a organization. Lean is a way of thinking and acting that eliminates waste, improves slogan contest on quality and tasted quality and creates value to our business. Six Sigma is a set of tools and strategies products with IFF flavors. that enable improvement in business processes. We have sponsored Six Sigma Celebrating Global Quality Day engaged Green Belt training for dozens of employees in recent years. These courses provide employees in underscoring IFF’s an overview and tools for Six Sigma’s Define, Measure, Analyze, Improve, Control commitment to quality among our manufacturing locations. (DMAIC) approach. Facility Certifications A table of IFF facilities and their associated certifications is provided at the end of this report. We maintain several certifications at our facilities, depending on the nature of the facility’s processes and product mix. We also achieved a Gold rating in EcoVadis, a corporate social responsibility rating These may include, but are not limited system that assesses suppliers in sustainable business practices. More information to, the following: about this platform is provided in the Responsible Sourcing section. • ISO 9001:2000, the International Standard for Quality Management • ISO 14001, which sets criteria for Environmental Management Systems • ISO 18001, an international occupational health and safety management system specification • ISO 22716, Cosmetic Good Manufacturing Practices • Global Food Safety Initiative Standards • Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audits • Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil • ECOCERT 94 P ro d u c t R esponsibility Product & Service Labeling OUR APPROACH GRI 103-2. GRI 103-3. IFF belongs to, actively participates in, and leads where appropriate, the activities of the key industry organizations that defend our interests and those of our customers. In addition, we actively engage with governmental authorities as needed to represent the interests of IFF through the sharing of technical information so that ingredients are evaluated on a risk-based scientific basis. We monitor registration requirements carefully as they continue to develop around the world. In most cases, the emerging registration requirements are closely modeled on existing processes in other countries and regions, and we are able to leverage our global expertise and leadership for compliance. Our ability to keep current on these ever-changing registration requirements enables us to factor their potential impact into new R&D initiatives. REGULATORY COMPLIANCE GRI 417-2. In Europe, we successfully completed the 2018 REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals) mandatory product registrations. The same exercise is in process for Korea and Turkey. In addition, IFF took a leading role in the development and publication of standard exposure scenario methodologies for substances for REACH and is actively involved in the ongoing discussions related to fragrance allergens. We support the implementation of the Frank R. Lautenberg Chemical Safety for the 21st Century Act and are working with supply chain partners and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) on specific elements relevant to our business. As a result of this engagement, we were the first company to have a new chemical approved through the revised U.S. Toxic Substances Control Act. We have also successfully negotiated a path forward for the first evaluation of a company-nominated material for the full EPA risk assessment. As always, communication and transparency are key elements in staying on top of emerging regulations, and IFF communicates regularly with our customers well in advance of any required implementation dates. We had no significant incidents of noncompliance with respect to product and service information and labeling in 2018. 95 Appendix A ppen d ix Appendix TABLE OF CONTENTS External Assurance Statement . . . . . . . 98 GRI Content Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101 Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements . . . . . . . 105 IFF Performance Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106 IFF Facility Certifications . . . . . . . . . . . 109 Stay Up to Date . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110 97 A ppen d ix External Assurance Statement Independent Assurance Statement to International Flavors and Fragrances Inc. ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by International Flavors and Fragrances Inc. (IFF) to provide limited assurance in relation to the information set out below and presented in the IFF Sustainability Report 2018. ENGAGEMENT SUMMARY SCOPE OF OUR 1. Whether the 2018 Sustainability Report presents a complete and balanced presentation of IFF’s sustainability activities and ASSURANCE performance in the reporting year in accordance with the GRI Standards (Core option); ENGAGEMENT 2. Whether the 2018 information and data for the specified indicators listed below are fairly presented in accordance with the reporting criteria: Environmental indicators (absolute and intensity): Labor practices and decent work indicators: • Total GHG Scope 1 [metric tons CO2e] • Total Recordable Incidents (TRI) per 100 employees in 2018 • Total GHG Scope 2 [metric tons CO2e] • Total Lost time Incidents per 100 employees in 2018 • Total GHG Scope 3 [metric tons CO2e] Other indicators: • Total biogenic emissions [metric tons CO2e] • ISO14001 Certification • Total (direct/indirect) energy consumption [GJ] • Production volume [metric tons] • Total water (withdrawal, consumption, and discharges) [cubic meters] • Total (hazardous and non-hazardous) waste generated [metric tons] • VOCs, NOx and SOx from stationary combustion sources [metric tons] REPORTING GRI Standards; the WBCSD/WRI GHG Protocol (2004 as updated January 2015) for the Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions; and CRITERIA IFF’s internal environmental indicator definitions (2018) for the other indicators. ASSURANCE STANDARD ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised). ASSURANCE LEVEL Limited assurance. RESPECTIVE IFF is responsible for preparing the data and for its correct presentation in reporting to third parties, including disclosure of the RESPONSIBILITIES reporting criteria and boundary. ERM CVS’s responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed and exercising our professional judgment. 98 A ppen d ix OUR CONCLUSIONS Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the IFF 2018 Sustainability Report is not a complete and balanced presentation of IFF’s sustainability activities and performance in 2018, in accordance with GRI Standards (Core option) or that the 2018 information and data for the topics and indicators listed above, are not fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. OUR ASSURANCE ACTIVITIES Our objective was to assess whether the selected information and data are reported in accordance with the principles of completeness, comparability, and accuracy (including calculations, use of appropriate conversion factors and consolidation). We planned and performed our work to obtain all the information and explanations that we believe were necessary to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion. A multi-disciplinary team of EHS and assurance specialists performed the following activities: • Interviews at corporate level, and review of underlying supporting documentation, to understand IFF’s stakeholder engagement processes and materiality determination for the content of the 2018 Sustainability Report; • Interviews with relevant staff at corporate and site level to understand and evaluate the reporting and data management systems and processes (including IT systems and internal review processes) used for collecting and reporting the selected data; • A review of the internal indicator definitions and conversion factors; • In-person visits to three site (South Brunswick, New Jersey USA; Hangzhou, China; and Jurong, Singapore) and two virtual web-based visits (Aromor, Isreal and Garin, Argentina), and a further desktop review of source data for an additional ten sites (Cairo, Egypt; Dandenong, China; Gebze, Turkey; Hamburg, Germany; Jakarta, Indonesia; Jammu, India; Karawang, Indonesia; Chennai, India; Taubate, Brazil; and Tilburg, Netherlands) to review local reporting processes and consistency of reported annual data based on sampling the underlying source data for each indicator. We interviewed relevant staff, reviewed site data capture and reporting methods, checked calculations and assessed the local internal quality and assurance processes. • An analytical review of the data from all sites and a check on the completeness and accuracy of the corporate data consolidation. • Year-end assurance activities at corporate level including the results of internal review procedures and the accuracy of the consolidation of the data for the selected indicators from the site data. 99 A ppen d ix THE LIMITATIONS OF OUR ENGAGEMENT The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for determining, calculating or estimating the underlying information. Our assurance should be considered in this context. OBSERVATIONS We have provided IFF with a separate management report with our detailed (non-material) findings and recommendations. 02 May 2019 Jennifer Iansen-Rogers Head of Corporate Assurance Services ERM Certification and Verification Services, London www.ermcvs.com; email: post@ermcvs.com ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and auditor training. Our processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS staff that have undertaken this engagement work have provided no consultancy related services to IFF in any respect. 100 A ppen d ix GRI Content Index GRI standards, 2016 GRI 102-54. GRI 102-55. GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE GRI 101: FOUNDATION GENERAL DISCLOSURES ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organization 19 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 19 102-3 Location of headquarters 19 102-4 Location of operations1 20 102-5 Ownership and legal form 19 102-6 Markets served2 20 102-7 Scale of the organization2 20 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 64 102-9 Supply chain 23 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 20, 23 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 88 102-12 External initiatives 25 102-13 Membership of associations 25 STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 83, 89 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics GOVERNANCE GRI 102: 102-18 Governance structure 83 GENERAL DISCLOSURES 102-19 Delegating authority 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 87 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 34 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements3 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 34 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 34 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 34 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 15 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 31 102-47 List of material topics 31 102-48 Restatements of information 15 102-49 Changes in reporting 31 102-50 Reporting period 15 102-51 Date of most recent report4 102-52 Reporting cycle 15 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 17 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 15, 101 102-55 GRI content index 101 102-56 External assurance 17 101 A ppen d ix GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE MATERIAL TOPICS GRI 200 ECONOMIC STANDARDS SERIES ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 33 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 89 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 83 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities GRI 201: Economic Performance 201-2 44 due to climate change5 PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 33 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 89 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 83 GRI 204: Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers15 ANTI-CORRUPTION 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 33 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 89 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 83 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures17 84 GRI 300 ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS SERIES ENERGY 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 33 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 42 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 42 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 42 GRI 302: Energy 302-3 Energy intensity 42 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 42 WATER 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 33 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 44 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 44 GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 45 BIODIVERSITY 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 33 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 33 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 33 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected GRI 304: Biodiversity 304-1 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas11 EMISSIONS 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 33 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 43 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 43 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 43 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 43 GRI 305: Emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 43 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 43 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 43 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 33 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 46 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 47 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method6 47 102 A ppen d ix GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 33 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 49 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 49 GRI 308: S  upplier Environmental Assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria14 49 GRI 400 SOCIAL STANDARDS SERIES EMPLOYMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 33 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 63 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 63 GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 64 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 33 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 66 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 66 Workers representation in formal joint 403-1 66 management-worker health and safety committees GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 403-2 67 lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities7,16 TRAINING AND EDUCATION 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 33 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 71 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 71 Percentage of employees receiving regular GRI 404: Training and Education 404-3 72 performance and career development reviews8 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 33 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 68 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 68 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees9, 18 108 FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 33 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 89 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 89 GRI 407: F  reedom of Association Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom 407-1 89 and Collective Bargaining of association and collective bargaining may be at risk CHILD LABOR 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 33 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 89 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 83 GRI 408: Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 89 FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 33 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 89 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 83 Operations and suppliers at significant risk GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 409-1 89 for incidents of forced or compulsory labor LOCAL COMMUNITIES 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 33 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 89 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 83 Operations with local community engagement, GRI 413: Local Communities 413-1 58 impact assessments, and development programs10 103 A ppen d ix GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 33 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 49 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 49 GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria14 49 PUBLIC POLICY 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 33 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 85 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 83 GRI 415: Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions 85 CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 33 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 93 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 83 Incidents of noncompliance concerning the GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 416-2 health and safety impacts of products and services12 MARKETING AND LABELING 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 33 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 95 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 83 Incidents of noncompliance concerning product and service GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 417-2 95 information and labeling13 COMMENTS 11 Biodiversity was identified in our materiality assessment as a material topic within our supply chain. While we have not assessed the proximity of our operating locations to areas of high biodiversity value, we are 1 Please see our website for a detailed map of our operating locations. working to address biodiversity within our supply chain. We have initiatives to support reforestation with several of our ingredients, 2 See our 2018 Annual Report, pages 1-5 including a goal to have 100% of the palm oil used in our products to be RSPO-certified by 2020. 3 IFF fully respects the rights of its employees to freely associate and bargain collectively in a legal, ethical and safe way. In 2018, 14.6% of our permanent 12 We had no significant incidents of noncompliance concerning the health employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. and safety impacts of products and services in 2018. 4 The most recent previous report was IFF’s 2017 Sustainability Report: 13 We had no significant incidents of noncompliance with respect to product Leading Positive Transformational Changes. and service information and labeling in 2018. 5 See our most recent CDP Climate Change response for more detail. 14 We currently report on our progress in screening suppliers for environmental and social criteria by reporting the percentage of our 6 “Other waste” is defined as waste for which the disposal method is chosen supplier spend that have been assessed through EcoVadis or Sedex. We by a third-party provider of waste disposal services. Information about the are currently evaluating our data systems to enable future reporting on disposal method for this category is not collected at the corporate level. this indicator for new suppliers and expect that system in place by the 2019 reporting cycle. 7 No fatalities were reported in 2018. OMISSIONS 8 We use a new online performance management system that captures performance history, strengthens accountability and enhances transparency. In 2018, 99% of eligible employees hired before October 15 Not applicable. We source ingredients locally wherever we can. 1, regardless of gender or employee category, used the performance However, many of our raw materials can only be sourced from countries management system and received performance reviews. Eligible where they grow naturally. As such, this indicator is not a useful metric employees hired after October 1 began participating in the performance for our business. management process at the start of 2019. 16 Not Available. Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases 9 IFF is governed by our Board of Directors. The Board of Directors is 75% and lost days are included in our companywide occupational health and male and 25% female. Our Executive Committee (EC) is chaired by our safety reporting. Absenteeism due to safety incidents is included in the CEO and comprises IFF’s most senior executives. The EC is 80% male and lost days rate that we report. We do not report safety rates by gender at 20% female. Refer to our Proxy Statement for additional information on the global level due to privacy concerns. No fatalities were reported. our Board and EC members. 17 Not available. We do not presently report this information. 10 We discuss local community engagement in the context of our supply chain, where it is most relevant. As part of our responsible sourcing 18 Not Available. Employee data will be reevaluated after the Frutarom program, we have several initiatives to support communities where our integration. ingredients are grown. See the Responsible Sourcing section of this report for more information. 104 A ppen d ix Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Statements in this Annual Sustainability Report which are not historical facts or information are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements should be evaluated with consideration given to the many risks and uncertainties inherent in the Company’s business that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Certain of such forward-looking information may be identified by such terms as “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “outlook,” “may,” “estimate,” “should” and “predict” similar terms or variations thereof. Such forward-looking statements are based on a series of expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections about the Company, are not guarantees of future results or performance, and involve significant risks, uncertainties and other factors, including assumptions and projections, for all forward periods. Actual results of the Company may differ materially from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The Company intends its forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time of such statements and does not undertake or plan to update or revise them as more information becomes available or to reflect changes in expectations, assumptions or results. The Company can give no assurance that such expectations or forward-looking statements will prove to be correct. Any public statements or disclosures by IFF following this report that modify or impact any of the forward-looking statements contained in or accompanying this report will be deemed to modify or supersede such outlook or other forward-looking statements in or accompanying this report. 105 A ppen d ix IFF Performance Data GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS & ENERGY UNITS 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 SCOPE 1 AND SCOPE 2 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Direct emissions (Scope 1) Metric Tons CO2e 115,342 118,984 111,110 113,944 125,429 CO2 Metric Tons CO2e 107,134 111,339 107,701 113,811 124,408 CH4 Metric Tons CO2e 8,105 7,527 3,290 84 100 N 2O Metric Tons CO2e 103 118 119 49 195 Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) by source Fuel combustion % 92% 92% 95% 98% 99% Other % 8% 8% 5% 2% 1% Operated indirect emissions (Scope 2) Metric Tons CO2e 124,760 127,777 120,731 92,639 84,997 CO2 Metric Tons CO2e 124,153 127,154 120,159 92,162 81,950 CH4 Metric Tons CO2e 67 72 70 73 523 N 2O Metric Tons CO2e 540 551 503 404 2,525 SCOPE 3 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Employee business air travel Metric Tons CO2e NC 2,200 1,699 2,750 3,228 Purchased goods and services Metric Tons CO2e NC 800,000 800,000 800,000 800,000 Capital goods Metric Tons CO2e NC 30,000 30,000 30,000 30,000 Fuel-and-energy-related activities (not included in Scope 1 or 2) Metric Tons CO2e NC 34,800 39,210 39,835 43,045 Upstream transportation and distribution Metric Tons CO2e NC 150,000 130,000 130,000 130,000 Waste generated in operations Metric Tons CO2e NC 3,500 7,400 7,400 7,400 ENERGY USE Non-renewable fuels (nuclear fuels, coal, oil, natural gas, etc.) MWh 526,708 527,235 492,275 530,383 596,797 purchased and consumed Non-renewable electricity purchased MWh 159,752 155,783 172,888 142,644 128,669 Steam/heating/cooling and other energy MWh 91,918 81,896 64,545 52,519 52,784 (non-renewable) purchased Total renewable energy (wind, solar, biomass, hydroelectric, MWh 44,582 47,444 49,784 71,380 105,897 geothermal, etc.) purchased or generated Total non-renewable energy consumption MWh 778,378 764,914 729,708 725,546 790,820 Production energy intensity Gigajoules/Metric Ton 10.06 9.69 9.24 8.98 9.51 Direct energy use Thousand Gigajoules 1,896 1,898 1,772 1,909 2,149 Natural gas Thousand Gigajoules 1,536 1,432 1,277 1,416 1,677 Diesel Thousand Gigajoules 36 52 41 14 16 Purchased electricity Thousand Gigajoules 296 285 287 959 811 Renewable energy certificates Thousand MWh 29.97 44.84 57.17 71.11 105.90 Notes: NC: Not collected The production volume (normalization factor) was 334,705 metric tons in 2018. GHG Direct (Scope 1) emissions consist of CO2, CH4, and N2O. Global warming potentials used: CO2: 1; CH4: 25; N2O: 298 The reporting boundary for our dataset is detailed in the Our Approach to Reporting section. 106 A ppen d ix OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS UNITS 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 FRESHWATER USE Groundwater Million cubic meters NC 1.15 1.16 1.26 1.25 Municipal Million cubic meters 5.61 1.51 1.64 1.76 2.14 Surface water Million cubic meters NC 2.77 0.94 0.00 0.00 Total freshwater use Million cubic meters 5.61 5.44 3.74 3.02 3.39 SOLID WASTE Non-hazardous waste Thousand Metric Tons NC 23.61 22.33 21.04 26.85 Recovery/reuse/recycle % NC 78 83 87 90 Landfill % NC 14 11 8 6 Incineration % NC 7 4 1 1 Composted % NC 1 2 3 2 Other % NC <1 1 1 1 Hazardous waste Thousand Metric Tons 22.02 24.21 23.94 17.82 17.99 Recovery/reuse/recycle % NC 12 13 16 15 Landfill % NC 0 2 2 2 Incineration % NC 3 4 49 50 Composted % NC 0 0 0 0 Other % NC 85 81 32 33 Total waste (hazardous + non-hazardous) Thousand Metric Tons NC 47.82 46.26 38.86 44.84 Recovery/reuse/recycle % NC 45 46 55 60 Landfill % NC 7 7 5 4 Incineration % NC 5 4 23 21 Composted % NC 0 1 2 1 Other % NC 43 42 15 14 Basel Convention (recovery/reuse/recycle) Metric Tons 0 0 0 0 0 WASTEWATER Wastewater discharges Million cubic meters NC 4.93 3.09 2.46 2.75 AIR EMISSIONS (EXCLUDES GHGS)* Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) Metric Tons 3.76 3.54 3.18 3.48 4.11 NOX emissions Metric Tons 37.00 35.74 32.34 34.24 40.12 SOX emissions Metric Tons 1.22 1.58 1.27 0.71 0.83 OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS ISO 14001-certified operations % of production 47% 53% 93% 93% 93% ISO 14001-certified operations # 17 22 33 33 33 Environmental reserve $ Million <5 <5 <5 <5 <5 Notes: NC: Not collected *The production (normalization factor) was 334,705 metric tons in 2018. The reporting boundary for our dataset is detailed in the Our Approach to Reporting section. 107 A ppen d ix GRI 405-1 GOVERNANCE, PEOPLE & SAFETY UNITS 2015 2016 2017 2018 GOVERNANCE Number of members of the Board of Directors # 10 11 11 11 Independent Board members # 9 10 10 10 Female members of the Board % 27 27 27 27 Minority members of the Board % 9 9 9 9 Board members in the “50 and above” age group % 100 100 100 100 Political contributions $ Million 0 0 0 0 OUR PEOPLE Number of permanent employees # 6,598 7,020 7,299 7,639 Employees represented by collective bargaining agreements % 16.0 18.1 18.7 14.6 SAFETY AND HEALTH Fatalities workforce (employees + supervised contractors) # 0 0 0 0 Workforce (employees + supervised contractors) Recordable Incident Rate Per 100 employees 0.73 0.63 0.84 0.73 Workforce (employees + supervised contractors) Lost Time Incident Rate Per 100 employees 0.24 0.27 0.34 0.18 PERMANENT EMPLOYEES GENDER TRENDS 2016 2017 2018 GOVERNANCE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE Number of Permanent Employees 4,329 2,691 4,447 2,852 4,652 2,987 Percent of Permanent Employees 62% 38% 61% 39% 61% 39% Note: The reporting boundary for our dataset is detailed in the Our Approach to Reporting section. 108 A ppen d ix IFF Facility Certifications SMETA ISO ISO ISO ISO PLANT DESCRIPTION GFSI RSPO OTHERS 4 PILLAR 14001 9001 18001 22716 TASTE Egypt Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes United Kingdom Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Netherlands Yes Yes Yes Yes FairTrade South Africa Yes Yes Yes Turkey Yes Yes Yes Yes Japan Yes Yes Yes Yes Yunpu, China Yes Yes Yes Yes Zhangjiagang, China Yes Yes Karawang, Indonesia Yes Yes Jakarta, Indonesia Yes Yes Yes Australia Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Singapore Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Chennai, Chitoor, Jammu, India Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Philippines Yes Yes Thailand Yes Yes Mexico Yes Yes Yes Brazil Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Argentina Yes Yes Yes Yes United States Yes Yes Yes TastePoint, USA Yes Yes POWDERPURE, USA Yes SCENT Netherlands Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes China Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Singapore Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes India Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Mexico Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Brazil Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Argentina Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes United States Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Germany Yes FRAGRANCE INGREDIENTS China Yes Yes Yes United Kingdom Yes Yes Yes Yes Spain Yes Yes Yes Yes France Yes Yes Yes ECOCERT, ORGANIC FOR LIFE United States Yes Yes Yes Israel Yes Yes Yes COSMETICS France Yes Southern Cross Botanicals, Australia Yes 109 A ppen d ix Stay Up to Date VISIT US iff.com iff.com/sustain iff.com/media ir.iff.com ENGAGE WITH US Follow #SustainxIFF to learn more WE VALUE YOUR FEEDBACK We welcome any questions, comments or suggestions you might have about this report: iff.com/contact-us ©2019 International Flavors & Fragrances. All rights reserved. IFF is a registered trademark. 521 West 57th Street New York, NY 10019 United States Design by Fusion Media, Inc. www.fusionhome.com 110
