Driving digital transformation Non-financial information statement Responsible Company Report 2018 2 5/2/2 019 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Contents Letter from the Chairman and the CEO 2 Euskaltel Group in 2018 6 1. Organisational and Cultural Capital 14 2. Human Capital 26 3. Customers 40 4. Natural Capital 54 5. Relationships 62 6. Intellectual capital 74 7. Other information 80 Regarding this report 81 GRI Tables 90 GROUP EUSKALTEL LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND THE CEO Our commitment: create value and help to develop society 2 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Through this letter, which leads our Responsible Company Report, we address shareholders, cus“We will carry on tomers, suppliers, institutions, enterprises and, in general, all those who work with the Group and working to enhance the wider society. In short, those who make the Euskaltel Group possible. our leadership In 2018, we continued to grow and develop a corin our territories, porate culture based on proximity, honesty, innovation and efficiency, corporate values that are investing to assure our calling card in the Basque Country, Galicia, Asturias and the markets where the business is the best experience expanding. These values underlie our daily work as we pursue our mission to generate value by for customers, means of a comprehensive response to communication needs and improvements in business whether consumers productivity, contributing towards economic and social development in each of our territories. or businesses, while This cross-organisational culture makes us a bolstering our growth benchmark for customer care, commitment and support, without losing sight of opportunities to ambitions through grow and develop in new businesses and geographic markets. more innovative We have achieved this in a scenario of digitalproducts and services isation and fierce competition in the telecommunications industry in the form of ongoing imin an increasingly provements in the range and quality of products and services targeted at each market segment, digital environment; increased speed and aggressive pay television marketing. expansion into new In the Euskaltel Group, 2018 saw huge progress territories is gaining in the Group’s overall integration and efficiency improvements while protecting our special feamomentum so as tures in each territory and the emotional bonds to all of our brands; Euskaltel in the Basque Country, to become a more R in Galicia and Telecable in Asturias. 2018 was also a year of expansion into other neighbouring competitive operator regions, beginning with Navarre and planning our expansion into León, Cantabria and La Rioja. We while staying focused also reached an agreement with RACC in Catalonia to market our products and services among on shareholder value”. its members under the brand RACCtel+. By expanding our horizons in this way, our company will enter over one million new homes in 2019 and we expect these new markets to account for 8% of revenue in 2022. This expansion strategy is in line with our Strategic Plan 2017-2019, based on operational excellence, distinctive experience, diFRANCISCO ARTECHE versified growth and protecting customer value. Euskaltel Group’s CEO 3 GROUP EUSKALTEL LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND THE CEO Sustainable business growth has borne fruit, our for companies in all business sectors, both as a turnover having increased considerably in the threat to competitiveness or business model dismarkets into which we have expanded, and we ruption and as an opportunity. expect to have a sustainable operating cash flow above 30% of sales as from 2020. Our Business In recent years, technology has taken giant Plan to 2022 forecasts double-digit growth in leaps and the Euskaltel Group has witnessed dividends and a reduction in net debt to below and participated in this progress. Our business 3.5x Ebitda. has evolved mainly thanks to active listening to stakeholders through close ties with our loTechnological advancements in devices and cal territories, which demand more efficiency, software, the extension of fixed and mobile speed, simplicity and innovation. communications networks and the efficiency achieved in the industry have allowed universal We are still focusing on digital development by access to a new digital society in which we all extending infrastructures and building relevant have a device near to us which provides access skills in our human capital. We have launched to a new world of opportunities for work, leisure, new products and services based on new senconsumption… There is no doubt that digitalisasory, data processing or artificial intelligence tion is now a pre-eminent strategic agenda item technologies to be applied to Big Data, the “The Euskaltel Group is focused on creating value for all its stakeholders and on socio-economic development: contributing creativity, creating job opportunities, generating pride in belonging and highlighting social commitment”. ALBERTO GARCÍA ERAUZKIN Euskaltel Grupo’s Chairman 4 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Internet of Things or Digital Homes that will cial and environmental value creation, focusing improve our daily lives. We can already visuparticularly on SDGs 8 and 9 on economic growth alise the new generations of fixed and mobile and innovation, respectively, as a result of our (5G) networks that will allow greater capacity to process data, connect more devices and activities as a communications operator, and control them with low latency (thus assuring a without forgetting SDG 17 on partnerships to fulfil real-time response). The new digital reality also Agenda 2030, SDG 5 regarding female leadership offers huge transformation opportunities for our or SDGs 12 and 13 referred to above. This also people. We have made a significant investment to reflects our commitment as a member of the UN digitalise our work so as to continue to offer the Global Compact. best service and uphold our commitment to better understand our customers. We are developing All this progress is attributable to a committed new ways of working and collaborating so as to team and the trust shown by our shareholders facilitate a work-life balance and enhance work and investors. The customer loyalty that ensues efficiency and productivity based on technology helps us to keep growing. Each of the people that and connectivity. We believe that the first step in place their trust in us forms part of the Euskaltel digital transformation must be our own processes Group’s success. Thanks to their support, we have and our daily activities, involving our professionbecome a leading telecommunications operator als so as to also provide customers with an optiin our markets. We remain committed to growing mal service. This also answers the need to attract together, considering each territory’s needs and and retain the best talent in a society in which 35% providing an excellent service. of workers are currently millennials and want to work for organisations that put social improveThe Euskaltel Group has made efforts to lead the ment before profit making. development of state-of-the-art telecommunications networks, bringing the territories in which Our achievements in the past year include adapwe operate to the forefront of connectivity and tation to the General Data Protection Regulation business digitalisation in Europe. In 2019, we will (GDPR), which is a relevant milestone in our indusadopt the same approach, including our contributry. We also implemented a unified compliance tion to drive digitalisation in the Basque economy model as a further step in our commitment to an and sustained, sustainable growth in our country. ethical and responsible culture in the organisation. We continued to update the Equal Opportunities We will employ our talent to generate digital soluPolicy across the Group. We remain committed to tions that improve the daily lives of people and excellence in environmental management as part companies while offering value to our customers, of the fight against climate change, contributing our people, our shareholders and, in short, all of towards Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) society, as a reflection of our responsibility for and 12 “Responsible consumption and production” commitment to their development and well-being. and 13 “Climate action”. Through these initiatives, we are strengthening the Group’s culture and aligning our business with market best practices. Another important milestone in 2018 was the completion of our CSR Master Plan, all the proposed actions having been implemented. We are now working to develop a new plan centred on contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals Alberto García Erauzkin Francisco Arteche through actions that seek to boost economic, soChairman Chief Executive Officer 5 GROUP EUSKALTEL IN 2018 Leaders in northern Spain The Euskaltel Group is the leading telecommunications group in convergent offerings in northern Spain thanks to a strong commitment to and roots in the Basque Country, Galicia and Asturias. This position has been boosted in the past year as a result of expansion into Navarre and Cantabria, markets in which the business is conducted through the operators Euskaltel, R and Telecable. Group Euskaltel in 2018 THE GROUP’S CURRENT SITUATION 13,053 SME customers 1,744 6.000,000 corporate customers inhabitants The telecommunications group offers its serlicia and Asturias, it has thelargest own optic vices to a market of 6 million people, serving fibre network deployed in the market. over 770,001 residential customers and companies. Euskaltel, R and Telecable are leaders The Euskaltel Group has also invested in onin optic fibre (broadband, phones, pay TV and going professional training, motivation and convergent telecommunications services) in the work climate in recent years. The Group the territories in which they operate, with a has 697 employees with an average age of solid customer base and complementary buaround 44 and generates over 4,200 indisiness models. A mobile phone operator with rect jobs in the Basque Country, Galicia and its own 4G licence in the Basque Country, GaAsturias. 6 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 The Euskaltel Group in figures, main indicators 676 M€ 482 M€ 194 M€ 691.6 M€ economic value economic value economic value revenue generated distributed retained € 0.35€ 697 2 M€ 770,001 earnings per employees R&D&i customers share investment 30,081 429 7.8 +300 training local suppliers. investor investor hours Over 10 new satisfaction interactions partnerships in 2018 Since the Euskaltel Group’s admission to trading Group has reached three significant milestones: in 2015, major challenges have been overcome flotation, creation of the leading telecommunicain order to meet commitments made to sharetions group in northern Spain and implementation holders. In a little over three years, the Euskaltel of a consistent shareholder remuneration policy. 7 GROUP EUSKALTEL IN 2018 Leading the digital roll-out in the Basque Country, Galicia and Asturias In 2018, the Euskaltel Group pressed on with Asturian societies. 2018 was a year of consosustainable growth by completing the Telecalidation and growth for the Group, which took ble integration and began to expand neigha forward step towards achieving strategic bouring the markets of Navarre and Cantabria, objectives and consolidating its position as having reached 843 homes. The figures show northern Spain’s leading telecommunicaacceptance in the Navarre and Cantabria martions group. kets for the Euskaltel brand and a position that favours the acquisition of the Basque operaThe Euskaltel Group seeks to create value tor’s products and services. for all its stakeholders and stimulate economic and social development in the territories The sum of the capacities of the operator’s in which it operates. The keys to the growth three undertakings (Euskaltel, R and Telecaachieved in 2018 are the Group’s strong ties ble) will allow the business to grow and gain to these territories and the most advanced strength while taking on leadership of the telecommunications offering for customers, digital roll-out in the Basque, Galician and homes, companies and institutions. MILESTONES DURING THE YEAR Expansion plan Brand creation Stabilisation EBITDA growth Revenue growth Solid free in Navarre and RACCtel+ for of residential thanks to the (69.4 M€ / 11.1% cash flow Cantabria with the expansion business in the achievement of YoY), net profit generation, 4,372 new into Catalonia three regions the promised growth (13.1 M€) 17.9% of customers (Basque synergies and revenue in 2018 Country, Galicia efficiencies or 124 M€ and Asturias) +29.5 M€ in 2018 8 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 “The company has always sought to offer customers the best quality at the most efficient price. We aim to carry on providing the best telecommunications experience and to stay at the forefront of innovation and digital transformation, as a key partner in accompanying companies, institutions and individuals through their new technological challenges.” FRANCISCO ARTECHE Euskaltel Group’s CEO Pillars of our strategic plan 1. 2. Expansion Simplification, plan to drive platform growth. integration and digitalisation. Grupo Grupo Euskaltel Euskaltel 4. 3. Return to The best customer growth in experience, B2B. retaining our B2C leadship. 9 GROUP EUSKALTEL IN 2018 THE PILLARS AND LINES OF THE EUSKALTEL GROUP’S STRATEGIC PLAN Chapters of 1 2 3 4 5 6 the Report Organisational and Human Customers Natural Relationships Intellectual Cultural Capital Capital Capital Capital Diversified growth Strategic pillars Operational excellence Distinctive experience Customer value protection 8 16 3 5 8 8 9 10 12 13 8 9 8 9 ODS 9 10 11 12 17 17 10 11 1. Expansion plan to drive growth The most relevant growth factor in 2018 was towards the end of 2018 and is expected to rise the inclusion of Telecable in the Euskaltel to 20% by 2022. Group. The consolidation of the investee Telecable in the Euskaltel Group’s balance sheet The Euskaltel Group will also enter a total of brought growth in all the Basque operator’s 200,000 homes in León and Cantabria thanks to business areas. What is more, the Company the agreement to use Orange’s fibre. Under the R will enter five new markets in 2019 under an brand, penetration is forecast at between 4% and ambitious plan of strategic partnerships with 6% in the last two markets in 2019, rising to 12% the main players, which will assure growth in in 2022. The Euskaltel Group will also begin to the near future and the potential to reach 10 market its services in La Rioja, where it expects to million homes throughout Spain. reach a further 85,000 homes. The approach that includes expansion into In December, the Euskaltel Group and the RACC neighbouring regions has allowed the Euslaunched a new brand, RACCtel+, through kaltel Group to penetrate new zones and which northern Spain’s leading telecommunicaopen new points of sale, such as the stores tions operator will offer an integrated service to in Ansoain, Pamplonaand Castro. In Nava600,000 homes in Catalonia. The extension of rre, penetration reached 8.2% in some areas this agreement entails the Euskaltel Group’s en10 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 try into the Catalan market, with a portfolio of over 900,000 potential customers. “The first steps taken beyond The Group’s strategy has a dual focus. Firstly, our local markets have the expansion of network coverage in areas that still cannot access the service in the shown our ability to strongly Group’s natural markets where it already does penetrate new markets using business, that is the Basque Country, Galicia and Asturias; secondly, the expansion of the an efficient CAPEX model. Group’s services in neighbouring regions such as Navarre, Cantabria and Catalonia (under the This initial success has RACCtel+ brand). The Euskaltel Group has also drawn up an expansion plan to enter new marencouraged us to increase kets during 2019 with a high penetration capacity, thanks to its experience and proven moour plans to expand in terms del. Specifically, in the near future the Euskaltel of both areas covered and Group will begin to operate in León, Cantabria and La Rioja, in addition to the Basque Country, commercial penetration.” Galicia and Asturias. FRANCISCO ARTECHE Euskaltel Group’s CEO New territories The Euskaltel Group will enter five new markets in 2019: Navarre, León Cantabria, Catalonia and La Rioja, besides our markets in the Basque Country, Galicia and Asturias. Through this territorial expansion plan, the Euskaltel Group’s target market keeps on Euskaltel Group’s current territories Euskaltel growing. Áreas de expansión del Grupo Euskaltel THE PILLARS OF THE EXPANSION STRATEGY • Discipline • Capacity to leverage brand value • Aggregate value • Consistency with the global strategy • Marketing speed 11 GROUP EUSKALTEL IN 2018 Simplification, platform integration 2. and digitalisation 6% Besides integration and expansion, in 2018 Operating expenditure the Group worked towards simplifying, inte41% grating platforms and digitalising its subsiCosts to sell diaries, a key project for internal resources to be managed in a dynamic and efficient way. Capex (Investment) With this aim, the Euskaltel Group is taking 53% steps to achieve more streamlined structure following the acquisition of R and Telecable so as to become a more efficient and compeSynergies valued at 18,4 M€ titive operator. The best customer 3. Return to growth in B2B 4. experience while retaining our B2C leadership One of the main strategic pillars is the return to The Euskaltel Group is firmly committed to B2B growth. 2018 was the first year in the past six offering the best customer experience. The in which B2B revenue growth in large accounts Group’s B2C leadership has been retained and SMEs was over 5%. This growth is the fruit of thanks to customer experience enhancement. a unified commercial strategy, new products and Assurance of the best CEX brought positive services, digital transformation, strategic partnernet customer registrations in 2018, reflecting ships and a global scope. the solidity of the Group’s customer base. In line with these objectives, the Euskaltel Group With the objective of giving consumers the is at the forefront of innovation and digital transbest telecommunications experience in their formation, and is a key partner in accompanying homes, the Euskaltel Group continues to imcompanies, institutions and individuals through prove and forge new partnerships with the their new technological challenges. With this main market players for its television, WiFi and in mind, the Company has developed services mobile phone services, while paying full attenranging from the Internet, fixed-line and mobile tion to customer care. As is already the case phones, digital TV and broadband to digital transwith Netflix, the Company will offer a broad formation processes, IoT (Internet of Things) socatalogue of third-party shopping services in lutions, technology for Smart Cities and Industry the near future. 4.0. These will be the keys to the Group overcoming the main challenges it faces, together with At present, the Group provides customers with 4K technology deployment, WiFi audits in custothe best broadband experience based on the mer homes and content quality, among others. DOCSIS 3.1 network’s high technological capacity, supplemented by the best Wi-Fi experience in home and businesses, as well as in the street. 12 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 “The Euskaltel Group is working on a number of strategic agreements with leading companies to take our expansion plan forward towards new markets and also within our product portfolio, keeping user experience at the very centre of the entire process.” FRANCISCO ARTECHE Euskaltel Group’s CEO The best TV experience is provided through the that consumers demand. The company was the Deco 4K and the agreements signed with worldfirst operator in Spain to introduce 4K Android wide content leaders such as Netflix. In mobile TV decoders in July 2017, providing an open placommunications, growth is underpinned by the tform that has enabled over 80,000 homes to sound performance and improvements in mobile quickly access OTT content and services since telephony, the possibility of financing mobile deits launch. By the end of 2018, 50% of the Eusvice purchases and the launch of the 4G service, kaltel Group’s customer base will have installed all of which have contributed to the success of these decoders. this service. The Euskaltel has managed to achieve ambitious The company is in constant evolution to simpliorganic and inorganic objectives in record time fy and improve user experience through a clear since its stock market flotation in 2015 to become commitment to digitalisation, process efficiency a genuine multi-regional platform, deeply rooted and innovation. The Euskaltel Group has launin its main markets but fully prepared to enter ched Netflix carrier billing in its 4K Android TV and grow in new areas. The Euskaltel Group is decoders to facilitate sign-up and payments in competing in an immersive scenario that offers the Video On Demand platform by means of a new challenges but also huge opportunities. The single invoice. The company will provide this new Group’s strategy designed to achieve its main service to all users with 4K decoders, where it cuobjectives is clear and comprehensive, grounrrently has a market share of over 80% in Spain. ded in the entire organisation’s commitment to value generation through customer experience, The Euskaltel Group leads industry transformagrowth and efficiency. The implementation of tion by listening actively to customer needs and this strategy will assure sustainable value creaoffering the high-quality services and content tion for shareholders in the medium-to-long term. 13 PILLARS OF THE EUSKALTEL GROUP’S STRATEGY Diversified growth Operational excellence Distinctive experience Customer value protection Organisational and cultural capital The Euskaltel Group’s organisational and cultural capital, founded on diversified growth and operational excellence, is a fundamental aspect of the strategy. 2018 saw the consolidation of the Group’s organisational and cultural structure through the integration of all its businesses. RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Helping to expand a solid, responsible culture Our mission is focused on generating value, responding comprehensively to communication needs and helping businesses boost productivity by providing them with information management and communication tools, thereby contributing to social and economic development in our community. 91% executives from the local community 100% acceptance of the Code of Ethics in 2018 SGDs to which it 91% contributes acceptance of the AntiCorruption Policy 866 hours of Anti-Corruption Policy and Code of Ethics training 15 GROUP EUSKALTEL 1. ORGANISSATIONAL Y CULTURAL CAPITAL The Euskaltel Group’s institutional activities country’s networks of business associations, are designed to show responsibility and proxigenerate confidence and pride in belonging, mity to its stakeholders, shareholders, custofoment social commitment and digital develomers, society, suppliers and people. pment in the Basque, Galician and Asturian societies and boost competitiveness and coopeThe Euskaltel Group is people-focused and ration among public and private organisations. aligned with the Sustainable Development In short, the Group’s mission is to make a clear Goals (SDGs) so as to make a more efficient, dicontribution to the achievement of SDG 8. rect contribution to developing a fairer society with less inequalities and more development The Group also strives to enhance transparenopportunities. The SDGs serve as references cy and meet the best corporate governance when designing and implementing policies practices in order to build a solid, strong orgaand actions in response to different needs. nisation that stimulates loyalty and trust in all our stakeholders. Through its corporate poliThis action philosophy reflects the Group’s cies and the development of new internal opemission to make the Company a trailblazer in rating systems in the Company, the Euskaltel the local economy, generate business opporGroup made further progress towards SDG 16 tunities, influence employment, lead the in 2018. 16 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Corporate governance Good corporate governance allows the Euskalholders, the purpose being to assure the best tel Group to achieve its leadership vision by conpossible pursuit of the corporate objects while tributing global ICT solutions tailored to market meeting the shareholders’ common interests. needs, with a department that works ethically and transparently, subject to internal and exterThe Euskaltel Group’s corporate governance nal control and verification. system is founded on a commitment to best practices in good governance, business ethics This good corporate governance seeks the and social responsibility in all areas. In recent greatest possible transparency, effectiveness, years, corporate governance has become a key drive and control across the entire organisation. to good management and social responsibility This means assimilating a set of values, princiin companies, the Euskaltel Group being a benples and standards that regulate the functioning chmark for the roll-out of business models and and organisation of the administrative bodies, as measures that guarantee good governance in well as relationships with the Company’s sharethe organisation. Approval of New Corporate Policies As part of its good corporate governance actiThe Equal Opportunities Policy has also been vities, the Euskaltel Group’s Board of Directors reviewed and updated so that it is unified and has approved a policy on auditor contracting applicable across the Group. This policy incluand relations, together with the commitment des the strategic objective of building emploto promote the highest levels of external auyment relations based on equal opportunities, ditor independence and, in any event, avoid non-discrimination and respect for diversity. relationships that could give rise to a conflict of Specifically, the Board of Directors considers interests. The Group also wishes to put in plaequality between men and women to be one of ce suitable auditor communication channels to the core values of the organisation. ensure that any issues that may jeopardise the auditor’s independence or causes of incompaThe Euskaltel Group has a number of specific tibility stemming from personal situations or policies governing stakeholder relations, incluprofessional services may be reported. ding applicable values and principles: 17 GROUP EUSKALTEL 1. ORGANISSATIONAL Y CULTURAL CAPITAL Code of Ethics Instructions for Behaviour Key policies and Develops the corporate values The Euskaltel Group’s procedures in the andprinciples of the companies Code ofEthics includes Euskaltel Group’s that form the Group and lays conduct guidelines, in down conduct guidelines that addition to compliance strategy are binding on the Euskaltel withlegislation applicable Group’s Board of Directors, to the business activities. professionals and suppliers. Ethics Channel Integrated Management Corporate Social The Group’s professionals, customers, System Policy Responsibility Policy suppliers and third parties have at This covers the Group’s policies This allows the consolidation their disposal a good faith mechanism deployed in the processes of a consistent, sustainable to securely and confidentially report need to assure customer and socially responsible alleged facts or actions that they feel satisfaction, protect and improve business project in line could infringe the Code of Ethics and the environment, and address with the current regulatory Instructions for Behaviour, corporate all kinds of risks and wellframework, the 2030 Agenda, governance rules or applicable external being issues. It includes the the Paris Climate Agreement legislation or regulations. The channel Environmental Policy, together and the CNMV’s Code of Good is also employed to request information, with the Quality and Occupational Governance. make queries or clarify matters related Safety Policies. to prevailing legislation. Anti-Corruption Policy Equal Opportunities Policy A tool to promote the Group’s This aims to achieve an environment compliance with anti-corruption that favours a work-life balance for and anti-bribery legislation, the Group’s professionals and, in fomenting honesty as a particular, real equality for women corporate value against any and men, while observing the laws form of bribery or corruption. in each country and international best practices. All the Group’s policies are revised and, if applicable, updated so as to obtain the desired outcome. Director Selection Policy. Policy on Communication and Contacts with Other relevant Shareholders, Investors and Proxy Advisors. policies and rules Director Remuneration Corporate Fiscal Policy. underpinning Policy. the Euskaltel Group’s Euskaltel Group’s Policy on Euskaltel S.A.’s Internal Code of Conduct in strategy Auditor Contracting and Relations. Stock Markets. Board of Directors’ General Shareholders’ Meeting Regulations. Regulations. 18 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Risk management, ethical culture and good governance The Euskaltel Group’s values Proximity Honesty Innovation Efficiency In view of the increasing significance of corporate Euskaltel Group’s risk map has been reviewed to governance in the international arena, the Euskallay the foundations for the new Risk Management tel Group is taking further steps to enhance corModel, making changes that reflect the Group’s porate governance and comply with the CNMV’s own development, market trends and industry Code of Good Governance in Listed Companies. trends. The main risks identified in the Euskaltel Group The Risk Control and Management Policy assuare classed as strategic, operational, compliance, res the Euskaltel Group’s stability and continuity, information or cybersecurity risks. The starting laying down basic principles, key risk factors and point when identifying these risks is the analysis general framework for risk management and conand assessment of factors that can have an adtrol. This policy is developed and supplemented verse impact on the fulfilment of business objecby specific internal policies or rules for certain tives, resulting in a map of the main risks grouped Group units or areas, as mentioned in the prein categories and an assessment of potential imvious section on corporate governance. pact and probability. The Group’s risk management process then requires a certain response to The main progress achieved in risk management, those factors and the roll-out of control measures ethical culture and good governance in 2018 is necessary for the reaction to be effective. The described below: 19 GROUP EUSKALTEL 1. ORGANISSATIONAL Y CULTURAL CAPITAL Implementation of a Unified thereby enhancing good governance and risk Compliance Model management as a basis for business sustainaAmong other matters, 2018 saw the integration bility, grounded in compliance with applicable of three companies engaged in the same buexternal and internal regulations. siness but with differences relating to culture, organisation, applicable legislation and territoFull adaptation to the GDPR rial scope. For the purposes of integrating OrThe Euskaltel Group has successfully impleganisational and Cultural Capital, the Euskaltel mented an intensive action plan to comply Group developed a model that simultaneously with Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European addressed integration and compliance, which Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 was deployed across the Group to strengthen (GDPR) on the protection of natural persons the culture of ethics and regulatory complianwith regard to the processing of personal data ce, while also bolstering independence and and on the free movement of such data, appliefficiency. This model is another step in the cable as from May 2018. Group’s commitment to promote an ethical culture oriented towards preventing actions that The Group took steps during the year to bring could generate liability for the organisation, the most critical requirements of the new data 100% 91% acceptance of access to training and the Code of acceptance of the AntiEthics in 2018 Corruption Policy 116 866 leaders trained face-to-face hours of Anti-Corruption Policy in regulatory compliance and Code of Ethics training 20 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 protection regulation into its procedures, incluand principals of the Code of Ethics. ding training actions for all employees. Internal training was also provided on the Ongoing employee training Code of Ethics prior to acceptance by all the In 2018, a representative number of the Eusprofessionals by means of a questionnaire. kaltel Group’s professionals received training in leadership skills so as to foment and boost Finally, a note was distributed to all the emmanagement and leadership skills within the ployees on the acceptance of hospitality and Group. This training shared with over 100 progifts, as well as a letter to all the suppliers fessionals the importance of knowing and appladdressing the corporate culture and, in parying the Euskaltel Group’s internal rules, particuticular, the approach to rejecting gifts that larly the Code of Ethics, as well as transmitting it could affect impartiality or objectivity, or into their teams through their leader roles. fluence a commercial relationship with people in the Euskaltel Group. A number of communiqués were distributed to the employees during 2018, forming part Development of GRC tools of the Compliance Communication Plan, as a In 2018, the Euskaltel Group implemented a tool to involve all the Euskaltel Group’s worGRC tool supporting the entire Internal Conkforce in the culture of ethics and regulatory trol over Financial Reporting (ICFR) system so compliance. Employees were reminded of as to assure efficient management of internal the existence of documents such as the Code control through traceability and the correct of Ethics, Instructions for Behaviour, Anti-Coassignment of responsibilities for the assessrruption Policy, Ethics Channel and Criminal ment of pre-defined financial risks and conCompliance Roles and Responsibilities, hitrols. The Euskaltel Group is also developing ghlighting their significance and accessibilia GRC (Governance, Risk and Compliance) ty. These documents are currently available tool that will allow a single framework to be to the Group’s professionals in each of the reput in place to effectively manage risks balevant intranets and the Code of Ethics, Inssed on a model for crime prevention, identifitructions for Behaviour, Ethics Channel and cation of corporate risks and correct General Anti-Corruption Policy are posted on each Data Protection Regulation management. Group company’s website, accessible both to employees and all other stakeholders. Extension of the Ethics Channel to stakeholders During 2018, all the Euskaltel Group’s proThe scope of the Ethics Channel was increafessionals received external expert training sed in 2018 to provide third parties with a on the Code of Ethics, Instructions for Behatool to confidentially report both doubts or viour and Anti-Corruption Policy through an queries related to the Group’s activities and online study process that ended with a test alleged facts or actions they consider could to evaluate their ethical culture and good infringe the Code of Ethics and Instructions governance skills. This training included infor Behaviour, or any other rules included in formation and examples relating to regulathe Euskaltel Group’s corporate governance tory compliance and the Group’s compliance system, as well as applicable external legismodel so as to encourage the professionals lation or regulations. The Ethics Channel may to become involved in and responsible for be accessed through each of the Group comdeveloping a culture of ethics and regulatory panies’ intranets by all the professionals and compliance, observing the essential values by means of their websites by stakeholders. 21 GROUP EUSKALTEL 1. ORGANISSATIONAL Y CULTURAL CAPITAL Shareholder structure and Board composition 15% Zegona Limited At 31 December 2018, the Euskaltel Group has the following shareholder structure: 11% Corporación Financiera Alba 4.48% Abanca The Euskaltel Group’s shareholder 20,11% structure 49,41% Kutxabank Other Board of Directors The Board of Directors has 12 members (3 woThe Board of Directors entrusts day-to-day mamen and 9 men), 2 of whom are executive dinagement to the Chairman, the Chief Executive rectors (Chairman and CEO), 4 are nominee diOfficer and the Management Team, as well as rectors and 6 are independent. 11 directors are the dissemination, coordination and general aged over 50. implementation of the Company’s policies and guidelines, in order to focus on the definition, The Board of Directors, in a plenary meeting, supervision and monitoring of the general pohas the authority to approve the Company’s licies, strategies and guidelines to be followed general policies and strategies and, particular, by the Company and its Group. (i) the strategic or business plan, as well as management objectives and annual budgets; (ii) The Board of Directors meets as often as is investment and funding policy; (iii) definition appropriate to properly perform its duties and of the structure of the group of companies; (iv) at least six times per year, holding at least one corporate governance policy; (v) corporate someeting each calendar quarter. cial responsibility policy; (vi) risk control and management policy, including tax risks, and the There are three Board committees: periodic monitoring of the internal information • Audit and Control Committee. and control systems; (vii) dividend and treasury • Appointments and Remuneration Committee. share policy, particularly related limits. • Strategy Committee. 22 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 The committees have no executive functions but ce of an independent external advisor so as to Executive rather act as information and consultation bocomply with recommendation 36 of the Code of Chairman’s dies, authorised to inform, advise and propose Good Governance in Listed Companies, which within their scope of action, which is governed states that the Board of Directors will be assisfunctions •O  versight and assessment by the Bylaws and their own internal regulated in the evaluation every three years by an of the Chief Executive tions (Audit and Control Committee Regulations, external consultant. Officer’s performance. Appointments and Remuneration Committee •M  anagement, oversight and Regulations and Strategy Committee RegulaThe following aspects were assessed: evaluation of the Secretary tions). Their main task is to assist, inform and • Strategic control. and Vice-Secretary to the Board of Directors. raise proposals to the Board of Directors on ma• Risk management. tters assigned to them by the Bylaws, Board Re• Business monitoring. •E  xecutive management of responsibility for corporate gulations or their own internal regulations. • Work procedures. development, subject to the • Board composition. Board’s final approval. Directors’ remuneration is subject to the prevai• Board operations. • Involvement in the ling Directors’ Remuneration Policy approved • Committee evaluation. definition of strategy by the General Shareholders’ Meeting and is • Performance of Bylaw roles. proposals to the Board of Directors. overseen by the Appointments and Remunera• Individual performance of directors. • O versight and coordination tion Committee. This remuneration is set out in of the Group’s corporate the Annual Report on Directors’ Remuneration Phases of the Board evaluation communication and published by the Group. process external relations • The initial planning phase involved meetings (Institutional Relations and Investor Relations). The companies R Cable y Telecomunicacioto discuss the situation, review documents •O  versight of the Internal nes Galicia, S.A.U. and Telecable de Asturias, and prioritise the relative significance of Audit and Compliance S.A.U. each has a sole administrator (Euskaltel, each aspect. This led to the preparation of Department (Internal Audit, S.A.), an office that is not remunerated. questionnaires to gather information from Compliance and Data and communicate with the Board members, Protection), which reports directly to the Audit and Board of Directors performance as well as a specific work plan. Control Committee. evaluation In 2017, the Board of Directors and the Audit • In the second phase, the information, opiCommittee each conducted self-assessment nions and inputs from the Board members processes that led to a number of proposed imwere compiled and draft Diagnosis and Reprovements, some of which were implemented commendations were drawn up, presented in 2018 and others are in progress. and discussed by the Appointments and Remuneration Committee. A Board evaluation exercise is a continuous improvement tool, so the assessment process The process included a specific, separate asconducted in 2018 with the help of an external sessment of the Audit and Control Committee, advisor has served to measure the degree of using the CNMV’s Technical Guide 3/2017 as a implementation of those improvements and to reference. detect new improvement proposals in each aspect evaluated and described below. The findings of both evaluation processes were highly satisfactory based both on the opinions The mandatory annual Board evaluation proof the members and the examination of structucess was carried out in 2018 with the assistanre, policies and procedures applied. 23 GROUP EUSKALTEL 1. ORGANISSATIONAL Y CULTURAL CAPITAL CSR management The Euskaltel Group’s corporate social responyears, the main purpose of which has been to sibility management is based on its ties to and align the Group’s CSR vision, policy and culidentification with the local community, social ture in times of growth and change. The Mascommitment, operational excellence and rester Plan and related strategic lines have also ponsible management as the essential pillars been adapted to new requirements identified of a sustainable, socially responsible undertaby stakeholders, which increasingly emphaking that is valued by all its stakeholders. This sise responsible management and are more approach has been continuously developed diverse, with different backgrounds and conand implemented through actions and plans cerns. The CSR Plan monitoring approach has on the way to reaching significant milestones. been put in place by the CSR Process team, During times of expansion, the Group CSR maformed by the departments engaged in tasnagement has been taken into account as a key ks related to the defined areas of corporate factor when building a solid, responsible and social responsibility. In 2018, when that plan sustainable organisation. Each year, the Board came to an end and in order to lay the founof Directors is informed of the Group’s econodations for the CSR 2019-2022 Master Plan, mic, social and environmental performance. the Group’s main targets and opportunities in the new working environment were studied With this mind, the strategy has been based and conclusions were drawn to enhance CSR on the CSR 2016-2018 Master Plan in recent management. Assessment of fulfilment of 2018 commitments Design a criminal risk organisation and management model: review Fully integrate Launch a new risk map, and unification of the Group’s Telecable into reflecting the new Risk criminal risk map and preparation of Implement antithe Group. Management model. a Criminal Risk Guide. corruption controls. 2018 We have accomplished... Launch the Group’s The Board of Directors Train and build aware in the Diversity Policy. reviews the Corporate Social Group’s professionals in relation Responsibility Policy. to the Code of Ethics and Instructions for Behaviour. Degree of fulfilment of commitments undertaken Fulfilled Advanced In progress Initiating measures 24 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) One of the main objectives of the new CSR innovation and infrastructure”, two goals enti2019-2022 Plan will be to lay the foundations rely aligned with the Group’s business, in 2018 for corporate social responsibility management the Company took steps to launch initiatives in connection with the Group’s contribution to to achieve these objectives through over 150 the Sustainable Development Goals, aligning partnerships to promote technology start-ups strategies with the SDGs. The Group will seek and develop local entrepreneurial talent. to quantify its contribution to the great economic, social and environmental challenges faSenior management also provided essential cing humankind. The Euskaltel Group is comsupport for these activities and the integration mitted to the local 2030 Agenda in the Basque of the goals into our strategy. Thanks to this, Country, Galicia and Asturias so as to develop in 2018 began to set concrete targets measuand deploy solutions and technology that will red by means of specific indicators to bring stimulate sustainable development. the Company’s objectives fully into line with the SDGs. The SDGs are in turn an opportunity In recent years, an in-depth understanding of to identify future business areas, increase the the SDGs has been gained and shared with value of business sustainability, strengthen our employees through internal campaigns stakeholder relationships, keep abreast of poand assimilation into the corporate culture. licy development, stabilise societies and marWith the focus on the priority SDGs 8 “Decent kets, and employ a common language with a work and economic growth” and 9 “Industry, shared purpose. 2019 Commitments Integrated development of the Deployment of the GRC tool for the management GRC tool for the management of of regulatory compliance risks (in addition to Diversity Policy corporate, compliance and data criminal risks, already analysed in 2018), cyber implementation. protection risks. risks and tax risks. 2019 We are going to work on ... Compliance Update of the Directors’ Fulfilment of expansion plan certification. Remuneration Policy. targets to drive growth. 25 PILLARS OF THE EUSKALTEL GROUP STRATEGY Diversified growth Operational excellence Distinctive experience Customer value protection Human capital The Group’s human capital has a direct impact on operational excellence. In 2018, the focus was placed on digitalising processes and the digital transformation of the workforce so as to provide tools to achieve more efficient processes and more effective work, equipping employees with digital devices that facilitate their daily tasks. RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Contributing to egalitarian and sustainable local development We want to help local economic development through quality, inclusive employment and foment a good work climate using tools that facilitate daily work and programmes that motivate our teams. 697 employees 99.9% indefinite contracts 41% women 33 new hirings SGDs to which it contributes 551 30 employees with meeting rooms new equipment fitted out for digital videoconferences 100% employees trained in occupational risk prevention 27 EUSKALTEL GROUP 2. HUMAN CAPITAL In 2018, the Euskaltel Group focused on a work climate surveys conducted. Our profar-reaching digital transformation of the professionals have increasingly diverse profiles cesses and tools employed by our people. adapted to industry and market needs, which This “inward” digitalisation will allow our proprovides the Group with considerable human fessionals to carry out their work more efficapital value, assuring operational excellence ciently regardless of the location. Through the in our services, as envisaged in Strategic Plan renewal of equipment and addition of mobile 2017-2019. devices such as laptops and smartphones, the Group’s workforce can adopt new ways of Ongoing training, diverse talent attraction and working, balance work and life, and provide a retention management, and the promotion of better service to customers. the Group’s own culture, influencing the local community and stimulating local economic The 697 people that form part of the Euskaltel development, are key aspects of our contriGroup are a highly-skilled team that demand bution to the Sustainable Development Goals and value efficient processes and digital deon decent work and economic growth, gender velopment, as reflected in the equality, reduced inequalities and innovation, among others. 28 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Promotion of quality employment 697 total employees 41% women 59% men 99.9% 100% 14 44 5% indefinite employees average length average age churn rate contracts receiving of service of workforce performance evaluation The Euskaltel Group is formed by 697 people in three main businesses: Euskaltel, R and Telecable. The Group’s activities also generate 4,200 indirect jobs thanks to our strategic partnerships. 29 EUSKALTEL GROUP 2. HUMAN CAPITAL The Euskaltel Group and employment The Euskaltel Group’s human capital is comCountry, Galicia and Asturias, creating value and prised 41% of women and 59% of men, with an synergies with other local enterprises. average age of 44 and a team of 697 people. The Company foments flexible working hours The Group’s structure is based on corporate arto strike a work-life balance and stable employeas which manage the entire Company’s affairs. ment, 99.9% of the workforce having indefinite Proximity to customers and local communities is employment contracts. assured by maintaining brand identity (Euskaltel, R and Telecable) and direct knowledge of their The Euskaltel family also has a direct impact on needs and expectations. over 4,200 jobs thanks to the Group’s strategic partnerships with local suppliers in the Basque Corporate values The Group’s values include the identity of three The Euskaltel Identification with convergent brands that share proximity to Group’s values customers, honesty with all stakeholders, the these values is search for innovation to enhance services and efficient processes. For the Euskaltel Group, critical, since the identification with these values is critical, since behaviour of the the behaviour of the Company’s people is distinctive and delivers differential value for our Company’s stakeholders. This is why new joiners are told of the significance of this behaviour and it is Proximity people is included in the professional career model that distinctive and will be implemented in 2019. delivers differential Honesty value for our stakeholders. Innovation Efficiency 30 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Work-life balance The Group’s Strategic Plan places great emphacomparable companies, the digital transformasis on matters related to a work-life balance, tion of employees has helped to achieve a more which is also one of the aspects in most demand effective balance, allowing professionals to work according to work climate surveys. Besides flexanywhere. The digitalisation of work and cloud ible working hours compatible with family life, migration not only facilitates processes but are an aspect that sets the Group apart from other also great assets for employees’ personal lives. 31 EUSKALTEL GROUP 2. HUMAN CAPITAL Digital transformation of operations The Group took a huge step in 2018 in its digiitalisation, interaction with colleagues and the tal transformation, beginning by equipping the way in which information is processed, among Company’s people with the tools needed to other aspects. manage the cultural shift towards process digThe keys to digital transformation, beyond technology, are the people that form the Euskaltel Group. So our professionals have to be trailblazers in this change process. Process digitalisation 2018 was decisive in the shift to a new digital As established in Strategic Plan 2016-2019, the culture due to new digital tools such as Office digitalisation process is the basis for a multitude 365, the deployment of mobile devices for of programmes addressing strategic goals to employees (laptop and new smartphones) and lead the cultural change, so involving the workthe fitting-out of 30 meeting rooms for video force is one of the first steps to be taken. One of conferencing. All this drive towards a new digthe most representative moves in process digiital culture is already changing the way teams talisation was the creation of a single Employee work and interact on a daily basis. Portal for all the Group’s employees, 32 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 where they may manage and consult working formalities that were previously handled ofhours, holidays, professional data, remunerafline. Training and development of each of the tion and performance evaluations, among other Group’s professionals will also be managed aspects. This allows them to complete different through this portal in the near future. Train skilled professionals who Promote a corporate culture lead and promote change. that identifies us as a Group. Keys to cultural Foment an organisation that is Digitalise processes and work so efficient, flexible, adaptable to as to operate more efficiently. change change and business oriented. New ways of working Smart working actions 2018 The digital revolution has shifted the way people still under development, follows the premise that work and stakeholder relations towards more intechnology must improve employee experience teractive, instantaneous and efficient contacts. and is intended as a new approach to work with Digital transformation and process digitalisation technology as the basis, commencing with the • Favour mobility through mobile devices. have therefore led to new ways of working that digitalisation of work. promote a work-life and go beyond telework. • Increase teamwork using collaboration tools such as Office The first smart working actions began in 2018, 365. The Euskaltel Group is studying new approaches using the following levers of mobility, teamwork to work as a philosophy that adds value to emand digitalisation to increase productivity, work• Introduction of new platforms that allow process digitalisation in the ployees’ daily activities. Smart working, which is life balance and satisfaction. people management arena. 33 EUSKALTEL GROUP 2. HUMAN CAPITAL Diverse talent development The Euskaltel Group firmly believes that the corporate culture, ongoing training in line with their keys to success in the industry are a solid skills in a collaborative environment and suitable human team that has an easily recognisable digital tools to address the cultural change. 59% men 50% 41% collective agreement 697 women 38% 4.5% total collective managers workforce agreement 4.7% 2.2% executives managers 1% executives 34 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Diversity and equality In 2018 the Group continued to implement proThe Group’s human resource management grammes to encourage equal opportunities is based on respect for human rights and and employee diversity, in the broadest sense, the rejection of any type of discrimination, across the Organisation’s categories. encouraging equal opportunities, facilitating freedom of association and the right to colThe Euskaltel Group has a balanced workforce lective bargaining and rejecting, in its area of from a gender viewpoint, which is noteworthy influence, forced labour, particularly where in a company operating in an advanced techchild labour is involved. nology sector, with a highly qualified workforce whose skills are constantly being updated. Equality of opportunity is also encouraged, it being understood that any vacant position The Group has continued should be covered by the most appropriate proto develop programmes file, irrespective of gender, age, cultural background or nationality. Euskaltel’s Equality Plan to encourage equal aims to ensure due respect for the principle of equal treatment and equal opportunities for opportunities and diversity. men and women, as well as to improve equivalence in this area. Work is being carried out on the remuneration model applying the same approach, on the basis that the same categories All employees have expressly accepted the should meet similar conditions both inside the Code of Ethics which is posted on the inCompany and in comparison with other industranet and web site of each Group compatry companies, thereby avoiding any salary gap. ny, and have access to the Ethics Channel These matters are set out in Euskaltel’s Equality via the relevant intranet. Using this channel, Plan which was released in May 2018 and which they can report any kind of discrimination seeks to safeguard and encourage an inclusive, they identify in the Euskaltel Group’s diversirespectful and diverse environment. ty management. 35 EUSKALTEL GROUP 2. HUMAN CAPITAL Training and development plans The development of talent is a cornerstone of the ensure that the Group has the right capacities Strategic Plan, in order to provide distinctive serat the right time to achieve its strategic objecvice and be an attractive business. Hiring and retives. The TalenTU Programme is supported by taining talent is connected to continuous profesvarious projects: sional training in a sector in which the updating of knowledge is increasingly important. • Designing a leadership model that will transform the company. TalenTU The Euskaltel Group has in place a programme • Designing a professional development offering growth and professional development itinerary for each professional, taking into opportunities called TalenTU, through which account the stage to which they have prothe Training Plans are carried out. The TalenTU gressed in their own careers. programme seeks not only to manage and develop talent, but also to maintain it in the long • Designing new ways of attracting young term, since its challenge as an organisation is to talent. Leadership 5 Within the TalenTU Programme, the Euskaltel Its aim is to focus on the importance of the Group has a leadership development plan role played by women in the Euskaltel Group. which aims to ensure that the Organisation’s This programme consists of competency deleaders acquire competencies such as transvelopment training modules, inspiring meetCompetencies formation capacity, strategic vision, execuings, support and follow-up sessions, work of a good tive capacity or the capacity to develop and breakfasts and lunches and the presentation leader motivate teams, all of which are necessary to of a final project with the aim of enhancing fulfil their role in the company. the image of women leaders in the Organisation. The programme covered a period of 1. Personal In this respect, during 2018 the programme around nine months in which 14 women took consistency centred on implementing leader-coach skills part, devoting 681 hours to training. 2. C  apacity to initiatives to train them in communication cadevelop and pacities such as listening, clear communicaIn June 2018, prior to its launch, an impact motivate individuals and tion, etc. Seven editions have been carried session was held with the entire company teams out, involving 116 persons who have devoted aimed at strengthening the commitment to 3. E  xecutive 2,526 training hours to improving their leadmake progress in equality and in the promocapacity ership skills. tion of female leadership. 4. Strategic vision Women with Talent Finally, CEO breakfasts with leaders are 5. Capacity to A women’s leadership programme called an important initiative that seek to involve transform Women with Talent has also been developed, the Company’s leaders in strategic matwith the encouragement of the Group’s Manters and transmit corporate values through agement Committee. them. 36 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Professional Development The Euskaltel Group is aware that the world is In addition, through the development plans, the changing due to the arrival of the digital revoluevaluation model takes into account the skills tion and therefore the content of work posts is required for each type of worker depending on also changing. For this reason, by means of the their structural position and the area in which TalenTU Programme, the Group has launched an they work, assigning them suitable objectives initiative to adapt and customise the knowledge and skills that will be required in the workplace, and competencies which are monitored on a half-yearly basis. 30,081 training designing a professional career model that will hours enable an itinerary to be laid out for each employOur employees’ professional development is not ee’s professional development. over when their contract ends. Thanks to our outplacement programme, the Group offers six This year, 30,081 training hours have been taught, months of personalised orientation to find a new comprising 12,553 hours of technical/technologijob. Four people took part in this programme in cal training, 13,731 hours of language training and 2018. 3,797 hours of skills training. As the sales activity is the main axis for achieving the Group’s results, Finally, Euskaltel’s Equality Plan includes a train43.16 average professionals in this area have been provided ing policy to promote educational actions with hours’ with support in the form of training aimed at helpspecific modules on effective equality between training ing them to achieve their objectives, with 222 men and women. per hours devoted to this type of training. employee Capturing young talent The Euskaltel Group’s focus on contributing to training under Educational Cooperation arrangethe development of economic growth and proments, and a total of 14 student visits have been moting local employability is the basis of one of the main initiatives for capturing talent decarried out involving various educational centres. 43 trainees veloped by the Company, through collaboraThe Group also collaborates in initiatives tion with Universities, Vocational Training Censuch as the Foro Tecnolóxico de Emprego or tres and Foundations for labour integration in the Basque Country, Galicia and Asturias. This the Foro Empleo in order to bring together companies and future technology graduates 14 collaboration with educational institutions has from the universities of Vigo and Oviedo, visits by a double purpose: among others, or in fairs with Group brand students stands such as the Feira Internacional de emfrom various • To help in students’ work orientation. To prego of Finde.U, also in Vigo. educational centres this end, student visits are arranged from vocational training centres and secondary This close relationship through which mutual schools in which day-to-day working practiknowledge is shared is, in turn, a junction for ces are explained. combining academic and business training through work experiences using initiatives to • To provide information on employment opencourage trainee recruitment, work orientations and professional profiles, sharing the tion talks and student visits to the company. employer most relevant projects on which the Group brand since is working with the students. Since 2017 the Group has also had an “em2017 ployer brand” to enhance its engagement Thanks to these collaborations, in 2018 a total with employees and the recruitment of of 43 persons have been taken on for practical young talent. 37 EUSKALTEL GROUP 2. HUMAN CAPITAL Working environment and welfare Working environment The working environment is one of the most • Internal mobility: the Group facilitates mobirelevant factors for Euskaltel Group employlity, rotation and internal promotion through ees, as is reflected in the latest Work Climate the TalenTU project, covering vacancies with Surveys and in other analyses. For this reason Company personnel that seek to improve the Group has carried out various initiatives their knowledge and acquire new professiothat promote a good working environment: nal skills. In 2018, 15 employees were involved in internal rotation. • Work-life balance and working time arrangement policy: Euskaltel’s Equality Plan lays down the requirement for the analysis and continuous updating of the company’s exisThe working environment is one ting work-life balance measures, constantly collecting information on the real needs of of the most relevant factors for the workforce in each case. It also sets out employees in the Euskaltel Group. the commitment to promote courses on work-life balance and equality policies, in order to promote cultural changes among staff with respect to these matters • Participation and teamwork: as one of the most highly valued aspects in the working climate • Flexible timetables when arriving at and survey, the Group encourages teamwork and leaving the offices and work centres of the the exchange of experiences with colleagues Euskaltel Group. from different areas. Assessment of compliance with 2018 commitments Develop and Develop a mobility Develop career release Euskaltel’s framework for the plans. Equality Plan. Group’s professionals 2018 We have Develop the Leadership Programme Extend the SST system Extend the Healthy Company accomplished... management certificate to model to all companies in the R and Telecable Group (3-year) Grados de cumplimiento de los compromisos adquiridos Fulfilled Advanced In progress Initiating measures 38 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 ACCIDENT RATE 0 Objective zero 0.07 Seriousness rate ¹ 0.83 Seriousness rate 2 Healthy Company accidents 0.0 men 0.0 men 0.16 women 2.02 women (1) Days’ work lost per thousand hours worked. One of the main initiatives that foster a good (2) Accidents requiring absence per million hours worked working climate in the Organisation is the implementation of the Healthy Business model Number of accidents and days lost per accident throughout the Group. This model aims to con2016 2017 2018 tribute to improving employees’ health by implementing the principal means of prevention and Accidents requidetection of illnesses at Group facilities. 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 1 ring absence Accidentes 1 0 1 2 2 4 2 0 2 To build the Healthy Company model on a corpow/o absence rate basis, in 2018 the prevention management Days lost 0 0 0 0 45 45 0 80 80 model implemented in Euskaltel was extended to R and Telecable, certifying the entire Group Men Women Total with respect to the OHSAS 18001 standard. Euskaltel also maintains its objective of taking ABSENTEEISM 3 the gender perspective into account in occupational risk prevention, as provided in its Equality Plan. The measures include not making trips and transfers of residence during pregnancy, providing work posts that are compatible with risk preg2.2 2016 2.07 1.39 2018 nancies if necessary, analysing psycho-social risk 2017 surveys based on variables of gender and age, or providing training on Occupational Health and (3) Absenteeism is calculated by obtaining the percentage of hours lost solely due to Safety from a gender perspective, among others. common illness with respect to the total number of hours worked. 2019 Commitments Continue moving forward in the design of Develop a Remuneration a Smart Working model. Model for the Group. 2019 We are going to work to... Implement career plans. Regularly carry out psycho-social risk surveys based on gender and age variables. 39 PILLARS OF THE EUSKALTEL GROUP STRATEGY Diversified growth Operational excellence Distinctive experience Customer value protection Customers The Customer area is essential for the distinctive experience and customer value protection strategic pillars, since it includes the main levers and lines of action related to their achievement. In 2018 various actions were implemented with the aim of increasing user satisfaction, such as the improvement of physical stores and communication channels with customers. RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Contributing to responsible and distinctive consumption We wish to integrate our corporate values of proximity, honesty, innovation and efficiency into our dealings with customers, with the aim of being recognised by them as a distinctive brand that cares about offering the best service in the territories in which we operate. 1,744 13,053 large companies SME customers 10 new services launched 2018 538 km of network deployed in rural and difficult access zones SGDs to which it 658,172 contributes homes 67% of electronic invoices +10 new alliances to provide best service 41 GRUPO EUSKALTEL 3. CUSTOMERS In 2018 the Group continued to work on offelistening and the measurement of user satisring a distinctive experience for customers, faction, the Euskaltel Group aims to promote paying particular attention to measuring their innovation and the necessary infrastructures satisfaction and identifying their needs. In adto contribute to the development of sustainadition, in the expansion process being carried ble cities and communities, with responsible out by the Euskaltel Group particular attention production and consumption. has been paid to these details in order to penetrate the new market. Bearing in mind that the Group is the leader in the north of Spain, with Euskaltel, R and TeFor this reason, the Customer Experience prolecable being leaders in the Basque Country, gramme has again been one of the main lines Galicia and Asturias respectively, its contribuof action and was extended in 2018 to cover all tion to the Sustainable Development Objectithe business lines and territories in which the ves is essential to achieve the 2030 Agenda Euskaltel Group operates. By means of active set in each of the Autonomous Regions. 42 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Distinctive customer experience Process digitalisation has enabled the Euskaltel Group to achieve greater proximity with its customers, which is one of the corporate values that best defines and distinguishes the Group. In addition, in 2018 A new CRM (CusMeetings with corporate tomer Relationship Management) was implecustomers mented to improve two-way communication During the year the Euskaltel Group has encouraged the with customers, making it easier to know their transfer of technical know-how through meetings with corporate needs, expectations and level of satisfaction customers, with three objectives: with the service received. Customers also 1. Ascertain companies’ technological needs for carrying out their enjoy direct communication with the Group business activities in order to advise them on the services that through the website, where they have a persocan help them to improve their business models. nalised portal to consult consumption, billing 2. Explain and discuss the main trends in the digital and new personalised offers. Communication transformation area. has also been intensified in stores to establish a direct and personal relationship between 3. S  trengthen close relations and enhance the concept of a telecommunications company that accompanies its customers the Group and users. along the path to digitalisation. In addition, the Group enhances user manageThe meeting format is in line with the type of customer and the objective to be achieved (Business & Breakfast, Technology ment through business continuity (ISO22301), Seminars, Workshops). Around 75 persons attended these service (ISO 20000-1), customer care (UNEmeetings during 2018. EN 15838), data security (ISO 27001) and product quality (ISO 9001) certificates. 770,001 70.8% 78% customers satisfaction homes with more than 3 products +5 NPS in R +90k surveys completed 43 GRUPO EUSKALTEL 3. CUSTOMERS Customer Experience Programme The loyalty of the Group’s customers is one of Group’s customers, with an average satisfacits main assets, since this gives rise to a sustion level of 70.8%. tainable competitive advantage. For the Group, customer satisfaction is key to their loyalty and In addition, in 2018 the Group began to measutherefore it strives continuously to offer, more re the NPS (Net Promoter Score) and the ENPS than a service, an experience that links the cus(which takes loyalty into account) in order to tomer with the brand and its corporate values. attain a 360º view of its customers and find out their relationship with the three brands. The Customer Experience (CEX) Programme The NPS guides these efforts towards the fulis based on corporate values and studies filment of the Strategic Plan 2017-2019 as the the ten key moments in the Group-customer main axis, taking into account the results of relationship process. All customer opinions high-level decision making since it analysed expressed through satisfaction surveys, reahow the various action levels impact loyalty sons for churn, brand image studies and the and the Group brands’ market share. This year observation of daily experiences are brought the study revealed that customer care and together in an action plan which aims to protrust in the brand are the greatest strengths, vide ever-improving service and ascertain and highlighted the technical service provided market trends. In 2018 the Customer Expein the three businesses. rience team was made up of 107 persons who measure satisfaction at each of the key The strengths of the Group’s brands are: Euskalmoments and work to resolve any unsatisfactel “brand strength”, R “satisfaction” and Telecatory experiences, enabling the Group to conble “ease of use of services”. The +5 NPS and tinuously improve. At the end of 2018 over +10 ENPS in R should be noted, its customers be90,000 surveys had been answered by the ing the most satisfied in all the factors analysed. Platinum Contact Centre Awards 2018 Telecable Asturias received an award for the best customer experience. This recognition rewarded the knowledge and creativity applied in the implementation of processes for improving customer service. This success was due to customer accompaniment the use of cutting-edge digital transformation technology and a highly motived and trained human team. +10 ENPS in R 44 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Experiential stores In 2018 the Group made a considerable effort model that values customers’ experience. to enhance the customer experience through Campaigns have also been carried out that the remodelling of the Euskaltel stores in The reflect the proximity between the public Basque Country and the opening of new stores and store professionals, who are willing to in its expansion towards Navarra, as well as in answer any questions from customers. La Coruña, the main R store having been completely refurbished. The Retail Transformation Plan took into account the incorporation of new services, with improved work systematics and better results in terms of experience and conTraining in stores version, aligning customer experience with the Group’s corporate values: proximity, honesty, in 2018, R, Euskaltel and Telecable stores hosted free courses to learn how to get the most out of mobile devices. This initiative innovation and efficiency. encourages access to smartphones for people of all ages, while promoting responsible use. The store transformation has been accompanied by a specific training and communication plan for professionals, as well as a remuneration Most stores now have the following characteristics: Tools that provide the store with measurement systems that improve efficiency and experience: traffic counters, waiting time management tools, devices for measuring NPS, satisfaction and recommendation. STORE TOOLS NEW CUSTOMER SERVICE MODEL NEW DESIGN Guaranteeing the best Of shopping areas, in line with the new experience for customers: Experiential experience provided and the customer in-store work systematics stores service model: new services, spaces for professionals, customer that distribute customer flows, location service model by phases in high visibility areas, etc. and roles, and in-store staff functions, among others. KEY INDICATOR NEW SERVICES MEASUREMENT with the aim of ensuring that customers can Through the implementation of a find everything they need in the store, without uniform dashboard which is updated being diverted to other channels: in-store daily using data such as store claims management, smartphone set-up, traffic, attention time, waiting time, equipment collection, fast check-out fo issues customer experience, etc. lasting less than five minutes, etc. 45 GRUPO EUSKALTEL 3. CUSTOMERS “We are firmly committed to giving our customers the best experience: the best experience in broadband, based on the high technological capacity of the DOCSIS 3.1 network, complemented with the best Wi-Fi experience at home, at work and outdoors; the best TV experience supported by the Deco 4K and the agreement we are concluding with worldwide content leaders like Netflix; and the best mobile service for families in our markets. This global best experience continues to position us as the preferred operator in our markets and ensures a stable customer base”. FRANCISCO ARTECHE Euskaltel Group’s CEO TAN FÁ-CIL CO-MO PUL-SAR UN BO-TÓN Ahora con el Deco 4K de Euskaltel, puedes ver tus series favoritas de Netflix directamente en tu tele. euskaltel.com/netflix | Tiendas | 1717 Cambia tu forma de ver la tele con el Deco 4K. Disponible con la TV Premium Extra+ de Euskaltel. Suscripción a Netflix no incluida. Puedes suscribirte en www.netflix.es. La disponibilidad de 4K Ultra HD depende de la modalidad de suscripción, del Patrocinador tecnológico: servicio de Internet, de la funcionalidad del dispositivo y de la disponibilidad de contenidos. www.netflix.com/TermsOfUse 46 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Personalised services In 2018 the Euskaltel Group continued to create sistant commenced in 2018. This would enhanan emotional bond with customers through the ce apps thanks to the incorporation of vocal launch of new products and increasingly persointerface and would also entail the creation of nalised services, seeking to respond to the main new products that will change how customers demands of users both at home and on the move. interact with services, such as TV. In addition to providing high quality services, the “WiFi Vacaciones” and “Internet products and services designed and developed Conmigo” by the Euskaltel Group have addressed the cusIn 2018 the “WiFi Vacaciones” service in Eustomers’ real needs, responding to their demands, kaltel and “Internet Conmigo” service in R bringing us closer together and achieving a level were also improved with an increase to 15 GB of personalisation that allows us to forge strong, in the two data credits for high-value custolasting relations. mers, compared with 5 GB offered to date. WiFi 360 Land-line and mobile offer Due to the importance and universal presence New convergent offer of Wi-Fi services inside and outside the home, During 2018 the Group has worked on the joint during 2018 the Euskaltel Group developed new launch in the three territories of a new converfunctionalities and improvements in order to offer gent offer tailored to the market and customers’ a comprehensive Wi-Fi service. needs with a specific set of services, benefits, content and equipment that seeks to cover WiFi Home and SOS WiFi users’ needs and therefore increase their saThrough the WiFi Home and SOS WiFi services, tisfaction with and commitment to the brand. It the Group offers it customers an audition of the was launched in December in Euskaltel and will Wi-Fi service in all new customer installations, be rolled out in the three territories during the enabling the optimisation of home wife services first quarter of 2019. and the inclusion of new and better equipment, in particular the introduction of MESH technology. Unlimited credit During the summer of 2018 the new unlimited 3ollosR/Euskaltel Life mobile data packs were launched in Euskaltel Increasing IoT functionalities, the Euskaltel and R, which allow certain content to be enjoGroup has incorporated new elements into the yed, depending on the pack chosen, without service, such as heating control and continuous having to pay for the data consumed: unlimited recording. The mobile localisation and alert Whatsapp & Social Networks, unlimited Music, service has also been developed and laununlimited Video and unlimited Weekends. ched, which provides information on people’s location in a simple, non-intrusive manner for International credit all customers. In 2018 a new international call credit service was introduced for both land-line and mobile calls Voice assistant that caters for a segment of customers that need The development of the Group’s own voice asto contact people abroad on a regular basis. 47 GRUPO EUSKALTEL 3. CUSTOMERS Other services customers’ national rates. As an improveTelecable T-Ayud@ ment to the 4G roaming service, since the In July, a technical support service for resisummer of 2018 customers of the three dential customers was launched, which inclubrands have begun to enjoy 4G technodes a 24-hour incident resolution guarantee, logy when travelling abroad (where it is an annual review of the Wi-Fi service, equipavailable). ment set-up and maintenance, advice and reNew Internet projects Docsis 3.1 As a broadband leader, this new technology has been available since the end of 2018 in almost all of the Euskaltel Group’s area. This equipment represents a major step forward in the evolution of services in terms of functionalities and efficiency of broadband internet access. 3,6 media de productos que New alliances Agreement with Microsoft The Euskaltel Group and Microsoft have reached a strategic agreement to promocontrata el te the digital transformation of corporate customers and the Company’s internal di96% de los clientes gitalisation. The Euskaltel Group wishes to make available to its customers all the opportunities offered by technology to increase their competitiveness and maximise the potential of an innovative technological ecosystem, with services that ensure a rapid, safe and effective response to changes in the market, while continuing to guarantee availability, efficiency and quality, irrespective of the organisation’s size. commendations for the best use of the Telecable services and free travel by technicians New agreements on TV content to customers’ homes. Netflix The Euskaltel Group has integrated the Promotions for students Netflix application into its 4K decoders For another year, R and Telecable have launand is the first operator in Spain to inched simple offers without any tie-in period corporate a direct access from its remote tailored to the student-user sector, offering control, enabling the integration of this high speed at a lower price. service into the operator-customer bill. Improved 4G Roaming service Football in Galicia and Navarra In 2017, EU roaming started being included in An agreement has been reached with La48 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Liga to include the LaLiga 123 TV channel in New services for companies Galicia and Navarra. This channel broadcasts Professional WiFi football content 24 hours a day, highlighting WiFi is an increasingly critical service for small the broadcasting of 10 live matches per day businesses due to the growing number of activifrom the 2nd Division. ties it supports (wireless POS terminals, sensors, mobile device connections, etc.). This service is TV display unification based on fully managed professional equipment, Work has been undertaken to unify conoffering greater coverage and capacity for simultracts with content providers in order to taneous connections. standardise the content proposal in the three brands. Disney Pop Pick & Play An agreement has been reached with Disney to incorporate new non-linear content in the Euskaltel Group’s content offer. It includes previews prior to broadcast on the linear channel, full seasons of series and games. Evolution of the TV service Android TV At the year end, the Euskaltel Group’s Android TV decoders numbered more than 83,000 in total, making it the reference operator in the national market for this equipment. The Group has also worked with the suppliers Technicolor and Sagemcom in order for their decoders to be marketed across the entire Euskaltel Group, which entails the advantage of not being dependent on a single supplier. Equipment integration A network integration has been carried out to 3Ollos/Euskaltel LIfe optimise processes and offer TV customers a In 2018 the IoT digital home initiatives were extenbetter service. In this integration, the current ded to businesses, allowing customers to enjoy the service has been maintained and convergent sensorization of their organisations: surveillance decoders that can be also used in the growth cameras, temperature sensors, access control or process have been selected and validated. energy efficiency, among others. Continue watching Telco Solutions for SMEs This new service has been launched which The services offered to SMEs grew considerably improves user experience in the TV service, in 2018, including a convergent and unified telesince it allows customers to continue viewing communications offer in any location thanks to the non-linear contents that that they had not agreement to utilise the Orange fibre network or watched in full. the Telefónica FTTH NEBA. 49 GRUPO EUSKALTEL 3. CUSTOMERS “Mi primer contrato” and “Nativos R” Children begin using mobile telephones at an increasingly early age. Accordingly to the latest studies, nearly 30% of children under 10 have a mobile telephone. For this reason, the Euskaltel Group has developed initiatives such as Mi primer contrato, a written commitment on mobile telephone use, or Nativos R, free informative talks on new technologies to encourage responsible use, complemented by other parents’ experiences and advice aimed at conveying certain values to the family’s younger children. During Christmas in 2018 these campaigns were relaunched with the aim of making families aware of the importance of sensible mobile telephone use by children. The Nativos R actions were carried out during the last quarter of the year in eight locations in Galicia. The last talk was in December. This initiative is part of the measures taken under the Digitalent Plan of AMTEGA (Agency for the Technological Modernisation of Galicia). Accessibility In 2018 Euskaltel launched a new public website tailored to mobile devices and tablets, adapting content for improved reading and web browsing. In addition, this website has been created with a new design system based on Atoms that will enable progress in the construction of accessible web components and facilitate the usability of the entire digital environment. The Group has development the site with the help of expert web app usability agencies to design an adaptation project for people with vision difficulties by applying technology as the Company’s main inclusion method. Responsible advertising The Euskaltel Group, based on one of its corporate values, promotes and encourages an honest relationship with all stakeholders. In this respect, clarity in rates and responsible advertising are essential to carry out its activities. To monitor responsible advertising, the Group performs annual billing quality audits and notifies customers of rate changes two months in advance, one month being required by current regulations. By means of these control tools, the Group seeks to strengthen its relations with customers and foster transparency in its relationships. 50 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Branching out into new markets At the year end, a total of over 4,500 contracts branch out into new areas such as León, Canhad been concluded in the new areas in which tabria and La Rioja. An agreement has also the Euskaltel Group has started to operate. been reached with the RACC of Catalonia to During 2018 three new stores were opened in provide Euskaltel Group convergent services The Basque Country and the expansion into to all members, under the RACCtel + brand. To new territories such as Navarra and Castro Urreach new customers, the Group has desigdiales (Cantabria) has continued, culminating ned new alternative channels such as stands in five experiential stores by the year end. In or shop trucks that bring the brand closer to addition, in 2019 the Group is preparing to end-customers. 51 GRUPO EUSKALTEL 3. CUSTOMERS Sustainable products and responsible network deployment The Euskaltel Group has carried out various lician municipalities and 935,000 properties initiatives during 2018 to provide its customers able to receive ultrafast Internet access subsiwith the best service, implying increased codised by the ERDF. The Group thus facilitates verage, inclusiveness and sustainability, deaccess to advanced services for population veloping access in rural areas and causing the centres in which no other operator offers these lowest possible environmental impact. During services, helping to overcome the digital divide the year the network has grown by 673 km , caused by geographical dispersion and terrain with the aim of improving speed and access to difficulties. online communications. Overcoming the digital divide The main activities carried out are described R and Telecable have been awarded an implebelow: mentation project to provide high-speed and very high-speed broadband services in areas Access to the WiFi network by of Galicia and Asturias without any current or Paradores de Turismo planned coverage, with the aim of providing low Telecable will handle access to the WiFi nedensity populations with the necessary comtwork by the Spanish Paradores de Turismo homunication services. The PEBA Plan will enable tel chain. This service will be provided in more the extension of new generation networks to than 90 establishments around Spain, as well rural areas, with 32,000 new properties and a as for its central offices. positive impact on the territory, enhancing their digital development. R has sponsored and Network deployment in rural and participated in Mobile Week Coruña; over one difficult access areas week and in various parts of Coruña and the suIn 2018, R commenced activations in Galician rrounding areas, events (talks, workshops, conlocations such as Miño, Abegondo, Cerceda or ferences, exhibitions, etc.) were held to involve Muros which have been added to the 118 Gathe community in the technological revolution. Assessment of compliance with 2018 commitments Make progress in integrated security Implement the Customer management, which covers the Experience programme in security of information, the network Telecable. and the installed equipment. 2018 We have accomplished... Expand the business to new territories in northern Spain. Grados de cumplimiento de los compromisos adquiridos Fulfilled Advanced In progress Initiating measures 52 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Mercado de la Cosecha casa” pilot project, whose objective is to create a Together with Hijos de Rivera and Gadisa, R has digital support system for caregivers of dependent taken part in this rural support action in which, over elderly people. It also aims to provide the public two days, culture and innovation are combined and authorities in charge of the community health area visitors are offered new products by innovative with data analysis mechanisms that help make Galician companies that display and test their new their management more efficient and anticipatory. products. R provides Internet services to this fair This project was one of 15 selected to be part of and has a stand with traditional games for children. the ADINBERRI programme within the Etorkizuna Eraikiz strategy of the Guipuzkoa provincial goverCollaboration with Tucycle nment, the purpose of which is to support R&D+i Telecable has collaborated as a technological partactivities in the region’s Silver Economy. ner in this innovative sustainable urban mobility project in Gijón. Through this application, users Responsible network deployment can use the bicycles distributed around the city for To build or deploy the Network, the Euskaltel as long as they require. Since its launch more than Group has policies for the selection and reuse of 11,000 users have enjoyed the service, contribuall the equipment required to offer the service, with ting to sustainable mobility and reducing pollution the aim of generating the lowest possible environin the city. mental impact, complying with all applicable environmental regulations ( waste, electrical and elecCollaboration with the Galicia tronic equipment, etc.). Federation of Associations of Persons with Hearing Difficulties Replacement and removal of Internet Under a collaboration agreement, R offers prefeequipment rential conditions in the contracting of telecommuIn 2018, the Euskaltel Group provided its customers nications services for people with hearing difficulwith a new model using WiFi AC technology to imties. Thanks to this collaboration, regular contacts prove user experience, removing old equipment are maintained to check that the services meet theand assuming responsibility for the waste generase persons’ needs. ted by these replacements. Collaboration with the city council of Donostia-San Sebastián for the care of the elderly Euskaltel has entered into a collaboration agreement to support the development of the “OKen2019 Commitments Extend the Customer Experience programme to other key services Continue the in the Company and for all its expansion of the territories, including the Expansion. business across Spain. 2019 We are going to work to... Increase the certificates that guarantee suitable integrated security management. 53 PILLARS OF THE EUSKALTEL GROUP STRATEGY Diversified growth Operational excellence Distinctive experience Customer value protection Natural Capital The commitment to excellence in environmental management and the development of the Environmental Master Plan allows the Euskaltel Group to effectively address environmental challenges through the management of its environmental footprint when providing its services. RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Contributing to our daily efforts to achieve an environmentally sustainable digital business We are aware of the environmental challenges we face, which is why we strive to promote a responsible attitude, to continuously improve management of the environmental aspects of our activity and to reduce the Group’s environmental impact in a context of growth and technological change. 63.8% -38% reconditioned equipment reduction in hazardous waste SGDs to which it contributes 100% green electricity supply at the Group’s headquarters as from 2020 55 GRUPO EUSKALTEL 4. NATURAL CAPITAL The Euskaltel Group has continued to develop Goals (SDGs), focusing in particular on SDG its Environmental Master Plan in 2018, reflect12 “Responsible Production and Consumping its commitment to the struggle against tion” and 13 “Climate Action”. This Master Plan climate change and its effects, and the eflays down guidelines aimed at reducing the ficient use of resources. The Plan, together Group’s carbon footprint, improving environwith the Integrated Management System Polmental management and therefore enhancing icy that includes the Environmental Policy, is the contribution to the 2030 Agenda in each the main guideline for Natural Capital in its of the autonomous regions in which the Euscontribution to the Sustainable Development kaltel Group is present. Deployment of policies to reduce environmental impact for the Group’s activities, promoting AGAINST Environmental good environmental practices; this CLIMATE strategy and SDGs includes an analysis of the environmental CHANGE impact of products on their launch Alignment of environmental strategy with sustainable and an analysis of the products’ development goals. environmental footprint. GREEN GREEN COMUNICATION ORGANIZATION Communication and dialogue with all Analysis of products’ environmental interested parties impact GREEN (stakeholders), based on transparency, when they are launched and analysis PRODUCT veracity and commitment in the of products’ environmental footprint to preparation and reporting of the improve the environmental dimension of activities carried out through the Euskaltel Group’s products and make theCorporate Responsibility Report and customers aware of these actions. the EMAS Environmental Statement. During the year several synergies were identiLastly, the Group has continued to implement fied among the Group’s three businesses and its environmental management system in acnew high quality services have been implecordance with internationally recognised stanmented which are increasingly efficient and dards and certificates and with the highest environment-friendly. compliance standards, such as the ISO 14001 certificate implemented in the three Group companies during 2016-2018. 56 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Actions against climate change The Euskaltel Group has a public commitment •E nvironmental traction in the supply chain. towards caring for the environment which is materialised through its Environmental Master • Reputation and green marketing. Plan. One of the pillars of the environmental strategy is to act against climate change, with Greenhouse gas emissions and Link to EMAS initiatives to reduce impacts that affect greenclimate change III certificate house gas emissions. In line with its strategy against climate change https://www. and as a necessary step for the reduction of euskaltel.com/ In addition, through its support for initiatives CO2 emissions, the Euskaltel Group calcuwebektest/ such as forming part of the #PorElClima Comlates the carbon footprint of its activities and GaleriaCorporativo/ Documentos/ munity, the Group is involved in a pioneering has applied to the Ministry for the Ecological nosotros/ initiative that brings together the commitments Transition to be entered in the carbon footresponsabilidad_ of individuals, companies, organisations and print, compensation and absorption project social/2018/2018declaracionpublic administrations that contribute through register. A Greenhouse Gas report has thereambiental.pdf their actions to the struggle against climate fore been drawn up which quantifies both dichange in accordance with the guidelines set rect and indirect emissions. by the Paris Agreement. The Group makes and publishes the annuLikewise, corporate buildings are also becomal calculations of GHG emissions, defines a ing increasingly efficient and sustainable, implan for their reduction and has them verplementing measures such as the purchase ified by a qualified third party. The Group of green energy for supplying corporate buildcalculates emissions that are controlled by ings. The agreement for the Basque Country the organisation, both direct emissions from with Iberdrola guarantees long-term energy sources belonging to or controlled by the orpurchases (Power Purchase Agreement) for the ganisation (scope 1) and indirect emissions supply of electricity based on renewable asderived from the generation of the electricity sets. This agreement was the first PPA signed consumed (scope 2). In the Euskaltel Group, between an energy company and a telecommuthe main CO2 emissions are due to indirect nications operator in Spain. emissions. Therefore, the main efforts and measures implemented relate to green enerThe Euskaltel Group takes part in the Basque gy consumption and the reduction of energy Eco-design Centre, an entity based in The consumption. Basque Country that operates within a collaboration framework between private sector comAs well as being an exercise in transparency, panies and the Basque Government, which in measuring the carbon footprint implies a pub2018 has carried out three main lines of activity: lic commitment towards the objective of minimising GHG emissions. Accordingly, the Group • Corporate Environmental Footprint and inteestablishes emission reduction plans annually gration in Environmental Management Syswhich mainly consist of measures to reduce the tems (EMS). consumption of electricity and fuel. 57 GRUPO EUSKALTEL 4. NATURAL CAPITAL Managing environmental impact In addition to its commitment to fight climate The Group assesses each environmental issue Change, the Euskaltel Group is responsible for based on the criticity of the impact associated implementing environmental management that with it, bearing in mind both direct and indirect minimises negative environmental impacts, aspects and ordinary, extraordinary and emerencouraging good environmental practices gency conditions. Key environmental aspects across the Group. See Euskaltel’s are those on which minimisation and control efenvironmental forts have been focused, and which the Group The Group’s Environmental Policy is the bastatement l has emphasised when defining environmental sis for the Company’s environmental manhttps://www.euskaltel. objectives. Each of the Group’s companies has com/webektest/ agement, included in the Management SysGaleriaCorporativo/ its own key aspects, the consumption of entem Policy that also includes the Quality and Documentos/nosotros/ ergy and the generation of hazardous waste Health and Safety policies. responsabilidad_ (lead-acid batteries) being common to the three social/2018/2018declaracion-ambiental.pdf companies. On a complementary basis, the Euskaltel Group’s commitment to environmental management exThe Euskaltel Group is aware of the impact cellence was the starting point for establishing of energy consumption by its activities and an Environmental Management System in accortherefore has chosen to implement an Energy dance with ISO 14001 (certified by AENOR since Management System based on the UNE-EN 1999). Accordingly, and with the objective of alISO 50001 Standard, the purpose of which is ways being in line with the Basque Environmental to continuously improve management of enerStrategy, Euskaltel decided on a voluntary basis gy consumption and reduce Greenhouse Gas to join the EMAS III Regulations in 2004. Since See R’s (GHG) emissions. In 2018, GHG emissions rose 2018, all Group companies have adhered to the environmental by 1,294 Tn. CO2 equivalent (5.6%) on 2017, takstatement EMAS regulation. ing into account scopes 1 and 2, due to the inhttps://legal.mundo-r. com/legal/sites/ crease in services provided. However, through The verified EMAS III Environmental Statements default/files/imce/ the agreement with Iberdrola, Euskaltel plans of the Euskaltel Group companies highlight their pdfs/declaracionto minimise its environmental footprint by purambiental-gal.pdf commitment to transparency with stakeholders. chasing green energy. Likewise, for the second consecutive year the This is reflected in the roll-out of the 4G (LTE) Euskaltel Group General Shareholders’ Meeting network underway since 2015, on the basis of was held under ‘Erronka Garbia’ certification, criteria that ensure responsible network degranted by the Basque Government for organployment, in strict compliance with electromagising the General Meeting with a focus on envinetic field regulations. ronmental sustainability. The holding of the 2018 General Meeting under this sustainability and See Telecable’s environmental protection approach has resulted environmental statement in its participation in a reforestation project in the https://web.telecable.es/ Urdaibai Biosphere Reserve. This emission comdocuments More information /36258/487475515/ in Note 3.18 of the pensation project aims to minimise the potential Declaraci%C3%B3n annual accounts negative impacts of the organisation of the Gen+medioambiental eral Meeting on the environment, reflecting its+TELECABLE+DE commitment towards environmental protection in +ASTURIAS+ firmado.pdf/ the area in which it operates. 6ed081b9-0dd4-4feb8d03-231079121a1d 58 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Resource consumption management Efficiency in the use of resources is both an it is possible to measure, evaluate and act in economic and an environmental issue. In reorder to continue implementing measures cent years, the changing habits in resource the enhance energy efficiency and optimise consumption and the improvement in the effithe consumption of resources in its operating ciency of the Euskaltel Group processes have processes. shown that it is perfectly possible to progress towards an efficient use of resources. To reduce fuel consumption, the Euskaltel Group has taken measures such as prioritising For this reason, the Group continues to prothe use of company fleet vehicles instead of mote the efficient use of resources (water private cars when travelling for business reaconsumption and energy consumption) and sons and the use of remote communication through the environmental and energy mantechnology to prevent staff having to travel, agement systems implemented in the Group, leading to savings in travel and time. Addition59 GRUPO EUSKALTEL 4. NATURAL CAPITAL The Euskaltel Group Circular economy The commitment to responsible resource firmly believes management is a key element in the Group’s that a company’s operations since, in the course of its business, the Euskaltel Group and the other companies in function does not its sector market products which must be managed correctly when their useful lives expire, conclude wit particularly electrical and electronic equipthe achievement ment (EEE) such as decoders, cable modems and routers. In addition, the innovation cycles of brilliant results, of EEE are becoming shorter and the replacement of devices is accelerating, converting EEE but that it must into a growing source of waste. Measures must collaborate with therefore be taken to prevent this waste from being generated and to encourage the reuse and be fully of equipment. committed to Aware of all this, the Group implements prothe growth of the cedures for recycling and reusing equipment that encourage the elimination and reduction community in which of waste, offering the necessary tools to generate the lowest possible impact on the environit operates and the ment. In this respect, of all customer equipment society by which it placed on the market in 2018, 63.8% was reconditioned, reducing future use of natural resourcis trusted. es. Furthermore, with the same aim of reducing the quantity of resources generated directly or indirectly by its activity, in recent years the Euskaltel Group businesses have made available mobile device collection points in their stores, ally, the Euskaltel Group has worked to raise collaborating with the NGO Alboan. awareness and publicise its commitment to excellence in environmental management Regarding other types of waste generated by through the ISO 14001 standard, planning and the Group’s activity (alkaline batteries, button carrying out inspections of work contracted by batteries, etc.), employees can dispose of this the Group in which third parties may generate waste generated in their homes by using the waste in order to encourage waste recycling. containers made available by the Group at their offices. Assessment of compliance with 2018 commitments Continue to roll out the new 2017-2019 Environmental Master Plan as part of the GroupDefine and implement wide CSR strategy, based on the Group’s the 2018 energy Make the EMAS III comprehensive management system policy. efficiency plan. Statement for the Group. 2018 We have accomplished... Carry out actions to offset or Continue analysing the life Implement the Erronka reduce CO2 emissions. cycle of Euskaltel Group Garbia Sustainable Event Grados de cumplimiento de los compromisos adquiridos products and services. Certificate for new events. Fulfilled Advanced In progress Initiating measures 60 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT DATA* The trends in and results of the Euskaltel Group’s environmental performance in terms of materials, energy and natural resources use, as well as the main wastes generated, are set out below. GHG Emisiones (t. CO2 eq.) 2016 2017 2018 Direct (Scope 1) 915.83 1,184.85 1,255.04 -25% Indirect (Scope 2) 9,479.44 21,893.41* 23,117.53 Other indirect emissions (scope 3) 259.60 320.40 332.72 commitment to reduce * Data recalculated using the MITECO electric mix for 2017. GHG emissions in 2020 Material and water consumption Related to consumption of the most relevant materials for the organisation and the use of water 2016 2017 2018 Papel (t) 141.11 155.78 188.23 Cable (t) 79.50 73.31 76.32 -12% Equipment (t) 200.90 180.92 159.24 consumption of Water consumption (m 3) 6,039 8,138 7,296 equipment Overall energy consumption Related to electricity and use of diesel, both internally (generators and company vehicles) and externally (employee vehicles) 2016 2017 2018 Electrical energy (Mwh) 57,133.77 65,939.54 66,356.56 Diesel (internal) (Mwh)** Diesel (external) (Mwh)**/*** 563.41 641.96 531.11 842.17 602.17 848.24 -4% energy Natural Gas (MwH) 109.43 129.33 intensity Energy intensity (kwh/producto)* 24.46 24.12 23.10 Total energy**** 58,339.14 67,422.24 67,936.30 * Energy intensity is calculated by dividing total energy consumption by the number of products placed in the market. ** Diesel consumption in MWh is calculated using the conversion published in the GRI 3.1 Guide (1 tonne diesel = 43.33 G-Joules). *** In the case of Telecable, a conversion factor of 0.084 l/km has been applied for diesel. **** Electricity consumption has increased by 514 Mwh due to the rise in products supplied to customers, and energy intensity has decreased by 1 kwh/ product, entailing a 4% reduction. Waste generation 2016 2017 2018 Non-hazardous waste Paper and card (t) 28.93 22.73 24.54 -38% reduction in WEEE (t) 59.74 28.21 145.33 hazardous Hazardous waste waste Acid lead batteries (t) 39.33 59.69 37.23 Fluorescents (t) 0.60 1.06 0.43 Compromisos para 2019 Continue deploying the 2017-2019 Environmental Renew environmental Master Plan, as part of the company’s group-wide Define and implement commitments acquired CSR strategy based on the Group’s comprehensive the 2019 energy through certificates (EMAS management system policy. efficiency plan. and ISO 14001). 2019 We are going to work to... Develop awareness Carry out actions to offset or reduce CO2 measures for waste. emissions reduction and management, as well as for energy saving. 61 PILLARS OF THE EUSKALTEL GROUP STRATEGY Diversified growth Operational excellence Distinctive experience Customer value protection Relationships The Euskaltel Group promotes diversified growth through institutional relations, sponsorships and public relations, encouraging the economic and social development of the communities in which it is present. RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Contributing to the creation of alliances to generate sustainable development We believe that the success of any relationship requires good communication and therefore our commitment is based on using technology to foster communications between people, creating alliances which contribute to the socio-economic development of the local community. 676M€ 429 economic value local generated suppliers SGDs 77 start-ups and innovation entrepreneurs supported to which it contributes +150 entities collaborated with 63 EUSKALTEL GROUP 5. RELATIONSHIPS Relationships are based on the Euskaltel encourage the development of innovative enGroup’s mission and vision: being a telecomtrepreneurship in the local community and the munications operator with cutting-edge serdevelopment of projects related to SDG 9. vices and a responsible management model which is committed to the local socio-econoThe Euskaltel Group considers that institumic environment. In short, it seeks to contritional activity is an essential tool for listebute to the socio-economic development of ning and committing to its stakeholders in natural territories through business and social the territories in which it operates, particuEuskaltel Group’s mission and vision: being a telecommunications operator with cutting-edge services and a responsible management model which is committed to the local socio-economic community. commitment. Commitment to local developlarly to regulate expectations and the fulfilment is a distinguishing value of the Group in ment of its demands, seeking to implement relation to its competitors, contributing signithem in the implementation of projects and ficantly to SDG 8 through the Euskaltel, R and initiatives. The Euskaltel Group therefore Telecable businesses. In this connection, the manages its relations with public administraEuskaltel Group actively promotes alliances tions, companies, community players, custothat contribute to the 2030 Agenda through mers and clusters, among others, from a full SDG 17 for the sustainable development of the 360º vision that ensures a broader knowlelocal communities in which it is present, prodge of institutions, associations, customers moting institutional alliances, sponsorships and partners in general, forming a network and Group public relations. In addition, with of alliances that generates synergies in insthe Euskaltel Konekta Foundation as the prititutional, business, sectoral and social comary player, initiatives are promoted that they llaborations. 64 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Towards sustainable TAXES economic growth PAID IN 2018 Through its Corporate Social Responsibility with Corporate Social Responsibility policies strategy the Group seeks to contribute to and and a responsible contribution to taxation. be oriented towards the creation of value for all stakeholders, maintaining the commitments Responsible payment of taxes and values that underpin the organisation The Group impacts the economic development 58 M€ and taking into account its firm commitment of the Basque Country, Galicia, Asturias and VAT & GCIT towards local issues, transparency, manageNavarra through the tax contribution generated ment excellence, corporate governance, resby its business, thereby fulfilling a double ecopect for human rights, gender equality and nomic and social function and complying with equal opportunities, the alignment of suppliers the transparency principle. 13 M€ Levies and business tax Economic value generated (€ ‘000) 2016 2017 2018 Revenue 561,426 609,275 674,642 Other operating income 360 524 616 Financial income 37 228 918 26 M€ 562 M€ 610 M€ 676 M€ PIT & SS Economic value distributed (€ ‘000) 2016 2017 2018 Purchases 26,245 22,946 33,457 Subcontracted work 103,520 109,463 127,980 15 M€ CIT Wages and salaries 38,365 42,452 45,847 Other operating expenses 122,149 151,438 143,363 112 Financial expenses 47,891 49,109 49,112 Dividends paid 0 54,665 49,603 Corporate income tax and other taxes 22,215 29,170 32,696 360 M€ 459 M€ 482 M€ million euro in its own taxes and Economic value retained (€ ‘000) 202 151 194 tax collected 65 EUSKALTEL GROUP 5. RELATIONSHIPS Responsible supply chain management The Euskaltel Group is committed to responsirational efficiency and customer experience are ble supply chain management and therefore its key factors in the Euskaltel Group’s day-to-day efforts are centred on generating trusting and business, it is essential to ensure the success of mutually beneficial relationships with local suproviders’ facilities and supplies and maintain ppliers that facilitate their business relations. close relations with local suppliers. This relationship is strengthened by enhancing the capacities that the Group offers its suppliers through training and the regular evaluations 429 suppliers of whom 55.5% execeed a purchase 737 volume of €10,000. The high volume of services purchased means that purchases in the areas 2017 in which the Group operates have a significant 624 weight, at 39.2%. The remaining purchases are made in other countries, due to the complexi2018 2016 local suppliers ty of the sector. However, in a year of changes, growth and synergies, particular attention has been paid to maintaining lasting agreements and the impact on the surrounding economy, maintaining strategic alliances in the Basque Country, such as the one with ZTE Managed These business relations are carried out within Services Southern Europe, which accounted the Group’s compliance framework through the for 14.3% of the total purchase volume. No other acceptance of the Company’s code of ethics, supplier exceeds 4%, to guarantee the viability which ensures that all business relations are caand sustainability of the responsible business. rried out respecting key issues such as health and safety at work, service quality, respect for Finally, 2018 was characterized by the unification the environment and consumer protection. For of the purchasing process. The management systhis reason, in 2018 the acceptance of this code tem features a tool under which 100% of suppliers was included in all new contracts and with the (and their employees) rendering services at the main traditional suppliers. During the year suGroup’s facilities are duly accredited. When selecppliers have started to take part in the acceptanting its suppliers, the Euskaltel Group takes into ce of the Group’s code of ethics. The Euskaltel account, as a key factor, the existence of an enGroup has also made a particular effort to convironmental management system for the assignvey the Company’s corporate values and culture ment of contracts, as well as energy consumption to the 781 suppliers with which it works. As opefor both cost and environmental reasons. 1 The decrease in the number of suppliers is due to an internal administrative change whereby administrative creditors such as lessors, sponsors, associations, etc. are no longer taken into consideration for accounting purposes. 66 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Social commitment towards the local community € +4M€ +150 11 invested in partnerships with agreements sponsorship local organisations with educational institutions Main CSR initiatives In 2018 the Euskaltel Group collaborated with tional institutions and groups at risk of exclumore than 150 community organisations throusion due to the digital divide. Cybersecurity gh its three businesses and 50 other entities was again the main issue, and was the motto of thanks to the Euskaltel Konekta Foundation, suEuskal Encounter 2018. In 2018 the Gipuzkoa Qué es la pporting the technological development of the Encounter was also held in Tolosa and the AraFundación local community through the promotion of new ba Encounter in Vitoria-Gasteiz, in addition to Euskaltel Konekta technologies and forging relationships of trust the XGN R Encounter in Silleda (Pontevedra) y with all stakeholders. The activities carried out the Technium R Encounter in Orense. The Euskaltel Konekta by the Euskaltel Group in the Corporate Social Foundation is a private non-profit organisation Responsibility area can be grouped into four baGamegune that helps to create and sic pillars that also define the Foundation’s lines The Basque Country’s oldest e-sports compeencourage connections of action: tition celebrated its 19th edition at the Europa between people, Palace in Vitoria-Gasteiz. The format of the companies and initiatives in the context of the competition was changed, with a list of finalists use of information Projects to promote new technologies being made up by invitation in addition to the and communication Encounters network direct places awarded in various face-to-face technologies through four The Euskaltel Group organises IT events where tournaments. The games chosen were Hearstrategic lines: technology fans and professionals can share thStone, CS:GO, Fifa19 and Clash Royale. To • Projects to promote new their knowledge. The 26th edition of the Euskal strengthen the tournament, the Gamegune technologies Encounter was held in the Bilbao Exhibition CenOpens were held. These are tournaments • Entrepreneurship and tre at Barakaldo. The event was a great success, and leagues from several video games that digital incubators with 5,000 computers installed in the Centre are held throughout the year and are open to • Social technology and over 10,000 visitors. As a novelty, talks and anyone who wants to participate. This compe• Positioning of the workshops were organisedfocused on educatition is arranged through an online platform. Euskaltel Konekta brand. 67 EUSKALTEL GROUP 5. RELATIONSHIPS R and Telecable Professorships a school was provided with technological equipAs a result of the agreements concluded with ment to be used in technology classes in exchanthe universities of A Coruña, Vigo and Oviedo, ge for the presence of the brand at the location. two Professorships have been created related to the promotion of cultural, scientific and technoBuber Sariak 2018 logical development, cybersecurity, video, new Internet & Euskadi Buber Sariak competition orgeneration networks and, in general, the promoganised by the Internet & Euskadi Association. tion of R&D+i projects and knowledge transfer. In Prizes were awarded to the best Basque techno2018, 61 people attended these courses. logical projects, with 9 awards going to projects in the Basque language, free software, gastronomy and tourism, citizen participation, the agricultural sector, the machine tool sector, innovation, internationalisation, business and trade. Support for knowledge and innovation in Universities First Lego League International robotics competition where 1,200 Through its Euskaltel Konekta Foundation, the Group has participants aged between 6 and 16 years solcooperated for many years with national and international universities, fostoring the education and professional development ved a real problem related to science, technoof young people and promoting entrepreneurial culture and logy and innovation. It is organised by Innobasinnovation within the new technologies framework. In addition, que, the Basque Innovation Agency, with the many of the social initiatives developed are implemented through aim of awakening a vocation for science and agreements with educational institutions and in general with technology among young people, an objective centres offering activities carried out in a family environment. that the Foundation endorses. On this occasion the teams faced the challenge of researching the human water cycle, building and programming an autonomous robot. R also participated Women in Progress in the Galician version of this initiative, offering With the aim of encouraging the choice of scieninternet service at the event. ce degrees among female students, the Euskaltel Konekta Foundation has collaborated with the Global Innovation Day newspaper El Correo in the organisation of these Innobasque dedicated the latest edition of the conferences that were held in March at the Artium Global Innovation Day to SMEs. This is the BasMuseum in Vitoria-Gasteiz. For three days, 170 feque Country’s leading innovation event, which male students attended numerous lectures and was held for the first time in San Sebastián. The workshops that sought to bring them closer to the edition focused on offering innovative solutions world of technology. to SMEs, inspiring them to face new challenges. The Euskaltel Konekta Foundation was present Girls in Tech at the conferences, debates and meeting spaces In 2018 R worked with a global non-profit organiand worked on advising the 500 companies that sation focused on the commitment, education and visited their stand at the Kursaal in San Sebastian. empowerment of women in the technology area, participating in a webinar in which girls from diffeInnova rent Galician schools and colleges were able to talk In April, the sixth Innova conference took place to women entrepreneurs who shared their expeat the Guggenheim Museum, supported by the rience of how they arrived in the technology sector. Foundation. It is the largest creativity and innovation forum in our country and aims to provide Aula innova innovative tools and knowledge to businesses, Telecable has worked together with various eduprofessionals, entrepreneurs or students from cational institutions with the aim of promoting the different fields. There were more than 300 videvelopment of young talent and entrepreneusitors and 29 lectures on such areas as digital rship. For example, in 2018, through a sponsormarketing, communication, SEO, music, branship agreement with Jesuit Colleges in Asturias, ding and creativity. 68 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Entrepreneurship and Digital Incubators Bind 4.0 Accelerator programme arranged by the Bascarried out by R, as a member of the Plan to que Government and aimed at driving the development of the best 4.0 Industry start-ups, promote Digital Talent in Galicia (Digitalent) imfostering projects with the leading industrial plemented by the Galician regional government companies and a comprehensive support proto help local social, labour and technological gramme. It also facilitates the identification of development. The main one is Crea R which and contact with the best global talent, provides access to cutting-edge technologies and boosts the development of projects and 4.0 solutions. Euskaltel cooperated in two projects in this edition. Orkestra In collaboration with Orkestra (the Basque Competition Institute), the Group has taken part in the Digital Economy Professorship to prepare the DESI (Digital Society and Economy Index) Report, which provides a status report on the degree of maturity of digitalisation in Europe, Spain and The Basque Country. StartUps Euskaltel, R and Telecable Programmes that connect the technology, capacities and innovative community of Euskaltel, R and Telecable with StartUps, accelerators, aims to foster entrepreneurial values and STEAM customers and productive sectors. The aim is concepts among 7-13 year-old children through roto make the technology, innovation and capabotics workshops. In the same line, R is working on bilities of the Euskaltel Group available to the the development and start-up of the digital content young local companies selected. accelerator Startups R DiCo Challenge that aims to generate employment in the sector and promote Pont Up Store entrepreneurship and technological innovation in Participation in the entrepreneurship fair whoGalicia. In addition, under the AMTEGA (Agency for se main objective is provide opportunities to the Technological Modernisation of Galicia) plan, test products with the general public, supportalks have been organised for the generation born ting this entrepreneurial culture and providing before the digital era to demystify the utilisation of new tools in workshops and competitions. technology in these Nativos R chats. Innolab Bilbao Telecable – AJE Agreement The Foundation has worked with Innolab BilThis is a collaboration agreement with the Assobao, an innovation platform supported by leaciation of Young Entrepreneurs of Asturias through ding companies and institutions. Its objective which all members are offered special communiis to create an ecosystem to generate employcations service conditions to help them grow and ment in the digitization field, providing knowledevelop. dge and solutions that local companies can incorporate into their business to become more Collaboration with IDEPA and CEEI competitive. Public-private partnership imitative with leading companies established in Asturias for the developPlan Digitalent ment of an innovative programme to enable acceleA number of educational projects have been ration and market traction for innovative start-ups. 69 EUSKALTEL GROUP 5. RELATIONSHIPS En Conexión Elhuyar First edition of the project organized by the 900 students from different colleges carried out ICT Cluster together with Telecable. This is an scientific projects and research throughout the initiative to strengthen the synergies between school year. The projects were presented to a jury innovative SMEs and Asturian trailblazer comthat included Euskaltel Group professionals. panies. Tecnología social. Health and welfare Social technology Through technology, the Euskaltel Group is comHETEL mitted to the welfare of vulnerable people, carrThe Group is a strategic ally of HETEL (Assoying out various social action initiatives focused ciation of Vocational Training Centres), comon the health of employees and other vulnerable mitted to professional training and the promogroups. tion of scientific careers among young people. Since 2009, HETEL has been developing the Social technology alliances SHARE collaborative project in which about In the Basque Country, Euskaltel belongs to orga60 students studying telecommunications nisations and associations that reinforce its image systems and computer science from four dias an advanced telecommunications company, fferent institutions participate every year. The facilitate alliances in the economic, social and students work in groups, advised by Euskaltel environmental areas and contribute to Euskaltel’s professionals, to develop the installation of vadigital society development goals. These include rious application servers in each centre, simuIhobe, clusters GAIA and Eiken, Basque Ecodelating a company with different locations. sign Center, EUSKALIT and DigitalES. 70 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Brand positioning and sponsorships The Euskaltel Group is convinced that sponsorsmotion of Galician culture. In the language area, hips and public relations are vehicles for creating R has been a pioneer thanks to its commitment a solid and consistent brand. They are also a comto the use of Galician in all its communications munication tool that help to bring closer, position from the outset. and consolidate the commitment to local growth by creating emotional bonds. The main value of For R, the use of Galician is a natural step which these actions is to develop and promote interaccoexists with the rest of its identity and forms tions with interest groups on the basis of proximipart of the brand as a sign of closeness to clients ty, commitment and business sustainability, thein Galicia and its confidence in Galician society reby contributing to greater emotional bonding and culture. R’s commitment to Galicia goes beand to our image as a responsible company, and yond the purely technological sphere, hence its generating links between people and companies. permanent defence of the use of Galician in its relations with customers and also as a sign of its In these events in which the Euskaltel Group identity which is intimately linked to the brand brands appear in friendly environments at acts and to innovation and development in Galicia. and events designed for enjoyment, learning and Accordingly, all communications, advertising gaining experience, and where this social payback can be observed, the creation of value for the Group is reflected in the value added to technology by and for people in all the facets develoIn these events, where Euskaltel ped by the Company. Group brands appear in Music festivals friendly environments and The Group has been present in festivals such as the three organised by Last Tour in the Basque in enjoyable educational Country: BBK Live, Kutxa Kultur and Azkena Rock. Stands were installed offering Wi-Fi to the whole activities, the Group’s value audience, promoting the band among a potential creation is reflected in the audience of more than 125,000 people. value added to technology by For its part, R sponsored the Resurectionfest music festival, and, with the aim of publicising other and for people. disciplines such as local film art, it took part in the PlayDoc Documentary Festival, the FIC-BUEU short film festival and STREET STUNTS, one of and business promotions are conducted in Galithe biggest urban culture festivals. cian, as well as the internal wording of work sites, the website, invoices, contracts, social networks Cultural activities and blogs. The same can be said for the explaIn order to promote local culture, Euskaltel has nations and corporate presentations made in sponsored various activities and institutions that guided visits to R’s main Operations Centre. This share this same mission, such as the Sarean.eus company has a department that is specifically Foundation project, which is a meeting point of responsible for ensuring the correct use of the digital media in Basque that aims to become a Galician language in external communications, reference entity as a catalyst of technological where professionals have access to dictionaries culture. Similarly, R supports Galician culture in and manuals to facilitate these tasks. its day to day business on a transversal basis through specific initiatives such as financial suR participates actively in the Linguistic Normapport for the Museo do Pobo Galego to help in lisation Plan developed by the Linguistic Policy research, conservation, dissemination and proDepartment of the Galician Regional Gover71 EUSKALTEL GROUP 5. RELATIONSHIPS nment and forms part of the Galicia Empresa could enjoy films that had been screened Foundation, which promotes the use of Galician at the San Sebastian Festival. in the business sector. Sport activities This approach is the result of the Euskaltel Sports sponsorship helps the three brands to Group’s language policy, which promotes resform strong local bonds. Euskaltel sponsors pect for the different languages of the regions the region’s main male and female footbain which it operates in order to guarantee the ll teams: Athletic de Bilbao, Real Sociedad, use of the language chosen by its customers in Osasuna, Eibar and Alavés. It also lends its their commercial relations. It therefore encourasupport to other sports such as the LaKantera ges internal training and activities to stimulate International Skate Championship, women’s the use of the language. surfing championships, women’s basketball and popular races among others. For its part, In the same vein, Euskaltel has a Basque Plan Telecable supports women’s sports through which organises meetings and actions related the Telecable Hockey Club. R supports the to the knowledge and use of Basque throuObradoiro, Breogán, Leyma Coruña and Club ghout the year. In 2018 we can mention its Baloncesto Ourense basketball teams, and membership of the Euskaraldia project, which fosters a passion for these local teams among was held across the Basque Country. This pioits stakeholders. R also supports other sports neering project, which enjoys the participation activities such as STREET STUNTS, slackline and support of the community in general, insand bouldering. titutions, municipalities and public bodies, proposed a social exercise aimed at influencing Social events are also organized to promothe population’s linguistic habits in relation to te adapted sports in collaboration with the the use of Basque. Basque Federation of Adapted Sports and soccer, basketball and rugby championsFor its part, Telecable again supported the hips are organised involving mixed teams Metropoli Gijón 2018 Festival and the Gijón in which players with intellectual disabiinternational film festival. In this latter feslities are integrated. Local sports such as tival, Telecable inaugurated its Telecable “pelota vasca” are also promoted through room at Yelmo cinemas, where attendees rural sports events. Assessment of compliance with 2018 commitments Carry out a satisfaction survey Review and implement among analysts with the Consolidate agreements the new CSR Master Investor Relations Area. with Local Universities. Plan 2016-18. 2018 We have accomplished... Standardise relational activities Review the associative Consolidate the Euskaltel in the three companies fabric from a corporate Konekta Foundation’s Euskaltel, R and Telecable. management viewpoint. activity within the Group. Grados de cumplimiento de los compromisos adquiridos Fulfilled Advanced In progress Initiating measures 72 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Associations Solidarity • Aop (Asociación De • Círculo De Empresarios • Fundación Novia initiatives Operadores Para La Vascos Salcedo Portabilidad) • Club Asturiano De • Fundación Tecnalia • Adegi Calidad Research & Innovation R collaborates with various social organisations • Aed-Asoc. Empresarias • Club Financiero • Fvem-Fed. Empresas through solidarity lotteries, collections of bottY Directivas Atlantico Del Metal • Aedipe • Club Financiero Vigo • Gaia le-tops, employee donations through the Nó• Aguirre Lehendakari • Cluster Audiovisual • Gaia Netexchange mina Solidaria programme, clothing collection Center Galego • Hamaika Telebista and awareness talks about the environment or • Apd • Clustertic • Ica (Instituto plastic recycling. In total, thanks to over 30 ini• Artium • Confebask De Consejeros tiatives, €2,116 was raised and the Group hel• Ascom • Confederación Administradores) ped more than 2,000 people in Galicia at risk of • Asoc. Cluster De Las Empresarios A Coruña • Ihobe social exclusion and victims of gender violence, Tic De Galicia • Confederacion • Inkolan • Asoc. Gran Area Provincial De • Innobasque among other groups. Most of these initiatives Comercial Obelisco Empresarios De • Izaite contribute to SDGs 8 and 9 “Decent work and Pontevedra • Asociación A Pasaxe • Kontsumobide economic growth” and “Industry, innovation • Asociacion De Amigos • Contac Center • Kursaal Eszena and infrastructure” respectively. Do Cgac • Ctam Europe • Mik (Mondragon • Asociacion De • Digitales (Sustituye Innovation & In addition, Euskaltel promotes its commitEmpresarios Del Ametic) Knowledge) Polígono De A Grela • Eiken Cluster • Museo Do Pobo ment to local NGOs mainly through the SMS • Asociación Audiovisual Galego solidarity programme, which raised €25,755.6 Empresarios Mos • Elhuyar • Orkestra -Instituto and helped 14 organisations. It also coopera• Bedc (Basque • Elkargi Vasco De tes directly with associations and makes VIP Ecodesign Center) • Euskalit Competitividad boxes available to entities that help people • Bilbao Metropoli 30 • Fade • Guggenheim Museum with intellectual disabilities. During 2018 the• Bind 4.0 Gobierno • Foro De Gestión Y Board ofTrustees re were other solidarity initiatives, such as Vasco Finanzas • Polo De Innovación De • Bizkaired (Asoc. • Fund. Ctic Envejecimiento bottle-top collections, a Christmas jumble-saEmpresas De Bizkaia) • Fund. Opera De • Registro Oficial De le whose earnings were donated to the As• Cable Labs Oviedo Auditores De Cuentas pace-Bizkaia association and participation in • Cableurope • Safelayer • Fund. Valdes Salas the EiTB Telemaratón to raise funds for lunch • Camara De Comercio • Fund.jóvenes • Sea cancer research. De Bilbao Empresarios • Tecnalia • Cámara De Comercio • Fundación Bancaria • Unirisco, S.c.r.s.a. Gijon Bbk • Vicomtech • Cebek • Fundación Citic • Centro De Innovación • Fundacion Galicia Bilbao (Cib) Empresa • Cespa • Fundación Gradiant 2019 Commitments Preparation of the Stakeholder interaction. Evaluation Develop traction programmes with Master Plan 2019-22. of measurement tools. suppliers to promote CSR criteria. 2019 We are going to work to... Coordinate of relevant contents with Analyse the positioning of the the Group’s Strategic Plan. sponsorship activity. 73 PILLARS OF THE EUSKALTEL GROUP STRATEGY Diversified growth Operational excellence Distinctive experience Customer value protection Intellectual capital Intellectual capital has a transversal impact across all the Strategic Plan pillars. In addition, innovation is one of the corporate values and is a key area for the Group as reflected in the materiality analysis carried out in 2018. RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Contributing to innovation and the digital transformation of society Ongoing innovation and the use of the latest technologies are essential for us as a telecommunication company since we have the aim and the duty to facilitate access to the most innovative tools and services in order to help our customers and stakeholders in their day-to-day tasks. 2M€ invested in innovation 16 76 startups posts developed tecnological SGDs for innovation supported to which it 673km contributes coverage network 4 projects for Smart Cities and IoT 75 EUSKALTEL GROUP 6. INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL In both the Strategic Plan and its corporate valIn 2018 the main services carried out have ues, the Group is committed to cutting-edge contributed, through innovation, to SDG 8 innovation. Relations with all stakeholders reby enhancing working practices in all kinds quire increasing process digitisation and the of businesses, which have been able to inimplementation of the efficiency derived from corporate new technologies into their dayinnovation, with the aim of heading forward as to-day activities at a reasonable cost; to regards the Company’s responsibility and susSDG 10 by reducing inequalities and fostertainability and its area of influence. ing Internet access in rural areas; to SDG 11 by helping to transform cities on a sustainable basis with the latest technologies that help to harmonise life in urban areas; and By 2020, 16 million finally to SDG 12 by encouraging responsible technology consumption through varimore jobs are ous initiatives and through increasingly effiexpected to be cient production processes, also taking into account responsible production in strategic created in Europe alliances. that require IT and In addition, 16 million more jobs are expected communications skills. to be created in Europe by 2020 that require competencies in information and communication technologies. The Euskaltel Group considers itself to be both a facilitator of this A constantly developing business such as the balanced transition and responsible for this Euskaltel Group, made up of highly qualified digital transformation process. In this respect, professionals, which establishes alliances with the main objective of the Euskaltel Group suppliers that are increasingly committed to during 2018 was to bring ICTs closer to socisustainable development and which responds ety by encouraging the use of new technolto the needs of customers who demand faster ogies and promoting knowledge and responand more efficient products, must have a stratsible use of these technologies across the egy for its contribution to Sustainable Develcommunity. The Group has therefore made a opment Goals and specifically, the major imstrong commitment to technology innovation pact it generates in SDG 9 as one of the main and R&D+i in order to achieve the best techobjectives related to the Group’s activity. nological solution by and for people. 76 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Innovation investment The Euskaltel Group plays an important role In this manner, the development of the digital in the Basque Country, Galicia and Asturias economy also improves competition conditions in the areas of technology, digital culture in these geographical areas. For this reason, the and digitalisation in both the business sector digitalisation of the business community is one and in people’s lives. of the key factors to be considered in the smart More and more businesses, sectors and activities are impacted by digital technologies and access to information, with consequencspecialisation strategies (RIS3) promoted by the governments of the regions in which the Euskaltel Group operates. 2M€ invested in es and effects that are still uncertain. DeWithin this framework, the Euskaltel Group colinnovation spite this, there is a general consensus that laborates with Orkestra (Basque Competition the growing digitisation of industries and the Institute) in the Digital Economy Laboratory with economy in general will contribute value by the commitment of identifying the challenges ingenerating opportunities for the developvolved in carrying out the digital transformation ment of new business models that will bring efficiently and in contributing, on the basis of about substantial changes in companies’ research, to Euskaltel becoming one of the leadvalue proposals, in their relations with cusers in this area. It also works together with key 10 tomers and in the optimisation of production players, from a transformative research viewprocesses to generate greater efficiencies. point, in order to promote the necessary policies and strategic mechanisms. During 2018 the Euskaltel Group worked in new services partnership with other organisations on inThe Corporate Innovation Unit, made up of 16 launched novation associated with digitalisation in persons, focuses on studying and analysing inprojects such as Innolab, innovation in digdustry trends, new technologies, the Group’s ital content in Startup R DICO Challenge or viability for supporting new projects and the innovation associated with aging in projects right time for launching new services, among such as OKencasa. It also cooperated with other matters. This team therefore focuses its technology centres (Tecnalia, Vicomtech, research on creating new devices and services Gradiant, etc.) with the aim of focusing and that incorporate all the possibilities offered by driving innovation in the territories in which the digital transformation, with increasing emit operates. phasis on the capacity of technology to make a social and environmental contribution in the regions in which it operates. 77 EUSKALTEL GROUP 6. INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL Digital Transformation Alliances The Euskaltel Group also bases its innovament in the development of its digitalparticipants a challenge related to the sotion on the creation of alliances with other isation and promotion plan for STEAM cial area and an aging population, with the technology specialists with the aim of facilvocations among young people. aim of proposing disruptive and innovative itating the incorporation of technology into solutions. In addition, during the company the services provided to customers. For this • The R and Telecable Professorships fotraining period, Euskaltel worked with two reason, it carries out various initiatives and cused on cybersecurity and the transof the participants who developed intra-ensupports universities and other organisafer of knowledge on new technologies. trepreneurship projects with the company’s tions and companies through its business support and advice. activities (Euskaltel, R and Telecable) and the • Projects such as Bind 4.0 or Innolab, Euskaltel Konekta Foundation, which supin which the Euskaltel Konekta FounThanks to its commitment to young talent, ports, both financially and intellectually, the dation collaborates with the Basque Euskaltel has participated with other leading promotion of entrepreneurship and innovaGovernment, the Bilbao City Council Basque companies in the Dual Action Entretion research. The knowledge acquired by and cutting-edge companies. The first preneurship Masters at Deusto University, the Euskaltel Group through its own IoT, Big involves the public-private acceleraa new experience in the university environData and RPA (Robot Process Automation) tor programme aimed at driving the ment involving dual university-company projects, as well as its network of alliances development of the best Industry learning. developed in recent years, have allowed it to 4.0 start-ups, fostering projects with undertake relevant projects with customers leading industrial companies and takIt worked for six months with two of the parin the digital transformation area, with appliing part in a comprehensive support ticipants in the first edition of this Masters, cations in the Pharmaceutical, Retail, Indusprogramme. The second consists of a who developed their intra-entrepreneurship try 4.0 and Smart Cities sectors. Some of the business creativity forum involving the projects with the support and advice of their most outstanding initiatives in this respect country’s best innovation and digital Euskaltel colleagues. are as follows: business experts, in fields as diverse as digital marketing, new technoloDuring the second edition of the Masters, • Smart Lugo, to which the Euskaltel gies, Internet and entrepreneurship. which began in September, Euskaltel proGroup contributes by providing Smart posed to the participants a challenge Parking and Smart Metering services. Thanks to its commitment to attract young related to the social area and the aging talent, the Euskaltel Group has also participopulation, with the aim of obtaining origi• Smart Gijón, in which urban mobility pated in the Dual Action Entrepreneurship nal and innovative solutions. For four days reports are made based on data from Masters at Deusto University, this being a they worked on proposals to foster new the mobile network. new experience in the university environeconomic activities related to the Silver ment as it is implemented through a dual Economy and digitalisation in the Basque • The EDIXGAL Plan, through which R university-company learning process. In this Country, which they presented to their colsupports the Galicia regional governrespect, in 2018 Euskaltel proposed to the leagues at Euskaltel. Assessment of compliance with 2018 commitments Develop and implement Develop new TV services that the IoT in residential and Develop technology to aid digital broaden the capacity of the new SME categories transformation projects for companies Deco 4K decoder 2018 We have accomplished... Introduce artificial intelligenceIntroduce new, based user interfaces improved WiFi systems Degree of compliance with the commitments undertaken Fulfilled Advanced In progress Initiating measures 78 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Key projects One of the main objectives of the Euskaltel Smart Lugo Group is to bring ICT closer to the community As one of the technological partners of the Lugo by promoting the use of new technologies and City Council, R has initiated the design of the Smart providing knowledge about these technologies Lugo initiative within the Smart Cities project. The and their responsible use. The Group therefore aim is to improve citizens ‘quality of life and the has a strong commitment to technological innoefficiency of public services, as well as to encourvation and R&D+i with the aim of achieving the age participation in and transparency through new best technological solutions by and for people, channels. promoting various initiatives and supporting universities through 11 agreements. The most noteworthy projects in the innovation field in 2018 were: New content via Deco 4K In 2018 several new developments were brought in for the decoder, highlighting the agreement with Netflix and Amazon Prime and the “Continue watching” function, which allows content to be frozen and enjoyed later on whenever the user wants. The Euskaltel Group is the first operator to launch Netflix in Spain with a direct access in the remote control. Euskaltel Life Like R’s “Tres Ollos”, Euskaltel has developed its own Internet of Things brand with a free serSmart Gijón vice for all home Internet customers. To us it, The Group also provides reports on urban mobility all that is needed is a Central Unit and the senin Gijón thanks to Telecable, based on data from sors that most interest each user. Customers the mobile network. The aim of this project is to can thus receive information on everything that carry out the Comprehensive Sustainable and Safe is happening in their homes and programme Mobility Plan for the city, complementing this Smart whichever functionalities they prefer, gaining in Cities project with the development of the TuCycle comfort and saving on consumption. shared bike app. Compromisos para 2019 Introduce artificial Develop new TV services Continue implementing intelligence-based user that broaden the Deco 4K new improved WiFi interfaces capacities systems 2019 We are goingi to work... Develop technology and products Continue developing services to aid digital transformation based on IoT for residential and projects for companies SME categories 79 7 Other information RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 About this Report This Report has been drawn up on the basis of the financial and non-financial reporting system implemented in the Euskaltel Group and the initiatives developed in the regions in which it operates. Scope and profile of the Report The Euskaltel Group has drawn up this Resprovided in this Report follows the basic line set ponsible Company Report in accordance with out in the previous Responsible Company Rethe Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, port, in order to evaluate the Euskaltel Group’s following the principles and content defined in performance over time and to enable the comthe most recent edition of the GRI Standards parison of the information disclosed for each applying the comprehensive option. period. In addition, in 2018 all the indicators of the three integrated businesses were incorpoThis is the international benchmark for the prerated for the first time into the Reporting sysparation of sustainability reports since all the tem. All the data reported cover Euskaltel, R most relevant issues for shareholders, custoand Telecable since 1 January 2018. The CINFO mers, employees, suppliers, and society are data have not been taken into account in the covered, including comprehensive information Non-Financial Information Statement since they on ESG (Environmental, Social and Governanrepresent 0.11% of the business and therefore ce) matters. are not considered material. In order to comply with the GRI guidelines, the The content of this Report covers the informacompany carried out a materiality analysis to fotion posted on the Euskaltel Group website, the cus its reporting on those social, environmental EMAS Environmental Statement, the Annual and economic issues that are most relevant for Corporate Governance Report and the Consoits business and that influence the decisions lidated Annual Accounts for 2018. It forms part of the Group’s stakeholders. In addition, as of and is subject to the same approval, filing signatories of the United Nations Global Comand disclosure requirements as the Managepact, this Report includes the progress made ment Report, in compliance with Law 11/2018 in complying with the Principles established by of 28 December on Non-Financial Information that initiative. It focuses in particular on issues and Diversity. The new requirements of that law identified as relevant in the materiality analysis have also been taken into account in the Reperformed. The preparation and results of this port. The Report also follows the CNMV Corpoanalysis are disclosed below. The information rate Governance Recommendations. 81 EUSKALTEL GROUP 7. OTHER INFORMATION Materiality Analysis In 2018 the Euskaltel Group carried out a materialiAs a result of this analysis, 30 relevant issues were ty analysis in accordance with GRI Standards. The identified which gave rise, as a novelty this year, first steps were to conduct an external analysis tato matters such as the working environment, elecking into account the main sector trends, a detailed tromagnetic emission management and supplier press study related to the Euskaltel Group using satisfaction. An internal analysis of these 30 issues the Factiva tool, the content posted on the Group’s was then conducted through an evaluation by and competitors’ websites, the information requithe various areas of the Euskaltel Group (Internal red by proxy advisors, the strategic lines of peer Audit, Communication, Finance, Legal Counsel, entities with respect to CSR, sector regulation and Compliance, Residential Marketing, Corporate the information required by the main analysts on Marketing, Network Team, Institutional Relations, sustainability, basing the study mainly on the Dow Strategy, Human Resources, Purchases, Basque Jones Sustainability Index ( DJSI), the FTSE4GOOD Country, Galicia Asturias Business and Investor and the CDP. The main needs and concerns of Relations) which was weighted by the degree of Euskaltel Group stakeholders were also taken into importance of each of these matters with respect account, which were detected through the various to the Group’s operations and their impact on its communication channels available to employees, reputation. From these internal and external stucustomers, the public, shareholders, suppliers and dies 20 priority issues were obtained using the foinstitutions, as well as the experience of the areas llowing matrix, which represents matters which are that are in daily contact with these stakeholders. material to both the company and its stakeholders. The Responsible Company Report for 2018 has focused on these issues. MATERIALITY MATRIX 3 1.  peration and O 12.  orking W composition of the environment Board (balance, 13. D  iversity, equality diversity etc.) and non2.  orruption and fraud C discrimination prevention 14. T  raining and 3. Risk management development of Importance for stakeholders 4.  usiness ethics and B diverse talent 6 compliance 15.  ontribution to C 5. S  takeholder local development engagement (employment, 2 8 suppliers, etc.) channels 13 6.  ustomer C 16.  ustainable and S 18 1 experience: Service inclusive products 4 quality and customer 17.  ponsorships and S satisfaction/claims foundation activities 19 management 10 18.  reenhouse gas G 15 2 11 7. D  igital reliability (data emissions and 16 protection climate change 17 20 7 3 12 8. Innovation in 19. Circular economy 14 5 products and 20.  esponsible supply R 9 services *5G, IA, IoT, chain management 1 Blockchain) 2 1 3 9. D  igitalisation, digital Importance for the Company transformation 10. R  esponsible * Stakeholders do not participate directly in Report preparation. advertising 11. Work-life balance 82 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Stakeholder engagement The Euskaltel Group bases its strategy and corpothe Code of Ethics and its Instructions for Beharate values on its relations with its main stakeholviour and/or any other rules of conduct included ders. This is a differentiating factor with respect in the Corporate Governance System of the Eusto its competitors. For the Group it is essential kaltel Group, as well as the applicable external to know the opinions, needs and concerns of its legislation or regulations. employees, customers, investors, suppliers and other stakeholders since business development The main customer channel is Customer Expeis based on alliances with other companies, purience, a tool which has allowed the Group to get blic administrations and the emotional bond with to know customers better in recent years and the community in general. develop products and services in line with their needs. In addition, employees have This is defined in the main Company’s main CSR tools, such as the Group’s Responsibility policy, which lays down the commitments and basic lines to be fulfilled by each player, or the CSR Master Plan, based on the expectations identified through consultations with stakeholders. In addition, the corporate values of proximity and honesty The Euskaltel Group bases its not only represent and define the conduct of the strategy and corporate values Group’s professionals, but also reflect the quality of the relationships with the parties with which on the relationship with its they collaborate. main stakeholders, which is a The trusting environment generated by the Group differentiating factor compared and the value created in the territories in which it is present result from a detailed Communication with its competitors. Plan that includes all stakeholders and is based on the corporate values. The Group’s communication is characterised by maintaining close relations with its market and opinion formers based on transparency and the proximity that Euskaltel, a number of tools for expressing their concerns R and Telecable enjoy with their stakeholders in or their satisfaction, such as the working envithe Basque Country, Galicia and Asturias, resronment surveys carried out annually. With repectively. This communication and stakeholder gard to investors, through the Investor Relations relations model has generated reputational caarea more than 300 interactions were carried pital and a brand image without comparison in out in 2018 through roadshows organised with the sector, achieving an extraordinary degree of the main brokers, conferences or breakfasts identification with its market, which differentiates with analysts, mainly following the release of it from its competitors to a considerable extent. quarterly results. The first investor satisfaction survey was also launched in 2018, with a score of To maintain these close and honest relations, 7.8 out of 10. The smooth communications with the Euskaltel Group uses various platforms and the Investor Relations team were highlighted. In fosters direct two-way dialogue through which addition, following its success in 2017, an Invescustomers, shareholders, employees and the putor Day is planned on a biennial or triennial basis, blic can express their needs and propose improprovided there is a relevant plan to share with vements. One of the main channels is the Ethics the shareholders. Channel, which is open not only to the Group’s professionals but also to customers, suppliers As a sign of the Group’s close engagement, it and third parties, with the aim of resolving doubts has continued to build a network of trust with or queries regarding behaviour within the Group the community through its sponsorships, the or to report events or actions that might breach development of the local culture and digitalisa83 EUSKALTEL GROUP 7. OTHER INFORMATION tion through the actions of the Euskaltel Konekta companies that collaborate with the Group throuFoundation. In addition, regular contact with the gh ongoing direct contacts, the Ethics Channel and authorities enhances our knowledge of the local the annual supplier assessment under ISO 9001. territory and the detection of major needs. Fluid, two-way relations are also maintained with the Finally, the open-door policy of the Management Group’s suppliers, considered strategic allies and Team makes it easier to exchange information part of the enterprise, since without them the serand present queries. In 2018, the main concerns vices provided could not be carried out. In this addressed to the Board and Management related respect, the Purchases area plays an essential to the Group’s expansion. In general, a growing role in detecting their concerns and ascertaining interest in the quality of the working environment, supplier satisfaction throughout the supply chain, equal opportunities and digitalisation has been dewith respect to both the main allies and the small tected through the different channels. Main Euskaltel Group stakeholders and communication channels Communication Main expectations Stakeholders tool identified Social networks Social organisations, universities and Communication with society, Relations with the media educational centres, research centres, business social resposibility, capacity to Collaboration with universities generate value and business community, local community, opinion formers, Society and other institutions ethics. consumer associations and news media. Community Survey Páginas web de Euskaltel, R y Telecable Management excellence, Corporate, residential, institutions service quality, data privacy and Aplicaciones móviles and public sector. rate transparency. Customers Reclamaciones Customer Experience Professionals covered/not covered by a  anales de comunicación C Leadership, working environment, collective agreement, workers’ representatives interna work organisation, professional (WR), trainees and temporary employment Intranet development, equal opportunities Professionals agencies. and internal communication. Encuesta de satisfacción Distributors, fitters and contractors, strategic suppliers, operators, Community Survey Local purchasing and transparency and Suppliers equal opportunities. and allies infrastructure providers. Provincial councils, city councils, Transparency, legal compliance, governments, supervisors, regulators, Community Survey environmental management and Public development agencies and sector agencies. people management. Authorities Board, shareholders, analysts and Satisfaction survey Reputational risk, financial results investors, financers, press related to Investor Relations office and proximity to shareholders Shareholders shareholders. General Shareholders’ Meeting and investors. and investors Closeness and transparency with respect to all stakeholders in Ethic compliance with sector legislation and ALL other applicable regulations. Frequency Continuous Biennal Annual 84 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 AENOR Verification Statement for GRUPO EUSKALTEL. relating to the reporting of non-financial information in accordance with Law 11/2018corresponding for the year ended 31 December 2018 FILE: 1999/0485/GEN/04 GRUPO EUSKALTEL (hereinafter the company) has commissioned AENOR to carry out a verification under a limited level of assurance of the state of non-financial information (hereinafter NFI reporting), in accordance with Law 11/2018 amending the Commercial Code, the consolidated text of the Capital Companies Law approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2010, of 2 July, and Law 22/2015, of July 20, on Account Auditing, in matters of non-financial information and diversity (hereinafter, Law 11/2018), for the verification period of its activities, fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, included in the report dated 20/02/2019, which is part of this Statement. AENOR, in accordance with the aforementioned Law, has carried out this verification as an independent provider of verification services. In this sense, AENOR has carried out the present verification under the principles of integrity, independence, ethics, objectivity, professional competence and diligence, confidentiality and professional behaviour that are required based on the accreditations that it has, within the general scope of application of ISO/IEC 170211:2015 and ISO 14065, and individuals, such as the Accreditation granted by the United Nations Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) for verification and validation of Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) projects. AENOR, as required by the aforementioned Law, declares that it has not participated in processes prior to the verification of the NFI reporting. Company data: GRUPO EUSKALTEL headquartered in: PARQUE TECNOLÓGICO EDIFICIO 809. 48160 DERIO (BIZKAIA) AENOR INTERNACIONAL S.A.U. C/ GÉNOVA 6, 28004 MADRID Page 1 of 3 85 EUSKALTEL GROUP 7. OTHER INFORMATION Representatives of the Organization for the purposes of statement of non-financial information: Mr. José Félix Gonzalo Camarero as Director of Quality, Environment, Welfare and Health. GRUPO EUSKALTEL had the responsibility to report its non-financial information status in accordance with Law 11/2018. The formulation of the NFI reporting as well as its content is the responsibility of the Administrators of the company. This responsibility also includes the design, implementation and maintenance of the internal control considered necessary to allow the NFI reporting to be free from any material misstatement, due to fraud or error, as well as the management systems from which the necessary information is obtained for the preparation of the NFI reporting. Purpose The purpose of the verification is to provide interested parties with a professional and independent judgement about the information and data contained in the nonfinancial information statement of the aforementioned organization, prepared in accordance with Law 11/2018. Scope of Verification The Non-Financial Information Statement 2018 Responsible Company Report, dated 25/02/2019 of GRUPO EUSKALTEL, and companies included in the consolidated and related statements below: EUSKALTEL, S.A. R CABLE Y TELECOMUNICACIONES GALICIA, S.A.U. TELECABLE DE ASTURIAS, S.A.U. CINFO, CONTENIDOS INFORMATIVOS PERSONALIZADOS, S.L. Materiality For verification purposes, it was agreed to consider material discrepancies those omissions, distortions or errors that can be quantified and result in a difference greater than 5% with respect to the total declared. Criteria AENOR INTERNACIONAL S.A.U. C/ GÉNOVA 6, 28004 MADRID Page 2 of 3 86 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 The criteria and information that have been taken into account as a reference for carrying out the check have been: 1) Law 11/2018 of 28 December amending the Commercial Code, the revised text of the Capital Companies Law approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2010 of 2 July and Law 22/2015 of 20 July on the Auditing of Accounts, on non-financial information and diversity. 2) Standard ISAE 3000 (revised), relating to the commissioning of different insurances or the review of historical financial information. 3) The criteria established by the global sustainability reporting initiative at GRI standards when the organization has opted for this internationally recognized framework for the disclosure of information related to its corporate social responsibility. AENOR expressly disclaims any responsibility for investment or other decisions based on this statement. Verification process carried out During the verification process carried out, under a limited level of assurance, AENOR conducted interviews with the staff in charge of collecting and preparing the non-financial information statement and reviewed evidence relating to: Activities, products and services provided by the organization Consistency and traceability of the information provided, including the process followed to compile it, sampling information on the reported one. Completion and content of the statement of non-financial information in order to ensure the completeness, accuracy and truthfulness of its content. Conclussion Based on the foregoing, in our opinion, there is no evidence to suggest that the statement of non-financial information included in the The Non-Financial Information Statement 2018 Responsible Company Report, dated 25/02/2019 and for the year ended December 31, 2018, is not a faithful representation of the GRUPO EUSKALTEL performance in social responsibility matters under Law 11/2018. Specifically, in relation to environmental, social and personnel issues, including the management of equality, non-discrimination and universal accessibility, human rights, the fight against corruption and bribery and diversity. Madrid, 27 February 2019 AENOR INTERNACIONAL S.A.U. C/ GÉNOVA 6, 28004 MADRID Page 3 of 3 87 EUSKALTEL GROUP 7. OTHER INFORMATION GRI tables 88 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Global Standards Description Observations/direct reference (page) Scope SDG Compact GRI 101 Fundamentos 101 Principles Other information (p. 81) Group GRI 102 Contenidos generales Perfil de la organización Euskaltel, S.A Name of the 102-1 R Cable and Telecomunicaciones Galicia, S.A. Group organisation Telecable de Asturias S.A.U. Activities, brands, Euskaltel Group in 2018 (p. 6-8) 102-2 products and Group Customers (p. 43-53) services Location of 102-3 Back cover Group headquarters Location of 102-4 Euskaltel Group in 2018 (p. 6 and 11) Group operations Ownership and legal Euskaltel, S.A. 102-5 Group form Organisational and Cultural Capital (p. 22) Customers (p. 47-53) 102-6 Market served Group Euskaltel Group in 2018 (p. 6 and 11) Scale of the Euskaltel Group in 2018 (p. (6 and 7) 102-7 Group organisation Human capital (p. 29) Information on Principle 102-8 employees See appendix 102-8 (p. 101) Group 8 6 and other workers Relationships (p. 66) Euskaltel Group suppliers in 2018 were located in the EC, 102-9 Supply chain except for 14 that are in Canada (2), China (1), Colombia (1), Group Israel (1), Switzerland (1) and USA (8). See Appendix (p. 102) Letter from the Chairman and the CEO (p. 3 and 4) Significant changes Euskaltel Group in 2018 (p. 6) 102-10 to the organisation Organisational and Cultural Capital (p. 23) Group and its supply chain Relationships (p. 66) Customers (p. 51) Precautionary Organisational and Cultural Capital (p. 17-19) 102-11 principle or Section E of the Euskaltel Group’s 2018 Annual Corporate Group approach Governance Report. Letter from the Chairman and the CEO (p. 5) Natural Capital (p. 57) Relationships (p. 67-73) https://www.euskaltel.com https://blog.euskaltel.com 102-12 External initiatives Group 17 http://konekta.euskaltel.com https://www.mundo-r.com https://blog.mundo-r.com https://www.telecable.es https://blog.telecable.es/ Membership of Relationships (p. 67-73) 102-13 Group 17 Associations Other Information (p. 81) Strategy Statement from 102-14 senior decisionLetter from the Chairman and the CEO (p. 2-5) Group maker Key impacts, risks Organisational and Cultural Capital (p. 19-22) 102-15 Group and opportunities See Appendix (p. 106) 89 EUSKALTEL GROUP 7. OTHER INFORMATION Global Standards Description Observations/direct reference (page) Scope SDG Compact Ethics and Integrity Values, principles, Letter from the Chairman and the CEO (p. 3) Principle 102-16 standards and Organisational and Cultural Capital (p. (17 19) Group 16 6 norms of behaviour Human Capital (p. 30) In 2018, the Ethics Channel was implemented for the Group’s professionals in order to communicate, in addition to any noncompliance, doubts or queries related to compliance and / or applicable regulations. Mechanisms for This channel is accessible to professionals through the advice and intranets of each of the Group’s companies. Principle 102-17 Group 16 concern about 6 ethics Likewise, for the same purposes, the Ethics Channel is available for posting queries and clarifying doubts to any supplier, customer or third party outside the Euskaltel Group through the corporate websites of each Euskaltel Group company. Governance Governance 102-18 Organisational and Cultural Capital (p. 22-23) Group structure Euskaltel Group in 2018 (p. 9-13) 102-19 Decision-making Group Other information (p. 81) Executive-level responsibility 102-20 for economic, Organisational and Cultural Capital (p. 24 and 25) Group environmental, and social issues Consulting stakeholders 102-21 on economic, Other information (p. 83 and 84) Group 16 environmental and social issues Composition of the highest governance 102-22 Organisational and Cultural Capital (p. 17-23) Group 5 16 body and its committees Chair of the highest 102-23 Organisational and Cultural Capital (p. 22) Group 16 governing body Nominating and selecting of the 102-24 Organisational and Cultural Capital (p. 22) Group 5 16 highest governance body D.6 of the Annual Corporate Governance Report 2018 102-25 Conflicts of interest Group 16 of the Euskaltel Role of highest Letter from the Chairman and the CEO (p. 3) governance body in Organisational and Cultural Capital (p. 19) 102-26 Group setting, values and Section E of the Euskaltel Group’s 2018 Annual Corporate Gostrategy vernance Report contains further information. Collective knowledge of 102-27 Organisational and Cultural Capital (p. 23) Group 4 highest governance body Evaluating the 102-28 highest governance Organisational and Cultural Capital (p. 23) Group body’s performance 90 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Global Standards Description Observations/direct reference (page) Scope SDG Compact Governance Identifying and managing Section E of the Euskaltel Group’s 2018 Annual Corporate Go102-29 of economic, Group 16 vernance Report environmental and social impacts Effectiveness of Section E of the Euskaltel Group’s 2018 Annual Corporate Go102-30 risk management Group vernance Report processes Review of economic, 102-31 environmental and Organisational and Cultural Capital (p. 24 and 25) Group social topics Highest governance The Board of Directors is responsible for the review and approbody’s role in 102-32 val of this Responsible Company Report 2018, after verification Group sustainability by a third party. reporting Communicating The CEO and the CFO are entrusted with informing the Board of 102-33 Group critical concerns Directors of all aspects regarding the company’s performance. In general terms, the matters taken to the Board during 2018 related to business in the three regions in which the Euskaltel Group operates, monthly management reports, preparation of the annual accounts, proposed distribution of profits, proposed dividend payment, regular public reporting, budgets and defiNature and total nition of objectives, approval of various annual reports, conve102-34 number of critical ning of the Annual General Meeting, preparation of proposed Group concerns resolutions and relevant directors’ reports, appointment of new Board members, appointment to Board offices (Secretary and Deputy Secretary), internal organisational structure, corporate policies, main legislative developments, consolidation and investee scope, major Euskaltel shareholders and information on corporate governance, among other matters. Remuneration 102-35 Report on Euskaltel Directors’ Remuneration 2018. Group policies Process for 102-36 determining Report on Euskaltel Directors’ Remuneration 2018. Group remuneration Stakeholders’ Organisational and Cultural Capital (p. 22 and 23) 102-37 involvement in Group 16 Report on Euskaltel Directors’ Remuneration 2018. remuneration Annual total The compensation ratio is 46%. Only employees covered by a 102-38 Group compensation ratio Collective Agreement are included. By reference to employees under collective bargaining agreements, the best paid person’s salary rose by 0%, whereas the rise was 2% according to the collective agreement, so the ratio Percentage increase is 0%. 102-39 in annual total Group compensation ratio Compensation analysis 2016 2017 2018 Percentage 2.2% 2% 0% 91 EUSKALTEL GROUP 7. OTHER INFORMATION Global Standards Description Observations/direct reference (page) Scope SDG Compact Stakeholder engagement List of stakeholders 102-40 Other information (p. 83 and 84) Group groups Collective Human capital (p. 34) Principle 102-41 bargaining 88% of Euskaltel Group employees are covered by CollectiGroup 8 1 and 3 agreements ve Agreements Managers and Directors are excluded. Identifying 102-42 and selecting Other information (p. 83 and 84) Group stakeholders Approach to Customers (p. 43 and 44) 102-43 stakeholder Other information (p. 82-84) Group engagement See Appendix (p. 101) Key issues and 102-44 Other information (p. 82) Group concerns raised Reporting practice Organisational and Cultural Capital (p. 22) Other information (p. 81) Entities included in Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 102-45 the consolidated Group are Euskaltel S.A (Group parent company), R Cable, S.A, Tefinancial statements lecable de Asturias, S.A and Cinfo, S.L. (subsidiaries). On 11 July 2018 the existing shareholding in Cinfo was sold. Defining report 102-46 content and topic Other information (p. 81) Group boundaries List of material 102-47 topics Restatements Other information (p. 82) Group of information Re expresiones de 102-48 Other information (p. 81) Group información Changes in 102-49 Other information(p. 81) Group reporting 102-50 Reporting period FY 2018 Group Date of most recent 102-51 23 February 2018 Group report 102-52 Report cycle Annual Group Contact point for 102-53 questions regarding Back cover Group the report Claims of reporting 102-54 in accordance with Verification Report (p. 85) Group GRI Standards 102-55 GRI Index GRI Standards Table (p. 86-97) Group Verification Report (p. 85 and 86) 102-56 External assurance The Euskaltel Group commissions an officially authorised Group company (AENOR) to verify non-financial information. GRI 103 Management Approach Explanation of the 103-1 material topic and its Group boundary The management 1 8 Principle 103-2 approach and its Management approach indicated in each part of this table. Group 16 6 components Evaluation of the 103-3 management Group approach 92 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Global Standards Description Observations/direct reference (page) Scope SDG Compact GRI 201 Economic Performance Topic included in the materiality analysis and in the 2016-2018 CSR Plan of the Euskaltel Group. Management approach and evaluation included in Chapters 0, 1, 2 and 5. Direct economic 2 5 7 201-1 value generated Relationships (p. 65) Group 8 9 and distributed Due to the nature of its activities, Euskaltel has a very low environmental impact on its surroundings. This influences the scope of the environmental objectives it sets and allows the Group to ensure that any potential risk Financial for the company’s activities is being properly managed. As the principal implications and measurement of its impact on climatechange, the Euskaltel Group calcuPrinciple 201-2 other risks and lates its carbon footprint each year and prepares GHG emissions reports Group 13 7 and 8 opportunities due following a method established together with Ihobe (Public Environmental to climate change Management Corporation dependent on the Basque Government), where both direct and indirect emissions are quantified. Euskaltel also reports on risks and opportunities in the CDP report which is available at https://www. cdp.net/es/climate All Euskaltel Group employees enjoy a number of welfare benefits related Defined benefit either to the products and services provided or to welfare, health and emplan obligations 201-3 ployee retirement contributions. The Euskaltel Group pays its employees’ Group 8 and other monthly Social Security contributions, based on their salaries, for the public retirement plans welfare system. Financial assistance In 2018, subsidies received totalled €12,758 thousand. In 2017, the figure 201-4 Group received from the was €64 thousand and €248 thousand in 2016 Government GRI 202 Market Presence Topic included in the materiality analysis and in the 2016-2018 CSR Plan of the Euskaltel Group. Management approach and evaluation included in Chapters 0, 1 and 2. Ratios of standard entry level wage by The ratio between the entry level wage and the local minimum wage in the Principle 202-1 gender compared Group 1 5 8 Group in Group 2018 was 1.75 for women and 1.60 for men. 1 and 6 to local minimum wage Proportion of senior The Group’s senior management team comprises the Chairman, CEO, the management hired heads of the Decision Centres and the heads of the Function Departments Principle 202-2 Group 8 from the local . 91% of the senior management team are from the local community, i.e. 6 community Spain, the market in which it operates. GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts Topic included in the materiality analysis and in the 2016-2018 CSR Plan of the Euskaltel Group. Management approach and evaluation included in Chapters 0, 3 and 5. 1 2 3 Infrastructure 4 5 6 The 2018 investment relating to customers and network deployment investments 203-1 amounts to: €107,865,969. Group 8 10 11 and services Customers (p. 41, 52 and 53) 12 13 14 supported 15 1 2 3 Euskaltel Group bases its approach as an integrated telecommunications 4 5 6 Significant operator with an assured future development on the deployment of its own 203-2 indirect economic Group 8 10 11 high capacity and capillarity network, which allows the provision of distinct impacts 12 13 14 high-value services. 15 93 EUSKALTEL GROUP 7. OTHER INFORMATION Global Standards Description Observations/direct reference (page) Scope SDG Compact GRI 204 Procurement practices Topic included in the materiality analysis and in the 2016-2018 CSR Plan of the Euskaltel Group. Management approach and evaluation described in Chapter 5. Proportion of spending Relationships (p. 66) 204-1 Group 12 on local suppliers See Appendix (p. 102) GRI 205 Anti-corruption Topic included in the materiality analysis and in the 2016-2018 CSR Plan of the Euskaltel Group. Management approach and evaluation described in Chapters 1. Operations assessed In 2018, the Group’s distributors and suppliers with the largest billings Principle 205-1 for risks related to and risk accepted and signed the Euskaltel Group Code of Ethics and Group 16 10 corruption Anti-corruption Policy. Organisational and Cultural Capital (p. 15 and 20) Supervision of compliance with the code is entrusted to the Corporate Compliance Committee, which bears ultimate responsibility for the effective supervision and monitoring of the regulatory environment Communication and affecting the Group’s business. training about antiPrinciple 205-2 During 2018, as part of a communication and training plan on regulaGroup 16 corruption policies and 10 procedures tory compliance, training was given on the Euskaltel Group’s Code of Ethics, for Behaviour and Anticorruption Policy both presentially and through the intranets of each Group company. Since September, communications have also been carried out within the Group concerning Compliance, on a structured and recurring basis. Confirmed incidents During 2018, no incidents occurred that involved a severe breach of Principle 205-3 of corruption and regulations or of the good governance practices established Group 16 10 measures taken in the Company. GRI 206 Anti-competitive Behaviour Non-material issue for the Euskaltel Group. Legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, No official judgements or decisions were issued that affect the com206-1 Group 16 anti-trust and monopoly pany in this regard. practices GRI 301 Materials Topic included in the materiality analysis and in the 2016-2018 CSR Plan of the Euskaltel Group. Management approach and evaluation described in Chapter 4. Materials used by 301-1 Natural Capital (p. 61) Group 8 12 weight or volume • Purchase of refurbished customer equipment vs. total equipment purchased: 2.10% in 2018. Recycled input • Use of recycled paper vs. total paper used in all utilities: 1.70% in 2018. Principle 301-2 Group 8 12 materials used See appendix 301-2 (p. 101). 7 and 8 • Reconditioned customer equipment vs. total equipment placed on the market was 63.84% (See 301-3). Reclaimed products Principle Natural Capital (p. 60) 301-3 and their packaging Group 8 12 7, 8 and See Appendix 301-3 (p. 101) materials 9 GRI 302 Energy Topic included in the materiality analysis and in the 2016-2018 CSR Plan of the Euskaltel Group. Management approach and evaluation described in Chapter 4. Energy consumption 7 8 Principle 302-1 Natural Capital (p. 61) Group within the organisation 12 13 7 and 8 Energy consumption 7 8 Principle 302-2 outside the Natural Capital (p. 61) Group 12 13 7 and 8 organisation 7 8 Principle 302-3 Energy intensity Natural Capital (p. 61) Group 12 13 8 94 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Global Standards Description Observations/direct reference (page) Scope SDG Compact GRI 302 Energy Topic included in the materiality analysis and in the 2016-2018 CSR Plan of the Euskaltel Group. Management approach and evaluation described in Chapter 4. Natural Capital (p. 61) The Euskaltel Group has defined an energy efficiency plan for 2018, setting out the measures for saving both electricity and fuel. This plan foresees the following actions: • Rational use of lighting at central offices, with automatic shutoff features (at data processing centres) and continuation of other features (hallways and offices) • Installation of more energy-efficient equipment 7 8 12 Principle Reduction of energy 302-4 at the data-processing centres (servers) and consolidation of Group 7, 8 and consumption 13 existing services. 9 • Rational use of vehicles for work-related travel and travel between the different Euskaltel Group locations • Use of videoconferences for meetings between different Group locations, avoiding long-distance travel. Energy consumption has increased compared with 2017. However, energy intensity has decreased by 4.2 due to the rise in customer products. Reduction in energy The consumption requirements of customer equipment are 7 8 12 Principle 302-5 requirements of Group 7, 8 and taken into account when these are officially approved (Group). 13 products and services 9 GRI 303 Water Topic included in the materiality analysis and in the 2016-2018 CSR Plan of the Euskaltel Group. Management approach and evaluation described in Chapter 4. Natural Capital (p. 61) El agua consumida proviene de la red de abastecimiento del Consorcio de Aguas del Gran Bilbao en el caso de Euskaltel y en el caso de R de las redes de la Empresa municipal de aguas de la Coruña S.A., Aqualia and Viaqua, dependiendo de la ubiWater consumption by cación Principle 303-1 Group 6 12 source de los centros de trabajo. En el caso de Telecable, el agua 7 and 8 procede de la Empresa Municipal de Aguas de Gijón S.A. en el caso de los edificios del Parque Tecnológico de Gijón; and en el caso del CPD de Oviedo de la red gestionada por FCC Aqualia, Concesionaria del Servicio de Agua and Saneamiento de Oviedo. Sources of water During 2018, no water sources were significantly affected by Principle 303-2 significantly impacted Group 6 12 withdrawal of water by the Group. 7 and 8 by water extraction Agua reciclada and Principle 303-3 No recycled or reused water is used or consumed. Group 6 8 12 reutilizada 8 and 9 GRI 304 Biodiversity Non-material issue for the Euskaltel Group. Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected Principle 304-1 Group 6 14 15 areas of high The Euskaltel Group does not own any land in areas of high 8 biodiversity value and biodiversity value. During 2018, no impacts were recorded in areas outside protected respect of biodiversity in protected, heritage or biosphere reserareas ve areas. Consequently, no impacts occurred in areas serving Significant impacts of as habitats to species at risk of extinction. Principle 304-2 activities, products and Group 6 14 15 8 services on biodiversity Habitats protected or Principle 304-3 Group 6 14 15 restored 8 95 EUSKALTEL GROUP 7. OTHER INFORMATION Global Standards Description Observations/direct reference (page) Scope SDG Compact GRI 304 Biodiversity Non-material issue for the Euskaltel Group. IUCN Red List The Euskaltel Group does not own any land in areas of high species and national biodiversity value. During 2018, no impacts were recorded 6 14 conservation list Principle 304-4 in respect of biodiversity in protected, heritage or biospheGroup species with habitats 15 8 re reserve areas. Consequently, no impacts occurred in in areas affected by areas serving as habitats to species at risk of extinction. operations GRI 305 Emissions Topic included in the materiality analysis and in the 2016-2018 CSR Plan of the Euskaltel Group. Management approach and evaluation described in Chapter 4. Natural Capital (p. 61) The emission sources considered in scope 1 are: use of fuel in 3 12 Principle Direct GHG (Scope 1) generators and by company vehicles during work trips, plus 305-1 Group 13 14 7, 8 and emissions emissions of fluorinated greenhouse gases. This also includes 15 9 natural gas consumed by Telecable. See appendix 305-1 (p. 101) Natural Capital (p. 61) 3 12 Principle Indirect GHG (Scope 2) The emission source considered in scope 2 is electricity con305-2 Group 13 14 7, 8 and emissions sumption. 15 9 See Appendix 305-2 (p. 101) Natural Capital (p. 61) The emission sources considered in scope 3 are: fuel consump3 12 Other emissions Principle 305-3 tion derived from the use of non-Group means of transport used Group 13 14 Indirect GHG (Scope 3) 8 in business travel (employee-owned cars, aeroplanes, trains, ta15 xis). See Appendix 305-3 (p. 101) Natural Capital (p. 61) Emission intensity is calculated without taking into account Sco12 13 Intensity of GHG Principle 305-4 pe 3 with respect to the total number of products. 2.4M in 2016, Group emissions 14 15 8 and 9 2.9M in 2017 and 2.9M in 2018. See Appendix 305-4 (p. 101) Reduction in GHG 12 13 Principle 305-5 Natural Capital (p. 58 and 61) Group emissions 15 8 and 9 The Euskaltel Group does not produce, import or export gases that deplete the ozone layer. Since 2012, Euskaltel has impleEmissions of ozonemented a plan to replace R-22 gases, whereby whenever a 3 12 Principle 305-6 Group depleting substances leak of this type of gas occurs, the equipment is either retired 13 8 and 9 or recharged with other refrigerant gases that do not affect the ozone layer (R-434.A or R-424.A). 3 12 NOx, SOx and other Principle 305-7 See Appendix 305-7 (p. 101) Group 13 14 significant air emissions 8 and 9 15 GRI 306 Effluents and waste Topic included in the materiality analysis and in the 2016-2018 CSR Plan of the Euskaltel Group. Management approach and evaluation described in Chapter 4. The Euskaltel Group does not discharge industrial waste water. Sanitary and sewage water is discharged to the Consorcio de Aguas del Gran Bilbao water treatment system, in the case of Euskaltel, and to the Empresa Municipal de Aguas de la Coruña S.A., Aqualia and Viaqua networks for R, depending on the 3 6 Water discharge by Principle 306-1 location of each work centre. Telecable discharges sanitary waGroup quality and destination 12 14 7 and 8 ter into the waste treatment system of Empresa Municipal de Aguas de Gijón S.A. in the case of buildings at the Parque Tecnológico de Gijón, and the treatment network of FCC Aqualia, Concesionaria del Servicio de Agua y Saneamiento de Oviedo, in the case of the Oviedo DPC. Waste by type and 3 6 Principle 306-2 Natural Capital (p. 61) Group disposal method 12 7 and 8 3 6 Principle 306-3 Significant spills There have been no accidental spills in 2018. Group 12 14 8 15 96 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Global Standards Description Observations/direct reference (page) Scope SDG Compact GRI 306 Effluents and waste Topic included in the materiality analysis and in the 2016-2018 CSR Plan of the Euskaltel Group. Management approach and evaluation described in Chapter 4. All hazardous waste, including used lead batteries, is collected by auTransport of hazardous thorised waste management companies, primarily in the Basque CounPrinciple 306-4 Group 3 12 waste try, Galicia and Asturias and, in certain cases, in other regions of Spain. 8 No hazardous waste has been shipped internationally. Water bodies affected Principle 306-5 by discharges and run During 2018, the Group did not discharge any water affecting. Group 6 14 15 8 offs GRI 307 Environmental compliance Topic included in the materiality analysis and in the 2016-2018 CSR Plan of the Euskaltel Group. Management approach and evaluation described in Chapter 4. Non-compliance with During 2018, no significant fines were received in this connection. Principle 307-1 environmental laws and Group 16 Claims of an environmental nature are indicated in 103-2 7 and 8 regulations GRI 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment Topic included in the materiality analysis and in the 2016-2018 CSR Plan of the Euskaltel Group. Management approach and evaluation described in Chapters 5. The supplier evaluation includes environmental criteria and is carried out by the Quality, Environment, Welfare and Health Department, given that the matters assessed in the regular evaluation New suppliers that include the results of the internal management system audits and the Principle 308-1 were screened using Group 12 existence of an environmental management system, particularly for su9 environmental criteria ppliers with a higher influence on the appraisal of the Group’s environmental matters. Currently, efforts are being made to expand the environmental management system policies to all Group companies in 2018. Negative environmental Based on the evaluations performed, the Euskaltel Group has not dePrinciple 308-2 impacts in the supply Group 12 tected any supplier having significant negative environmental impacts. 9 chain and actions taken GRI 401 Employment Topic included in the materiality analysis and in the 2016-2018 CSR Plan of the Euskaltel Group. Management approach and evaluation described in Chapter 2. New employee hires and Principle 401-1 See Appendix 401-1 (p. 102) Group 5 8 employee turnover 6 Benefits provided to full-time employees Human capital (p. 38 and 39) Principle 401-2 that are not provided to All Group workers and their immediate family members may access meGroup 8 6 temporary or part-time dical services in advantageous conditions. employees Figures for employees taking parental leave in recent years are as follows: 2016 2016 2018 Men 11 13 10 Principle 401-3 Parental leave Group 5 8 6 Women 8 9 7 The 17 employees returned at the end of their parental leave. GRI 402 Labour management relations Topic included in the materiality analysis and in the 2016-2018 CSR Plan of the Euskaltel Group. Management approach and evaluation described in Chapter 2. Minimal notice periods In general, operational changes are reported to the affected persons Principle 402-1 regarding operational and the affected area prior to reflecting them on the official company Group 8 3 changes organisational chart posted on the intranet. GRI 403 Occupational health and safety Topic included in the materiality analysis and in the 2016-2018 CSR Plan of the Euskaltel Group. Management approach and evaluation described in Chapter 2. Worker representation There is a Health and Safety Committee in each company, which repre403-1 in joint health and safety Group 3 8 sents 100% of the Group’s workforce. committees 97 EUSKALTEL GROUP 7. OTHER INFORMATION Global Standards Description Observations/direct reference (page) Scope SDG Compact GRI 403 Occupational health and safety Topic included in the materiality analysis and in the 2016-2018 CSR Plan of the Euskaltel Group. Management approach and evaluation described in Chapter 2. Types of injury and rates of Human capital (p. 39) injury, occupational diseases, See Appendix 403-2 (p. 102) 403-2 lost days and absenteeism, Group 3 8 There have been no deaths due to accident or occupational disease and number of work-related in the last three years. fatalities Workers with high incidence No professional activities or job positions within the Group compa403-3 or high risk of diseases nies have been identified as having a high incidence or high risk of Group 3 8 related to their occupation work-related illness. Human capital (p. 38 and 39) Health and safety topics The labour agreements by which the three Group companies are 403-4 covered in formal agreements Group 3 8 governed contain a specific chapter on Health and Safety at work. with trade unions Therefore, the percentage is 100%. GRI 404 Training and education Topic included in the materiality analysis and in the 2016-2018 CSR Plan of the Euskaltel Group. Management approach and evaluation described in Chapter 2. Human capital (p. 37) The average number of hours training by position and gender expressed in the following table: 4 5 Average hours of training per Principle 404-1 Executives Managers Other professionals Group year per employee 8 6 Men 110.77 86.08 33.26 Women 99.65 146.18 35.31 Programs for upgrading 404-2 employee skills and transition Human capital (p. 36 and 37) Group 4 8 assistance programs Percentage of employees receiving regular Principle 404-3 Human capital (p. 29) K and R 5 8 performance and career 6 development reviews GRI 405 Diversity and equal opportunity Topic included in the materiality analysis and in the 2016-2018 CSR Plan of the Euskaltel Group. Management approach and evaluation described in Chapter 2. Organisational and Cultural Capital (p. 23) 5 8 Diversity of governance Principle 405-1 Human capital (p. 34 and 35) Group bodies and employees 10 6 See Appendix 405-1 (p. 102) In line with the Group’s people management policy, salaries are deRatio of basic salary and termined on an individual basis; that is, each person is compensated 5 8 Principle 405-2 remuneration of women to in line with the responsibility assigned, their performance and their Group 10 6 men contribution of value to the company. No differences are established in respect of gender, age or other such factors. GRI 406 Non discrimination Topic included in the materiality analysis and in the 2016-2018 CSR Plan of the Euskaltel Group. Management approach and evaluation described in Chapter 2. Incidents of discrimination In 2018, there were no incidents of discrimination or 5 8 Principle 406-1 Group and corrective actions taken Group violation of Human Rights. 16 6 GRI 407 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Topic included in the materiality analysis and in the 2016-2018 CSR Plan of the Euskaltel Group. Management approach and evaluation described in Chapter 2. Operations or suppliers in Human capital (p. 34) which freedom of association Principle 407-1 The Group’s business and purchasing volume are essentially loGroup 8 16 and collective bargaining may 3 cal, so there is no significant risk of infringement. be at risk 98 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Global Standards Description Observations/direct reference (page) Scope SDG Compact GRI 408 Child Labour Non-material issue for the Euskaltel Group. Operations and suppliers at Prevailing legislation guarantees this right. Article Principle 408-1 significant risk for incidents of child 6 of the Workers’ Statute prohibits the employment Group 8 16 5 exploitation of minors. GRI 409 Forced or compulsory labour Non-material issue for the Euskaltel Group. Prevailing legislation guarantees this right. Employment must Operations and suppliers at be offered freely, and employees must be free to leave their Principle 409-1 significant risk for incidents of employment whenever they choose. Article 49 of the EmploGroup 8 16 4 forced labour yment Statute acknowledges the right of employees to leave their employment voluntarily whenever they choose to do so. GRI 410 Security practices Topic included in the materiality analysis and in the 2016-2018 CSR Plan of the Euskaltel Group. Management approach and evaluation described in Chapter 2. 100% of the Euskaltel Group security personnel are duly Security personnel trained identified and have received the requisite training in respect Principle 410-1 in Human Rights policies or Group 16 of Euskaltel’s internal procedures and rules, the systems and 1 and 2 procedures equipment used, first aid and data protection. GRI 411 Rights of indigenous peoples Non-material issue for the Euskaltel Group. Incidents of violations involving In 2018, no groups of indigenous peoples were affected by Principle 411-1 rights of indigenous peoples and Group 11 16 the Group’s activity. 1 actions taken GRI 412 Human Rights assessment Topic discussed in the materiality analysis and in the 2016-2018 CSR Plan of the Euskaltel Group. Management approach and evaluation described in Chapter 1. Operations that have been All Euskaltel Group centres are regularly inspected to ensure Principle 412-1 subject to human right reviews Group 11 16 that occupational health and safety conditions are optimal. 1 or impact assessments Employee training on human Principle 412-2 Organisational and Cultural Capital (p. 15) Group rights policies or procedures 1 and 2 Significant investment There are no significant investment agreements that include agreements and contracts that Human Rights clauses or that have been subject to Human Principle 412-3 include human right clauses or Group Rights analysis, with the exception of legal compliance in 1 and 2 that underwent human rights matters of security. screening GRI 413 Local Communities Topic included in the materiality analysis and in the 2016-2018 CSR Plan of the Euskaltel Group. Management approach and evaluation described in Chapter 5. Operations with local community Principle 413-1 engagement, impact assessment Relationships (p. 67-73) Group 11 1 and development programmes Operations with significant The Euskaltel Group does not have operations centres that Principle 413-2 actual and potential negative Group 1 2 11 have or might have negative impacts on local communities. 1 impacts, on local communities GRI 414 Supplier Social Assessment Topic included in the materiality analysis and in the 2016-2018 CSR Plan of the Euskaltel Group. Management approach and evaluation described in Chapter 5. Given that suppliers are evaluated in respect of key corporaNew suppliers were screened Principle 414-1 te risks, the Group does not deem it necessary to conduct a Group 5 8 16 using social criteria 2 further analysis focused on labour practices. Negative social impact in the The Group does not deem it necessary to conduct a further Principle 414-2 Group 5 8 16 supply chain and actions taken analysis focused on its social repercussion. 2 GRI 415 Public Policy Non-material issue for the Euskaltel Group. The Euskaltel Group does not make contributions to Principle 415-1 Political contributions Group political parties or their candidates. 10 99 EUSKALTEL GROUP 7. OTHER INFORMATION StanGlobal Description Observations/direct reference (page) Scope SDG dards Compact GRI 416 Customer health and safety Topic included in the materiality analysis and in the 2016-2018 CSR Plan of the Euskaltel Group. Management approach and evaluation included in Chapters 1 and 3. Evaluation of the health and The Euskaltel Group is responsible for marketing equipment manufactured 416-1 safety impacts of by third parties, ensuring that the equipment it acquires and sells complies Group 12 product and service with current legislation on electromagnetic fields. categories Incidents of non-compliance 416-2 concerning the health No fines or penalties were received in this respect. Group 16 and safety impacts of products and services GRI 417 Marketing and labelling Topic discussed in the materiality analysis and in the 2016-2018 CSR Plan of the Euskaltel Group. Management approach and evaluation described in Chapters 3. All products provided by the Euskaltel Group are certified and meet the requirements set by different national and international bodies. The company Requirements for complies with legal requirements regarding packaging labelling, in accorproduct and service dance with Law 11/1997 on packaging and packaging waste. All labels state 417-1 Group 12 information and that the company complies with prevailing legislation and that it contributes labelling to the future management of waste generated by packaging. The Company also cooperates with the integrated management system organisation Ecoembes for this type of waste. Incidents of non-compliance concerning product 417-2 No fines or penalties were received in this respect. Group 16 and service information and labelling Incidents of In 2018 Euskaltel received a penalty from the Secretary of State for Digital non compliance 417-3 Progress due the nonfulfillment of the obligation to include certain price-reGroup 16 concerning lated information in contracts for an amount of €39,000. communications GRI 418 Customer privacy Topic included in the materiality analysis and in the 2016-2018 CSR Plan of the Euskaltel Group. Management approach and evaluation included in Chapters 1 and 3. Substantial complaints related to breaches of No duly-grounded complaints of this kind were receivedGroup 16 418-1 Group 16 customer privacy and in 2018. loss of customer data GRI 419 Socio-economic compliance Topic included in the materiality analysis and in the 2016-2018 CSR Plan of the Euskaltel Group. Management approach and evaluation included in Chapters 1 and 3. In 2018 the Secretary of State for Digital Progress initiated two disciplinary Non-compliance with actions against Euskaltel due to its failure to comply with the deadline for laws and regulations managing cancellations of landline telephony services, involving a fine 419-1 Group 16 in the social and of €136,500, and mobile telephony services, involving a fine of €73,500. economic area Claims received through consumer organisations are disclosed in the Appendix (p. 101). 100 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 GRI Standards Appendix 102-8 Employee information 2016 2017 2018 Category Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Executives 48 9 57 34 8 42 33 7 40 Management 66 34 100 34 16 50 31 15 46 Other 182 188 370 342 271 613 345 266 611 Professionals TOTAL 296 231 527 410 295 705 409 288 697 301-2 Recycled input materials used 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Percentage 3.3% 2.8% 1.7% Percentage 35.5% 43.0% 63.8 305-1,2,3,4 Emissions 2016 2017 2018 Unidades CO2 (*) 147.46 161.00 200.99 t. CO2 eq. CH4 (*) 0.19 0.17 0.24 t. CO2 eq. N2O (*) 1.94 1.60 2.41 t. CO2 eq. Direct GHG (Scope 1) HFC (*) (**) 766.24 1,022.09 1,087.48 t. CO2 eq. PFC (*) (**) 0.00 0.00 0.00 t. CO2 eq. SF6 (*) (**) 0.00 0.00 0.00 t. CO2 eq. Indirect GHG (Scope 2) CO2 (*) 9,479.44 21,893.41 23,117.53 t. CO2 eq. Intensity of GHG emissions CO2 4.49 7.98 8.30 kg. CO2 e./prod. GHG emissions (Scope 3) CO2 259.60 320.40 320.97 t. CO2 eq. * To calculate GHG emissions the method and conversions of the Ihobe Stop CO2 tool are used. ** To calculate HCFC, HFC and SF6 emissions in equivalent CO2tonnes, the Atmospheric Heating Potential (AHP) published in European Regulation (EC) 517/2014 are used. Environmental investment 305-7 Other significant atmospheric emissions 2016 2017 2018 (tonnes) 2016 2017 2018 Waste management 23,222 16,933 42,696 SO2 0.0008 0.0007 0.0009 (managers and media) Other emissions NOX 0.6066 0.5719 0.7200 Consultancies and audits 14,728 9,881 5,471 in air Solid particles 0.0515 0.0485 0.0611 To calculate SO2, NOx and PM emissions, data included in the European TOTAL 37,950 26,814 48,167 Environment Agency Guide “EMEP / EEA air pollutant emission inventory guidebook 2013” are used. Claims Euskaltel Group* 2016 2017* 2018 Residential 874 1,220 1,033 Consumer Institutes and Offices and Consumer Associations 826 1,111 956 SESIAD 48 109 77 Empresarial 76 122 88 Consumer Institutes and Offices and Consumer Associations 66 101 75 SESIAD** 10 21 13 TOTAL 950 1,342 1.121 * Telecable claim data is included as from 1 January 2017 ** SESIAD: Secretary of State for the Information Society and Digital Agenda 101 EUSKALTEL GROUP 7. OTHER INFORMATION In 2018, one person with functional diversity worked in the Euskaltel Group 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Euskaltel Group suppliers Under 30 31 to 50 More than 50 % PurLocal % Local Company / Suchase SuSuLocation ppliers volu2016 3 0 0 0 2 0 ppliers ppliers men 2017 16 8 6 8 1 0 Euskaltel 2018 4 2 17 6 4 0 / Basque 430 200 46.5% 58.2% Country R / Galicia 365 149 40.8% 28.6% External turnover index for 2018 by gender and age Telecable / 211 68 32.2% 13.3% Asturias Under 30 31 to 50 More than 50 Group Euskaltel 352 NA NA 51.5% 2016 1 0 7 3 7 0 /Other regions 2017 3 3 16 8 13 2 * * The sum of the local suppliers for each of the three 2018 2 2 14 9 10 1 companies individually (Euskaltel, R and Telecable) would be 417, as can be seen in the table. However, the local supplier Men Women total is 429 since There are 12 suppliers that offer support at the Group level. 403-2 T ypes of accidents and rates of accidents at work, occupational diseases, days lost, and absenteeism Total Group Euskaltel absenteeism R absenteeism Telecable absenteeism absenteeism 2016 1.53 3.48 1.08 2.33 ----1.32 3.15 2017 1.23 3.43 1.39 2.08 1.99 2.12 1.51 2.86 2018 1.02 1.54 0.35 2.02 2.06 2.19 1.17 1.77 Accident seriousness and frequency rates in the Euskaltel Group by year and gender 2016 2017 2018 Total Total Total Seriousness rate 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.09 0.04 0.00 0.16 0.07 Frequency rate 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 2.00 0.83 0.00 2.02 0.83 Men Women 405-1 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Var. 2016-2018 2016 2017 2018 by gender and age Men 25 10 23 46 12 20 57 16 21 62% >50 Women 10 0 2 17 0 1 25 2 0 125% Men 152 56 25 277 22 14 273 15 12 29% 31>50 Women 173 34 7 244 16 7 231 13 7 17% Men 5 0 0 19 0 0 15 0 0 200% ≤30 Women 5 0 0 10 0 0 10 0 0 100% Collective Agreement personnel Managers Executives 102 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Contents required by Law 11/2018 of 28 December, which amended the Commercial Code, the revised Companies Act approved by Legislative Royal Decree 1/2010 of 2 July and Law 22/2015 of 20 July on Auditing, with respect to nonfinancial information and diversity. Contents under Law 11/2018 INF Standard used Chapter of the report Description of Group’s GRI 102-2, 102-4, 102-6, Business Model 1. Organisational and Cultural Capital Business Model 102-7, 102-15 Policies GRI 103-2, 103-3 GRI 102-11, 102-15, 102-30, Main Risks 201-2 GRI 102-11, 102-15, 102-29, General 102-30, 102-31, 307-1 GRI 103-2, 302-4, 302-5, 4. Natural Capital Pollution 305-5, 305-7 GRI Table Circular economy and waste GRI 103-2, 301-1, 301-2, 301-3, (The environmental information is Information on environmental prevention and management 303-3, 306-1, 306-2, 306-3 furnished on the basis of materiality, issues so no details are included on aspects GRI 102-2, 103-2, 301-1, 301-2, such as noise, light pollution, food 301-3, 302-1, 302-2, 302-3, waste or biodiversity.) Sustainable use of resources 302-4, 302-5, 303-1, 303-2, 303-3 GRI 102-15, 103-2, 201-2, 305-1, Climate Change 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5 GRI 103-2, 304-1, 304-2, 304-3, Protection of biodiversity 304-4 Policies GRI 102-35, 103-2, 103-3 Main Risks GRI 102-15, 102-30 GRI 102-7, 102-8, 102-35, 102Employment 36, 103-2, 201-3, 202-1, 401-1, 401-3, 403-2, 405-1, 405-2 2. Capital Humano Information on social and Health and safety GRI 103-2, 403-2, 403-3, 405-2 GRI Table personnel issues GRI 102-41, 102-43, 402-1, Tables Law 11/2018 Social Relation 403-1, 403-4 Training GRI 103-2, 404-1, 404-2 Accessibility GRI 103-2 Equality GRI 103-2, 404-2, 406-1 Policies GRI 103-2, 103-3, 410-1, 412-2 Main Risks GRI 102-15, 102-30 Information on respect for 1. Organisational and Cultural Capital human rights GRI 102-17, 103-2, 406-1, 407-1, Human rights 408-1, 409-1, 410-1, 411-1, 412-1, 414-2, 419-1 Policies GRI 103-2, 103-3, 205-2 Information related to the fight against corruption and Main Risks GRI 102-15, 102-30, 205-1 1. Organisational and Cultural Capital bribery Corruption and bribery GRI 103-2, 201-1, 203-2, 415-1 Policies GRI 103-2, 103-3 Main Risks GRI 102-15, 102-30 GRI 102-13, 102-43, 201-1, The Company’s commitment to 203-1, 203-2, 204-1, 413-1, sustainable development 413-2 Information on company 5. Relationships GRI 102-9, 103-3, 308-1, 308-2, Subcontractors and suppliers 407-1, 409-1, 414-1, 414-2 GRI 102-17, 103-2, 416-1, 416-2, Consumers 417-1, 418-1 Tax information GRI 201-1, 201-4 103 EUSKALTEL GROUP 7. OTHER INFORMATION Tables Law 11/2018 Breakdown of involuntary sick leave by Desglose de las remuneraciones medias por categoría professional category, gender and age profesional, sexo and edad Men Euskaltel R Telecable Group Men Euskaltel R Telecable Group Executives Executives ≤ 30 0 0 0 0 ≤ 30 31 > 50 0 1 0 1 31 > 50 129,567.04 192,821.93 166,044.86 146,189.16 > 50 1 2 1 4 > 50 144,943.98 173,851.17 149,073.58 Management Management ≤ 30 0 0 0 0 ≤ 30 31 > 50 0 1 0 1 31 > 50 76,826.56 85,384.63 79,679.25 > 50 2 0 0 2 > 50 81,627.25 100,501.31 87,525.39 Other Other professionals professionals ≤ 30 0 2 0 2 ≤ 30 26,153.97 27,849.39 23,032.55 26,528.98 31 > 50 2 6 4 12 31 > 50 49,226.27 46,588.21 45,657.70 47,072.71 > 50 3 0 1 4 > 50 58,501.18 54,460.33 46,568.22 54,439.33 Total Men 8 12 6 26 Total Men 80,978.04 84,600.97 91,030.90 84,358.34 Women Directivas Women ≤ 30 0 0 0 0 Directivas 31 > 50 0 0 1 1 ≤ 30 > 50 0 0 0 0 31 > 50 128,385.74 128,385.74 Management > 50 ≤ 30 0 0 0 0 Management 31 > 50 0 0 0 0 ≤ 30 > 50 1 0 0 1 Other 31 > 50 72,257.30 68,474.07 71,675.26 professionals > 50 64,883.17 64,883.17 ≤ 30 1 0 1 2 Other 31 > 50 2 5 1 8 professionals > 50 0 0 0 0 ≤ 30 28,897.57 25,517.56 35,016.75 28,431.40 Total Women 4 5 3 12 31 > 50 41,362.63 39,322.31 46,943.07 41,930.95 TOTAL > 50 47,554.65 46,716.40 50,177.19 48,360.33 12 17 9 38 WORKFORCE Total Women 63,890.18 45,007.59 44,045.67 42,629.65 TOTAL 72,434.11 64,804.28 67,538.29 63,494.00 WORKFORCE For the calculation of average salaries, both fixed and variable salaries are taken into account, excluding bonuses. The salary gap reflected by the results is in line with the industry. Traditionally there have been more men in the Group’s senior categories, due to their longer average length of service compared with women. However, in the technical categories of personnel covered by the Collective Agreement the salary gap is -7% and different initiatives are supported in collaboration with universities and educational centre to encourage the inclusion of women in the telecommunication field. The blank boxes indicate that there are no employees of either gender in the corresponding professional category. 104 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY REPORT 2018 Breakdown of contract type by professional category, gender and age No. permanent contracts No. temporary contracts Men Euskaltel R Telecable Group Euskaltel R Telecable Group Executives ≤ 30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 31 > 50 8 2 2 12 0 0 0 0 > 50 18 0 3 21 0 0 0 0 Management ≤ 30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 31 > 50 10 5 0 15 0 0 0 0 > 50 11 5 0 16 0 0 0 0 Other professionals ≤ 30 4 2 2 8 2 5 0 7 31 > 50 84 92 96 272 0 1 0 1 > 50 29 13 15 57 0 0 0 0 Total Men 164 119 118 401 2 6 0 8 Women Directivas ≤ 30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 31 > 50 7 0 0 7 0 0 0 0 > 50 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Management ≤ 30 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 31 > 50 11 2 0 13 0 0 0 0 > 50 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 Otras profesionales ≤ 30 3 3 2 8 0 2 0 2 31 > 50 131 56 44 231 0 0 0 0 > 50 16 1 8 25 0 0 0 0 Total Women 170 62 54 286 0 2 0 2 TOTAL WORKFORCE 334 181 172 687 2 8 0 10 All of the Group’s contracts are full-time, except for one man over 50 years of age working part-time in Telecable. Total hours of training by professional category Executives Management Other professionals Men 3,655.5 2,668.5 11,474 Women 697.5 2,192.8 9,393 105 EUSKALTEL GROUP 7. OTHER INFORMATION Monitoring of the CSR Master Plan 2016-2018 Line Achievement Relationship with the Board and shareholders Transparency, veracity, immediacy, consistency, equality and symmetry in the disclosure of information Working with shareholders so that information practices and relationships with the markets are transparent, efficient and in line with corporate interests People Training and collaboration with educational centres and universities Remuneration policy and self-evaluation Suppliers Relationship model with the supply chain Application of responsible purchasing management policies Customers (Corporate and Residential) Caring for disadvantaged customers Confidentiality and service quality Environment Excellence in environmental management (Green Organisation) Legal compliance (Green Compliance) Communication of environmental performance (Green Communication) Responsible payment of taxes Responsible and ethical compliance with tax commitments Maintenance of transparent structures and mechanisms Corporate governance Organisation and Management Model Transparency Responsible communication Visibility and social involvement of CSR Master Plan 2016-2018 Disclosure and Communication Contribution to society “Proximity and consistency in the Euskaltel Group’s corporate messages” Management tools oriented towards stakeholders * The Group is currently working on the preparation of the CSR Master Plan 2019-2022. Degree of compliance with the commitments undertaken Fulfilled Advanced In progress Initiating measures 106 GROUP EUSKALTEL Parque Científico and Tecnológico de Bizkaia, 809 48160 Derio. Bizkaia +34 94 401 10 00 Euskaltel Edificio 809. Parque Científico and Tecnológico de Bizkaia, 48160. Derio. Bizkaia R Calle Real, 85, A Coruña, 15003. A Coruña. Galicia. Telecable Calle Marqués de Pidal,11-BJ, 33004. Oviedo, Asturias. memoriarc@euskaltel.com www.euskaltel.com
