His Excellency António Guterres Inveralmond House Secretary-General 200 Dunkeld Road United Nations Perth United Nations Secretariat Scotland New York, NY 10017 UK PH1 3AQ U.S.A. 1 August 2019 Dear Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that SSE plc reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. In this annual Communication on Progress, I would like to highlight our actions, outlined in our Sustainability Report 2019, to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles in the areas of Human Rights (page 65), Labour (pages 60 to 65), Environment (pages 62-63) and Anti-Corruption (pages 8 to 16) into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. In 2018, we set stretching new targets for 2030 in a bid to tackle climate change and support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Four key objectives, aligned to the SDGs, have been created and will be directly linked to executive performance measures – putting sustainability right at the heart of SSE’s strategy and operations. These objectives are: •Cut the carbon intensity of the electricity we generate by 50% linked to SDG 13: Climate action. •Treble renewable energy output by developing and building more renewable energy that contributes renewable output of 30TWh (terawatt hours) a year linked to SDG 7: Affordable and clean energy. SSE plc . Registered Office in Inveralmond House 200 Dunkeld Road Perth PH1 3AQ Registered in Scotland No. SC117119 www.sse.com •Pave the way to help accommodate 10 million electric vehicles in Great Britain by investing in electricity network flexibility and infrastructure linked to SDG 9: Industry, innovation and infrastructure. •Become the leading company in the UK and Ireland championing Fair Tax and the real Living Wage linked to SDG 8: Decent work and economic growth. These four objectives underpin what our business stands for and our investment in longterm, sustainable, low carbon assets and infrastructure will contribute to the UK and Ireland’s climate change targets while building a fairer and more prosperous society. We firmly believe that, through the SDGs and Global Compact, the UN has created a blueprint for a sustainable world and it’s one we are putting front and centre of our business. Yours sincerely, Alistair Phillips-Davies Chief Executive Officer SSE plc . Registered Office in Inveralmond House 200 Dunkeld Road Perth PH1 3AQ Registered in Scotland No. SC117119 www.sse.com
