CSR Report 2019 AMPLEXOR International August 2019 CSR REPORT 2019 Message from the CEO In a world subject to ever increasing international competition, placing corporate responsibility is a core value for our organization and is reflected by our Sustainability Model (engaging our people, managing our carbon footprint, contributing to society, and creating economic value). Backed by a functional organizational structure and an enhanced portfolio of products and solutions, the company continues to transform itself towards continuous improvement. AMPLEXOR International S.A., by embracing the values of the UNGC & ISO 26000 is not only displaying a responsible attitude, but is also ready to respond to the social, environmental and economic challenges of the world today. This report presents some of the initiatives we have implemented according to the Global Compact areas. Besides kicking off several initiatives, we implemented a series of indicators that allow us to control and monitor our performance concerning sustainable development. We are happy to report on the evolution of the last three years, as well as presenting the new actions carried out through September 2018 and August 2019. I am personally committed to supporting the Global Compact and overall CSR best practices (ISO 26000, EcoVadis Rating), acknowledging the important role we play in this initiative. Respecting the principles of the UNGC and engaging our stakeholders is very important to us. Mark Evenepoel CSR Report 2019 | AMPLEXOR International | Version 2 1.0 | August 2019 Mission, Vision & Values CSR Report 2019 | AMPLEXOR International | Version 3 1.0 | August 2019 Worldwide CSR Report 2019 | AMPLEXOR International | Version 4 1.0 | August 2019 Materiality Analysis Engaging our Stakeholders The Stakeholder Engagement Project reflects the results of the inputs of our main stakeholders towards specific material issues for our company. In this sense the issues that fall on the top right quadrant (most important, most relevant) will be implemented into the strategy for next year. After a brainstorming session between Quality Management, Information Security Manager & CEO the following stakeholder groups were identified:  Clients  Employees, Managers & Work Councils  Shareholders  Suppliers  Government  Optional Standards  Competitors/Industry Associations  Council We have identified the following material topics which stakeholders were asked to prioritize High Importance for both:  Customer Satisfaction  Communication  Profitability  Workplace Wellbeing CSR Report 2019 | AMPLEXOR International | Version 5 1.0 | August 2019 Coming together is the beginning, keeping together is progress, working together is success. CSR Report 2019 | AMPLEXOR International | Version 6 1.0 | August 2019 Manage our footprint Policies CSR Policy, Health and Safety Policy, Purchasing Policy, Work Environment Policy which assure mentioning and disclosure of the following topics: Energy consumption CO2 emissions Waste management Promotion of sustainable consumption UNGC Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to energy challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. Ecovadis Environment Supply Chain Actions Energy Consumption Monitor Electric Consumption. CSR Report 2019 | AMPLEXOR International | Version 7 1.0 | August 2019 Awareness sessions about energy consumption best practices. Replacement of obsolete equipment with Energy Star rated and enabled active power saving management capabilities. Renew and reinforce the importance of AMPLEXOR stickers to reminder all employees to turn off all devices, lighting and air conditioning when leaving the building. Office rule to unplug equipment that drains energy when not in use, especially before weekends (i.e. cell phone chargers, fans, coffeemakers, desktop printers, radios, etc.). Waste Management Implement recycling bins in all entities (kitchen & workplace) with clearly labelled recycling stations. Implement recycle bins for toners & recycling IT equipment in all entities. Double-sided printing and Black & White automatic configuration. Promote the use of non-plastic mugs and cups. Control the amount of Paper purchased. CO2 Emissions Monitor CO2 emissions from plane travelling & cost. Compared to turnover. Promote teleconferencing or videoconferencing over Business Travelling à Travel Policy. Sustainable Procurement Include in the criteria for selection of suppliers and partners: In line with our Code of Conduct High quality products/services Environmentally efficient Locally based Compliance to Health and Safety measures Reliability ISO certification Results 3,973,392.00 KW 956,125.80 KG Measures to reduce energy consumption of IT structure: -Equipment upgrade to energy star labelled products -Deployment of server virtualization CSR Report 2019 | AMPLEXOR International | Version 8 1.0 | August 2019 100% 100% Awareness sessions for water management performed for each office Recycling bins 100% % Delivery of glass bottles to all employees to reduce plastic bottles and water waste. 100% 27% By default, black & white printing % of procurement which has gone through: CSR assessment or audit Deployment of sustainable procurement 100% % of suppliers that were provided with the AMPLEXOR Terms & Conditions that include clauses on environmental, labour, human rights, and ethical requirements CSR Report 2019 | AMPLEXOR International | Version 9 1.0 | August 2019 Engage our People Policies CSR Policy, Health and Safety Policy, Human Rights Policy, Work Environment Policy and Code of Conduct which assure mentioning and disclosure of the following topics: Health & Safety Discrimination & Harassment Working Conditions Social Dialogue Training & Career Management UNGC Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Ecovadis Social Ethics CSR Report 2019 | AMPLEXOR International | Version 2 1.0 | August 2019 Health & Safety Risk Assessment of Health and Safety -labour risks. Provision of protective equipment to all impacted employees, if applicable. Formal targets to reduce occupational injury and illness rates Joint labour management health and safety committee in operation. Mandatory health check-up for all employees. Regular inspection or audit to ensure safety of equipment/facility. Working Conditions Interactive communication session with employees with regards to working conditions. Company-wide promotion of employee’s initiatives regarding working conditions. Official measures to promote work and life balance: flexible schedule, family friendly company. Additional rest periods or vacations, above legal requirements: Christmas, Seniority. Company specific health care program for employees. Bonus scheme for more than 70% of employees. Transparency (process and criteria communicated to all employees) on remuneration system: Local handbook. Code of conduct on personal usage of IT by employees & security of monitoring devices. Discrimination & Harassment During recruitment phase. Not required to specify gender/race/religion/age for recruitment selection. Auditing of internal controls to prevent discrimination and/or harassment. Whistle-blower procedure on discrimination and harassment issues. Social Dialogue Company public commitment to promote and facilitate structured labour relations. Local employee representatives’ bodies for more than 75% of employees. Training & Career Management Transparent recruitment process (communicated clearly and formally to all candidates). Regular assessment (at least once a year) of individual performance. Setting of Individual development and career plan for all employees. Official measures promoting career mobility. Policy to give priority to internal recruitment. Provision of skills development training. Investment in a Learning Management toll to better promote training according to everyone’s needs. Official measures to anticipate or reduce layoffs and associated negative impacts (e.g. financial compensation, outplacement service). CSR Report 2019 | AMPLEXOR International | Version 2 1.0 | August 2019 Results 100% 35% % of the total workforce across all % of all operational sites for which an locations represented in: employee health & safety risk assessment has formal joint management. been conducted formal collective agreements concerning % Risk Methodology + Health and Safety working conditions. Policy formally-elected employee representatives 100% % of the total workforce across all Zero locations who: received regular performance and career development reviews. received careeror skills-related training. -received training on preventing discrimination and human rights violations 2% 3,735,200.00 hours Average sickness rate Average sickness rate ZERO Lost time due to injury events 1,72% 49% CSR Report 2019 | AMPLEXOR International | Version 3 1.0 | August 2019 Economic Value Creation Policies CSR Policy, Human Rights Policy, Work Environment Policy, Approval and Signing Policy, Code of conduct, Supplier Certification Process, GDPR Policy, Information Security Policy, Information Classification Policy which assure mentioning and disclosure of the following topics: Corruption & Bribery Anticompetitive Practices Respect of Intellectual Property Rights Consumer/Client data protection & confidentiality UNGC Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Ecovadis Ethics Corruption & Bribery Specific approval procedure for sensitive transactions (e.g. gifts, travel). Specific procedures for retaining and using third-party intermediaries (i.e. due diligence, certifications). Structured mechanisms to deal with policy violations (e.g. potential sanctions). Secure communication channel for employees to seek advice or voice concerns (e.g. hotline, whistle blowing procedure). Code of Conduct for all employees, suppliers and clients. CSR Report 2019 | AMPLEXOR International | Version 4 1.0 | August 2019 Anticompetitive Practices Structured mechanisms to deal with policy violations i.e. potential sanctions. Secure communication channel for employees to seek advice or voice concerns (e.g. hotline, whistle blowing procedure). Code of Conduct for all employees, suppliers and clients. Respect Intellectual & Property Rights Conducting investigations on third parties’ patents/ trademarks at initial stages of R&D. Conducting investigations on third parties’ patents/ trademarks at all stages of product development. Systematic intellectual property audit to prevent/ identify potential infringements. Measures to prevent counterfeiting of other products. Consumer/Client data protection & confidentiality Measures to limit types of data collected and stored. Measures to protect customer/client data from unauthorized access or disclosure. Measures to consult customers/clients on personal/confidential data. Internal data protection and information security audits Web-based or in-person training program on data protection and confidentiality. Process to safely destroy confidential data of client/customers. Process in place for customer contract storage and requirements analysis. Results 100% 100% Code of Conduct distributed to all employees on boarding All locations and processes/policies internal audited 50% Information security awareness training for employees %0 100% 100% Implementation of an Information Security Code of Conduct distributed to all employees on System and Group certification achieved boarding Zero CSR Report 2019 | AMPLEXOR International | Version 5 1.0 | August 2019 Contribution to Society Policies NA UNGC Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Ecovadis Ethics Social Community Volunteering “AMPLEXOR Employee Volunteer” Program – AMPLEXOR supports and allows employees to enrol in volunteering programs of previous selected eligible non-profits organization(s) 5 days per year. For company events, donations, volunteer programs & other actions carried out we have established the CSR Event template to ensure our efforts are impactful and aligned across AMPLEXOR Group! CSR Report 2019 | AMPLEXOR International | Version 6 1.0 | August 2019 Results 82 9 Donation of gently-used or new clothes, groceries, house-hold  Casa da Criança Portugal goods to those in need at Samarpanacharitable organization Fundraiser for Macmillan Cancer Support – United Kingdom India  Sponsorship of College ScholarshipRiverfallsUSA  Sponsorship of Rotary Club (for the schooling of children from the families of lower socio-economic status) – Croatia 319 Kg x Groceries  Fundraiser for Samarpana organizationIndia 40 x units of Sarees and Dhotis  Participation in International Woman’s daysupporting Female empowerment, woman leadership, human rights, 3 x boxes of clothes gender balanceAMPLEXOR Group  Career RoadshowBelgium  Fundraiser for Rikolto Belgium  Sponsorship of Swissloop -project at Hyperloop Pod Donation Campanha de Natal à Apoio à Vidacharitable CompetitionSwitzerland organization that helps underprivileged women raising their babiesPortugal 504 x Diapers packs 10 x Units Powder baby milk 7 x Packs cleaning wipes 23 x Units baby bath and hygiene products 4 x Boxes Baby food We are addressing global challenges with our actions! Our areas of action are aligned with the Millennium Development Goals, specifically: 3. Good Health & Wellbeing 4. Quality Education 5. Gender Equality CSR Report 2019 | AMPLEXOR International | Version 7 1.0 | August 2019 8. Decent Work and Economic Growth 9. Industry Innovation & Infrastructure 10. Reduced Inequalities 12. Responsible Consumption and Production Internationally Recognized by AMPLEXOR detains Silver Level recognition with EcoVadis AMPLEXOR has been awarded with the Silver Recognition level from EcoVadis for its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) practices. CSR Report 2019 | AMPLEXOR International | Version 8 1.0 | August 2019 CSR and sustainable development are at the heart of our business strategy worldwide. We pay careful attention to the social, environmental and economic consequences of business activities to ensure we generate positive outcomes socially and economically. As an international company with a worldwide presence, an integral part of AMPLEXOR’s sustainability model has been focused on engaging employees across all the 41 offices to the environmental protection, the community and society wellbeing, thriving in continual improvement and innovation. The EcoVadis Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) assessment is an evaluation of how well a company has integrated the principles of CSR into their business and management system. The CSR assessment takes numerous global issues into account and groups them into four main categories of environment, labor practices & human rights, ethics (fair business practices) and sustainable procurement. AMPLEXOR fosters transparency and trust between trading partners by also sharing with stakeholders our CSR assessment. United Nations Global Compact Our company has been paying attention to the way in which its activities conform to the four main themes of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC): namely, human rights, working standards, the environment, and fight against corruption. It is very important to us to respect the principles of the UNGC and to secure our stakeholders’ backing. International Standard Organization ISO 9001: 2015 Quality Management Systems EN 9100: 2018 Aviation, Space & Defence ISO 17100: 2015 Language Service Providers ISO 18587:2017 Translation Services Post-editing of machine translation output ISO 13485: 2016 Medical Devices ISO 26000: 2015 Social Responsibility ISO 27001: 2013 Information Security Systems CSR Report 2019 | AMPLEXOR International | Version 9 1.0 | August 2019 CSR Report 2019 | AMPLEXOR International | Version 10 1.0 | August 2019
