HUMAN RIGHTS LABOR COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 1 STATEMENT OF SUPPORT AND BUSINESS CHALLENGES Behind us is the seventh year of membership and application of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles, whereby we improve socially responsible business operation of our company in the area of human rights, labor, contributions to the community, environmental protection and fight against corruption. Responsible business operation, in accordance with the UNGC principles, has been the strategic direction of our company, whether it concerns the relationship with employees, consumers, business partners, cooperators, social community or attitude towards the environment. Assuming the responsibility for the role and influence of our company on the local community and wider is an integral part of our business strategy and commitment to sustainable business operation. Furthermore, we also seek to incorporate the Sustainable Development Goals into our business strategy, to ensure the long-term sustainable growth of Dukat and all our stakeholders. Nevertheless, we emphasize that the context of Dukat Inc. corporate social responsibility is significantly wider than the UNGC principles on which we primarily report. Incentives to primary and sustainable milk production are of great significance for the company and the rural areas where our farmers live and work, as well as the entire economy of our country. In addition, we invest our knowledge and experience in promotion of proper and balanced nutrition and healthy habits. However, focus on the quality and safety of our products, as well as constant innovation and improvement in all areas, are the cornerstone of our development and sustainability. Despite positive economic trends, in 2018 we continued to record unfavorable sectoral trends from previous periods. The Croatian dairy sector has been recording a steady decline in the number of milk producers, fresh milk production and the increasing lack of own milk production for the past nine years. At the same time, domestic dairy sector is burdened by the placement and import of finished dairy products, especially UHT milk and semi-hard cheese from the European Union countries and beyond, which are marketed at extremely low prices with which the domestic dairy industry cannot compete. Despite difficult conditions in which it operates, in 2018 Dukat Dairy Industry Inc. continued to base its operations on the principles of corporate social responsibility and sustainability. Furthermore, we strive to adapt the range of milk, dairy products and cheese to the needs and resources of consumers of all age groups, insisting on their top quality. Innovations, product and recipe reinventions confirm our long-standing position of an innovator and leader of new trends in the domestic dairy industry. We are aware there is room for further improvement in the area of responsible business operations and reporting to our stakeholders on the activities carried out is an important part of recognizing our contribution and motivation to further improve our business practices. Together with the overview of activities related to the application of UNGC principles, this report also follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and European Commission guidelines on non-financial reporting. This provides our stakeholders with a clear and relevant framework for comparing our activities with the previous and the future ones, that we will continue to report on. Marek Marcin Warzywoda Director Zagreb, March 2019 2 DUKAT INC. – LEADING DAIRY INDUSTRY IN CROATIA WITH A CENTURY-OLD TRADITION Dukat Dairy Industry Inc. the center for development and companies operating within the (hereinafter: Dukat), with registered expansion of dairy industry in Lactalis Group, such as Alpsko office in Zagreb, is the leading dairy Croatia and South-East Europe. mleko, MU, Lactel, Parmalat, Societe, industry in Croatia with a centuryetc., and its total sales range old tradition in production of milk As the flagship brand for milk and comprises more than 450 dairy and dairy products, which has grown dairy products, Dukat successfully products. into a regional company as the result responds to demands and needs of organic growth and acquisitions. of consumers. Innovativeness, Dukat exports its products and With 8 production plants in Croatia, insistence on quality and innovations developed and Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, implementation of the latest commercialized on domestic market Serbia, and Macedonia, Dukat Group advancements in food and dairy to approximately 80 countries is currently the leading regional dairy industry have ensured Dukat would around the world: in Europe, Africa, industry. In addition to Dukat, Dukat hold the position of market leader Asia, Middle East, French Overseas Group comprises 14 associated and the pioneer of trends in the Territories, and Central America. companies with registered offices dairy industry. Exports to Slovenia, Bosnia and in Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Italy, Spain, Herzegovina, Serbia, Macedonia, Dukat bases its operations on the Portugal and UK increased in 2018, Kosovo and Bulgaria. processing of top-quality raw milk resulting in export growth of 10 produced by Croatian dairy farms. In percent, compared to the year In Croatia, Dukat Group currently 2018, Dukat cooperated with more before. employs 1592 people in three than three thousand milk producers, production plants: in Zagreb, purchasing 190.4 million kilograms of Dukat has implemented international Bjelovar and KIM Mljekara Karlovac, fresh raw milk, confirming its status standards that ensure top quality, which is also its associated company, of one of the largest purchasers of safety and food safety: ISO 9001 and in two associated companies fresh raw milk in the country. Quality Management Systems, ISO LA LOG for transport and 22000 Food Safety Management, distribution and B.P.A.C. Auto for Its production range consists of IFS, HACCP, as well as Kosher and car rental and leasing. In 2018, Dukat milk, fermented products, cheese, Halal certificates for specific product has achieved revenue from sales in cream, dairy spreads, desserts and groups. Dukat also has the ISO 14001 the amount of HRK 1.86 billion, 84.7 butter. In 2018, Dukat produced Environmental Management System percent of which on the domestic 195.2 million kilograms of products certificate, as well as ISO 50001 market. in its range, comprising 353 Dukat, Energy Management System since Sirela, President and Galbani 2017. Since 2007, Dukat has been brand products. In 2018, 48 new operating as part of Lactalis Group, dairy products were introduced the leading global dairy group to Croatian consumers. Dukat and the leading global cheese also markets brand products of manufacturer, which makes it This Report provides an overview of activities implemented in 2018 (01/01 – 31/12/2018) in Dukat Dairy Industry Inc. and does not include activities of associated companies operating within Dukat Group. 3 DUKAT GROUP IN CROATIA IN NUMBERS (2018) No. 1 3 DAIRY PRODUCTION INDUSTRY PLANTS 3 255.9 ASSOCIATED MILLION COMPANIES: KILOGRAMS KIM Mljekara OF TOTAL Karlovac, La Log, PROCESSED B.P.A.C. Auto MILK 2,869 1,592 COOPERATORS EMPLOYEES 48 EUR 338.1 NEW PRODUCTS MILLION INTRODUCED IN REVENUE ON THE CROATIAN 353 4 MARKET PRODUCTS UMBRELLA BRANDS 4 REVENUE BY PRODUCT 2% DEHYDRATED CATEGORIES 1% PRODUCTS BUTTER 1% OTHER 6% 64% CREAM MILK 7% CHEESES 19% CHILLED DAIRY BJELOVAR ZAGREB KARLOVAC ĐAKOVO RIJEKA PULA ZADAR PLANT CENTRAL WAREHOUSE PLATFORMS (logistic centers) SPLIT DUBROVNIK 5 Dukat fully respects human and labor rights based on the Constitution, EU directives, international HUMAN conventions, and internal documents RIGHTS 6 PRINCIPLE 1 PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should support and respect the protection of make sure that they are not complicit in internationally proclaimed human rights within its area of human rights abuses influence Dukat fully respects human and labor rights based on the Constitution, laws and other regulations of the Republic of Croatia, EU directives as well as international conventions. Dukat guarantees and promotes human rights protection through good business practice and a number of internal documents – Work Regulations, Ordinance on the protection of confidentiality of data, Collective Agreement and Code of Conduct. These documents are available to employees on the Intranet. RIGHT TO DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES At Dukat, differences among depends entirely on performance regulations that prohibit child people are accepted in an open and success of each individual. labor, forced or compulsory labor, and tolerant manner, regardless of and protect dignity of employees their age, nationality, ethnic origin, In human resources management, by guaranteeing equality and religion and gender, language and we pay special attention to protection from sexual harassment socioeconomic status. All employees adherence to the principle of of employees and persons have equal opportunity for success, diversity and equal opportunities. undergoing the recruitment process. and the position in the company We respect all rights and PROTECTION OF EMPLOYEES’ DIGNITY Dukat consistently implements of three independent members: dignity. This is the result of Dukat’s regulations and directives of the a trade union representative, an efforts to raise the awareness of European Union and Croatia, related administrative service representative employees on the importance of to suppression of discrimination and and a person appointed to receive, respecting diversity, nurturing protection of employees’ dignity, and address employees’ complaints high quality interpersonal relations and procedure protocol in case of related to protection of dignity. and cooperation, and generally on violation of dignity is embedded Identical protocol is also planned building a positive organizational in Work Regulations and Code of for all forms of discrimination and culture. There were no reported Conduct. In the event of a complaint sexual harassment. cases of violation of employees’ and a request for protection of dignity in 2017 or in 2016. dignity, the Management Board In 2018, there were four reported appoints a Commission consisting cases of violation of employees’ CODE OF CONDUCT Dukat has had the Code of Conduct standards and generally accepted the workplace, including the attitude since 1998, integrating the principles civil values. The code was amended towards other stakeholders. of employees’ conduct in accordance in 2003 and it serves as a framework with ethical, moral and professional for daily activities and conduct in DIVERSITY CHARTER As a company whose relationship with its employees rests on non-discrimination and respect for diversity, at the end of 2017, Dukat signed the Diversity Charter in Croatia. The aim of the initiative is to promote diversity as one of fundamental values of modern society, enabling each person to realize their full potential. It is one of the prerequisites for development of creativity, innovation and individual talents in the workplace. As a signatory of the Charter, Dukat is working on internal policies of respecting diversity and an action plan for its implementation. 7 Dukat respects and guarantees all labor rights and systematically works to improve the quality of work environment, education and development of employees, health and safety at work LABOR 8 PRINCIPLE 3 PRINCIPLE 4 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association the elimination of all forms of forced and and the effective recognition of the right to collective compulsory labor bargaining PRINCIPLE 6 PRINCIPLE 5 the elimination of discrimination in respect of the effective abolition of child labor employment and occupation Dukat respects and guarantees all labor rights prescribed by law and the Constitution, and systematically works on improving the quality of work environment, education and development of employees, care for health and safety at work. FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Dukat has a 20-year-long tradition CORPORATE VALUES of association and collective bargaining, and 32 percent of its Ambition, engagement and simplicity are the key values of Dukat that employees are members of the are strongly woven into the corporate culture of the company and into Trade Union of the Employed in everyday work of our employees. By applying these values in their Agriculture, Food, Tobacco and work, our employees contribute to the vision that we share with other Water Industries of Croatia (PPDIV). employees of the Lactalis Group: to provide the best of milk to as many Partnership with the representatives people as possible. of workers is continuously Our employees are the backbone of our business, corporate culture and improved through cooperation and success. We inspire them to constantly learn and develop by investing communication with the Works in education and development of specialized skills. In the desire to reach Council. their full potential and ambitions, we enable them to develop their career In 2018, 408 employees, or within Dukat and other associated companies, as well as international 32 percent, belonged to the surroundings of the Lactalis Group. Trade Union of the Employed in Agriculture, Food, Tobacco and handed to each employee of Furthermore, employees are entitled and Water Industries of Croatia. Dukat at the beginning of 2018. It to the following bonuses on salary: The number of union members additionally expanded the material bonus for years of service, bonus continued to decrease in 2018 (2 benefits of employees, especially for work in shifts, bonus for work percent less members than in 2017). when it comes to supporting parents on Sundays and holidays, and meal Such trend is the result of hiring new of infants and young children allowance. employees to replace those who left (allowance for each infant, paid All Dukat employees are also or retired. day off work for child’s first day insured against accidents, regardless of kindergarten and school) and of them being permanent or UNION MEMBERS employees who are ill (allowance temporary, full-time or part-time for sick leave exceeding 120 days employees. 464 432 increased by 66 percent). Based on the Collective Agreement, 408 A set of employee benefits is supplement for night work increased available to employees based on the for the season, between April and Collective Agreement: October, by 5 percent (from 40 to 45 • Allowance for sick leave exceeding percent). 120 days Dukat fosters regular and open • Allowance for annual vacation communication with the trade union 2016 2017 2018 • Christmas bonus and the Central Works Council and • Reimbursement of transportation provides them with information Compared to similar companies in costs about decisions of importance to the region, Collective Agreement • Jubilee award the economic and social status ensures a higher level of rights • Assistance for days spent in the of employees. Management arising from employment. The hospital Board informs the Works Council Agreement applies to all employees, • Assistance in the event of an Act on the business results, plans, regardless of them being trade of God organizational changes and other union members, having permanent • Assistance to families in the event important issues annually and when or temporary employment, working of employee’s death necessary. full-time or part-time. Collective • Gift in-kind for Easter Agreement signed for 2018 and • Allowance for each infant (new2019 was printed as pocket edition born child) 9 HEALTH PROTECTION AND SAFETY AT WORK Dukat pays special attention to (18.2 percent less than the year injuries and increase safety and health protection and safety at work, before). health protection of employees. encourages employees to engage in Occupational Safety and Protection recreational activities and sports. It Every three months, Health and Policy and 12 Golden Rules of Safety supports and additionally rewards Safety at Work Committee holds at Work have been implemented employees who are volunteer bold meetings on the topic of safety for the third year in a row, and both donors by giving them a day off and and health protection to discuss documents are handed to new organizing an excursion. the proposals of employees on employees. Preventive seasonal influenza improvement of work conditions Despite significant decrease in the vaccination is organized at the and health protection at work. Two number of injuries, in 2018 there was company premises each year. In committees (Zagreb and Bjelovar an increase in the number of lost November 2018, 77 employees were Plant) have 7 members, accounting work days due to injuries – from 402 vaccinated on three production for 0.6 percent of the total number days in 2017 to 697 days in 2018, locations (Zagreb, Bjelovar and of employees. which is an increase of 73.4 percent. Karlovac) and in logistics centers, which is 20.3 percent more NUMBER OF WORKPLACE NUMBER OF SICK DAYS employees than the year before. INJURIES Dukat also regularly performs 14 33,382 carrier tests, for protection of food 29,048 30,534 safety and for checking the health 9 9 status of employees participating in production process, storage and food transport. In 2018, 5 approximately 750 employees were tested, same as the year before, and none of those examined tested 2015 2016 2017 2016 positive as carriers. In May and November 2018, 94 Nine workplace injuries were 2016 2017 2018 employees attended training and registered in 2018 (seven minor and have passed the hygiene minimum two major), which is 35.7 percent In 2018, number of sick days exam. In-house training on personal less than the year before when decreased by nine percent hygiene of employees, occupational there were 14 workplace injuries, compared to the year before, while hygiene and the environment while in 2016 there were also nine in 2017 it was 15 percent higher than hygiene, and food transport workplace injuries. Eight men and in 2016. Decrease in the percentage requirements according to HACCP one woman were injured, and all of sick days is the result of leaving included target employee groups injuries happened in the workplace. or retirement or employees who (warehouse employees, drivers), The highest decrease in number were using extended sick leaves. as well as all newcomers who of injuries occurred at the Bjelovar Significant absence of employees started working in the warehouse of Plant, where two workplace injuries is noted due to sick leave, but for finished goods and in production. were registered, one of which major significantly shorter periods of time. In 2018, twice as many employees workplace injury. In 2018, number of participated in training than the year injuries per 1000 employees was 7.1 PARENTAL LEAVE before, or 381 employees compared compared to 11.4 the year before. to 188 in 2017. In addition to providing a safe Preliminary and periodic medical Dukat is constantly working on workplace, Dukat makes sure its examinations are regularly carried systematic education of employees employees have a carefree parental out for all employees at workplaces in production, warehouses leave, regardless of gender. In with special working conditions. In and logistic centres in order to 2018, parental leave was used by 2018, this included 387 employees decrease the number of workplace 14 employees – 12 women and 2 50 YEARS OF VOLUNTARY FIRE BRIGADE SIRELA BJELOVAR Voluntary Fire Brigade Sirela Bjelovar (DVD Sirela), operating within Sirela, currently Bjelovar Plant, celebrated 50 years of work at the end of 2018. In 2018, DVD Sirela has 107 members, 71 of whom are employed at the Bjelovar Plant and 31 retirees former plant employees. They regularly train and perform evacuation and rescue exercises. As part of the celebration, a commemorative monography “50th Anniversary of DVD Sirela Bjelovar (1968-2018)” was presented, created by two authors who are also employed at the Bjelovar Plant and are also award-winning, deserving members. Dukat, whose former and current employees are members of the management and supervisory boards of the DVD Sirela, has been financially supporting the work of DVD Sirela for a number of years, and has co-financed the monography printing. 10 men (one woman less than in 2017), employees received allowance for a a family member, serious illness or which is almost the same as the year new-born child. emergency treatment of close family before. After their parental leave members, voluntary donation of expired, three employees returned to NUMBER OF PAID LEAVE blood, moving and natural disasters. work, ten continued using parental DAYS Furthermore, in 2018 employees leave in 2019 and one employee left were granted paid leave for the first the company. Number of fathers – 485 day of their child’s kindergarten or 465 employees who are using parental school. leave stayed the same as the year 401 before, with two men using parental EMPLOYEE AID leave in 2018 and two in 2017. Several measures of familyDukat helps its employees and their responsive and gender-aware families overcome difficulties by policies were introduced in 2018, providing them with financial aid the first two of which were defined in various situations, and alongside by the new Collective Agreement. using the rights to different types These are: 2016 2017 2018 of aid from Collective Agreement, it • Allowance for each new-born child acknowledges their requests related • Paid day off for the child’s first day In 2018, employees used 465 days to the improvement of social status, of kindergarten and school of paid leave, which was 16 percent medication payments, therapies, • Day off for pregnant women higher than the previous year. In medical aides and the like. In 2018, to perform their prenatal 2017, employees used 401 days of Dukat allocated HRK 614,329 for this examinations once a month paid leave and in 2016 they used purpose, an increase of 29 percent In 2018, 136 employees took a 485 days. Employees are entitled to compared to 2017, while HRK day off for their child’s first day paid leave based on their right to 420,012 were paid in 2016, signifying of kindergarten or first grade be absent from work in the event of constant growth of financial aid to of elementary school, while 31 marriage, birth of a child, death of employees. Amount of financial aid to TRADITION OF BLOOD DONATIONS BY DUKAT EMPLOYEES employees (HRK) 614,329 Thirty-nine employees donated blood in 2018, in two organized volunteer blood drives in the workplace, compared to 60 employees who donated 476,757 420,012 blood the year before. The number of blood donors decreased since some who volunteered were prevented from donating blood for health reasons and significant number of employees blood donors retired over the past several years. In October, a volunteer blood donor month, about 20 employees of Dukat and associated companies (KIM and La Log) who are also long-time volunteer blood donors, socialized during a one-day trip to Austria, visiting Graz and Zotter chocolate factory. The excursion organized by Dukat is an almost 40-year-old tradition and a reward of 2016 2017 2018 sorts for employees who selflessly help others by donating blood. Supporting the care for the health of its employees, Dukat encourages them to participate in recreational and sports activities, including coming to work by bicycle, co financing such employee initiatives, especially those in which employees account for the majority of members: • Sports Club Sirela • Voluntary Fire Brigade Sirela Bjelovar • Dukat Leisure Cycling Club • Dukat Futsal Team • Participating in Ljubljanske Mlekarne Sports Games in Ljubljana 11 DUKAT LEISURE CYCLING CLUB During its seventh year, Dukat Leisure Cycling races: Plitvice, Fužine, Baška races, “Catch the Wind” Club (RBK Dukat) continued to actively work race on the island of Brač, “Krka Trophy” in Drniš and in on encouraging everyday use of bicycles and legendary Tour de Tur race in Velika Gorica. Members promoting environmental, health and social benefits of RBK Dukat also co-organized cycling event Dukat of recreational cycling, simultaneously inspiring Fit Occupy in Samobor highlands, welcoming several cooperation and team spirit among employees. The hundred cyclists. While participating in cycling events club has 152 members – employees of Dukat and its and races, cycling more than 10,000 kilometers and associated companies in Croatia. promoting healthy habits and an active lifestyle, in 2018 club members continued to proudly wear Dukat Fit The year 2018 was marked by numerous cycling events colors, the line of products enriched with protein. and races. Club members participated in eleven cycling events, three of which they organized themselves. They As in previous years, in September 2018, members of explored the beautiful scenery of Vrbovečka Dubrava, the Club participated in the organization of Dukat’s Turopolje and Varaždin on two wheels. Other than their seventh cycling race Dukat Fit on Lake Jarun and they common recreational rides, members of RBK Dukat competed in the race. also participated in six challenging mountain-bike 12 EDUCATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF EMPLOYEES In human resources management, Dukat remains true to its mission – to recruit and retain capable, professional and motivated employees, who act proactively in constantly changing conditions, create new values and achieve personal and professional fulfillment. That is why significant means and efforts are invested in education and training of employees. In 2018, specialized and 2018 (15 percent more than in EMPLOYEE development education accounted 2017), compared to 34 in-house DEVELOPMENT for 77 percent of the total number educations for 557 employees in PROJECTS of educations at Dukat, which is five 2017 and 27 educations for 674 percent less than in 2017 and 2016. employees in 2016. The topics Dukat is systematically investing Legally required training accounts covered food safety, product in development and professional for 23 percent of total education, five safety protection and hygiene, training of employees. We list percent more than in the previous self-control on manufacturing the following educational and two years. lines, good manufacturing and development projects that took hygiene practices, safe machinery place in 2018: In 2018, the average annual operating, handling electricalexpenditure for education was HRK manual forklifter, MS Excel, good DEVELOPMENT AND 1,533 per employee (compared to practices in management of human EDUCATION PROGRAM HRK 1,519 the year before and HRK resources, and occupational safety. TALENT POOL JUNIOR 1,490 in 2016), while 940 employees All educations were held by Dukat’s were included in some form of in-house trainers. In 2018, a new cycle of traditional education (compared to 915 the year Dukat programs for talented before and 460 in 2016). Training related to hygiene and employees and potential was food and employee safety is also initiated, this time for 20 employees In 2018, employees participated in continuously carried out for new under the age of 30 who joined 11,835 hours of education, compared employees in Production and the company within the last three to 15,100 in 2017 and 12,041 in 2016. Logistics (focusing on operators, years at most. The program focuses Average number of education hours auxiliary workers, warehouse on understanding Dukat’s business per employee was 9.4 hours in 2018, workers and drivers). In 2018, context and environment, values compared to 12.4 hours in 2017 and in-house training included 163 and manner of work, development 8.8 hours in 2016. employees, while in 2017 it included of fundamental managerial skills, 176 employees and 117 in 2016. understanding the principles of Education hours controlling and development of business communication and INTRODUCING NEW personal influence. A project 15,100 EMPLOYEES TO THE management module was held in COMPANY AND ITS 2018 and online self-assessment of ACTIVITIES program participants was carried 12,041 11,835 out, followed by result reports and Following the already common individual development interviews. practice, ten new employees of Dukat underwent induction training DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM in 2018, to get acquainted with FOR SALES, MARKETING AND the organization, main business CONTROLLING INSIGHT processes and activities. In 2017, 2016 2017 2018 23 employees and in 2016 twelve Activities within the large “Insight” employees of Dukat underwent project for Sales, Marketing and induction training. During group Controlling, initiated in 2017, INTERNAL EDUCATION and individualized induction continued in 2018. The program programs, employees visited key included distribution of reports As part of internal knowledge departments and were introduced and communication of individual transfer practice, total of 49 to milk and dairy goods processing feedbacks of the 360° assessment, internal educations were held and production in all three Croatian as well as development workshops for 640 employees of Dukat in plants. for Marketing and Controlling on 13 “360 Communication”. Fifty-eight employees and inspire improvement employees participated in the in day-to-day activities on all The first season of the regional program. levels of the organization. Twenty education program for Maintenance workshops, so-called focus groups, managers -Maintenance AcademyDEVELOPMENT PROGRAM were held in November 2018, started in 2018 and was completed FOR MANAGERS OF ALL including 148 employees from all at the end of the year. Twelve THREE PLANTS positions, up to managerial level, Maintenance managers and of the Zagreb Plant, Zagreb and coordinators from Slovenia, Serbia, Large development program Split warehouses, accounting for 85 Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, for managers of Croatian plants percent of invited employees. Hungary and Croatia participated started in 2017 and was concluded in professional education organized in 2018. Thirty-four managers of INTERNAL KNOWLEDGE in cooperation with Lactalis internal Production and Maintenance from TRANSFER AND DAILY forces and French educators all three plants (Zagreb, Bjelovar LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT in this area. All three program and Karlovac) participated in the modules focused on the strategy of program, with the objective to To successfully meet the needs preventive maintenance and efficient further strengthen and develop and respond to challenges of the spare parts management, and great professional skills, as well as summer season, training was carried advantage of this program was that human resources management out for 5 of Dukat’s in-house trainers theory was combined with practical skills. In 2018, four workshops were at the Zagreb and Split warehouses work at the Zagreb Plant. held on the topic of successful in March 2018. The objective was communication and conducting to provide new in-house trainers INDUSTRIAL ACADEMY meetings, as well as two in-house with tools for effective structuring workshops on the topic of good and transfer of internal knowledge Industrial Academy, the great practices in human resources and effective motivation of new Lactalis’ educational program management and good practices in warehouse employees. for Production managers of the safety at work. European division plants of the Additionally, training for 26 Lactalis Group, and Croatian PROJECT PULS 2019 – FOCUS warehouse managers and shift organization had its participant WORKSHOPS FOR LOGISTICS leaders was organized on the topic in the education. Five education AND THE ZAGREB PLANT of communication and day-to-day modules and five plant visits, from management. Training put emphasis France and Italy to Sweden and Project “Puls 2019” was initiated on giving and receiving feedback, Croatia, were held for 14 participants at the end of 2018, aiming at the the role of warehouse managers from 13 European countries in 2018 highest possible quality preparation and shift leaders in successful The final academy module was held for the 2019 summer season. The communication, and on increasing in Croatia, so the colleagues from first part included workshops with employee motivation through Europea had the opportunity to visit employees of the Zagreb Plant positive and proper communication. the Zagreb Plant. and Logistics to collect opinions, experiences and suggestions of MAINTENANCE ACADEMY PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL Performance is evaluated each year the employees. In 2018, 14 percent performance evaluation for within the Management review of employees were included in the employees in Production, project and individual development performance appraisal system, two Maintenance and Quality, started in plan is created for employees percent more than in the previous 2016, was also carried out in 2018, with recognized high potential. two years. making the total percentage of Readiness for international mobility In addition to the standard evaluated Dukat employees greater is also assessed and defined with Management review project, than 50 percent. 14 PROFESSIONAL PRACTICES AND VISITS We continued cooperation with Polytechnic in Požega and one from University of Karlovac. Together vocational secondary schools in College of Economics in Križevci with students attending faculties Zagreb and Bjelovar, and in 2018 completed their internships at Dukat. associated with dairy science, one student completed professional students attending the Public internship at the Bjelovar plant. Furthermore, Dukat also traditionally Relations program at the Croatian hosts professional visits of students Studies also visited Dukat. During University students also do their from the Food Technology and the visit, students take a tour of the internships at Dukat. In 2018, nine Biotechnology Faculty (dairy science Zagreb Plant and are introduced to students completed their internships and nutrition engineering programs), the entire production process, from at Dukat, which is three more than Veterinary Faculty, Agronomy reception of milk to production and in 2017. Four students from the Faculty, Chemical Engineering and storage. In 2018, Dukat hosted nine Faculty of Chemical Engineering and Technology Faculty at the University such visits and 328 students (47 Technology, University of Zagreb, of Zagreb, University of Applied percent more than in 2017) visited three from the Faculty of Agronomy, Health Sciences in Zagreb and Dukat and its Zagreb Plant. University of Zagreb, one from Faculty of Food Technology at the EMPLOYEE DATA TYPE OF EMPLOYMENT Total number of Permanent Temporary In 2018, Dukat had 1,267 employees, Year employees employment employment which is 54 employees or 4.5 percent employees more than the 2016 1,175 974 201 year before. Of the total number 2017 1,213 980 233 of employees, 80 percent are permanently employed. Work rights, 2018 1,267 1,008 257 as well as rights under the Collective Agreement and benefits, are applied equally to all employees, regardless of them being permanent or temporary, 20% temporary full or half-time employees, members employment of the union or not. Employee fluctuation rate is 21 percent, which is 6 percent higher than the year before, mostly due permanent to the large number of seasonal employment employees with temporary 80% employment during the summer season. EMPLOYMENT OF YOUNG PEOPLE, PERMANENT SEASONAL EMPLOYEES AND WORKPLACE TRAINING In 2018, Dukat continued to use active employment Lack of qualified workers and difficulties in finding measures of the Croatian Employment Service. It necessary workforce for seasonal employment were continued its participation in the professional training the reason for joining the “permanent seasonal program without employment (SOR), enabling young employee” measure. This option secured tried and people who are just entering the labor market to trained workers, twelve of them, since 2017 when acquire new knowledge and skills. In 2018, 11 young Dukat joined this measure. SOR participants acquired their first work experience at Dukat, six of which were ultimately employed. From March to September 2018, Bjelovar Plant used the “workplace training” measure involving Young people aged 18 to 30 make up 18 percent of unemployed persons with high school education Dukat employees, and 165 new people under 30 were who have no work experience in the field of milk employed in 2018 – 92 remained employed, while processing. The objective of this measure is to 73 who were mostly seasonal workers left. Also, 39 enable unemployed persons to carry out industrial employees under 30 years of age transitioned from cheesemaker operations at the cheese melting plant temporary to permanent employment in 2018. and the cheese ripening plant by developing their knowledge and their skills. Nine persons were trained, seven of whom were employed. 15 AGE STRUCTURE Number of Number of Number of 2% < 30 Employee employees employees employees age 2016 2017 2018 18% 25% 31 40 < 30 165 183 227 31 40 281 298 316 41 50 41 50 375 380 378 25% 51 60 332 333 323 51 60 > 61 22 19 23 30% Total 1,175 1,213 1,267 > 61 At the end of 2018, the average employee age was 42, one year younger than in the previous three years. The trend of gradual rejuvenation of employees is visible in the past seven years (in 2013, the average age was 44), which is the result of hiring young people and older employees retiring. In 2018, the largest increase in the number of employees is visible in the age group under 30 (24 percent more compared to the year before), and if we add the age group of 31 to 40, the growth is 30 percent. GENDER Number of Number of Number of Gender employees employees employees 34% Male 2016 2017 2018 Male 772 791 836 Female 403 422 431 Female Total 1,175 1,213 1,267 66% Majority of Dukat employees are men (66 percent), while women account for 34 percent, which is one percentage point more in favor of men, compared to the year before. EDUCATION 10% Number of Number of Number of 23% Education employees employees employees Elementary 2016 2017 2018 school Elementary High 160 122 131 school School High school 762 807 844 College and College and 239 284 294 University University 67% Total 1,161 1,213 1,267 Majority of employees (67 percent) has a high school diploma, while 23 percent have college and university degree, which is the same as the ratio of the year before. 16 COMPOSITION OF GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Average Year Gender Number age Male Male 43 39 2016 Female 43 49 48% 52% Male 45 41 2017 Female Female 44 49 Male 45 43 2018 Female 46 47 In 2018, share of women in governance and promoted to leadership, management and executive management positions at Dukat was 52 percent, 2 positions in 2018. percent less than in 2017. The past several years show an increase trend in the share of women in governance and We pay special attention to hiring of domestic labor and management positions (from 35 percent in 2012 to 52 local experts, for executive and management positions as percent in 2018). well. Share of Croatian citizens in the top management High percentage of women is represented in managerial (Supervisory Board and Dukat Inc. directors) is 29 positions – 23 percent in executive positions and 29 percent, and in senior management (executive and percent in managerial positions. Six women were regional directors) 75 percent. RATIO OF SALARIES AND BENEFITS Salary and benefits policies are ANNUAL AWARDS based solely on the type and complexity of the job, responsibility, At the end of each year, prizes are awarded to the most successful knowledge and skills necessary for employees, managers and teams who excelled in their work, achieved carrying out tasks and achieving results and application of corporate values throughout the year. results, excluding any form of Rewarding exceptional individuals and teams is a 20-year-old tradition discrimination based on gender, of Dukat and all employees are invited to nominate their colleagues nationality, religion or any other and project teams. In addition to the three already traditional prize personal features. categories (the most successful employees, manager and team) and the In 2018, the average gross salary per most successful “young hope”, a new category was introduced in 2018 employee was 2 percent higher than – the most successful sales representative. Total of 13 individual awards in 2017. Total non-taxable expenses were presented to individuals (eight for the best employees, three for increased by 31 percent compared to young hopes and one for the sales representative, one for the manager the year before. of the year and one lifetime achievement award) and two awards were presented to teams comprised of more than 60 employees. During 2018, 469 employees, or 37 percent were promoted to new jobs, based on their acquisition of new knowledge and skills within the framework of their jobs, and taking over new responsibilities within and between departments (horizontal and vertical promotion). In 2017, total of 289 employees were promoted. 17 INTERNAL COMMUNICATION Various channels are used for have no access to the Intranet. employees about key human internal communication: Intranet Information about company events, resources activities, promotions, (internal web), e-mail, VPN mobile launch of new products, employee new employment and organizational system, in-house newsletter Contact, benefits, etc. are regularly posted changes, changes related to notice boards, meetings and “faceon notice boards. Space for trade legislation and employees’ rights to-face” communication. unions and works council’s notices is by way of an electronic newsletter. also provided. Newsletter is distributed twice a The in-house magazine Contact, year. published quarterly, is intended Furthermore, Dukat fosters an openfor employees of Dukat and door policy, which implies direct In 2018, Marketing also launched a associated companies in Croatia. communication with department newsletter to inform employees of Representatives of various management. Except directly, new products that were launched departments and associated employees can contribute their on the market, as well as the most companies participate in creating remarks, comments and ideas significant marketing campaigns. it, and other employees may also anonymously, using boxes for The newsletter is distributed participate with their stories and comments and ideas placed at all quarterly, and apart from the photographs. production sites. e-version it is also placed on the bulletin boards. Notice boards are particularly To improve internal communication, important for employees in at the end of 2017, Human Resources production and logistics, as they started the practice of informing LJETO 2018. 115 18. PROLJEĆEE 20 1ŽIV1OT4 NAŠE ŽIVOT NAŠE JE SE N 20 GRUPE 116 18 . GRUPE ŽIVOT NAŠE U FOKUSU GRUPE T EN PROJEK PREDSTAVLJ ŠE OD OBROKA JE VI KIM OBILJEŽIO U FOKUSU DORUČAK 50 GODINA RADA 20 GODINA POTROŠAČKO ECˇNIH LIJEČ DUKAT DOBIO PRIZNANJE G TELEFONA DONACIJE M MANITARNIM OIZVODA HU NAJDONATOR PR USTANOVA M A PREDSTAVL DVD SIRELA JAMO BJELOVAR: U MORU NOVITETA 50 GODINA U SLUŽBI OTVARAMO NOVU KATEGORIJU SA TVORNICE SALAKIS SIRNIM NAMAZOM VOLONTERI KIMI TVORNICE -a BJELOVAR U ZELENOJ ČISTKI raspodje lu zaposle Interni časopis Grupe Lactalis, isključivo za internu raspodjelu zaposlenicima. nicima. za internu nicima. DAR NICIMAOM Grupe Lac talis, isklju lu zaposle SLE VORN čivo internu raspodje ZAPO O ODGO IRUČNIK ŠTAJ I PR D Interni čas čivo za opis IZVJE LOVANJU JE VIŠE O talis, isklju POS RUČAK KA DO OBRO pe Lac opis Gru Interni čas 18 RENOVATED PLANT RESTAURANT IN ZAGREB A renovated plant restaurant at the Zagreb location bar and sandwiches. The restaurant now also offers was opened at the end of October. In addition to the free WiFi for employees and guests. A special novelty restaurant being renovated, the daily menu selection is the introduction of a “cheese day”, held on the last also improved in accordance with the results of an inMonday of the month, when employees and restaurant house questionnaire that was used by the employees guests have the opportunity to taste President, Sirela to express their desire for a more versatile menu and Galbani brand cheese. Following the renovation, selection. the number of visitors to the restaurant increased and Two additional dishes were introduced, in addition to employees have started spending more time in its the two existing ones, as were the self-service salad pleasant ambiance. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Dukat offers its employees and employees of associated companies in Croatia a number of benefits as an additional benefit and stimulus to spend quality leisure time, while generating savings at the same time. As a longtime sponsor of the Zagreb ZOO, Dukat employees have access to free passes to the ZOO all year round. The list of benefits is expanded each year, so employees get cheaper passes to the Museum of Illusions, reprise shows at the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb and shows at the Culture Center “Histrionski dom”. Permanent discount was arranged for Dukat employees in four Ghetaldus optics stores, on the entire line, and FlixBus offers cheaper bus tickets for travel to two thousand destinations. Employees can also benefit from arranged discounted prices to swimming pools and the World of Saunas at Terme Tuhelj. These benefits apply to employees and to their family members or friends in their company. 19 Dukat launches and supports projects that contribute to improving the quality of life and well-being of the community, families and individuals, and it systematically invests in the promotion of primary milk production and product development and quality COMMUNITY 20 CONTRIBUTION TO THE COMMUNITY Dukat launches and supports projects that contribute to the improvement of quality of life and well-being of the local community, families and individuals. These projects include health care, caring for healthy habits (moving, recreation and sports), child care, encouraging education related to proper and balanced diet. It also systematically invests in the promotion of primary milk production, product development and quality, and supports the community in which it operates. In 2018, same as the previous three Center for Education Lug, Center Student Association of the years, Dukat’s donations program for Education Velika Gorica, Faculty of Natural Sciences and focused on strategic donations of competition “the best volunteers of Mathematics Zagreb “Probion”, dairy products to humanitarian Medical School Bjelovar”, marking Elementary School Novi Marof institutions who care for especially the Dairy Day at elementary school – state competition “Young vulnerable groups of adults and Josip Matoš Vukovar, Student Padovec”, eSTUDENT Smartup, children throughout Croatia. home Karlovac, DV “Bubamara” Elementary School Ivan Filipović Glina, DV “Lojtrica” Velika Gorica – “English language camp for In 2018, through donations and • Culture: Folklore Ensemble “Ivan partner cities” in Hungary sponsorships in own products and Goran Kovačić”“ financial means, Dukat invested in: • Sports: Tennis tournament for • Sports: children under 10 – TC Futur, Scout Cycling: “Catch the Wind” 2018; DONATIONS Meet Trogir, FERgometrijada Dukat Fit Occupy; Gro Alps Bike • Other: Parish of Mary the Helper Marathon 2018; Recreational Sports • Financial: Sirela sports club, PPDIV of Christians – winter oratorium, Association “Fly”; Cycling Union Union – Rovinj sports competition, support to “Little Lighthouse” Association (Pedalafest); Cycling support to the organization of the project of the Partner Association” event of Municipality Brdovec; 2nd stage of Tour of Croatia (City Giro de Banovina 2018; “Like for of Karlovac), Partner Association SPONSORSHIPS Bike” 2018; Turopolje Mile (VG – project “Small lighthouse for big Tour Team); Gorski kotar Bike Tour people” • Financial:43rd Croatian Symposia 2018; “Hit the Pedal”; Adria Bike of Dairy Experts, Association of Series races (AB Marathon Plitvice; Donations in own products Waiters and Bartenders of Croatia, Fuzine 2 Sea; Krk ‘n’ Roll); BK Biker; • Humanitarian organizations 7th International Bakery Congress BK Gema; BK Mura (Halicanum and campaigns: Association for INTERSLAST, KOMferencija – 19th marathon); Children’s Summer Children and the Promotion of annual conference of the Croatian Cycling Camp Mura Avantura the Life of Children and Families Public Relations Association, Running: Sports Association of Project of Happiness, Center Croatian Agricultural Agency – 13th Medical Students (“162 stairs” for Dialogue Culture Association, counseling of cattle breeders in the race); Run Croatia (3rd international Christmas Fair of the International Republic of Croatia, Sport Educa Island of Pag half marathon, Hvar Women’s Club Zagreb, Dystrophy Wine Run, Cross Hill Run Križ 2018, Association Zagreb, Women’s Sponsorships in own products Glow Run Nerezine, Kids Run Pag Association Gudovac, “Citizens’ • Culture: Festival of Children’s 2018, Mountain Madness – Ravna Initiative Old Paper for a New Music Creation, Days of the City Gora); Zagreb Athletic Association Smile” – project “Big Hearted of Novi Marof (Elementary School (Holjevka); Athletic Club Sljeme Drivers”, Association of Hearing Novi Marof), System Orchestra of – Sljeme Run (Sava Hendrix half Impaired Persons of BjelovarChildren and Youth “El Sistema” marathon; Hill race Boroša; Bilogora County “Deaf party” – World Music Day, Motovun Film MedvedRUN 2018; Samsung masked ball, Association of Deaf Festival, Multipak 2018 Pakrac, Sljeme Marathon 2018; Grawe and Blind Persons Zagreb, Student International Children’s Festival Night Marathon); ŠRC Mukinje Pediatrics Section – “Pediatric Magic Flute, Children’s Theatre (33rd Plitvice Marathon); Sports Christmas Spell”, “Temple of Love” Branko Mihaljević – premiere of the and Recreation Festival “Homo si Varaždin show “The penguins do not know teć”; “Ivanič Ten”; Ultramarathon • Health: Rehabilitation Center how to bake a cake with cheese”, Club Mazator SB RUN; “539 Zagreb, Rehabilitation Center 58th International Children’s jump” – race on Trsat stairs; Bibinje Varaždin, Clinical Hospital “Sveti Festival Šibenik, Tourist Board of Summer Run; Half marathon Duh” the City of Bakar – “Margaret’s Riviera Gradac; Athletic Club Noga • Nursing homes: Nursing home Vila Summer” (NovskaRUN); Youth Associations Maria, Nursing home Čakovec, Mataferčk (Forest run); SRD 315 Nursing home Villa Brezovica • Education: Career Days at the Sjeverozapad (Ravna Gora Trail • Education: student exercise Faculty of Agronomy in Zagreb, 2018); Karlovački cener “Sensory evaluation of cheeses” Faculty of Natural Sciences and Triathlon and biathlon: 20th at the Faculty of Food Technology Mathematics Zagreb – European “Marjanski đir” (Triathlon Club and Biotechnology Zagreb, Symposium of Biology Students, Split); Triathlon Club Maksimir 21 (Croatian Championship in cross DONATIONS OF PRODUCTS DONATIONS OF biathlon); PD Đakovo (Triathlon TO HUMANITARIAN DUKAT PRODUCTS Borovik); Triathlon Club Swibir ORGANISATIONS TO HUMANITARIAN Clubs, tournaments and – REGISTERED ORGANISATIONS competitions: Soccer Club INTERMEDIARIES Zelina; Basketball Club Larus; As traditional donor of dairy Basketball Club Sesvete; Handball • Humanitarian associations: products to vulnerable social Club Kozala; Handball Club Čavle humanitarian association “Rijeka groups, in 2018 Dukat continued – 6th International Easter Mini ljubavi” Osijek, humanitarian regular donations of its products to Handball Tournament; Hockey association “Friends of St. Martin” soup kitchens, social supermarkets Club Medveščak; Hockey Club Beli Manastir, humanitarian and humanitarian associations who Mladost – 14th Open Ice Hockey association “Putevi milosti” Osijek, care for disadvantaged citizens Championship of the City of humanitarian association “Put and children across Croatia. In Zagreb; Tennis Club for Persons mira” Mirkovci, Association of 2018, Dukat donated 192 tons of with Disabilities “Sirius”; Rhythmic Parents with Children Suffering dairy products, or 22.7 percent less Gymnastics Club Leda Leda Cup from Malignant Illnesses “Hrabro than the year before. The opening 2018; Softball Club Princ; Wrestling dijete” Nova Gradiška, Association of two new discount stores and Club Zadar; Kick boxing club Old for Aiding Children with increased placement of products Lion – “Gladiator Night”; Dance Disabilities “ADHD and I” Zagreb, at specially lowered prices due to Club Spin; International Taekwondo humanitarian association “fra close expiration dates, the quantity Tournament 2018 Ozalj 2018; Mladen Hrkać”, Homeless center of donated products decreased University of Zagreb Rowing “Milosrđe” Karlovac – Center for by 56 tons in 2018, compared Team – preparations for European homeless people Karlovac, City to the year before. Through its University Games in Coimbra; of Valpovo Roma Association, regular donations program, Dukat CrossFit Team of 6 people Roma Association “Sara” Torjaci, provided almost 40,000 children Hypertrophy 2018; Papuk Extreme Association Veličanka and adults who live in poverty and Challenge; Zagreb Athletic Alliance: are unable to afford these products Zagreb Open Indoor Championship • Soup kitchens: Caritas soup themselves with more than 970 Other: International Sports kitchens in Osijek, Slavonski Brod, dairy meals, from Vukovar to Convention “Be Different Be Vinkovci, Daruvar, Sisak, Zadar, Dubrovnik. Strong” Osijek; Children’s Summer Šibenik, Split, Knin and St. Anthony Camp 2018 Jarun; Sports and of Padua Parish in Zagreb In the past four years, Dukat Recreation Center Zamet; 28th donated 900 tons of dairy products Independent Society of Scouts • Social supermarkets: Social of HRK 8.2 million in purchase “Dubrava”: “Dražen Mađarević – supermarket Siget, Social value (without VAT) and over HRK Mađar” Memorial supermarket Belišće, Social 13 million in sales value (without supermarket GDCK Krapina, Social VAT). Apart from influencing • Fairs and gastronomy events: supermarket „Kruh sv. Elizabete“ better quality nutrition of socially Croatian Culinary Association: Rijeka, Social supermarket Karlovac endangered population and the State pizzaioli championship, quality of life in general, these “Bilogorsko kolo 2018”, Youth • Caritas and Diocese: Caritas of donations of Dukat also contributed Culinary Cup “Golden Apple”; the Zagreb Archdiocese, Caritas of to the fight against hunger and Association of Chefs and the Dubrovnik Diocese, Vrbovsko consequences of poverty, thus Confectioners Bilogora; HPA – Parish contributing to the achievement of “Our homemade, now and in the goals 2 and 3 of the UN Sustainable future”, “Lunch from Croatian • Red Cross: Ivanić-Grad Red Cross, Development Goals (Goal 2: Zero Farms”; Croatian Chamber Buje Red Cross, Solin Red Cross, hunger and Goal 3: Good health of Economy – “Buy Croatian”; Čakovec Red Cross, Sisak Red and well-being for people). At the Bartender Cup 2018; Adriatic Cross, Županja Red Cross same time, with these donations Gastro Show; Gibaj fest; ŠKMER – Dukat lowered the quantity of Diocletian’s Amphora 2018; Barista • Homes for Children: Zagreb Home discarded products and along with Competition “Latte Art Challenge for Children, Home for Children positive social ad humanitarian Sarajevo”; International Beekeeping “Maestral” Split, St. Joseph Home impact, the project also generated Fair and Exhibition of Wine and for Children, St. Frances Vugrovec positive environmental impact, thus Vineyard Equipment 2018 House, Vladimir Nazor Service contributing to the UN Sustainable Center, Home for Education of Development Goal target 12.3 on • Symposia and conferences: Children and Youth in Karlovac food loss and waste (12. Sustainable “Business in Sports” conference of consumption and production the Croatian Student Association; • Other: Remar Croatia Association, patterns; target 12.3. calls for FIAMC Congress Zagreb 2018 Reto center Split, Home for Addicts cutting food waste at the retail and – “Meeting” community, Center consumer level and reducing food • Entertainment: Zagreb ZOO for Rehabilitation Rijeka, Karlovac losses along production and supply Women’s Group “Step” chains). 22 DONATIONS OF DAIRY PRODUCTS TO HUMANITARIAN ORGANISATIONS IN 2018 DONATED PRODUCTS BY CATEGORY HRK 2.54 81% CHILLED 9% MILK 7% CHEESES 1% GALBANI million sales value (no VAT) HRK 10.8 million in the three previous years (2015-2017) 192 tons 708 tons 2015-2017 DAIRY MEET approximately 2% OTHER 970 thousand dairy meals 50 organisations intermediaries / HRK 287,560 logistics expense 572 donations 39,351 beneficiaries 412 shipments 10,830 children including out of which DONATIONS BY COUNTY – IN KG DONATIONS BY DONATIONS BY TYPE OF CITY OF ZAGREB 66,316 REGIONS – IN KG RECIPIENT – IN KG OSIJEK-BARANJA 35,077 CENTRAL CROATIA HUM. ASSOCIATIONS VUKOVAR-SRIJEM 22,964 84.679 69.977 BROD-POSAVLJE 17,002 SOUP KITCHENS SPLIT-DALMATIA 9,376 EASTERN CROATIA 47.555 PRIMORJE-GORSKI KOTAR 8,326 75.648 SOCIAL SHOPS SISAK-MOSLAVINA 7,544 BJELOVAR-BILOGORA 5,484 MIDDLE AND SOUTH 29.836 KARLOVAC 5,335 ADRIATIC CARITAS & DIOCESE ŠIBENIK-KNIN 2,680 15.762 23.502 ZADAR 2,539 RED CROSS MEĐIMURJE 2,409 NORTH ADRIATIC 12.824 ISTRIA 2,262 AND LIKA HOMES FOR KOPRIVNICA-KRIŽEVCI 1,936 10.589 CHILDREN DUBROVNIK-NERETVA 1,167 3.351 NORTHWEST KRAPINA-ZAGORJE 690 CROATIA OTHER POŽEGA-SLAVONIA 604 5.035 4.667 TOTAL kg 191,712 “THE BEST DONOR” RECOGNITION FOR BEING OPENING DISCOUNT STORES THE LARGEST DONOR OF FOOD IN CROATIA Trying to meet the needs of its fellow citizens of Dukat’s leadership role in food donations in Croatia was lower material status, in 2018 Dukat continued recognized by the public in May 2018, when Dukat was to expand discount stores that sell Dukat, Sirela, given the “The Best Donor” award. Dukat deserved this President and Galbani brands of milk, dairy recognition as the largest single donor of food in Croatia products and cheese at considerably lower prices in 2017, donating 41.5 percent of the total donated food, compared to regular stores. In addition to the and as the largest donor in the category of producers. This discount stores at Zagreb Dolac and in Bjelovar recognition was initiated by the MEP, Biljana Borzan, and (opened in 2016), two more stores like this were “Food Network” platform, with the aim of rewarding the opened in 2018: in Slavonski Brod and at the greatest donors, increasing awareness of food donation Jarun Lake market in Zagreb, employing four issues and inspiring other companies to donate, and the new saleswomen. With the above said, all Dukat award ceremony was held at the European Parliament discount stores also sell products that are about in Brussels. The basic selection criteria were the data on to expire, with prices 50 to 70 percent lower than donations in the previous year, which the companies are regular prices. Dukat’s discount store in Split closed required to report under the Ordinance on conditions, at the end of September. criteria and methods for donating food. 23 MILK PRODUCERS Dukat, one of the leading milk purchasers in Croatia, is an important factor for stability and Encouraging development of primary milk production in Croatia sustainability of the domestic is one of strategic determinants of Dukat’s socially responsible dairy sector. business. In 2018, Dukat, one of the largest Croatia in general. In 2018, Dukat farms”, awarded by the Croatian milk purchasers in Croatia, acquired subsidized the purchase of 900 Agriculture Agency. 190.4 million kg of fresh raw milk heifers for its cooperators, with HRK from local dairy farms, which is 5.9 2.25 million of nun-refundable funds, Building and nurturing long-term percent less than the year before. credited the purchase of production partnerships with milk producers, Decrease in milk purchase is the materials for production of milk with secured placement of produced result of declining milk production in HRK 46 million, and it subsidized milk, timely payment of financial Croatia, a negative trend recorded adaptation of farm buildings and obligations towards milk producers, by the domestic dairy sector for purchase of farmland and milking professional education and a number of consecutive years. equipment with HRK 7.80 million counseling, improvement of milk With decreased milk production, in cash funds. In 2018, Dukat invested production through higher quantities 2018 the domestic dairy sector also 10.1 percent more in subsidizing milk and better quality of produced milk, witnessed a drop in the number of production in Croatia than in 2017. as well as free market competition, milk producers. are the foundation for long-term Thanks to Dukat’s continuous cooperation of Dukat and milk In 2018, Dukat purchased milk from investment in the domestic primary producers and for sustainability of 2,869 large, medium and small sector, in terms of investing its domestic dairy sector. milk producers all across Croatia. own financial resources and in Dukat nurtures long-term partner terms of counseling and support Total investments in relationships with majority of these by Dukat’s team of veterinaries subsidizing primary milk milk producers, contributing to the and agronomists, Dukat has been production (HRK million) development of rural Croatia. recording continuous increase in 56.05 quality of produced milk within its 50.91 Furthermore, Dukat continuously collection area. invests significant amounts of As Dukat’s business is based on its own funds in stimulation and the processing of fresh raw milk of development of business of the milk the highest quality, produced on producers it works with, as well as domestic dairy farms, Dukat milk stimulation of milk production in carries the label “Milk from Croatian 2017 2018 MEMBERSHIPS IN ASSOCIATIONS THAT PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT In 1998, Dukat was one of the for environmental protection in In 1998, Dukat was one of founders, and since then a member economy of the Croatian Chamber the founders, and since then of the Croatian Business Council of Economy, EKO-Ozra and GIUPAK a member of the Croatian for Sustainable Development (HR (Economic interest grouping for Business Council for Sustainable BCSD), a non-profit institution of packaging and environmental Development (HR BCSD), and the private sector encouraging protection). since 2012 a member of the sustainable development in United Nations Global Compact economy. Along with its longSince 2012, Dukat has been a and Croatian Network of Global standing membership in HR BCSD, member of the United Nations Compact. Dukat is also an active member of Global Compact, the world’s largest other associations that promote corporate social responsibility sustainable development and initiative, as well as Croatian environmental protection, such as Network of Global Compact. Community for CSR and Community 24 FOCUSING ON PRODUCT QUALITY continued improvement. It also Of the total complaints received, Dukat is the first dairy industry represents one of important visit of the sales representative and one of the first in the internal tools for tracking consumer and replacement of the product Croatian food industry to satisfaction and product quality. was accepted by 58.4 percent introduce a free hotline for of consumers (compared to 47.9 consumers in 1998, currently Consumer complaints on percent the year before), while Customer Service, which million items sold others were satisfied with just an includes telephone, email and apology. communication. 2.29 2.17 2.07 At the Croatian market level, The greatest attention is paid to the 2018 recorded the best score quality and safety of products to in regard to received consumer fulfill the demands and expectations complaints since this indicator of consumers. Therefore, our has been monitored only 2.07 products not only have to meet 2016 2017 2018 complaints per million products certain quality standards, such as sold. This is the result of constant ISO 9001, ISO 22000, IFS, HACCP, In 2018, 30.9 percent of the total listening to consumers’ needs and Kosher and Halal certificates for number of complaints, comments and expectations, as well as specific product groups, but they and praises were complaints, which efficient and focused action strive to exceed them in accordance is 10.2 percent lower than in 2017 regarding observed causes of with internal quality standards. If we break down complaints by quality deviations. For example, plants, Bjelovar Plant recorded a the number of complaints Quality policy of the Lactalis Group decrease in number of complaints regarding hard cheese fell from specifies guidelines for continuous by 22.4 percent and Zagreb Plant over 60 complaints in 2016 to 13 improvement of product quality recorded a 10.2 percent decrease, complaints in 2018, with a trend and strengthening of customer while the number of complaints at of further decline. Decline in the and consumer satisfaction. Dukat’s the Karlovac Factory remained the number of complaints regarding quality, environmental and food same as in 2017 The same trend was hard cheese is the result of timely safety management policy relies recorded if we observe the number and precisely detected causes, on Lactalis’ quality policy and of product complaints on a million investing in line control equipment confirms the focus on continuous sold items (ppm). Bjelovar and (e.g. leak pointer that can detect improvement of quality on all Zagreb plants recorded a decrease the slightest leakage of bag business levels, as well as use of in number complaints on a million joints), as well as targeted and appropriate energy sources and raw sold items, while Karlovac Plant is at continuous training of employees materials, to achieve the satisfaction the same level as in 2017. on the production line. of consumers, all employees, suppliers, business partners, generate positive effects on the community and financial results of the company. Having recognized the importance of two-way communication with consumers, ensuring timely and complete response, Dukat has had a free Consumer Phone since 1998, and was the first dairy industry and one of the first in Croatian food industry to introduce a free hotline for consumers. This communication channel (current Customer Service), which in addition to phone and e-mail also includes communication via Dukat’s Facebook page, is open to opinions, comments and inquiries by consumers about products, and as such present valuable source of information and incentive for 25 CONTINUING ACTIVITIES RELATED TO SENSORY EVALUATION OF PRODUCTS Sensory evaluation of Zagreb and In 2018, an initiative was launched by scientific knowledge and statistical Bjelovar plant key products, as well the sensory department to form the tools for processing collected data as some of the key products of Association of Southeast European on all flavors, scents and other Somboled and Ljubljanske mlekarne Sensors, with members being sensors characteristics of the sampled plants, was successfully continued in from the food industry and part of product. 2018. scientific institutions in the region. Establishment of the association Dukat was the first food and To make the management of expert and the first congress are planned to dairy company in Croatia to and plant panels, and collection and happen in 2019. Furthermore, several launch expert panels for sensory analysis of sensory evaluation results visitor groups and practitioners evaluation of products in 2016, faster and more reliable, sensory visited the sensory department in comprised of specially trained analysis software was successfully 2018, whereby Dukat contributed to external associates. In addition installed in May – Fizz WEB. Panel raising awareness on the significance to two panels with 33 panelists members now enter their grades of sensory properties for the overall total, products are also regularly on tablets, and sophisticated product quality and provided higher evaluated by 17 Dukat’s longstatistical and graphic tools provide education professional institutions to term tasters – employees who are instantaneous results and feedback on witness in practice the application of members of the two plant panels. evaluations. OPEN DOOR DAYS FOR ELEMENTARY SCHOOL STUDENTS As part of “Dukat’s Open Door In addition to the regular program children and adults, and 3000th child Days”, educational and fun project, of plant visit, educational and visitor received an award. implemented under the patronage of entertainment games, they also had the Ministry of Science, Education and the opportunity to visit their parent’s Since the project was launched, Sports since late 2012, Dukat has been workplaces at the Zagreb location. 3039 students visited Dukat and the host to third and fourth graders Also, as part of this project, Dukat its Zagreb Plant (October 2012 – from Croatian elementary schools. marked the International Day of the December 2018), and great interest During their visit to Dukat’s production Child on November 20th. On this in this program is witnessed by the plant, students have the opportunity occasion, elementary school students fact that all the terms have been fully to learn about the milk’s route “from had the opportunity to ask questions booked for almost two school years in the field to the table” and about the and propose new Dukat products for advance. significance of everyday consumption of milk and dairy products for proper growth and development of children. In 2018, Dukat’s Zagreb plant was visited by 417 pupils from seven elementary schools from Zagreb. Among them were 48 school children of Dukat employees, who visited Dukat in April 2018 . SEVENTH CREATIVE DRAWING PROJECT “I LOVE MILK” Since 2012, Dukat has been holding entered the competition. The the creative drawing competition “I four winning drawings of cow love milk!”, to encourage the public Šara, selected by an independent to create proper dietary habits and jury, were applied to the limited draw attention to the importance of series of UHT milk packaging. daily milk consumption, especially Announcement of the winners and among children of school age. In the creative workshops for the grades past seven years, 20,000 elementary of awarded students were held at school students and their teachers the Museum of Contemporary Art, from all parts of Croatia participated partner in the project who has been in the competition. part of this project since its inception. The competition is held under the Following an extremely successful patronage of Ministry of Science and 2017 competition, 2018 competition Education and Ministry of Health. All saw a record-breaking response participants were sent personalized – 6,112 art works from 353 schools thank-you-letters. 26 BREAKFAST IS MORE THAN A MEAL To draw attention of parents and are aware of the importance of To encourage parents to adopt the public to the importance of common gathering around the quality familiar morning habits, adopting proper nutrition habits, table, but do not regularly do this Dukat presented family video-stores and particularly to the significance during the work week. Therefore, in which two families talk about the of common daily breakfasts for at the end of 2017, webpage significance of joint breakfasts and physical and emotional growth and www.DorucakJeViseOdObroka. communication around the table, development of children, at the end hr was presented along with the and 15 workshops were held with of 2017 Dukat launched the project handbook “Breakfast is more parents of kindergarten children “Breakfast is more than a meal”. than a meal” with advice of a in several Zagreb kindergartens. Its starting point was quantitative nutritionist and psychologist on how Educational significance of the research on the morning eating to turn breakfast into important project was recognized by the habits and behavior of elementary family moments. In the first three Ministry of Science and Education, school children – participants months of 2018, Dukat distributed which is the patron of the project. in the creative drawing project approximately 50,000 handbooks “I love milk!”, results of which to parents, teachers and their showed that majority of parents employees. CYCLING RACES DUKAT FIT AND DUKATINO RACE FOR CHILDREN With the aim of promoting urban May and Zagreb in September, 833 the patronage of the Mayor of the cycling as an ecologically acceptable cyclists of all ages competed in five City of Zagreb. Since 2012, more manner of transport and an activity categories, which is 52 percent more than 3000 cyclists, children and that positively influences health than the year before, and more than adults, participated in nine races of individuals and families, in 2018 half the contestants were children. (seven in Zagreb and two in Zadar) Dukat once again organized “Dukat organized by Dukat. Fit” race and “Dukatino race for Seventh Dukat cycling race in children” in two cities – Zadar and Zagreb was held within the Zagreb. In both races, Zadar in European Mobility Week and under 27 Dukat has been building its own environmental management system, continuously reducing its impact on the environment ENVIRONMENT 28 PRINCIPLE 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental PRINCIPLE 7 Responsibility Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges PRINCIPLE 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Strategically focused on responsible attitude towards environment and operations in accordance with sustainable development policy, over time, Dukat has been building its own environmental management system, continuously reducing negative impact on the environment. ISO 14001 and 50001 certificates are evidence of Dukat’s efforts and continuous improvements in the area of environmental protection and efficient energy management. MATERIALS PACKAGING As a large-scale producer, we materials. In compliance with put in circulation, and it prepares take care of the environmental the Ordinance on packaging and additional monthly reports. We bear acceptability of our products and packaging waste, Dukat prepares the cost of packaging waste disposal strive to introduce economical and quarterly and annual reports on the and management in accordance environmentally friendly packaging types and volumes of packaging with the reports. DATA ON PACKAGING PUT IN CIRCULATION (t) – DUKAT INC. Type of packaging material (t) 2016 2017 2018 In 2018, 0.5 percent less packaging Metal (Al bottle for whipped was put into circulation compared 35 35 40 cream 250 ml) to 2017, while 3.2 percent less packaging was put into circulation in Paper/glue (carboard) 2,168 2,091 2,065 2017 than in 2016. The percentage of Multi-layer packaging with material used as the recycled input 1,549 1,287 1,299 predominant paper component material was less than 3 percent. PET 613 595 593 Polymers 2,621 2,754 2,729 Total 6,986 6,762 6,726 TOTAL WEIGHT OF PACKAGING PUT IN CIRCULATION (t) – DUKAT INC. Type of packaging (t) 2016 2017 2018 Multi-layer paper packaging 1,550 1,280 1,300 Paper/carton 2,100 2,100 2,100 PET 600 600 600 HDPE 2,000 2,000 1,300 Other polymers (PS, PE) 560 750 1,400 Metals 35 35 33 29 ENERGY Since 2017, a system of energy products is being implemented at at locations of associated companies management according to ISO the Zagreb and Bjelovar plants, at (KIM Mljekara, LA LOG i B.P.A.C. 50001 for processes of development, logistic locations in Dubrovnik, Split, Auto). production and distribution of dairy Zadar, Rijeka, Pula and Đakovo, and POWER Energy consumption is approached Power 2016 2017 2018 with great care and efforts are made towards savings in all stages Zagreb Plant 23,786,828 kWh 23,495,872 kWh 23,213,474 kWh of operations: in designing power Bjelovar Plant 11,552,273 kWh 11,520,534 kWh 12,592,848 kWh plants and technological processes, rational and efficient process management and regular and quality maintenance. Power consumption is increased from June to September Total power consumption (kWh) due to increase in production during seasonal demand and intense usage of the cooling system. 23,786,828 23,459,872 23,213,474 In 2018, total power consumption at the Zagreb Plant was 23,213,474 kWh, which is 0.3 percent less 11,552,273 12,592,848 than in 2017 Power consumption 11,520,534 in 2017 was 1.2 percent lower than power consumption in 2016 Ratio of consumed power per ton of processed milk was 247 kWh/t in 2018, and in 2017 it was 251 kWh/t, meaning that nine percent more power per ton of product was consumed in 2017 than in 2016. 2016 2017 2018 In 2018, total power consumption Zagreb Plant Bjelovar Plant at the Bjelovar Plant was 12.592.848 kWh, or 8.5 percent higher than in 2017, while in 2017 it was 0.3 percent lower than in 2016 Ratio of consumed power and production higher by 11 kWh/t than in 2017 (126 higher than the average in the past was 137 kWh/t in 2018, and was kWh/t), and the total average is five years. STEAM In 2018, total steam consumption Steam 2016 2017 2018 was 38,257 tons, which is 5 percent higher compared to steam Zagreb Plant 39,476 t 36,324 t 38,257 t consumption the year before. In 2017, steam consumption was 8 percent lower than in 2016. 30 GAS Two combustion plants, each of 4.4 Gas 2016 2017 2018 MW, are installed at the site of the Zagreb Plant, which are categorized Zagreb Plant 2,939,526 m3 2,926,969 m3 3,020,480 m3 as medium combustion plants Bjelovar Plant 2,840,687 m3 2,950,542 m3 2,995,424 m3 according to the Ordinance on limit values for pollutants emissions into the air. The plants are fueled by natural gas. Total gas consumption (m3) 3,020,480 In 2017, 3,020,480 m3 of gas 2,995,424 were consumed, which is 3.2 percent higher compared to gas consumption in 2017. In 2017, 0.4 2,950,542 2,939,526 percent less gas was consumed than 2,926,969 in 2016. Emissions of pollutants into the air 2,840,687 from both plants were measured in December 2017, and the values met the prescribed emission limit values according to the Ordinance on limit values of pollutants in the air. Bjelovar Plant has its own 2016 2017 2018 production of heat energy – steam Zagreb Plant Bjelovar Plant in two boilers of total power 14.3 MW and one 1.16 MW thermogen for producing hot air. In 2018, 2,995,424 m3 of gas was used, which is 1.5 of gas were consumed, which is 3.7 average amount in 2017 was 32.62 percent more than consumption in percent higher than in 2016. m3 gas/t of processed milk. In 2017. The consumption is greater 2016, the average amount of gas due to general production increase Ratio of gas consumption to consumption per ton of processed of 0.5 percent. In 2017, 2,950,542 m3 production was 32.92, while the milk was 31.25. WATER Dukat assigns great importance to ways for reducing its consumption. artesian wells, while the rest is used the economic water consumption Both plants (Zagreb and Bjelovar) from the public water supply. and constantly seeks to find new draw majority of water from their 2016 2017 2018 Količina (m3) Water (m3) Public Public Public Own Own Own water Total water Total water Total well well well supply supply supply Zagreb 4,511 372,311 376,822 7,408 367,129 374,537 5,519 392,974 398,493 Plant Bjelovar 2,910 268,640 271,550 3,520 263,261 266,781 21,408 278,558 299,966 Plant 31 ZAGREB PLANT In 2018, total water consumption at the Zagreb Plant was 398.497 m3, Total water consumption (m3) which is 6.4 percent more than the total water consumption in 2017. 398,493 Water consumption from the public 376,822 374,537 water supply was 5,519 m3, which is 25 percent lower than in 2017. Water 299,966 consumption from own well was 271,550 266,781 392,974 m3 or 7 percent more than in 2017. Total water consumption in 2017 was 0.6 percent lower than total water consumption in 2016. The index of production (IP per one kilogram of a produced product) was higher in 2018 than in 2017, or 4.2 compared to 4 in 2017. In 2016, the index of production was 3.6 2016 2017 2018 and was the same as the index of production the year before. Zagreb Plant Bjelovar Plant BJELOVAR PLANT In 2018, total water consumption at the Bjelovar Plant (299,966 m3) was 11.1 percent higher than consumption in 2017 (266,781 m3). Water consumption from the public water supply was 21,408 m3, which is significantly higher than in 2017 (3,520 m3), while water consumption from own well was Index of production (l water/kg of processed milk) 278,558 m3, which is 5.8 percent higher than consumption in 2017. 4.20 Total water consumption at the 4.00 3.83 Bjelovar Plant was 1.8 percent lower in 2017 (266,781 m3) than in 2016. 3.20 3.29 Water consumption from the public 2.96 water supply was 3,520 m3 in 2017, higher than in 2016 /2,910 m3), while water consumption from own well was 266,781 m3, which was lower than consumption in 2016 (268,640). In 2018, the average ratio of water consumption over processed milk was 3.3 l of water/kg of processed milk, which is higher than in 2017, when it was 2.9 l of water/kg of 2016 2017 2018 processed milk. In 2016, index of Zagreb Plant Bjelovar Plant production was 3.2 of water/kg of processed milk. 32 EMISSIONS IN THE AIR ZAGREB PLANT As mentioned above in the section The emissions of pollutants into under the Ordinance on limit values on Gas, there are two combustion the air from both plants were for pollutants emissions into the air. plants running on natural gas at the measured in 2018 and values meet site of the Zagreb Plant. the prescribed emission limit values EMISSIONS INTO THE AIR FROM FUEL COMBUSTION PROCESS TO OBTAIN THERMAL ENERGY IN 2018 Data on the type and quantity of emissions from outlet 1 Pollutant Standard / methodology Quantity of emissions: total (kg/yr) Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen dioxide HR EN 14792:2007 2,150 (NO2) Carbon dioxide (CO2) 2,723,414 Carbon monoxide (CO) HR EN 15058:2008 146 Data on fuel type and consumption Fuel Fuel consumption Lower heating value Natural gas 1,463,485 m3/god. 33,338 Data on emission measurement results Gas fuel Natural gas Substance Measurement result (mg/m3) Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen dioxide (NO2) 147 Carbon monoxide (CO) 10 Data on the type and quantity of emissions from outlet 2 Pollutant Standard / methodology Quantity of emissions: total (kg/yr) Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen dioxide HR EN 14792:2007 1,568 (NO2) Carbon dioxide (CO2) 2,723,414 Carbon monoxide (CO) HR EN 15058:2008 146 Data on fuel type and consumption Fuel Fuel consumption Lower heating value Natural gas 1,463,485 m3/god 33,338 Data on emission measurement results Gas fuel Natural gas Substance Measurement result (mg/m3) Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen dioxide (NO2) 107 Carbon monoxide (CO) 10 33 BJELOVAR PLANT There are four sources of emissions • one outlet from the thermoelectric • one outlet of the dried milk drying of pollutants into the air at the site generator for production of hot plant de-duster (non-energy) of the Bjelovar Plant: air (dried milk drying plant) organic dust. • two outlets from boiler chimneys – emissions of combustion products, emissions of combustion products NEW INVESTMENT AT THE BJELOVAR PLANT In 2018, the old combustion plant (boiler 1) was replaced by a new 5.48 MW combustion plant, or a medium combustion plant that uses gas fuels. The new plant has a higher degree of energy efficiency and the ability to operate all year (higher capacity). Type of outlet: Thermoelectric generator chimney Data on the type and quantity of emissions from outlets Pollutant Standard / methodology Quantity of emissions: total (kg/yr) Carbon monoxide (CO) HRN EN 15058 112.65 Carbon dioxide (CO2) / 661,270.82 Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen HRN EN 14792 222.80 dioxide (NO2) Particles (PM 10) / 5.33 Type of outlet: Boiler chimney 1 Data on the type and quantity of emissions from outlets Pollutant Standard / methodology Quantity of emissions: total (kg/yr) Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen HRN EN 14792 1,263.28 dioxide (NO2) Carbon monoxide (CO) HRN EN 15058 145.20 Carbon dioxide (CO2) / 2,702,119.82 Particles (PM 10) / 21.78 Type of outlet: Boiler chimney 2 Data on the type and quantity of emissions from outlets Pollutant Standard / methodology Quantity of emissions: total (kg/yr) Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen HRN EN 14792 832.81 dioxide (NO2) Carbon monoxide (CO) HRN EN 15058 118.80 Carbon dioxide (CO2) / 2,210,825.31 Particles (PM 10) / 832.81 34 WASTE WATER ZAGREB PLANT BJELOVAR PLANT 2017 when COD was 173.3 mg/liter. Increase in output COD in 2018 is There were no deviations of Bjelovar Plant has its own the result of increased quantity of individual parameters (oxygen waste water treatment plant processed milk by 0.3 percent and chemical consumption, BPK5, with the capacity of 1100 m3/ increased total production of cheese pH, total oils and fats value) in day, and processed waste water by 0.5 percent. Average output COD 2017 from the set values of the outflows meet the limit values in 2017 was 112.1 mg/l. water management license for the under the water management discharge into the public sewerage license. Outflowing waste water is In 2018, average Fx (wastewater system of the city of Zagreb discharged into the public sewage treatment factor) was 1.12 and in recorded at the site of the Zagreb of the City of Bjelovar after the 2017 it was 1.15. Decrease in the Plant. treatment procedure. wastewater treatment factor is noticed in 2018, compared to 2017, Technologies for reducing In 2018, total of 239,128 m3 of which is the result of increased emissions into water technological waste water was efficiency of the processing plant. • Filters have been installed in processed by the waste water Average Fx in 2016 was 1.04. production plants sewers that treatment plant, which is 10.4 separate labels, caps and other percent more than in 2017 (214,332 Sludge on the wastewater materials. m3). In 2016, total of 256,948 m3 treatment device is discharged • Chlorine-based chemicals have of technological waste water was with approximately 2.5 percent dry been replaced by peroxideand processed, or 19.7 percent more than matter, and total quantity in 2018 acetic acid-based formulas. in 2017. was 9,496 m3, compared to 10,128 • Technological processes in the m3 in 2017, or 6.2 percent less than plant have been optimized; milk Average COD value (chemical the year before. All the sludge is processing plants are regularly oxygen demand) in water, after transported to the contractually maintained to prevent the the purification process, was 297.7 agreed biogas plant. discharge of organic matter into mg/liter, which is higher than in the sewerage system. 35 WASTE WASTE GENERATING AND PROCESSING Systematic waste management is efforts are directed at the In 2018, total volume of separated one of the fundamental components prevention and constant reduction waste received at the Zagreb plant of the environmental management of generating all types of waste and was 814 tons, which is 1 percent less system. Re-usable waste, with waste management in accordance than in 2017. In the total balance, valuable characteristics that can with economic principles. It is also mixed packaging was the most be used, is collected and stored the objective of the company to collected, followed by waste paper separately. Dukat’s constant reduce communal waste generating and cardboard and multilayer objective is to manage waste in an by increasing the selection of packaging waste. environmentally efficient manner. generated waste and to reduce the Precisely for this reason, continuous volume of returns from the market. WASTE AT THE ZAGREB PLANT BY CATEGORY (t) 8.92 5 2.30 1.34 0.48 paper and composite packaging plastic packaging 267.91 wooden packaging metal packaging multilayer (composite) packaging mixed packaging iron and steel paper and cardboard 268.52 biodegradable kitchen waste 74.88 metals 4.13 97.45 biodegradable waste 0.84 At the Bjelovar Plant, plastic packaging is the type of nonWASTE SELECTION TRAINING hazardous waste that was collected the most (63,720 kg). In 2018, total In September 2018, employee training for waste selection was initiated of 8,479 kg of hazardous waste and it included 11 employees who are responsible for discharging the were collected (8.4 percent more waste containers from office, production and warehouse areas. Other than in 2017), most of all packaging employees were notified by email on separation of waste in its origin that contains hazardous substances location, and containers for collection of paper, plastic and other, or has been contaminated by communal waste were placed in key administrative space positions. hazardous substances (4,800 kg). In 2016, total of 8,366 kg of hazardous waste were collected. 36 CONSUMPTION OF CHEMICALS ZAGREB PLANT – CONSUMPTION OF WASHING AND DISINFECTING AGENTS In 2018, 10 percent more washing and disinfecting agents were Total volume 2016 2017 2018 consumed at the Zagreb Plant than of washing and the year before, and in 2017, Zagreb disinfecting agents 944,975 kg 980,372 kg 1,081,123 kg Plant consumed 3.7 percent more washing and disinfecting agents than in 2016 BJELOVAR PLANT CONSUMPTION OF CHEMICALS IN WASTE WATER TREATMENT PLANT In 2018, the total volume of chemicals utilized in the waste water Total volume of 2016 2017 2018 treatment plant at the Bjelovar Plant chemicals utilized was 23 percent lower than in 2017. in waste water 223,880 kg 179,500 kg 138,200 kg Consumption of caustic soda was treatment plant 12.1 percent lower in 2018 than in 2017 due to the new manner of work of the waste water treatment plant. Total quantity of consumed percent lower in 2017 than in 2016. in production was 3.1 percent lower chemicals utilized in the waste In 2017, consumption of chemicals than in 2016. water treatment plant was 19.8 NOISE Noise for the day and night work on the acoustic requirements, the during night work (ice water conditions at the Zagreb Plant site noise level does not exceed the compressor and ventilation on the ranges within the legally permissible permissible values for “day-night” street-facing façade), noise levels in limits. time period. Also, thanks to the night conditions do not exceed the noise protection measures taken, permissible values. Based on the measured noise levels by repairing the compressor holes within the Bjelovar Plant and based and by turning off noisy devices COMPLIANCE In accordance with legal provisions, No deviation from the legal and recorded, and there was no need Dukat makes an annual assessment other regulations and requirements to undertake any of the prescribed of adherence to (compliance with) was recorded in 2018. There were measures in the event of incidents. the legal and other environmental also no extraordinary situations regulations. 37 SUPPLIER EVALUATION REGARDING THE IMPACT ON ENVIRONMENT As part of the annual supplier • Adherence to environmental waste or by-products, the supplier evaluation, regarding the impact requirements (supplier or carrier can offer a recycling path for such on the environment, the following adheres to prevention plans, waste, e.g. packaging) activities are assessed: security protocols, rules for • Environmental awareness (supplier • Frequency of environmental unloading the remains of liquid contacted us offering solutions disasters at the point of delivery cargo on the bottom of the tank related to environmental protection (activities of suppliers or carriers (stripping), waste separation rules, waste recycling, reduction of did not cause any pollution at etc.) waste at the source, etc.) the plant in the course of last • The offer to reimburse the costs In 2018, all suppliers received the year: accidental gas dispersion or incurred by damage (in cases when highest-grade regarding impact on emission, spilling of liquids, fire) the delivered product generates the environment. OBJECTIVES FOR 2019 • Education and information of through monitoring the realization • Decrease the impact of plants on the employees on obligations of of established EPIs (energy environment Dukat according to the new performance indicators) • Decrease the amount of waste environmental legislation • Design that improves energy generated • Commitment to lasting efficiency improvement of energy efficiency DUKAT EMPLOYEES VOLUNTEER IN CLEAN-UP CAMPAIGN FOR THE SEVENTH TIME In 2018, Dukat employees once again joined the largest volunteer cleaning campaign “Green Clean-up – one day for clean environment”, part of the global “Let’s do it!” movement. Thirty-six employees from Bjelovar Plant and KIM mljekara Karlovac (KIM) participated in the action and cleaned up three illegal dumping sites in Bjelovar and Karlovac. Along with collected waste, employees donated the total of 70 working hours voluntarily joining the clean-up. In the past seven years, 448 Dukat and KIM employees participated in the action, freeing the environment from more than 170 cubic meters of waste. 38 39 Dukat applies strict anti-corruption ANTI-CORRUPTION standards in accordance with relevant internal documents and AND CORPORATE corporate policies GOVERNANCE 40 PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Dukat applies strict anti-corruption standards in its daily operations, in accordance with relevant internal documents and corporate policies of the Lactalis Group and operates in compliance with the applicable laws and regulations. Aware of the importance of responsible and ethically-based conduct, Dukat implemented and it applies the Corporate Governance Code. FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION Dukat’s anti-corruption activities can to employees on the Intranet, • the procedure of prior legal and be divided into several main areas: expressly states that “the financial control of each contract employee shall receive salary for entered into with suppliers and • Systematic improvement of his/her work at the company. Any customers. adherence to laws, rules of other receiving or giving of money, operation, good business inappropriate gifts or services practices and ethical business is not in compliance with the There were no recorded reports practice company’s by-laws and is therefore on suspicion of corruption or OThis objective is achieved forbidden.” incidences of corruption in 2018 through constant improvement of or the previous years. business processes and education The system of internal controls and of Dukat employees responsible prescribed procedures ensures It is Dukat’s strategic commitment for the legality of operations impartiality and objectivity of not to provide any material or and management of business employees and management, and non-material support to any processes related to business risk of corrupt actions and bribery political party or candidate, on practice issues and constant is minimized through: national or local level. legislative and business changes. • clearly defined and prescribed Dukat’s employees, as individuals, Business processes are also set and ethical standards of business are free to provide material monitored so that they are always conduct required of employees support to any political party or in compliance with the principles and management candidate of their choice, from mentioned in the introduction, by • regularly assessing the conditions their own funds and in their free adopting and enforcing internal of cooperation with potential time, which is the responsibility by-laws, procedures and work suppliers and customers and decision of each individual. instructions that are regularly • separate competences and communicated by e-mail and the processes in the process of In 2018, Dukat was not a party in Intranet. procurement of goods and services any of the procedures initiated • separate levels of business for conduct that is contrary to the • Internally regulated procedures decision making on donations and free market competition principle, and work instructions sponsorships anti-trust or monopoly practices. Code of Conduct, available CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Dukat’s corporate management and abuses. Dukat is quoted • Implementation of practice activities include: on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, concerning competition where it regularly publishes Dukat approaches competition • Operations in accordance with relevant business information for as one of its top priorities in the Companies Act, Capital shareholders, investors and the operations and invests great effort Market Act, regular adoption and business community. In addition in everyday business practices to implementation of the Zagreb to the Zagreb Stock Exchange, all asses each economic activity from Stock Exchange Corporate important information is submitted this aspect as well. Accordingly, Governance Code to the Croatian Financial Services in 2018 we also actively worked In this way, the legality, Supervisory Agency (HANFA), the on continued education of all key transparency and publicity of Croatian News Agency (HINA), employees at Dukat and Dukat operations are protected, and and is published on the company’s Group and all its associated corporate governance of the website, in accordance with companies in the region (Slovenia, highest rank is ensured, posing relevant regulations. Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina systematic obstacle to corruption 41 and Macedonia) in order to of information for current and Supervisory Board member – ensure continued application of potential investors and to ensure workers’ representative holds competition rules in business. equal conduct towards all interest 800 shares, which makes 0.02667 holders. percent of the company share In accordance with the practice capital. promoting respect for the rules of Dukat’s decision-making bodies fully competition, Dukat cooperates with apply provisions of the Corporate Managing directors and Supervisory the Croatian Competition Agency Governance Code in managing Board members are appointed on regular basis, submitting all company operations. pursuant to positive legislation and data required by the Agency and Corporate Governance Code. regularly participating in Agency’s Overall internal control systems of research on the milk and dairy Dukat and of the Group include: All amendments of the Statute are goods, and distribution trade • Appropriate organization structure adopted by the General Assembly markets. on all levels, with separation of pursuant to the positive legislation, duties and defined reporting and the full text of the Statute is In December 2018, Dukat mechanisms towards upper available on the company website, at participated in the research of management the business offices of Dukat and the contractual relations in the milk • Internal controls integrated into Commercial Court. and dairy product sector in Croatia, business processes and activities carried out by the Agency for • Accounting and administrative General Assembly acts in Protection of Market Competition. policies and procedures within accordance with positive legislation, It submitted all the requested control functions related to key Statute of the Company and the information, documentation and risks Corporate Governance Code. responses within the set deadline to • Double model of corporate the Agency for Protection of Market management comprised of Shareholders realize rights Competition. Management and Supervisory guaranteed by laws and regulations, Board and have access to all information IMPLEMENTATION OF THE relevant to business operations CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The basis of the internal controls of the company and making CODE system of Dukat and the Group is appropriate investment decisions by internal policy that defines basic publishing reports and information Dukat Inc. (hereinafter: Dukat) principles, structure and functions of in accordance with applicable voluntarily applies the Corporate the internal controls activities, which regulations, by way of Croatian Governance Code of the Zagreb contributes to regular corporate Financial Services Supervisory Stock Exchange, which is governance and promotion of Agency (HANFA), the Zagreb Stock available on Dukat and Zagreb transparent business. The main Exchange (ZSE), the Croatian News Exchange websites, and in Dukat’s features are as follows: Agency (HINA), as well as the administrative offices. Application • Set of accounting policies related company website (www.dukat.hr). of the Code has contributed to to the preparation of the Annual Furthermore, shareholders receive improvement of high corporate report in accordance with the all additional information from the governance standards and business International Financial Reporting Shareholders Record Office kept by transparency, which is completely Standards adopted in EU and the company. aligned with the positive legislation. Accounting Act • Internal audit of Dukat that On 31 December 2018, the company The Code establishes procedures supervises overall activities of has: for the actions of organs in charge Dukat and the Group, with the • three Managing directors who run of decision making, and ensures aim of estimating the adequacy business operations and represent prevention of conflicts of interest, of established internal controls Company severally and without efficient internal supervision, and system limitations an efficient system of responsibility. • Supervisory Board that consists There is a clearly established Internal Audit reports and findings of four members, or Supervisory responsibility system for every are adopted by the Management Board president and three subsidiary on the Group level, and Board and the Audit committee of Supervisory Board members, one parent company actively participates Dukat. Internal Audit department of which is the representative of in all major decisions made of the parent company Dukat Inc. is workers individually by the management of also responsible for internal audit of • Audit Committee that consists the subsidiaries. activities of the subsidiaries within of three members, or Audit Dukat Group. Committee president and two The Code regulates mandatory Audit Committee members, one publication of financial statements Dukat holds 197 treasury shares of which is the Supervisory Board and price sensitive information, all in which make 0.00657 percent of member an attempt to improve transparency share capital of the Company. 42 POPIS TABLICA I GRAFIKONA Dukat in Croatia in numbers (2018) 3 Revenue distribution by product categories 4 Plants, warehouses and platforms 4 Union members 9 Number of workplace injuries 10 Number of sick days 10 Number of paid leave days 11 Employee aid 11 Education hours 13 Type of employment 15 Age structure 16 Gender 16 Education 16 Composition of governance and management 17 Donated products by category 23 Donations by type of recipient – in kg 23 Donations by county – in kg 23 Donations by region – in kg 23 Total investments in subsidizing primary milk production (HRK million) 24 Customer complaints on million items sold 25 Data on packaging put in circulation (t) – Dukat Inc. 29 Total weight of packaging put in circulation (t) – Dukat Inc 29 Total power consumption (kWh) 30 Total gas consumption (m3) 31 Total water consumption (m3) 31-32 Index of production (l water/kg of processed milk) 32 Emissions into the air from fuel combustion process to obtain thermal energy in 2018 33 Emissions into the air from thermoelectric generator chimney and and boiler chimneys 1 and 2 (Bjelovar Plant) 34 Waste at the Zagreb Plant by category (kg) 36 Zagreb Plant – consumption of washing and disinfecting agents 37 Bjelovar Plant consumption of chemicals in waste water treatment plant 37 43 Report Profile Reporting period: 2018 Date of last report: March 2018 Reporting cycle: annual Date of publishing: March 2019 Publisher: Dukat Inc., Marijana Čavića 9, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia Design: Hand Studio d.o.o. Contact for Corporate Social Responsibility: Elena Wolsperger Dolezil, elena.wolsperger-dolezil@hr.lactalis.com Kristina Klarić Rubčić, kristina.klaric-rubcic@hr.lactalis.com www.dukat.hr 44
