UN Global Compact Communication on Progress March 29, 2019 From our Chairman White & Case became a signatory to the UN Global  As advisor to the Bank of England in its role as chair Compact in 2016, affirming our commitment to doing of the G20 Green Finance Study Group, we cobusiness responsibly by aligning with its ten principles authored a white paper with the Study Group that on human rights, labor, the environment and anticalls for the creation of a sustainable collateralized corruption. loan obligation (CLO) market to support the world’s transition to a sustainable economy and combat This is our second Communication on Progress. It irreversible climate change. The authors estimate outlines the steps we took in 2018 to continue to that the bond market could provide half the current embed these principles in our strategy, culture and annual investment gap. The white paper provides a day-to-day operations. roadmap for central bankers and regulators in the G20 to move forward to finance the implementation Highlights include: of the Paris Agreement.  Our Responsible Business Working Group  Our Global Citizenship activities, which include our pro enhanced its oversight of our supply chain risks bono work, remain closely aligned with the UN’s by creating an online portal for environmental, Sustainable Development Goals. Once again, social and governance risk management approximately 60 percent of our pro bono matters disclosure by our key suppliers. The Working helped strengthen human rights around the world. We Group also incorporated supply chain and saw record growth as well: lawyers in all of our offices procurement risk analysis into our periodic Risk and in every practice collectively devoted nearly 120,000 Management Audits in each office. hours to pro bono matters. Now, more than ever, our people are using their professional skills and our global  Our Environmental Sustainability Committee network to make a difference wherever they can. completed our third greenhouse gas emissions assessment and is piloting an environmental Global Citizenship describes our role—as a business and as management system prior to implementation individuals—as active participants in the global community. across all of our offices. We have seen significant White & Case is committed to fair and ethical operations that reductions in our carbon footprint since our last respect human rights and recognize the importance of our assessment. natural environment. Hugh Verrier UN Global Compact White & Case 1 Human Rights Principles 1. White & Case supports and respects the protection of Our Global Privacy of Personal Data Policy and local privacy internationally proclaimed human rights. policies in each office spell out our commitment to and processes for protecting the privacy of personal data for all 2. White & Case makes sure that it is not complicit in our partners and personnel, their family members, human rights abuses. contractors and applicants. Our Client Privacy Policy, posted on our website, sets out our commitment to protecting the Our Responsible Business Working Group chaired by our privacy rights of our clients and their personnel. co-General Counsels includes the heads of Procurement and Global Citizenship as well as representatives from our In the first quarter of 2018, we launched a Business & Global People team and Facilities Management. The Human Rights Interest Group that supports our lawyers in Working Group meets monthly and supports the Firm’s providing assistance to our commercial clients on the legal Executive Committee and Global Risk Management and reputational risks and opportunities they face in Committee on policy review and implementation of our addressing human rights issues in their operations and commitment to human rights and environmental supply chains. The Interest Group also offers practicesustainability. The Working Group is responsible for specific training sessions on business and human rights identifying, reporting and addressing any human rights risks developments and a general overview for Business Services or abuses in our operations or our key suppliers. Managers. For more detail, please visit www.whitecase.com/law/practices/business-human-rights. Its principal accomplishments to date are: Our Global Pro Bono Practice remains the centerpiece of  the release of our first Statement on Slavery and our Global Citizenship activities. In 2018, we delivered more Human Trafficking; than 120,000 pro bono hours to provide access to justice, promote the rule of law and serve organizations with social  adoption of a Supplier Code of Conduct; and environmental missions. Approximately 60% of our pro bono matters helped strengthen human rights around the  formal integration of environmental, social and world. Highlights in 2018 included: governance (ESG) screening into our vendor selection process;  We are conducting ongoing legal research and assisting the nonprofit Unchained At Last in its campaign to  incorporation of contractual commitments relating to eradicate child marriage in the US. In 2018, Delaware human rights into our vendor agreements; and New Jersey both passed legislation and similar bills have now been introduced in twelve states.  creation of an online portal for ESG disclosure by our legacy key and significant suppliers;  Working in partnership with Romanian NGO ACCEPT, to represent a same-sex couple at the European Court  incorporation of a supply chain and procurement of Justice, lawyers in our Brussels office helped win a analysis into our periodic Risk Management Audits in landmark ruling that recognizes that same-sex married each office; and couples must have equivalent rights to heterosexual  the launch of an analysis to identify material supply married couples to travel and reside anywhere in the chain ESG risks by location and type of supplier. EU. UN Global Compact White & Case 2  We conducted research to assist Right To Education in its efforts to expand access to education for migrants. The research includes analysis of actions states can take immediately and has informed several UNESCO and UN dialogues.  Lawyers in our Paris office represented Action Against Child Prostitution in two civil cases involving victims of French and Nigerian child prostitution trafficking rings.  We updated case law in Cornell Law School’s Women and Justice Collection, a free online database of international legal instruments and case law relating to gender-based violence and women’s access to justice. The database facilitates the use of comparative law to improve access to justice for victims of gender-based violence in courts around the world.  Lawyers from our US offices have worked at rural immigrant detention facilities as part of the Southern Poverty Law Center's Southern Immigration Freedom Initiative. Spanish-speaking lawyers have worked at Port Isabel Detention Center in Texas to assist parents separated from their children at the border, while other lawyers have provided remote legal representation conducting credible fear interviews for detained parents at Karnes Immigration Facility in Texas.  A team of more than 30 lawyers from nine offices collaborated with the Center for Reproductive Rights to create a training program to sensitize judges around the world about the importance and impact of reproductive rights. UN Global Compact White & Case 3 Labor Principles 3. White & Case upholds the freedom of association and 6. White & Case upholds the elimination of discrimination the effective recognition of the right to collective in respect of employment and occupation. bargaining. Our Global Policy on Equal Opportunity and Professional We are committed to a fair and balanced approach to Work Environment sets out our objective of providing a relations with employee representatives. Each office has a professional, collegial working environment in which all Workplace Committee with representation from a crossindividuals, whatever their background or status within the section of our people. We support a wide range of vibrant Firm, are treated with respect and dignity. White & Case employee affinity groups. Please see below for more does not permit harassment or intimidation of any sort and information on our affinity groups and our policies related to will make every effort to provide a working environment free professional work environment, whistleblowing and from such behavior. In addition to our global policy, we have discrimination, including discrimination based on trade union a sexual harassment and discrimination policy in each of our membership. 43 offices around the world, as well as a local grievance procedure. Anonymous reports may be made by calling our 4. White & Case upholds the elimination of all forms of forced Whistleblower Hotline or using our web-based reporting tool. and compulsory labor. Our commitment to providing equal opportunities to all 5. White & Case upholds the effective abolition of child applies during each phase of an individual’s career with labor. White & Case including, but not limited to, recruitment, employment, job assignment, training, promotion, salary and Our annual Statement on Slavery and Human Trafficking other forms of compensation and termination, in all of the affirms our commitment to employees’ rights and highlights Firm’s offices. We have in place systems to ensure full our adherence to public accountability and transparency. We compliance with relevant labor laws relating to employee take a zero tolerance approach to modern slavery and terms and conditions, including equal pay, and we support forced labor in all forms within our organization and supply the health and financial needs of our employees at different chain. It is the role of the Responsible Business Working stages of their lives by providing a flexible benefits program. Group to identify and address any risks or instances of Each year we review all of our policies globally to be sure we forced labor or child labor in our operations and supply are compliant with all local labor laws, including minimum chain. wage, hour laws, sick time, and leave. We expect our suppliers to share our values and have We have instituted an upward review process for all lawyers implemented a supply chain compliance program to impose and Business Service Leaders, the findings of which are contractual obligations on all key suppliers, including analyzed for patterns and issues in aggregate. Issues are compliance with relevant laws (including those related to addressed for individuals or groups via training and modern slavery) and requirements to impose similar counselling. standards on their suppliers. The diversity of our people is a strength. We continue to Our Global Pro Bono Practice actively seeks matters that work on creating an environment where all who work here support the elimination of forced labor and child labor. In are encouraged, assisted and inspired to reach their 2018, we concluded work on a multi-year global research potential, regardless of race, color, ethnicity, religion, study on minimum age laws affecting children and the online gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, sexual exploitation of children for Child Rights International national origin, age, marital status or disability. Network. UN Global Compact White & Case 4 Having set a goal to be a leader in the effort to maintain and The Firm has nine affinity groups that are open to lawyers increase diversity in the legal profession globally as well as and business services staff: Asian, Black, Hispanic, Middle in our own Firm, we are pleased to share that our efforts Eastern, and Spectrum LGBT Affinity Groups in the US; continue to be recognized by various monitoring bodies. In Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) LINK and 2018: Spectrum LGBT Affinity Groups in London; and Colorful (for minority/migration backgrounds) and Spectrum LGBT Affinity  For the fifth consecutive year, we were ranked the #1 Groups in Germany. most diverse firm for lawyers of color in the United States on The American Lawyer’s Diversity Scorecard These groups serve as key resources for professional and were named Diversity Champion at The American development, recruitment and retention of our people. The Lawyer’s Industry Awards. groups support pro bono and community development initiatives, and host networking receptions and cultural  We were ranked #1 on Law360’s 2017 Diversity awareness programs to encourage public discussions with Snapshot, for the second consecutive year. distinguished guests on a variety of topics.  We were named Best International Firm for Talent In addition to the establishment of formal initiatives that form Management by Euromoney Legal Media Group’s the basis of the diversity strategy, we have delivered a Women in Business Law Awards in the Americas (sixth mandatory unconscious bias training program delivered to all consecutive year) and Asia (fourth consecutive year) offices globally to all partners, associates and business and Europe (second consecutive year). services staff. We are currently developing a second phase of this program, which will follow up with participants from the  We received Mansfield Rule Certification from Diversity initial program to share how their behaviors have changed to Lab, confirming that White & Case has affirmatively become more inclusive, and which will support continued considered at least 30 percent women and attorneys of positive behaviour change with a series of ongoing activities. color for leadership and governance roles, equity partner promotions and senior lateral positions.” We have conducted Respectful Work Environment training in London, sexual harassment prevention training for US  We were named one of three MetLife 2018 “Diversity partners, and upward reviews of partners and associates. In Champions” for our outstanding commitment to diversity 2018, we delivered via e-Learning an updated sexual in our operations and one of six finalists for Bank of harassment and discrimination prevention training globally. America’s Diversity & Inclusion Business Council’s We are planning to deliver additional sexual harassment 2017-2018 Diversity and Inclusion Award. prevention e-Learning to all US employees in 2019. We also strive to ensure diversity principles are embedded in our  We received the 2018 Flex Impact Award from the learning and development programs. Diversity & Flexibility Alliance for our gender-neutral leave policy in the US. In 2018, we provided pro bono employment and labor advice to a number of nonprofits and NGOs around the  We were awarded the 2018 “PRIDE 500” Employer world, including Hopsasa gUG in Germany, Hands Up Seal in Germany by the LGBT job and career platform Foundation and Samaritans, both in the UK, International STICKS & STONES and advocacy organization Medical Corps in the US, and Institute for War and Peace Aktionsbündnis gegen Homophobie (Action Alliance Reporting, headquartered in the Netherlands, UK and US. against Homophobia). For International Medical Corps, we provide an overview of overtime laws in a number of jurisdictions to assist IMC in We have institutionalized our diversity efforts with a full-time insuring it was compliant with local labor laws in the Head of Diversity and Inclusion, three Diversity Managers jurisdictions where its employees and volunteers provide and a Diversity Coordinator, all of whom are charged with aid. oversight and administration of all global diversity initiatives. UN Global Compact White & Case 5 Environmental Principles 7. White & Case supports a precautionary approach to We have conducted three greenhouse gas emission environmental challenges. assessments, most recently in 2018 in collaboration with Greenstone, and in 2010 and 2012 in collaboration with the 8. White & Case undertakes initiatives to promote greater Carbon Neutral Company. environmental responsibility.  Since 2012, our reported per person greenhouse gas 9. White & Case encourages the development and emissions in tons of CO2 equivalent gasses have diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. decreased 36% and our total emissions have decreased 29%. Through our Green Initiative, we institute best practices and track our progress across our network to reduce the  Forty-four percent of our reported emissions come from carbon footprint and waste profile of our operations. The energy use and 44% from business transportation. initiative is overseen by the Environmental Sustainability Committee, chaired by the Head of Global Citizenship, We have drafted an Environmental Management System for which includes our three Regional Chief Operating office-level and Firm-level practices, based on the American Officers, as well as representatives from many of our Legal Industry Sustainability Standards developed by the offices and our Global Procurement and Global Law Firm Sustainability Network. This system is currently Technology Services functions. being piloted in eight offices around the world. Upon completion of the pilot, the system will be implemented Our Environmental Sustainability Policy commits us to throughout our global network of more than 40 offices. recognize that our responsibility to the environment goes beyond legal and regulatory requirements. We take a Highlights of our progress so far include: precautionary approach to potentially harmful effects of our operations and are committed to reducing our environmental  In 2018, our London office retained its ISO 14001 impact and improving our environmental performance. certification. It has also been awarded the ‘Gold’ Clean City Award from the City of London annually since 2008 Our Environmental Policy calls for us to: in recognition of our recycling procedures; no waste is sent to landfill and general waste is sent to an energy ensure that we comply with all regulatory requirements from-waste facility. Our New York office was applicable to each office worldwide; recognized by the NYC Bar Association’s Committee on Environmental Law for initiatives to support  prevent pollution from our activities; sustainability through participation in the New York State Energy Research & Development Authority  implement sustainable waste management practices (NYSERDA) Commercial Tenant Program. across our offices in order to minimize the quantity of waste we produce and maximize the amount of waste  Our Global Technology Services continues to improve we recycle; the sustainability of its practices. We operate regional computer data centers that feature state-of-the-art  identify key resources used by each office and technology that conserves energy while improving the implement measures to ensure that we use those efficiency and reliability of our technology. Servers and resources in an efficient manner; other equipment are managed regionally to reduce our equipment needs and power consumption as much as  effectively manage our carbon emissions by continuing possible. Our Americas data center uses 100% wind to improve the energy efficiency of our premises and power for electricity generation and our data center in effectively measuring the environmental impacts of our Europe provides us with carbon-neutral power from business travels; and hydropower sources. Our data center in our Asia-Pacific region also uses 100% renewable energy.  work with our key suppliers and employees to promote and improve environmental performance. White & Case 6 UN Global Compact To build awareness among our people and lower our Our pro bono activities also seek to advance carbon emissions through individual actions, we run an environmental sustainability. Highlights in 2018 annual Green Campaign. More than 1,500 people across included: our offices have taken our Green Pledge to commit to change at least one personal behavior during the year to  A cross-office team of lawyers conducted a lower their carbon footprint at home, in the office or on legislative review integral to the development of a their commute. After our 2018 campaign, which featured Global Pact for the Environment, now being explored World Oceans Day and focused on the importance of by the UN. Our review included regional and minimizing plastic use, a number of offices eliminated country-specific instruments, multilateral single use plastics. Implementing this practice worldwide environmental agreements, soft law instruments and is part of the Environmental Management System now the UN Sustainable Development Goals. It is being being piloted. used by the World Commission on Environmental Law at the International Union for Conservation of Our client-facing Environment & Climate Change Nature National Committee to develop and Practice handles some of the world’s largest and most strengthen a body of international environmental law sophisticated matters requiring the resolution of complex principles and inform the drafting of the Global Pact. environmental issues. We advise on all aspects of environmental law, including environmental litigation and  Our lawyers in London have been working with the enforcement, due diligence and transactional advice, Zoological Society of London (ZSL) on its Instant compliance and regulatory advice, legislation, climate Detect tool, a cutting-edge wildlife and threat change, renewable energy and clean technology, and monitoring system designed for the world’s most environmental aspects of infrastructure and project demanding environments. We negotiated on ZSL’s development and finance. behalf to obtain the best possible IP terms, leading to successful trials in seven locations and the We have been cited by Environmental Finance for our opportunity to scale it with multiple technology ground-breaking green bond work as well as our status partners in future. as an observer member of the industry-led voluntary guidelines—the Green Bond Principles—and as a  We have worked with Conservation International member of its underwriter legal risk mitigation working (CI) for more than 15 years, and in 2018 more than group. We are a select member of the Green Finance 30 lawyers in ten offices were engaged on a variety Initiative Partnership led by the UK government and the of conservation finance matters for CI, including the City of London, and a chair of the UK GFI’s Green launch of Conservation International Ventures, an Islamic Finance Working Group. investment fund that will deploy financing to small and medium-sized enterprises without access to We are also an advisor to the Bank of England in its role traditional finance whose business models have a as chair of the G20 Green Finance Study Group. In this potentially transformational impact on the capacity we co-authored a white paper in 2018 with the environment. Study Group that calls for creation of a sustainable collateralized loan obligation (CLO) market to support the world’s transition to a sustainable economy and combat irreversible climate change. The authors estimated that the bond market could provide half the current annual investment gap. The white paper provides a roadmap for central bankers and regulators in the G20 to move forward to finance the implementation of the Paris Agreement. UN Global Compact White & Case 7 Anti-Corruption Principles 10. White & Case works against corruption in all its forms, Client Due Diligence (CDD) must be conducted on every including extortion and bribery. new client prior to matter opening. Each new client must be identified, have its identify verified and, where relevant, its We are committed to conducting our activities in accordance ultimate beneficial owner(s) identified and verified. CDD with all applicable anti-bribery laws (including the US Foreign must be verified as up-to-date in relation to existing clients Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act). Our Global on receipt of each new instruction. The Firm’s Compliance & Anti-Corruption Policy contains guidelines, standards and New Business department is responsible for conducting procedures to ensure that we and those acting on our behalf CDD and recording data to confirm compliance. understand and comply with applicable anti-corruption laws in all interactions with our clients, prospective clients, We also have established a Global Anti-Money Laundering vendors, service providers and others. Policy to ensure alignment with the relevant provisions of the Financial Action Task Force, an inter-governmental body Any transaction that might give rise to a violation of this which sets international standards on combating money policy and/or any applicable anti-corruption laws must be laundering and the financing of terrorism and proliferation. reported promptly to any administrative director of the Firm, Our network of Money Laundering Reporting Officers the relevant office executive partner, regional section head ensures that all internal and external reporting requirements or regional chief operating officer or general counsel. are met. Alternatively, anonymous reports may be made by calling our AntiCorruption or Whistleblower Hotline. Retaliation The majority of jurisdictions in which the Firm practices have against any individual who reports misconduct or who endorsed those standards and have in place stringent local participates in an investigation of alleged illegal conduct is rules and regulations. strictly prohibited. Our White Collar practice covers every phase of corporate Anti-corruption training is provided annually in each office, is compliance and regulatory enforcement for our clients. We posted on our intranet and is provided to all new hires. It is provide advice and representation related to risk tailored by function, with procurement, finance and human assessments, compliance reviews, compliance programs resources staff receiving specialized training for their areas. and investigations, as well as the application of global Our General Counsel has led training for commercial clients sanctions, export controls, and national securities as well. regulations. We assist companies in key areas of regulatory focus, such as money laundering and anti-corruption, As part of our annual internal office audit process, we select including under the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the a group of offices on corruption risk. The audit is conducted UK Bribery Act, and Office of Foreign Assets Control statues by our General Counsel and a member of our Global Risk and regulations. Management Committee. Our expenditure reimbursement software is utilized to document all entertainment details and ensure compliance with the corporate entertainment and travel aspects of the policy. UN Global Compact White & Case 8 Resources White & Case Website White & Case Modern Slavery Act Statement 2017 https://www.whitecase.com/ https://www.whitecase.com/global-citizenship/statementslavery-and-human-trafficking 2018 White & Case Firm Annual Review https://www.whitecase.com/2018-annual-review Diversity at White & Case http://www.whitecase.com/diversity/ Global Citizenship at White & Case https://www.whitecase.com/global-citizenship/ White & Case Environmental Sustainability Policy https://www.whitecase.com/global-citizenship/green-initiative 2018 White & Case Global Citizenship Review https://www.whitecase.com/2018-global-citizenship-review White & Case Business & Human Rights Practice https://www.whitecase.com/law/practices/business-humanrights
