I am pleased to confirm, that Gepra LTD reaffirms its support of the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment, Anti-corruption and Woman Empowerment Principles. In this Annual of Communication on progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and Women Empowerment and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations, as well as our communications with our stakeholders. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders and the general public using our primary channels of communication. In 2018, Gepra’s team first time prepared CSR strategy, in which are included all the directions that company follows. Sincerely yours, Ekaterine Zhvania, Director Human Rights: We support human rights and equal treatment for all regardless of race, color, sex, religion, language and other status. Gepra creates safe working facilities for all employees and protects workers from workplace harassment, such as: physical, verbal, sexual, psychological harassment; we observe all law and regulations protecting the privacy of employees and vendors, customers and partners. We create a supplier code of conduct, which explicitly support gender equality and we communicate the Code with all suppliers. We created a compliant mechanism for employees in case of abuse of Human Rights and Labor Rights (discrimination, sexual harassment, etc.) and we communicated it with our staff. We conduct training programs for all our employees on gender equality issues, sexual harassments and other forms of gender-based violence through partnerships with civil society and other institutions. Labor: All decisions made by GEPRA TLD are based on relevant and objective criteria. Our policy of employment surrounds all aspects of the employment relationships, including hiring and promotion, offering training opportunities, wage and salary administration. We ensure, that our company does not participate in any forms of forced and bonded labor. We conduct annual surveys to assess employee satisfaction, analyze data per sex and act upon obtained results. GEPRA conducts an internal survey (as a stand-alone survey or part of a staff satisfaction survey) on the training needs and priorities of female and male employees and uses the result for planning trainings and capacity development. We have an internal training system we call Mentoring, in frames of which any staff member can conduct trainings and consequentially everyone can learn from one other. The company proactively informs both female and male employees about their rights in respect to parental leave, including the new hires and encourages men to take parental leave, as well. We conduct training programs for all our employees and make statistics by gender. According to the new law of Georgia on funded pensions, during the payment of salaries, the employer and the employee should make a pension contribution in the amount of 2 % of taxable salary to be paid to the employee; Gepra LTD made decision that the company will make a pension contribution for all its employees thus a pension contribution in the amount of 4 % of taxable salary is made for each employee. Company is involved in Probono projects and helps organizations, which are working with vulnerable groups. Gepra helps them to prepare communications strategy, implement campaigns and ensure Media Support. Environment: Gepra LTD avoids any kind of environmental damage and ensures all emergency procedures necessary for company safety. Anti-Corruption: Gepra LTD ensures that internal procedures support the company’s anticorruption commitment and maintains a strict code of ethics in all our business transactions. We do not engage in corrupt activities by any business associates and outside partners. Measurement of outcomes: Planning to inform all our employees and partners regarding the Principles of Global Compact and to permanently inform all parties regarding our achievements in these fields; Creation and support of a waste management program. Also At the office, we have green boxes for papers and twice in a year Gepra’s staff clean parks from garbage. Women Empowerment Principles: The PR company GEPRA is among the first companies in the world that after signing onto the WEPs in 2016, developed and approved the WEPs Action Plan. In 2018 the Action Plan was reviewed and renewed. We established a sex-disaggregated baseline data on current suppliers and we actively reach out to and include women as suppliers and vendors. To implement the Women's Empowerment Principles and anti-discrimination have been progressively integrated into the company’s policies. The company has developed and implemented the sexual harassment complaints mechanism. In 2018, all employees of the company completed the electronic training course Prevention of Sexual Harassment in the Work Place . The training and mentoring system has been launched in the company to promote women's education and professional development. GEPRA is also now continually classifying the suppliers according to their sex and analyzing the data to seek to improve gender balance in their supplier base. FROM 2013, The Company’s New Year’s gifts are produced by local women’s business.
