Corporate Social Responsibility Our CSR initiatives in 2018 CSR Contents Society17 Partnerships on a sustainable society 17 A sustainable future through innovation 20 Beer offers much more than you think 22 A rapidly expanding sustainable enterprise 24 Pro bono work 26 Preface03 Environment29 We commit to teamwork 03 A green footprint 29 How we work with accountability 04 Sustainable processes 30 Green energy has great potential 31 People07 Ethics & Compliance 33 No development without consideration 07 Vast ethical responsibility 33 Focus on mental stamina and performance 10 We test ourselves 36 Ambitious and targeted management and training programme for associates 14 2 CSR In 2009, we became members of the UN Global Compact. With our membership, we wish to support the promotion of the 10 universal principles of Global Compact within human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. We commit to As part of this work we prepare an annual report, Communication on Progress (COP), describing our CSR initiatives. This 2019 report describes our CSR initiatives in 2018. teamwork Solid and value-adding teamwork. That is the expertise in various ways every year to further We know that our conduct has an impact on the For the 10th year running, we confirm our comcore of our advisory services and the cornerthe development and sustainability in society environment and that we ourselves to a high mitment to the UN Global Compact and its stone of our business, and in this context our as well as in our activities. This was also the case degree determine the size of our own footprint. 10 principles based on our focus areas: Bech-Bruun model is of particular importance. in 2018. In 2018, as a direct result of the BechAs such, we do not merely apply great efforts People, Society, Environment, and Ethics & The basic idea is that we measure ourselves by Bruun model, we launched a new ambitious to making a difference to others who work susCompliance. conduct, not by how much revenue each of us management and training programme for all tainably; our ambition is to become even more generates for the firm. We measure on doing our associates, called STRETCH, a six-year trasustainable in all our work processes, and in Enjoy the read. what is right – for our clients, for society and ining programme designed to strengthen our 2018 this involved various new initiatives. for ourselves. We commit to teamwork and to associates’ commercial, consultancy and mashowing consideration for each other, and we nagement skills with focus on collaboration As regards our conduct in general, we are conduct ourselves ethically and responsibly in and strategy. Employee development and job aware that, as a law firm, we hold a large ethical Simon Evers Hjelmborg our contact with the world. satisfaction are top priorities at Bech-Bruun, responsibility. We fulfil an important role in Managing partner and we keep a keen eye on the opportunities society, and we take this role very seriously, enAs such, we incorporate accountability into that we are able to offer our employees and the suring that our work and business methods are all our activities and work closely together way we act towards each other. based on good conduct and respect for our to translate the 10 UN Global Compact princiclients, our employees and our surroundings. ples into specific actions in respect of our focus In addition to still prioritising pro bono work as We want to set the highest ethical standard – areas: People, Society, Environment, and Ethics a natural part of our business, we also launched for ourselves as well as for our clients – which & Compliance. Our adoption of advokattwo pilot projects in 2018, involving sustainable is why we have established a solid corporate KODEKS, the code of conduct of the Associastart-ups as part of the development of a new governance system, always allowing our clients tion of Danish Law Firms (Danske Advokater), CSR programme. Through our close relationand business partners to rely on our conduct also means that we work continuously with the ship with talented start-ups and by focusing being fair and ethically correct. As such, ethics five elements: Openness, social responsibility, on sustainable innovation and the 17 UN global and compliance have been natural focal points handling of ethical dilemmas, focus on clients goals, we will strive to ensure a more sustainin 2018, including training in legislation on and employees, and diversity. able future. The common goal of a start-up is compliance and on the prevention of money to become a successful sustainable business, laundering. We believe that by doing what we do best, and we help them achieve it by doing what we we can help more. And for this reason, we are do best. pleased to be able to continue contributing our 3 CSR How we work with accountability Society We work together for We share our knowledge a sustainable future We use great efforts to acquire knowledge and Our ambition is to apply our core skills and pass it on. Our Bech-Bruun Academy offers expertise to making a difference and working continuing professional development and towards a sustainable future. We do that best training courses to employees as well as clients through our expertise and close working relaand business partners. This allows us as well People tionships with undertakings that can develop as the attendees to keep up with new legislathe new and efficient solutions that are in detion, business sector developments and to stay mand. By offering them our legal core skills, we ahead in a time of swift progress. help them along. Focus on personal development Job satisfaction is a top priority We want our employees to have the best posJob satisfaction among our employees and sible skills as well as the best possible developa positive workplace culture are some of the ment and career opportunities. Consequently, reasons why we are able to offer our clients the our main focus is on promoting the right carebest solutions. We work actively with policies, er paths and providing our employees with the knowledge sharing procedures and efforts to best tools for being successful, professionally strengthen our employees’ job satisfaction. as well as personally. As such, one of our main focal points is diversity. 4 CSR Ethics & Compliance A vast ethical responsibility We work systematically Our ambition is to operate a responsible busiwith compliance ness with a high level of integrity and the highWe prioritise being a leader in the area of inEnvironment est possible security. We will accomplish this house compliance, and we test our expertise by undertaking and defending the significant annually to ensure that we live up to our high role we have as a leading law firm in a society standards. In 2018 this meant that all our lawbased on the rule of law, and by ensuring the yers had to complete an e-learning programhighest ethical standard and openness within me comprised by two parts: A compliance test the framework of the duty of confidentiality on and an anti-money laundering test. which we base our client relationships. Sustainable suppliers Green energy has great potential and business processes We seek to concentrate our work with large It is important for us to keep abreast of the latDanish and non-Danish players of the energy est developments in new energy and environindustry on renewable energy, and we intend mentally sound solutions benefiting the ento intensify this work in the future. By doing vironment as well as our own business and so, we hope to contribute towards convertour clients. Consequently, we engage in coning more of the global energy supply into retinuously minimising and rethinking our connewable energy. sumption. We prioritise sustainable procurement and environmentally sound alternatives. 5 CSR • Mennesker 6 CSR • People People No development without consideration Our ambition is to make sure that our employWe are aware that employees in the law indusOur 2019 targets are to … ees have the highest possible expertise as well try are subject to high demands regarding, for as the right development and career opportuinstance, flexibility, working hours and perfornities. To be able to offer our clients the best somance. But we also know that it is important to •• launch initiatives to inlutions, we must have the best employees, and find a realistic and balanced approach to work crease diversity in Bechas such, we keep a keen eye on developments life as well as personal life, and we work activeBruun. For one thing, a and continuously ensure that our employees ly to inform our employees about stress and to are offered the right career paths. However, maintain an open dialogue on the subject. diversity committee will this ambition also poses great demands on our be established in 2019. working environment and our culture. Our diversity policy emphasises equal opportunities for men and women, and we work acJob satisfaction is a top priority at Bechtively to ensure diversity in our staff. Diversity •• launch a development Bruun, and the way we behave towards each has been in focus for many years, and with our programme for our junior other is an important focal point. We expect Strategy 2020 we have implemented changes our employees to treat each other with in structures and processes concerning career associates, designed to decency and respect. In the wake of the MeToo development and path. However, it will be fortify their skills as future debate and society’s intensified focus on this many years until we see the full impact of these lawyers. area, Bech-Bruun adopted an updated policy changes, and in 2019 we have established a on anti-bullying and anti-harassment in 2018. diversity committee that will focus on creating short-term results. 7 CSR • People 15 employees were seconded 7,61 years is the average seniority at some time during 2018 at Bech-Bruun 165 97% in-house qualifying training days were offered in 2018 32% of the courses covered the development of personal skills of our employees and partners declare themselves satisfied or very satisfied with working at Bech-Bruun (WPA survey) 8 CSR • People Accountability in Number of employees the work place 536 In Bech-Bruun we have a number of guiding documents and policies that focus on our employees’ job satisfaction and on our business partners, for instance: •• Code of Conduct •• Ethical guidelines •• Diversity policy Partners / male Partners / female •• Anti-bullying and 63 6 anti-harassment policy •• Stress policy Associates / male Associates / female •• Whistleblowing policy 74 53 •• Alcohol and drug policy •• Crisis policy Junior associates / male Junior associates / female 49 45 9 All figures as at 31 December 2018 CSR • People Focus on She is one of more than 60 law students who have completed the mandatory development programme in 2018. Bech-Bruun conducts the specialist area and to prepare for her junior associate interview. mental stamina development programme with the assistance of, among others, stress consultant and mental coach Thomas Pape from the SPINE stress What colour are you? At times, her scepticism has resurfaced. For instance when the students in the extended proand performance clinic. The aim is to strengthen the students’ mental stamina and performance. Elements not usually highlighted in student life but gramme had to complete personal profile analyses and determine their individual colours. But again, the process surprised Signe, as the which we at Bech-Bruun believe are important colour classification served a higher purpose for future lawyers. than merely labelling the students as specific In 2017 Bech-Bruun launched a development program”We want to help to ensure that our law stutypes. Instead, the colours were used as indicators of a student’s preferred behaviour, action me for our law students designed to eliminate a growdents have a good foundation from the outset, patterns and strengths. and we believe this requires tools that will ening expectation pressure and ensure satisfaction among hance their desire to perform as well as main”It’s made me recognise my preferred behavour employees. In 2018 we extended this programme to tain job satisfaction, inner peace and motivaiour and how I can work on it, and Thomas tion. Our development programme makes our include a module that focuses on the attendants’ selflaw students more aware of their own behavThe development programme was insight and mental performance. Signe Hedensted iour, strengths, weaknesses and patterns. Gainlaunched in 2017 and is mandaing a clearer picture of their personal profile Lundorf is a law student with Bech-Bruun and has commay help them use their strengths to achieve a tory for Bech-Bruun’s law stupleted both programmes. better performance,” says Anne-Marie Sparre dents. The development programAvnsted, head of HR and administration at me includes workshops, a perBech-Bruun. sonal profile analysis and one-onAt first Signe Hedensted Lundorf was scepti”The programme is so broad that you realFor Signe, the development programme has one sessions. The basic programcal. Why would she need the various exercily become familiar with many different topics. helped her become more structured and more me focuses on mental stamina ses, and did it even make sense to commit to a You’re not just listening to the same topic every aware of how she does things. In particular, while the extended programme long process if it was all just a bunch of unspetime. The combination of workshops and pershe emphasises the individual sessions with works with personal profile anacific clichés? That is not how Signe feels today. sonal sessions is a good mix, and instead of just Thomas Pape as ”extremely rewarding”. The lysis and mental performance. Despite being sceptical at first, she has only potalking about what might be a good thing to do, sessions are part of the extended programme, sitive feedback on Bech-Bruun’s development you are actually being equipped with the tools and the student chooses the topic. Signe used programme for law students. to do it,” says Signe. her sessions to discuss the structuring of her 10 CSR • People Pape has given me the tools so I know how to approach a specific colour. And it helps. For instance, in relation to communicating with different types of people. It facilitates and improves teamwork. And it’s nice to know that Bech-Bruun employs more than one type of person. There are many different types of personalities, and it’s really good to be able to navigate when working with different people and be able to be part of a team, no matter the types on the team,” says Signe. At the joint workshops, performance is put on hold, establishing a safe environment that allows the students to be open and tell how they feel they may improve. ”You discover that everybody has something they want to improve, whether it’s being more structured or less of a perfectionist and more efficient. Whatever it is, it’s really great to get some feedback from your colleagues, who are in exactly the same place.” Uncompromising demands on one self and a huge expectation pressure are things Signe recognises from herself and from the student environment, and she finds that the development programme has been spot-on. 11 CSR • People ”In connection with my training as a junior associate, Bech-Bruun offered me the opportunity to attend summer school in New York. In addition to improving my English, I came in contact with many lawyers from around the world, which gave me an insight into much more than just US legislation.” Tore Høffner Andersen, lawyer and former junior associate at Bech-Bruun 12 CSR • People STRETCH Bech-Bruun’s management and training programme for first-year to sixthyear associates, STRETCH, is structured on the basis of the Bech-Bruun model. The Bech-Bruun model evaluates and focuses on four conduct parameters, the so-called Bech-Bruun parameters: Diligence & work style, Clients, Management & cooperation and Corporate & reputation. STRETCH is structured on the basis of the Bech-Bruun parameters to underpin the common goal and is thus an important element in the implementation of the Bech-Bruun model. In 2016 the introduction of the Bech-Bruun model was a landmark in the history of Bech-Bruun. The Bech-Bruun model focuses on joint business volume, close collaboration and stronger business insight, placing the client at the centre. 13 CSR • People Ambitious and Training in management, teamwork and client insight at the Judge Business School at the University of Cambridge, knowledge about figramme at the Judge Business School at the University of Cambridge, which focuses on subjects such as the development of skills in targeted management nancial analysis, negotiation strategy, business models and PRINCE2 ® certification in project management. In 2018 Bech-Bruun launched an the areas of corporate rhetoric, management, collaboration and client management. and training programambitious management and training programme for our associates: “STRETCH – Unfolding Talent. Together.” STRETCH is designed to ”One thing that I’ve learned in particular from the training is how I’m perceived. Through role playing and specific exercises we’ve been me for associates equip our associates to meet the challenges trained in speaking in front of others and rethat impact the law industry as well as the marceived feedback on the power of delivery kets where our clients perform. of our messages and the signals we send. In my case, I’ve learned a lot about myself,” says ”In Bech-Bruun the concern is to add as much Asbjørn Dalum Andersen and continues: Adding value for the clients is the focus of Bech-Bruun’s value as possible for our clients. Going forward, new management and training programme for first-year being a strong legal expert will not be enough. Business insight and the ability and desire to col”An unintended but just as important value of the STRETCH programme is the relationto sixth-year associates, designed to strengthen their laborate, internally as well as externally, will be ships that are formed. For a new lawyer at much more of a decisive factor,” says Christian Bech-Bruun, this creates numerous relationcommercial, consultancy and management skills. Ejvin Andersen, managing director at Bechships across the organisation. Relationships Bruun. that you need to rely on when you suddenly face an issue concerning, for instance, labour STRETCH is based on the Bech-Bruun palaw or bankruptcy law. Since I’ve been with rameters: ”Diligence & work style”, ”Clients”, Bech-Bruun for several years, I benefited by ”Management & cooperation”, and ”Corporate improving my relationships across the country, & reputation”. All first-year to sixth-year assoas my relations with colleagues in Aarhus have ciates with Bech-Bruun are included in been strengthened,” says Asbjørn, who works STRETCH, and the training offers them a gradfrom Bech-Bruun’s Copenhagen offices. ual and systematic building of skills that support the parameters. Asbjørn Dalum Andersen is a third-year associate with Bech-Bruun and can easily see the value of STRETCH in his work as a lawyer. He has completed the second and third steps of the STRETCH programme, including Bech-Bruun’s Senior Associate Pro14 CSR • People A good Bech-Bruun lawyer Relevant topics, a high professional level and skilled lecturers. The benefits from STRETCH have been vast, according to Asbjørn. The programmes have improved the insight into clients’ needs as well as broadened the lawyers’ legal skills. ”Establishing an ambitious training programme designed to see to the lawyers’ development is very positive. Thought has been given to what training is desirable and what goals are desired. The different steps give structure to the training, and this links to the targets set out by Bech-Bruun for how to be a good BechBruun lawyer,” says Asbjørn. In his experience, the programme has been generally well-received by the associates: ”It’s my clear impression that everybody prioritise the training and do what they can to attend. The people I have talked to have had a good experience and find the level to be high,” says Asbjørn. 15 CSR • Samfund 16 CSR • Society Society Partnerships on a sustainable society Our imprint on society is our knowledge. We With the launch of our new strategy in 2018, Our 2019 plans are … believe that by doing what we do best, we can we kick-started our CSR programme with two help more. Accordingly, the basic idea of our selected pilot projects, helping sustainable CSR work is to apply our core skills – our knowstart-ups off to a good start with our legal •• to launch our new CSR ledge – to making a difference, and over the counselling. Their goal is to become a sustainprogramme with focus on years we have concluded numerous pro bono able business. A business that directly undersustainable start-ups. and collaboration agreements with enterprises pins the 17 UN global goals for sustainable dethat make a difference. This was also the case velopment. With our advisory services, we help in 2018. them along by doing what we do best. Looking •• to collaborate with more ahead, a large part of our CSR initiatives will be start-ups with focus on Every year in various manners we contribute offering legal counselling to sustainable startour expertise to more development and susups so they can meet their targets. the 17 UN global goals. tainability in society. Knowledge sharing is a natural part of our business model, and in addition to offering numerous free courses, events •• to develop our programand late-afternoon seminars in 2018 as well as mes and courses so that launching a number of new programmes, we they continue to meet also commenced the very first pilot partnerships in our new CSR strategy. the requirements of our employees, clients and business partners. 73 4,6 •• to continue our ongoing pro bono work. free courses, late-afternoon seminars, was the score on a satisfaction and full-day events were arranged by scale of 1-5 Bech-Bruun in 2018 17 CSR • Society Bech-Bruun Academy The Bech-Bruun Academy combines law and business development with personal development. We give clients and other interested parties the opportunity to attend free training seminars in, for instance, new or amended legislation, business sector developments and trends that are relevant to society. The business world is constantly changing, and over the past years new technology and disruptive enterprises have resulted in substantial changes for markets and industries. Academy Client is a training programme targeted to our clients, offering value-adding training in the same subjects to which we devote ourselves in order to be fully prepared for the many new demands and possibilities of the future. In 2018 our focus areas included training in digital transformation, business strategy, management and directorship. 18 CSR • Society Here we also make a difference… Represented by our talented experts, we were also active on various committees and boards in 2018, and as members we engaged in relevant Danish and international trade associations and NGOs. In these forums, we contribute our knowledge to the development of the framework within which we and our clients work. Examples of trade associations, organisations and networks: Association for Maritime Law (CMI) Danish Employment Lawyers Association Association of Danish Insolvency Lawyers Danish Environmental Lawyers Association of Danish IT Attorneys Danish Labour Law Association Association of Danish Law Firms Danish Lawyer-Directors Confederation of Danish Industry Danish Mediation Institute Danish Association for Company law Danish Mediation Lawyers Danish Association for Competition Law Danish Tax Lawyers’ Association Danish Association for Construction Law Danish Waste Management Association (DAKOFA) Danish Association for Copyright Law DenmarkBridge Danish Association for Public Procurement Law Haandværkerforeningen i Kjøbenhavn (Copenhagen trade guild) Danish Association of Insurance Law (AIDA) TerraLex Modern Slavery Act Danish Association of Litigation Lawyers The ATV Foundation for Soil & Ground Water Danish Bar and Law Society Oresundsadvokater Modern Slavery Act is an initiative introduced by Great Britain. World Law Group Key in the Modern Slavery Act is the requirement that all enterprises with business and activities in Great Britain must acExamples of committees and boards: count annually for their efforts against slavery, forced labour and human trafficking. The initiative focuses on preventing seCompulsory Acquisition Committee Danish Press Council rious violations that may occur in global supply chains. As an Danish Appeals Permission Board DBU Disciplinary Committee international law firm operating across borders and very much Danish Company Appeals Board Medicoindustrien, assessment panel in Great Britain, we keep a natural focus on complying with the Danish Competition Appeals Tribunal National Association for Building, sustainability committee Modern Slavery Act. 19 CSR • Society A sustainable future ”For many sustainable start-ups, the major incentive is to make a material difference to others and to the globe. With our new CSR close legal partner, Bech-Bruun’s advisory services have included commercial sparring and advice in relation to business concept, devethrough innovation programme we can help them with the heavy legal aspects at the set-off stage. That way we make it easier for them to start up and work delopment opportunities, etc. Bech-Bruun’s working relationships with both dicatedly towards their visions. We know that enterprises have continued into 2019, and with a good legal foundation can be absolutely esthe launch of the new CSR programme in 2019 They have the ideas. We have the knowledge about the sential for the success of a new enterprise, and we expect concluding new partnerships with law and the framework conditions that will get them on that often it will be easier to catch the interest of potential investors if the legal issues are in start-ups that work dedicatedly towards at least one of the 17 UN global goals. their way. In 2018 we launched the very first pilot projplace,” says Simon Evers Hjelmborg, managing ects that kicked off our new CSR programme, helping partner at Bech-Bruun. sustainable start-ups off to a good start with commerThe partnership spans broadly within all asIf you want to learn more pects of commercial law and offer startcial feedback and legal counselling. A programme that ups – which often have limited resources for about Bech-Bruun’s new will really take off in 2019. legal assistance at the set-off stage – the opCSR programme, please portunity to get off to a good start. The common ground for the collaboration is that the contact Ditte Lassen-Kahlke, As a start-up with a sustainable vision, you may derpins one or more of the 17 UN global goals start-up is to reach its goals and thus contrisenior associate and CSR have the good idea, perhaps a ready-to-go for sustainable development. And we help bute to sustainable development. officer concept and plan of action, and you are almost them along with what we do best – our legal ready to enter your market. However, for many counselling and business understanding. As an element in the partnership, Bech-Bruun dlk@bechbruun.com start-ups, one of the challenges is to find their provides the first 50 hours of legal counselling way through the legislation. This can make it A chance to get off to a good start free of charge. Subsequently, as a CSR partner, difficult to get started and take that important For many start-ups it is challenging to find your the start-up will receive advisory services at a step closer to the dream of a successful startway through legislation and provisions and trymarkedly reduced hourly rate and will pay only up that will make a difference in the world. ing to understand everything from labour law, if the enterprise reaches the agreed goals. tax, contracts and intellectual property rights Partnership with sustainable start-ups is the to company law. It is a time-consuming, chalOur first pilot projects title of our new CSR programme where we lenging and difficult task and as such it is often As pilot projects, in 2017 and 2018, respectfocus on sustainable start-ups that work dedinot prioritised, but it may have vast repercusively, Bech-Bruun joined its first CSR partnercatedly for a better world. Their goal is to besions if it is approached from the wrong angle. ships with two ambitious start-ups, entrée and come a sustainable business that directly unCircular Food Technology. Besides being a 20 CSR • Society The UN global goals for sustainable development were adopted in 2015. Their aim is to set course for a more sustainable development for people as well as for the planet in the years up to 2030. There are 17 global goals, obligating all 193 UN member countries to end poverty and hunger in the world, reduce inequality, ensure quality education and good health for all, decent work and a more sustainable economic growth. The goals also focus on promoting peace and security and strong institutions and to strengthen international partnerships. The new agenda recognises that social, economic and environmental development, peace, security and international partnership are closely related and that lasting developmental results require an integrated effort. Source: www.verdensmaalene.dk What is the partnership process? Bech-Bruun provides the first 50 hours of legal counselling free of charge. Subsequently, as a CSR partner, the start-up will receive advisory services at a markedly reduced hourly rate and will pay only if the enterprise reaches the agreed goals. 1 2 3 4 Start-ups that wish to become When an enterprise is selectAppointed Bech-Bruun assoStatus meetings will be held part of Bech-Bruun’s CSR ed, we will have a start-up ciates will then handle the regularly to evaluate the deprogramme may apply at any meeting where we deterongoing legal counselling, velopment of the enterprise time. mine and plan our common adapted to the requirements and the legal focus areas. goals with the collaboration of the enterprise. and the focus areas. 21 CSR • Society Beer offers much more new food ingredients,” says Aviaja RiemannAndersen, who founded Circular Food Technology together with two partners in 2018. The start-up of Circular Food Technology was fast. Within one year the enterprise was established and the first products were launched. than you think Spent grain is rich in fibres, proteins and minerals. Using new technologies, Circular Food TechAccording to Aviaja, the partnership with Bech-Bruun meant that Circular Food Technology was able to steer clear of some of the nology upcycles the spent grain from beer mistakes usually made by new businesses. brewing into food ingredients and food, inAt Højbro Plads in Copenhagen we find Circular Food creasing its nutritious value. In the summer ”Besides helping us with good shareholders’ Technology. A small enterprise with a great mission. 2019, Circular Food Technology will introduce the market to the first products consisting of agreements, support in connection with capital increases and so on, Bech-Bruun has also ”Let’s turn the leftovers from food production into four types of nutritious flour, which later in the made us aware of a number of issues that you year will be followed by various types of sweet would not necessarily consider when starting healthy and tasteful ingredients” is the overall goal of and savoury snacks as well as other products. up, but they may save us in the long run,” says Circular Food Technology, which has set out to upcycle Aviaja. Quick start-up spent grain into new food products. In 2018, as part of Not surprisingly, starting up a new business is The partnership continues in 2019 and is of valour new CSR programme, Bech-Bruun entered a close hard work. It not only takes diligence and drive ue to both parties in several ways. In addition but also keeping track of legal issues. In 2018, to being based on increasing sustainability working relationship with Circular Food Technology. as part of its start-up procedure, Circular Food through innovation, our advisory services also Technology entered a partnership with Bechinclude commercial sparring and a dialogue on Bruun concerning ongoing legal counselling. business development, which also offers BechWith continued growth in the global economy, breweries have trouble selling it and thus it Bruun great insight into not just all aspects of our planet may be facing a massive consumpends as waste. ”Having Bech-Bruun at our side on this joura start-up but also into the processes behind tion of resources in the future. To ensure susney has been very rewarding. Our close worksustainable innovation. tainability we need new initiatives that will en”Our overall driver is to stop food waste and ing relationship means that we have access to sure a more circular approach. One such initiahelp where there is a lack of food. On a gloindispensable knowledge, both when starting Learn more about Circular tive is Circular Food Technology, who have bal scale, the waste of spent grain is one of the up and now when entering the market with our seen a vast potential in spent grain, also known largest wasted powers, coming to around 4 first products. As a start-up, you may not think Food Technology at as mash, a waste product from malt used in million tonnes a year. As one of the very few about legal advice and support – or about getwww.circularfoodtechnology.com beer and whisky production. start-ups in the world we have concretised the ting some of the most important agreements idea of circular economy regarding the waand contracts in place,” says Aviaja. Usually the spent grain is used for animal feed, ste of spent grain. Instead of letting the spent but it is an unstable feed product and many grain go to waste, we upcycle it into healthy 22 CSR • Society What is circular economy? Circular economy breaks with the idea of a linear value chain, starting with the extraction of resources and ending with waste. Circular economy opens up for resources, otherwise ending up as waste, being reintroduced into the value chain and again being part of the production. Or they could be introduced into an entirely new cycle. Circular economy is about recycling materials or preventing waste through products that can be repaired or upgraded, etc. Source: The Danish Environmental Protection Agency (mst.dk) 23 CSR • Society A rapidly expanding A lack of qualified kitchen staff in the Danish restaurant industry, and an increasing number of non-ethnic Danes in need of a job. Acsustainable enterprise cording to the promoters of entrée, these were two problems that needed solutions. So they found one, and it was entreé. A catering and event business which is also a job academy where non-ethnic Danes can be trained in In 2018 Bech-Bruun continued its partnership with the Danish restaurant industry, the expertise Bech-Bruun as a sounding board in relation the start-up entrée, which is not merely a catering and skills associated with the professional and cultural aspects of the Danish kitchen – and in to business development and the general direction of our project. These people are very and event business, located in the iconic Hermes time gain employment in the industry after the skilled, and that’s been such a tremendous training period. help,” says Jakob Gaard Nielsen, manager and sports centre on Frederiksberg, but also a job acadeco-founder of entrée. my for non-ethnic Danes. entrée is one of the two pilot The enterprise was founded in 2017 and in the same year Bech-Bruun entered a business reNew restaurant coming projects in Bech-Bruun’s new CSR programme. Now lationship with entrée to assist the enterprise The small business has seen success as well as entrée is expanding its business, and Bech-Bruun is inby rendering advice during the start-up stage. adversity in 2018. Like many other start-ups These advisory services continued in 2018, in the restaurant industry, entrée has strugvolved. and in addition to the legal aspects they also gled to get customers during some periods, included commercial sparring. As such, Bechwhile other periods have been extremely busy. Bruun is a member of entrée’s Advisory Board. Despite volatile revenues, the enterprise has kept its head above water. In fact, it has man”It’s cool to be taking this journey with Bechaged so well that entrée takes another step and Bruun, who engage in a different area of experopens a restaurant in 2019. However, the social tise and are still so much involved in our projaspect of Entrée will remain an important part ect. We’ve been able to go to the core of our of the enterprise: business, and we’ve had the opportunity to use ”Having a restaurant and doing catering are actually just the framework of our concept. So in the new set-up, the concept is still the job academy and the training, and we hope we can really get somewhere with this,” says Jakob. 24 CSR • Society entrée has already been successful in getting people employed after they have completed the training. However, so far the job academy has run in parallel with the business, the sole income of which has derived from the food it has sold. That is about to change. The expansion of the business not only means the opening of a restaurant, it also means new hands in the business, a new strategy for the job academy and enhanced focus on the social aspect: ”We feel that now is the time to test whether the concept holds water. So part of this expansion is including some people who work exclusively on the social aspect. And then we go allin,” says Jakob. The partnership between entrée and BechBruun continues in 2019. Learn more about entrée at www.entreecph.com 25 CSR • Society Pro bono work The Mary Foundation We provide legal support and advisory services to the Mary Foundation, established in 2007 by HRH Crown Princess Mary. The Foundation’s mission is to combat social isolation – based on Pro bono work is a natural part of our activities, as we the belief that everyone has a right to belong. believe that we can help more by doing what we do Bech-Bruun is standing counsel to the Mary Foundation, and all our work for the Foundabest. Consequently, every year we offer our legal expertion is pro bono. tise free of charge to organisations that work for a better Copenhagen Legal Aid world – locally as well as globally. These are some of the Many of our associates regularly volunteer at the Copenhagen Legal Aid, Denmark’s largest Red Cross organisations that received our free advisory services in and oldest legal aid organisation. The advice The Red Cross helps the world’s neediest and 2018. rendered covers anything from leases, employfor many years Bech-Bruun has worked closement relationships and custodial care to comly with the Red Cross, providing pro bono pensation and insurance issues. legal advice on a regular basis. In 2018, we assisted the Red Cross on cases concerning Human Rights Watch abuse of the organisation’s name and logo, Human Rights Watch is a non-profit global orworking relationship agreements, and transganisation defending human rights across the portation of second-hand clothes, etc. world. We provide pro bono legal advice to the organisation and have, among other things, asDanish Sea Rescue Society (DSRS) sisted on foundation and labour law issues. Danish Sea Rescue Society (DSRS) is a nonprofit association helping yachters and boat owners in non-life threatening situations at sea and assisting official emergency groups. BechBruun supports the association’s activities by providing legal assistance free of charge, and in 2018 assistance has included insurance and tax issues, donation policies, GDPR, leases and various purchases of life boats and life-saving equipment. For many years, a partner with Bech-Bruun has been a member of the board of directors. 26 CSR • Society Det Grønlandske Hus Det Grønlandske Hus in Aarhus is one of four Social Foodies houses in Denmark functioning as a meeting place for resident Greenlanders and people Social Foodies manufactures and sells ice cream and chocolate, with an interest in Greenland, Danish as well but in addition to providing consumers with delicious goods, as non-Danish. The House communicates knowledge about Greenland with particular social responsibility is at the top of the chain’s agenda. Social focus on culture, education and social issues. Foodies invests in the production of raw material in Africa, helpIn 2018 Bech-Bruun worked pro bono for Det Grønlandske Hus in Aarhus by rendering legal ing small farmers and the socially challenged and creating jobs advice free of charge to visitors of the House in the local areas. In 2018 Bech-Bruun assisted the organisaseeking advice on, for instance, leasing issues, tion on favourable terms. labour issues, or matters of marriage and cohabitation. Moreover, Bech-Bruun has assisted the House’s steering group on a specific case. Turning Tables Denmark Turning Tables Denmark is a charity that works to strengthen young people’s life situation in Denmark. Through music, movies and photos, young people learn new skills, become part of new social groups and get the opportunity to express their frustrations and dreams in words and images. In 2018 Bech-Bruun advised the organisation free of charge, for instance in connection with the drafting of contracts. 27 CSR • Environment 28 CSR • Environment Environment A green footprint We know that our consumption of resources Our 2019 plans are … 22.202 impacts the environment and that we can control our own footprint to a very high degree. Consequently, we not only make an effort to •• To continue to minimise kilometres by bike in 2018 when we make a difference for others who work susour resource consumptainably, we also make a difference in our own joined the annual Danish campaign tion and optimise sustain“We cycle to work” processes. able business proceduWe continuously strive to reduce and rethink res. our consumption, thus improving our resource 56% efficiency. It is important for us to keep abreast of the latest developments in new energy and •• To continue our ongoing environmentally sound solutions that benefit replacement of lightthe environment, our own business and clients. ecology in our kitchen Sustainable procurement is important to us, bulbs, etc., with energyand in 2018 we continued to focus on environsaving alternatives. mentally sound alternatives for use in our dayto-day operations and worked actively on reducing food waste and increasing our use of •• To increase the propororganic resources. tion of organic raw materials in our kitchen and to 2015 2016 2017 2018* focus on food waste. Electricity (kWh) 907,464 985,454 951,300 980,085 Heating (mWh) 1,068 1,193 1,052 1,114.02 •• To continue our working Water (m3) 846 4,169 3,853 4,051 relationship with green Combustible waste (t) 76.6 69.62 38.78 49.5 suppliers. Recyclable material (t) 56.1 22.72 15.08 38.9 *In 2017 an unstable ventilation caused a decline in power consumption. In 2018 ventilation was stable and the 2018 level was back to normal. The combustible waste 29 increase registered from 2017 to 2018 is the result of a major overhaul of documents and files in 2018. CSR • Environment Sustainable Take a look at the parking lot in front of Langelinie Allé 35 in Copenhagen, you are guaranteed to see at least one of the well-known processes DriveNow cars. Meetings with clients are a very important part of our everyday life, but many meetings also have a potential impact on the environment. To allow employees with BechBruun the opportunity to make a sustainable Digital signatures, working closely with green suppliers, choice, we concluded a cooperation agreeshared cars and a large proportion of organic raw ment with city car service DriveNow in 2018. By working with signatures digitally in a system such as DocuSign, we can minimise our paper material. 2018 saw a string of initiatives, each contributBesides having bicycles available to employconsumption when drafting and submitting ees to use when they attend meetings, Bechcontracts and agreements. ing to increased sustainability and to making our proBruun now also offers the option of going by cesses more environmentally friendly. shared car provided by DriveNow. Under this Green business partners agreement, there are various advantages for However, at Bech-Bruun we not only strive to employees with Bech-Bruun in using Drivereduce our everyday consumption but also to Now’s cars, thus supporting contemporary colmake use of the right resources. This is very lective transportation and future sustainable much achieved by going with green suppliers. mobility in the city. Our steam laundry uses environmentally friendly products, processes and technologies. Our In addition to this, we continue to encourage cleaning company provides eco-labelled cleanour employees to use their bicycles for transing services. Our dry cleaning services use no portation and support initiatives such as the chemicals in their cleaning processes. And our campaign ”We cycle to work”. couriers strive to be at the forefront within environment and sustainability in the transport Digital signing and logistics industry. We also make an ongoing effort through digitalisation to reduce, for instance, our conFurther, we find it natural to protect the ensumption of paper and find sustainable IT sovironment that constitutes the soil of our raw lutions. In 2018 we increased our use of the materials. That is why most of the ingredients in digital signing solution DocuSign, which allows our kitchen are organic. In 2018 the proportion digital retrieval of signatures. of organic products was 56%, and we expect this to increase to 60% in 2019. 30 CSR • Environment Green energy has great potential We concentrate our work with large Danish and nonDanish players within the energy industry on renewable energy, and we intend to intensify this work in the future. Accordingly, in 2018 we decided to set up a new Renewable Energy department with exclusive focus on the area of renewable energy. Increasing awareness of the environment and Internationalt outlook ”Danish experts are in increasing demand outmore focus on environmentally friendly enerOur outlook is international, and as such we side their own jurisdiction. We assist on some gy solutions have led to significant growth in consider our Renewable Energy department major wind turbine projects and see a growthe area of renewable energy in recent years. a good opportunity to propagate renewable ing demand in for instance the USA and in Asia One outcome of this growth is an increased energy around the world with some of our best for Danish industry specialists. In many areas, demand for legal expertise; a demand we deexperts in the field. To strengthen our internalocal suppliers and experts are pressured to cided to meet in 2018. tional advisory services we took another large match the level found on the Danish market. step in 2018 and opened an office in New York. The office in New York is an important step for With our Renewable Energy department we This effort allows us to accompany our internaus towards strengthened advisory services and contribute our legal expertise and our busitional wind power clients onto the global marworking relationships with our international ness insight in the area of renewable energy to ket, and it is part of Bech-Bruun’s collaboclients – wherever a wind project would be clients and society in general and thus help inration with CIP (Copenhagen Infrastructure located,” says Simon Evers Hjelmborg, manacrease the share of renewable global energy Partners), one of the world’s leading green ging partner at Bech-Bruun. supply. infrastructure funds with particular focus on offshore wind turbines. 31 CSR • Etik & compliance 32 CSR • Ethics & Compliance Ethics & Compliance Vast ethical responsibility As a law firm, we carry a vast ethical responsibiliThe expertise we have accumulated in the area Our 2019 plans are … ty. Consequently, our work and business methof compliance, we share with our clients and ods are based on good conduct and respect for business partners, whom we advise on and our clients, our employees and our surroundtrain in measures to prevent money launder•• to continue setting high ings. We fulfil an important role in society, and ing and the handling of personal data. Our ethical standards. we take this role very seriously. Consequently, clients must always know where we stand, and we have established a solid corporate goveras such we refrain from taking cases connected nance system so that our clients and business with current or closely related conflicts of inte•• to continue to ensure partners may always know us to act fairly and rest. In each individual case our internal proceopenness within the ethically correct. dures and the most advanced quality assuranframework of the duty of ce programme in the legal industry ensure that Among other things, our corporate governance we are able to identify potential conflicts of inconfidentiality that is the system is based on our Code of Conduct. The terest by means of advanced client searches. In foundation of our client code describes our guidelines for the ethical case of doubt, our in-house Conflict and Ethics conduct of our employees and determines the Committee decides if a conflict exists. relationships. framework for our dialogue with business associates and other stakeholders. At Bech-Bruun Based on our own ethical rules, it was com•• continuous improvement we pursue a zero-tolerance policy towards pletely natural for us as one of the first law firms bribery and corruption and run our business in to adopt the advokatKODEKS of the Associaof our IT security. an honest and ethical manner. As a result, we tion of Danish Law Firms in 2015. Adopting the focus highly on in-house compliance. We have code of conduct means that we will continue established extensive in-house procedures to to perform our work based on openness, social ensure that any transfer of money is completeresponsibility, handling of ethical dilemmas, ly traceable. focus on clients and employees, and diversity. 33 CSR • Ethics & Compliance Member of advokatKODEKS In 2015, as the first law firm we decided to adopt advokatKODEKS, the code of conduct set out by the Association of Danish Law Firms. By adopting the code of conduct, we reaffirm our active approach to the five principles: Openness, social responsibility, handling of ethical dilemmas, focus on clients and employees, and diversity. advokatKODEKS is the law industry’s signal to the world that it is taking social responsibility seriously. advokatKODEKS ensures that we, as a law firm, tell the world explicitly what we stand for, the value we add, how we run our business, and what makes us special as independent advisers. The values of the code are directed at customers, employees and the public and include employment-related values such as good management and diversity but also general values such as ethics, social responsibility as well as openness and transparency. 34 CSR • Ethics & Compliance 35 CSR • Ethics & Compliance We test ourselves The Code of Conduct for the Danish Bar and Law Society is the foundation for the way we do business. As such, it is essential that our associCourse on money laundering legislation The object of the course is for Bech-Bruun’s ates know the rules and can apply them in pracassociates and employees to be able to comBech-Bruun prioritises being at the forefront as regards tice. Our clients and business partners must alply with s. 8(6) of the Danish Act on Measures in-house compliance. This means that we annually test ways know that we conduct business in a fair and ethically correct manner. to Prevent Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism (hvidvaskloven), requiring that our associates’ knowledge to ensure that we live up to employees and management have received In our capacity as a law firm, we must ensure adequate training in the legislation and in the our high standards. that we constantly comply with the Code of relevant data protection requirements. With Conduct and the statutory rules on the prethis in mind they reviewed those parts of the vention of money laundering, and we conmoney laundering act and data protection law stantly work on initiatives to support such comthat are of significance to law firms, their assopliance. In 2018 this meant that all our lawyers ciates and other employees. had to complete an e-learning programme comprised by two parts: A compliance test and The course is an introduction into the relevant an anti-money laundering test. rules targeted at law firms, and the idea is – with a view also to meeting the requirements of the In 2018 our associates completed an e-learnanti-money laundering act concerning regular ing programme designed to test their knowsupplementary training – to follow up with supledge of legal ethics and money laundering. plementary courses, for instance when develThe test is not an examination of their ready opments in the legal basis suggest this. knowledge, but a test of how to apply the rules in various specific cases. The test is performed Compliance course annually to ensure that our associates are alThe course concerns compliance in relation to ways updated on the rules. issues such as legal ethics, money laundering and duty of confidentiality. Issues were, for instance, conflicts of interest, lawyers serving as board members, when is the client a consumer, the duty of confidentiality, and Bech-Bruun’s in-house rules, including on securities trade. 36 CSR • Ethics & Compliance Some of the issues of the two courses: •• Why an anti-money laundering act – and why it must include lawyers •• History of anti-money laundering in the EU and in Denmark •• What must a lawyer know? •• When are lawyers subject to the legislation? •• Authorities and sanctions •• Risk assessment and risk management •• Customer due diligence procedures •• Tightened requirements – and eased requirements Conflict and ethics committee •• Duty to investigate, record, notify and store Bech-Bruun’s conflict and ethics committee discusses and de•• Duty of confidentiality and liability cides issues concerning conflicts of interest, such as questions as to whether Bech-Bruun can assume or continue processing •• Legal ethics cases in accordance with legal ethics and the Code of Conduct. 37 CSR ”We believe that by doing what we do best, we can help more. And for this reason, we are pleased to be able to continue contributing our expertise in various ways every year to further the development and sustainability in society as well as in our activities.” Simon Evers Hjelmborg, managing partner at Bech-Bruun 38 CSR Copenhagen Denmark • Aarhus Denmark • Shanghai China • New York USA 40 +45 72 27 00 00 • info@bechbruun.com • Law Firm P/S • www.bechbruun.com
