COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2019 Period covered by our Communication on Progress (COP) From: December 18th 2018 To: December 17th 2019 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER December 17th 2019 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that LE34 reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights • On March 25th to 29th 2019, LE34 attended the 20th annual World Bank Conference on Land and Poverty in Washington, DC. Our contribution was a scientific poster on the role of land management and protection of land tenure rights in the Sustainable Development Goals. Specifically, Goal 1.4 and Goal 2.3 address the need for secure and equal access to land and natural resources. • LE34 has taken measures to ensure leadership buy-in by including the Ten Principles and the SDGs in our 2020 Strategy, which involves the management across the company and requires the reporting of goals on this area from each of our 7 business areas. • On April 22nd to 26th 2019 LE34 attended the FIG (International Federation of Surveyors) Conference in Hanoi. LE34 contributed with an abstract and talk on the surveying profession’s ability to contribute to the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda. • LE34 has taken measures to promote health and safety for all employees by initiating a safety campaign under the heading Take care of my colleague . The campaign is headed by the managing director and signals that the top management would never want an employee to expose others or himor herself to danger in order to deliver results. We have published a safety handbook dedicated to on-site employees to increase their safety. Throughout 2019, we have had monthly safety meetings hosted by our Managing Director in order to raise awareness of on-site safety issues. Labour • LE34 has performed control visits to new suppliers of data processing in India to ensure that they comply with the Ten Principles. • LE34 does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour • LE34 complies with minimum wage standards • LE34 collaborate with local public schools to promote public-private collaborations on education. • LE34 ensures that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria. • LE34 has initiated LE34 Academy to further education for our employees. • LE34 Academy has included management training of all management level employees who affect the working environment of their teams • LE34 reports all occupational diseases and injuries to the national Labour Market lnsurance to promote transparency and to track outcomes. Environment • LE34 is committed to contributing to responsible land governance and took part in the 20th Annual World Bank Conference on Land and Poverty • As a consultancy, LE34 takes measures to ensure that our services affect the environment as little as possible. When we purchase new company cars, we opt for those with the least environmental impact (miles per gallon and co2 emission) • All LE34 offices comply with waste separation procedures and we have taken steps towards reducing waste by removing individual waste baskets and replacing them with central separation baskets Anti-Corruption • LE34 has included the Ten Principles in our contracts with new business partners • LE34 ensures that internal procedures support our anti-corruption and transparency commitment 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES • LE34 has conducted a report for the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations for the purpose of evaluating 17 country level projects on land tenure governance in Africa, Asia and Latin America to identify lessons learned, best practices, and emerging issues in order to share knowledge and to determine the next steps in improving the security of tenure rights in the countries. • LE34 has contributed to a project in Nepal, which aims to ensure land tenure rights to the local population in order to protect their right to own land and make a living. • LE34 has developed a company vision regarding our commitment to the SDG’s (attached appendix) resulting in a strategic focus throughout the company • Our focus on the SDG’s and our expertise in land management has resulted in a dialogue with the Danish NGO aid agency Danish Church Aid about potential collaborations on projects concerning land tenure rights in developing countries. We consider this the first step towards actively engaging in international aid projects. • Leadership buy-in has been our first priority and we have actively involved local management by requesting a strategy involving the Ten Principles as well as short-term and long-term goals. • Demographics of employees have reached greater diversity and our local departments have become more open to recruiting non-Danish speakers as well as employees with special needs. • LE34 has attended the annual general assembly at Global Compact Network Denmark • LE34 is one of 21 Danish companies chosen to contribute to the Confederation of Danish Industries’ 2-year project: From Philanthropy to Business, which aims to turn SDG visions into sustainable business models
