UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Steelcase 2019 July 19, 2019 Promise + Progress Corporate Sustainability Report 2018 Steelcase strives to bring value to all our stakeholders: customers, employees, shareholders, partners, communities and the environment. We do this every day, in every location around the world by designing products and solutions which benefit workers and support wellbeing— delivering goods and good. We partner with customers to help them achieve their sustainability goals. We consult and collaborate with experts, pioneers and visionaries across disciplines. And we do this while living our most foundational values to tell the truth and treat people with dignity and respect. Promise + Progress 2 Steelcase Table of Contents INTRODUCTION OUR PROMISES + PROGRESS 04 Welcome from Jim Keane Customers 24 Innovative Products + Spaces 06 Our Vision 26 Sustainable Procurement 08 Our Sustainability Promise Strategies 10 Our Year in Focus 28 Circular Services 12 Targets and Performance Partners Feature Stories 30 Dealer Network 14 The Home Depot Builds Reuse 32 Supplier Relationships Into Its Asset Management Program Communities 16 A Triple Threat: Public 34 Social Innovation Thread Improves the Social, Environmental and Economic Employees Landscape 36 Employee Health + Wellbeing 18 Steelcase Smart + Connected 38 Learning + Development Workplace 40 Culture + Engagement 20 The Bridge at Arbor Circle: Strengthening Communities Environment 42 Energy + Greenhouse Gas Emissions 44 Waste + Water 46 Transportation + Packaging 48 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX Promise + Progress 3 Steelcase Welcome Historically, we’ve focused our By training underemployed people efforts around ecological advances. and paying a living wage, they’ve That’s a good start, but we believe built an inspiring, sustainable by leveraging the strength of business model with positive social, our people, we can do more. As economic and environmental value. we talk about social innovation, You can read more about Public we’re thinking about how we can Thread in this report. champion responsible resource use and positively impact people. Here are some other highlights We’re exploring ways to support from 2017: environmental and economic • Selected as a finalist for the systems while improving life for Circulars Awards alongside people in the places we live and international leaders in circular work. By partnering with businesses economy services and organizations with creative approaches to systemic issues, we • Leveraging solutions which Steelcase was founded on a can help everyone accomplish their incorporate big data + customized set of values that continue to mission. This is what it looks like to workplace performance tools and guide our strategic choices, unlock human promise. systems like Smart + Connected anchor innovation and inform to help our customers reach their the way we conduct our One community partner helping us business and sustainability goals business. More broadly, do this is Public Thread, a smallthose values lead us to batch sewing company in Grand • Continuing to expand our connect people with their Rapids. Their upcycling program has furniture as a service model potential, and we’re privileged diverted Steelcase and DesignTex and helping customers with their to do that around the world fabric from the landfill, and they’ve own sustainability goals to divert for our employees, customers transformed our scraps into one-ofmillions of furniture assets from and communities. a-kind, handmade items. the landfill Promise + Progress 4 Steelcase Welcome • Making progress in many of our We’re reminded every day that the environmental footprint goals: work we do and the decisions we reducing energy, VOCs and water make directly impact our customers, use and continuing to invest in employees and shareholders, and 100% renewable energy take seriously the opportunity to leverage our scale and resources for • Investing in our communities with positive, sustainable change. I hope over 92,000 employee volunteer you’ll turn the page to learn more. hours over the last 3 years Despite the great things we accomplished this year, sustainability is hard, and sometimes we experience setbacks. Due to several external James P. Keane factors, we sustained a temporary President and CEO increase in landfill waste and anticipate reporting another increase in next year’s report before we’re back on track to reach our 2020 goals. To keep that 2020 goal within reach, our teams are pushing hard, clearing hurdles and approaching waste reduction creatively. You can read more about this in the Waste + Water section of this report. We remain committed to reducing waste of all kinds not merely to say we reached a goal — but because it’s the right thing to do. Promise + Progress 5 Steelcase Our Vision Our Vision People are at the heart of everything we do and everything we create. This truth drives our approach to sustainability. With people at the center, we can deliver meaningful, lasting economic, environmental and social change through the choices we make and the behaviors and actions we demonstrate. Promise + Progress 6 Steelcase Our Vision Sustainability In Action Holding Ourselves While a formal • Across all stakeholder Accountable governance structure is groups, Steelcase is Three important groups helpful for accountability, working hard to bring govern our activities: every Steelcase team sustainability performance to today’s workplace. • Our Board of Directors, a member is responsible hardworking team of proven for thinking and acting • We’re continuing to develop business leaders (including sustainably. From the innovative products, spaces some thirdand fourthsmallest daily choices and circular services for generation founding family our clients, and providing members), sets the tone to the largest, resourcethem with sustainable for our company’s future. saving investments, procurement strategies. our employees are • Our Executive Leadership empowered to innovate. • We’re sharing ideas and Team delivers long-term communicating best practices shareholder value and enables By working individually with all our partners — from sustainable business fitness and together, they suppliers and dealers to through our mission of act as stewards of customers, researchers and unlocking human promise. our shared resources environmental agencies. and contribute to an • Our Global Sustainability • We're fostering sustainable Steering Committee cultivates environment of safety and development in our global a culture of sustainable wellbeing for themselves, operations and in those innovation by advancing colleagues, communities of our supplier partners, our company’s value, and the world. including a focus on brand and performance. environmental and human The Committee is charged health, social responsibility with sponsoring key initiatives and economic prosperity. designed to fuel progress and foster connections across • We're applying insights, multiple levels and disciplines leveraging scale, and within the organization. committing human and financial resources to projects and partnerships to create positive, lasting progress. • We're investing in education to empower and support employees and celebrate their contributions. • We're working to ensure our operations protect the environment and health of employees, neighbors and customers through actions that conserve resources, reduce waste and promote closed-loop business systems. Promise + Progress 7 Steelcase Our Sustainability Promise Our Sustainability Promise We unlock human promise by transforming work, worker and workplace. Delivering on this promise takes continuous and coordinated efforts. We believe our actions help create the social, environmental and economic conditions that allow people and communities to thrive. We’re putting those beliefs into action. Promise + Progress 8 Steelcase Sustainability Beliefs Our Corporate Values We recognize each individual By working individually and in We expect every team member, is integral to the growth, groups, by acting as a business and in every location, to live stability and structure of our as an integral part of our local and our shared Steelcase values. entire sustainability effort. global communities, we can use the When we share the same lens of sustainable business to help • Act with integrity goals and purpose, we can guide us into the future. We believe: develop a sense of collective • Tell the truth meaning in our work. • Any solution begins with finding • Keep commitments — and sharing — the truth. We By fully engaging every team work hard to be transparent and • Treat people with dignity member in our shared beliefs authentic with others and and respect and sustainable business goals, with ourselves. we become an even stronger • Promote positive relationships partner and an increasingly • Sustainability is a lens for better-performing company. innovation and growth, • Protect the environment contributing to the overall financial wellbeing of our company. • Excel • There is no greater design challenge than building a more sustainable, circular economy. It demands systemslevel design thinking in all aspects of our business. Promise + Progress 9 Steelcase Our Year in Focus Sustainability at Steelcase is dynamic and always evolving— and so are our stakeholders’ needs. This year, we continued to focus on deepening our understanding of stakeholder expectations, translating these insights to inform our internal teams and our business activities. The collective creativity of our team members continues to fuel our social, environmental and economic progress — as well as our circular economy journey. 10 Steelcase • Refined sustainability aspects • Partnered with leading organizations material to our business that to understand and explore emerging advance our social and issues and opportunities—as environmental performance broad as circular economy and and align with the expectations as critical as advanced materials. of our many stakeholders, shareholders and partners. • Surveyed our employees to understand the sustainability • Initiated an eight-year roadmap issues most relevant to them. to drive toward a more sustainable, circular economy. • Continued to empower our stakeholders through education • Continued to collaborate with and partnerships to understand customers and study their their role in advancing sustainability inquiries to understand how their for our company, our communities corporate sustainability priorities and society at large. relate to our business. Promise + Progress 11 Steelcase Our Year in Focus Targets + Performance Steelcase measures Employee Volunteerism progress against our sustainability goals as well as across a broad range 92,000 volunteer of metrics. Here we look at top-level measures of hours since 2015 our sustainability efforts, Gender Distribution from growing shareholder value to strengthening employee wellbeing and engagement, from reducing our environmental footprint to amplifying the impact of 33% 67% our community service. female male Employee Retention 85.7% employee retention Promise + Progress 12 Steelcase Our Year in Focus Progress Towards Environmental Goals Revenue Net Income Water 10% $3.1 Billion $80.7 Million 62% Waste 21% Monetary + In-Kind Donations Energy 82% Steelcase FY2018 Steelcase Foundation CY2017 VOCs $1.2 Million $3.4 Million 2010 baseline Investments in renewable energy are equivalent to 100% of our global electricity use. Stock Performance (Indexed % Return) Steelcase S&P 500 Stock Index Peer Group 200 150 100 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Promise + Progress 13 Steelcase Spotlight The Home Depot Builds Reuse Into Its Asset Management Program As the world’s largest home improvement retailer, The Home Depot sources products and promotes ideas to help millions of customers reduce their environmental impact by using less energy and generating less waste in home improvement projects. The Home Depot underscores this commitment by continuously monitoring and improving its own energy efficiency and waste reduction efforts. Last year, The Home Depot partnered with Steelcase and Dekalb Office, an authorized Steelcase dealer, to develop a comprehensive asset management and decommissioning strategy for their office and administrative furniture. Together, the teams evaluated their existing furniture assets to identify opportunities to recycle and resell items in order to extend their use and material value. In the initial project phase, over 290 metric tons of furniture were diverted through reuse, recycling and charitable donation. The Home Depot continues to partner with Steelcase and Dekalb Office to take advantage of our Phase 2 program, responsibly relocating, reselling, recycling and charitably donating furniture. 322,222 The 290 tons of furniture The Home Depot diverted from the landfill is equivalent to 322,222 five-gallon Homer Buckets—The Home Depot’s iconic DIY necessity. Promise + Progress 14 290+ The Home Depot successfully diverted more than 290 tons of furniture from the landfill through reuse, recycling and charitable donation. 237 tons reused in their facilities 42 tons resold 11 tons recycled .5 tons donated Spotlight A Triple Threat: Public Thread Improves the Social, Environmental and Economic Landscape Steelcase is committed to reducing the waste we generate and partnering with new voices who bring fresh approaches and new solutions. In our Michigan manufacturing facilities, highquality scrap fabric is being sent to an innovative for-profit social enterprise, Public Thread. Public Thread designs and makes small batches of sewn products from repurposed and upcycled textiles. Public Thread gives this fabric new life—and creates new opportunities for employees, who represent diverse and underrepresented communities, empowering them with marketable job skills and a living wage. Steelcase is proud to partner with Public Thread, creating meaningful work in our local community, diverting usable materials to a second life and supporting the local economy. Promise + Progress 16 Steelcase Spotlight 1000 pounds In the first nine months of partnership, Steelcase successfully diverted over 1000 pounds of usable scrap fabric to Public Thread. Promise + Progress 17 Steelcase Spotlight Steelcase Smart + Connected Workplace Promise + Progress 18 Steelcase Leading organizations around the world recognize the need to pursue reinvention, focusing on performance to drive growth and innovation. Three components — people, place and technology — must work together to support new, creative ways of working. The Smart + Connected workplace equips organizations with tools, data and insights to optimize workspaces and support productive, engaged and satisfied employees, and help companies make the most of their real estate. Intuitive Smart + Connected mobile apps and scheduling systems empower employees to easily find individual Micro Changes, Macro Improvements and collaborative workspaces that Smart + Connected workplaces give facilities can accommodate their personal teams data-driven methods to maximize real needs—including preset preferences estate investments and minimize wasted time for height-adjustable desks, and through small, incremental improvements. reminders to change posture and track activity toward wellbeing goals. To demonstrate to customers how these changes can have a big impact on utilization over time, Steelcase used its Grand Rapids and Munich locations to When data reveals conduct several studies. certain usage patterns, One study at the Learning and Innovation small fixes can drive Center in Munich, where conference spaces big changes in and meeting rooms are spread over three employee engagement six-story buildings and cover over 140,000 sq. ft of space, looked at how we might and utilization. understand and optimize employee space navigation. Using Smart + Connected applications saved employees an average of 10 to 15 minutes, four to five times per day by proactively identifying available meeting spaces. This time savings roughly translates to an annual financial savings of $810,000 based on the average salary of all 270 employees in Munich. Promise + Progress 19 Steelcase Spotlight The Bridge at Arbor Circle: Strengthening Communities Promise + Progress 20 Steelcase Spotlight To be a force for good across our global footprint, Steelcase strongly believes in investing in communities. This year, Steelcase worked alongside several local businesses and competitors on a special redesign project at The Bridge at Arbor Circle in Grand Rapids, Michigan. A safe shelter for young people facing homelessness or considering running away, The Bridge offers a stable, accessible place to stay where they can find support, connect with peers, learn new skills and determine how to reconnect with their families, schools and community. Steelcase worked with local partners to secure donations of furniture, décor, paint and skilled labor for seven unique bedroom redesigns. Steelcase designers created teams to tackle each room with the goal of creating safe, welcoming spaces that evoke a sense of personal security and comfort, while also nurturing connections to each other and the community. Steelcase actively supports team building efforts — allowing us to create a meaningful impact in our communities and also spend quality time as a design studio. It's a total win-win. Addy Madorsky, Lead Designer, Steelcase Global Interiors Promise + Progress 21 Steelcase Our Promises + Progress Every day around the world, we work to bring lasting value to our customers, employees, shareholders, partners, communities and the environment. We do this by designing products and solutions to benefit people, consulting with customers to help meet sustainability goals, collaborating to further the science and practice of sustainability and operating in a socially responsible way. 23 Steelcase Customers Innovative Uncovering New, Innovative Materials Steelcase’s Material Innovation Products + Exploration group has developed a digital library of 200+ potential suppliers of new, innovative materials. This new tool gives our Spaces designers and product engineers a complete view of all available, reviewed materials to better determine how and where they can be utilized. This library reflects our commitment to include new and ever-more-sustainable materials in our product portfolio. Life Cycle Performance Primary research, metrics from Life Cycle Assessments (LCA) and closed-loop design thinking help PROMISE Helping people and us deliver value at every step of the product lifecycle—from product Provide innovative organizations realize their design and manufacturing to products, materials and applications to full potential means supporting delivery, use and end-of-use options. The insights we gain through this create more resilient their wellbeing. We do this working, learning and process are shared with partners, through thoughtful product industry groups and other leading healing spaces that support human and design, careful materials organizations. This year, Steelcase worked with many universities environmental wellbeing. selection, optimized lifecycle and non-profit organizations to performance and continuous share our learnings with students PROGRESS improvement of life extension through sustainability curricula at the university level. Exciting innovations and end-of-use strategies. in applied materials science for our SILQ™ Our innovative use of technology Preparing the Next Generation chair launch, new datahelps organizations adapt for Sustainable Thinking driven solutions and their spaces to evolving Students from The Technical continued commitment to lifecycle performance needs, maximizing their University of Denmark’s Design and Innovation program partnered with and validation through real estate investment Steelcase on their master’s thesis third-party certifications. and supporting employee research. This joint initiative explored engagement and wellbeing. new opportunities to inspire deeper development engagement processes to drive more innovative solutions throughout our portfolio. Promise + Progress 24 Steelcase Customers Innovative Products + Spaces Closing the Product This year, we joined the Spotlight on Third Party Lifecycle Loop with Smart + Certifications Connected Insights board of the American Customer workplaces continue to Center for Life Cycle evolve, and Steelcase Smart + Assessment (ACLCA), Connected tools and data are supporting this evolution like never before. Based on usage data, or a nonprofit membership organization bringing 170+ BIFMA level Certified products changing business needs, customers together diverse may need to adapt spaces and the furniture within them. When organizations with a stake redeploying products within the in the implementation customer footprint doesn’t make and advancement of sense, Steelcase offers end-of-use options to optimize material recovery LCA application. alongside services to support circular economy efforts, including product resale. Read the Steelcase Smart + 50+ Connected Workplace feature story on pp. 18–19 to learn more about how we’re equipping ourselves and our customers with More than 50 products certified under the the tools, data and insights to Cradle to Cradle Certified Products Program, optimize their workspaces and including some of our best-known product support productive, engaged brands like Answer®, Brody®, Steelcase and satisfied employees. Series 1TM and Thread®. Steelcase Wins Best of NeoCon Awards + More • SILQ™ by Steelcase Design Studio 350+ won an Innovation Award in the Seating SCS Indoor Advantage certificates Ergonomic Desk/Task category. Roundtable for Product • Mackinac™ by Steelcase won an Social Metrics For a full list of our partners, see GRI Indicator 102-12. Innovation Award in the Furniture Traditionally, LCAs have only Collections for Collaboration category. quantified environmental impacts • Embold™ by Steelcase Health won of products and services. The 45+ Gold in the Healthcare Guest and Roundtable for Product Social Lounge Seating category. Metrics is working to expand • Surroundings™ by Designtex won the scope of LCAs beyond the environmental aspects to include Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs) Gold in the Healthcare Fabrics & Textiles category. social aspects of product lifecycles as well. For the past four years, • The Celliant® Collection by 1,800+ Steelcase has been working closely Designtex won Gold in the Textiles: with organizations across industries Upholstery category. to research, evaluate and develop • Designtex + Coalesse Collection was a handbook and methodology for More than 1,800 materials in our product named Editors’ Choice in the Textiles: measuring and managing social portfolio evaluated against more than 20 Upholstery category. impacts of the product lifecycle. human and environmental health indicators. Promise + Progress 25 Steelcase Customers Sustainable Designing for Circularity Our design approach begins with closed-loop thinking and Procurement measurement of product lifecycle impacts through Life Cycle Assessments. Using metric-based insights, we measure and maximize Strategies positive impacts at every stage, from product design and manufacturing to delivery, use and end-of-use strategies. In partnership with our suppliers, we seek opportunities to improve furniture performance outcomes, from the optimization of chemical profiles of materials to the ability to be reused and adapted over time. See the Innovative Products + Spaces section on pp. 24–25 to learn more about our approach to product design PROMISE When organizations engage and application development. Help organizations with Steelcase for their achieve their sustainability goals. workplace solutions, they’re Services for a Circular Economy relying on our system of We’re imagining a more holistic PROGRESS products, applications and approach to workplace flexibility: an ecosystem of spaces and Working in partnership services to help drive their services designed to support an with our customers, we sustainability progress organization’s changing needs. In continue to ensure our products, performance forward. Because we are addition to our end-of-use removal and redeployment programs, our metrics, certifications stronger together, we build Circular Services team works closely and services relationships early to better with customers to pilot programs support their human, environmental and understand corporate and for pay-for-experience services and other alternatives to ownership organizational health. project-related objectives models. Our work in designing these and consult on goal setting new business models helps realize and decision making. These a vision of holistic performance and experience-based interactions collaborations result in work with our clients. We continue to environments which promote iterate and scale services and test new models, deepening the wellbeing for workers and value we provide and helping deliver value customers expect. organizations thrive. Head over to the Circular Services section on pp. 28–29 to learn more. Promise + Progress 26 Steelcase Customers Sustainable Procurement Strategies Beyond Product Sustainability Building Certification Environmental Our customer partnerships go Contributions Metrics Report beyond just meeting product-related We help customers leverage sustainability goals. In addition our product performance in the to providing Circular Services, certification of their buildings Trends Steelcase partners with customer through contributions to global and procurement teams on strategies regional standards, including LEED® 250 to meet their broader corporate green building rating system, WELL 2015 271 sustainability goals. With a greater Building Standard™ and BREEAM®. 2016 346 understanding of a customer’s 2017 sustainable business goals, we 400 LEED Certification 2018 can develop custom solutions that combine products and services to Materials and resources meet those goals. Check out our feature story: “The Ergonomics Social equity in the supply chain Innovation in design 400 Home Depot Builds Reuse Into Its Customized environmental metrics Low-emitting materials reports (EMRs) for companies Asset Management Program” on pp. 14–15 to learn more. spanning more than 20 industries WELL Building Standard Air Strategic Purchasing 11 Light Strategies Fitness Comfort Our customers include leading Data points provided per product in every organizations who seek the Nutrition EMR including sustainability certifications, latest research and insights. Mind recycled content and potential for LEED We partner with them to contributions, empowering customers to tailor our offerings to the BREEAM track their own sustainability progress standards and specifications Indoor air quality they require to meet their Acoustic performance sustainability goals — whether Environmental impact of materials it’s a certification, a material health list, a building standard Responsible sourcing of materials 350+ Product or a more strategic partner Material efficiency Waste management Environment model. With our dealers, we share our learnings and Profiles collaborate with customers Product Environment Profiles (PEPs) to regularly review their document the environmental attributes of a purchases against a variety product, including recycled content, product of sustainability objectives to recyclability information, sustainability ensure we continue to meet certifications and more. PEPs can be found on their highest aspirations. our website in the Design Resources page. 20+ Cross-industry collaborations, including C2C Built Positive, World 50, GreenBuild, Sustainable Brands, the CE100, GBEN and Renewable Energy 100 Promise + Progress 27 Steelcase Customers Circular Services PROMISE At Steelcase, we’re imagining Creating a New Economy Offer an ecosystem a more holistic approach to The circular economy is the of dynamic spaces new industrial revolution—and and services workplace flexibility: an product-service systems will designed to support ecosystem of spaces and be central to the shift. an organization’s services designed to support an We are excited about the opportunity changing needs. organization’s changing needs. to introduce new ways of doing business in a globally-integrated PROGRESS This circular mindset decouples marketplace, extending both the value and lifecycles of our products. Expand existing economic growth from resource We’re taking practical steps to offerings and evolve services to support consumption. It goes beyond prepare our company for new ways ever-changing space diverting furniture from landfills to of doing business and engaging with our customers, however they needs and move toward presenting new, innovative uses for may define circularity. a more sustainable, circular economy. hundreds of thousands of products through new business models Building New Traditions with that promote the flow of assets Steelcase Workplace Services through extended use, resale, We serve leading companies who dream, think and plan big, and redistribution, repair, refurbishment are envisioning what's far beyond and material recovery. traditional end-of-use services. These customers, working closely We’re exploring ways to leverage with our Circular Services experts, technology and emerging business are helping us develop new ways of thinking about the product lifecycle, models to help customers quickly and how new services, financial adapt their spaces to constantly infrastructure, product strategies and customer experience models changing business needs. could support this new vision. Together, we’re redesigning the sales process for more efficient and sustainable transactions. Promise + Progress 28 Steelcase Customers Circular Services Seating Trade-Up Eco’Services Eco'Services Trade-Up is a value-add service Our strategy to advance our circular offered with our task chairs (Amia, economy solutions—alongside Leap, Gesture, Think, SILQ and increasing interest from global Workstations Redeployed Series 1). This program gives customers—continues to inspire customers an opportunity to us as we expand and evolve our 60,000+ since 2008 partner with our ReMarket team Eco’Services offering. Our asset to responsibly dispose of unneeded recapture and redeployment service office chairs—even non-Steelcase originated in French-speaking chairs. Steelcase partners with countries in Europe, but we’re 5,000+ since 2017 brokers across the country to working to pilot and scale service manage unneeded assets and 46 capabilities in neighboring markets. redeploy them appropriately. This includes the development of a new, sustainable pricing model for customers and an incentive Circular Services projects ReMarketTM system for our dealers. Through our completed in 2018 In North America, the ReMarket partnerships, we continue to improve program redeploys customers’ the service experience for dealers end-of-lease assets through our and empower them to better serve dealer network. This offering makes high-quality furniture available customers through responsible 167,700+ handling of end-of-use assets. Cubic meters of furniture redirected to a broader set of markets and customers at affordable prices. through Eco'Services since it When our Eco'Services began in 2008. An equivalent of team learned about a local 44 olympic pools. Phase 2 Program children’s hospital in Paris, France in need of new Decommissioning is what happens furniture for their waiting to your furniture when it leaves area and offices, they Phase 2 your workspace. Crafting and worked with a local dealer executing an outstanding and a Steelcase partner on 594.32 decommissioning service on behalf a decommissioning project of our customers requires operational to redeploy high-quality, expertise from Steelcase and our gently-used seating and partner network. We exchange best Metric Tons diverted desking solutions to the from landfill in 2018 practices and work closely with hospital’s facilities. dealers and service providers to monitor and grow performance using 1654.6 standard operating procedures and key performance indicators. In fact, we have been a pioneer in this field Steelcase Named for nearly a decade, offering the Tons of Co2E GHG – a Circulars Finalist avoidance in 2018 industry’s most comprehensive decommissioning service available The Circulars, presented by the World in the US and Canada. Economic Forum and the Forum of Young Global Leaders in collaboration with Accenture, is the world’s premier circular economy award program. The awards showcase advances driving innovation and growth while reducing dependence on scarce natural resources. Promise + Progress 29 Steelcase Partners Dealer Global Teamwork and Next Generation Transitions Steelcase collaborates with our Network dealer network to meet the needs of our global customers. Together, we support their business goals and offer coordinated cross-regional support for projects and installations around the world. As Baby Boomers retire, many dealer principals are transitioning their businesses to younger generations or new partners. Steelcase supports these teams to help ensure uninterrupted customer service and seamless transfer of knowledge. One recent dealer transition welcomed two experienced business people to the office furniture industry: Eric Grisham and Trey Clark. They purchased OSCO, Inc., the Steelcase PROMISE Most Steelcase dealerships dealer in Huntsville, Alabama. Serve organizations are independent businesses, Clark shared his enthusiasm for the around the world through a network of strong dealer owned and operated by opportunity, remarking, partners and deliver people deeply invested in the “We are passionate about work environments that communities they serve. By empowering our employees promote the wellbeing and supporting the local of people, organizations providing effective, engaging communities that we serve and the planet. workplaces, our dealers can throughout Alabama and employ a variety of workers we’re very excited about the tremendous team at PROGRESS from their local communities OSCO, the products and Continuing to deliver to deliver Steelcase products services it provides, and solutions with our the legacy and brand global network of and spaces, as well as a recognition it has built dealer partners which range of value-added services across the past 50 years.” contribute to strong, including space planning, stable communities. We work closely design, installation, technology Dealer Diversity with dealers to help and audiovisual integration, We continue to strive for diversity them secure an moving services and more. within our dealerships by providing enduring leadership programs for talent management position serving and leadership in the U.S. Steelcase customers. and Canada. Steelcase helps support dealers with securing minority council certifications, facilitating strategic alliances with minority and non-minorityowned dealers, and recruiting women, veteran, disabled and disadvantaged dealer candidates. Promise + Progress 30 Steelcase Partners Dealer Network Knowledge Sharing The Steelcase approach to learning—we all teach, we all learn— extends to peer-to-peer dealer 15% relationships and connections with Steelcase teams. • Globally, regional dealer Steelcase U.S. dealers are councils provide feedback to minority-owned, womenSteelcase on market dynamics owned and veteran-owned and emerging needs and make businesses. suggestions and recommendations on future investments. • Dealers can access the knowledge HUB WBE and expertise of dealers across the zone globe through electronic platforms, Working Together, communities of practice and peerto-peer workshops. Delivering • A dedicated Steelcase team regularly Sustainable Value Veteran connects with dealers to share research Our dealers are key DSVO MBE insights, provide financing options, partners in delivering talent management strategies and value to our customers. inclusion best practices. Dealer Diversity in Check out our “Leveraging the United States Recognizing Premier Partnerships” on p.46 in Performance Transportation + Packaging HUBzone WBE to learn about our partnership Every day, our dealer partners deliver with dealers and customers 3 19 best-in-class Steelcase experiences Veteran/DSVO MBE to pilot new packaging and to customers worldwide. Our dealer 8 8 waste reduction efforts. partners meet our high standards for quality and performance thanks to a number of practices and 800+ policies we implement together globally. This includes, the “Blue Book” in the U.S. and Canada, which outlines the respective expectations, Steelcase dealers globally rights and obligations of both Steelcase and Steelcase dealers, 96 Years in addition to formal agreements with our dealers in all markets. Our oldest dealer partnership has been in place since 1922. Promise + Progress 31 Steelcase Partners Supplier Global Alignment + Collaboration As Steelcase operates in an Relationships increasingly interconnected world, promoting our common values helps encourage consistent interactions and performance. Together with our suppliers, we exchange best practices through our supplier conferences. Steelcase works with suppliers to monitor and grow performance through a system of common metrics on a daily, weekly, monthly and quarterly basis. To set consistent standards globally, we communicate our expectations through a Supplier Code of Conduct. The code outlines requirements for organizational governance, human rights, labor practices, environmental stewardship and PROMISE Steelcase Suppliers are community involvement and We work with our Important Partners. Steelcase development. Steelcase suppliers suppliers—and our suppliers’ suppliers— works closely with suppliers are required to comply with the code under the terms of their global ensuring the materials to provide customers with new contract with Steelcase. Suppliers and services they and inspiring solutions by are evaluated through questionnaires provide meet our strict standards for quality, delivering superior materials, and select site visits. We partner with them to continuously improve performance and technology, expertise and their performance in areas outlined sustainability. reliable performance. We within the code. expect them to adhere to the PROGRESS highest standards for safety, Supplier Diversity Continue to deliver the best value to our quality and sustainability. Resiliency and success can only happen when we cultivate a diversity stakeholders through of perspectives, experiences and a diverse set of global ideas. For more than 25 years, suppliers, sharing the Steelcase supplier diversity knowledge, tools and program has focused on supporting standards for quality, the growth and development of performance and minority-owned, women-owned, sustainability. veteran-owned, service-disabled Adapt and improve veteran-owned and HUBzone global guidelines, tools businesses in the U.S. We work to and our knowledge increase our investments in these exchange program business relationships, which are ensuring we continue consistently exceeding 10% of U.S. delivering the best value supplier relationships. We emphasize to our stakeholders infrastructure and reporting, through a diverse set communication, networking, supplier of suppliers. development and mentoring. Promise + Progress 32 Steelcase Partners Supplier Relationships 10% Steelcase U.S. suppliers are minority-owned, womenowned and veteran-owned businesses. First-ofPartnering to Drive New + Expanded Innovation Supplier Partnerships Its-Kind Steelcase extended our corporate Steelcase partners with suppliers To best meet the evolving needs discount on renewable energy to our to understand current innovations of customers and dealers, suppliers — believed to be the first and future innovation potential, we announced new supplier program of its kind. collaboratively exploring new partnerships with leading companies opportunities like increasing including FLOS, a renowned Italian recycled content in packaging. lighting group with a collection of finely crafted decorative lighting, and Mitchell Gold + Bob Williams, a Building Better Business Our Code of Conduct, and leading luxury home and hospitality Through Associations other supplier resources, furnishings brand in the U.S., to and Advocacy provide expanded product offerings including our Environment, in a consolidated distribution Steelcase participates in trade shows, conferences, networking events, Health and Safety network. Now, dealers can deliver customer showcases and meetings Handbook and START FLOS and Mitchell Gold + Bob of associations representing diverse Williams in the same order as other manual, are available Steelcase products. businesses to share information about Steelcase and to identify potential online at Steelcase.com/ suppliers. We also maintain relationships Additionally, we expanded our our-suppliers/#resources. partnership with Microsoft, to with diverse business associations, We promote global help organizations harness big as well as small business data to create better workplaces associations, including: understanding, by for people through our Smart + maintaining our Code Connected offerings. • National Minority Supplier Development Council of Conduct in French, Learn more about how the • Michigan Minority Supplier German and Spanish on Steelcase Smart + Connected Development Council (MMSDC) country level steelcase Workplace can maximize real • Michigan Chamber of Commerce estate utilization and increase dotcom supplier pages. employee engagement in our • Michigan Manufacturers Association feature story on pp. 18–19. • The Right Place • Inforum Michigan • Business Leaders for Michigan • The Grand Rapids Area Chamber of Commerce • National Veteran-Owned Business Association • West Michigan Project One Promise + Progress 33 Steelcase Communities Social Employee Impacts By being free to support causes meaningful to them, Steelcase Innovation employees can create a significant impact in their communities. All employees are encouraged to volunteer. In 2017, employees gave their time to many community organizations all over the world. And as a direct result of employee giving, the Steelcase Foundation donated over $515,000 in matching gifts, up almost 10% from last year. Small Grants, Big Hearts The Small Grants, Big Hearts program is designed to support and encourage employees to volunteer by giving them access to funding to do good and make a sustainable PROMISE To be a force for good and impact for an organization serving their community. Grants of up to Together, we join forces create positive change in our $2,500 are available to all Steelcase with our employees to share our time, skills communities, we work closely employees who actively volunteer with a qualified organization. All grant and resources to create with community organizations positive, sustainable applicants must take the lead on to extend their offerings and organizing, leading or participating in and systemic change in communities where we amplify their impact. We invest the implantation of the project. live, work and serve. in the following areas: Expanding Disaster Relief • Art + culture As long as there are communities PROGRESS • Urban education in need of aid during a crisis or Continue our global community involvement • Diversity + inclusion disaster, there will be members of the Steelcase community ready to by donating our time, • Economic development pledge their support. Until recently, talents and resources. Since 2015, Steelcase • Environment. employee disaster relief efforts were not matched with gifts from employees have the Steelcase Foundation. Now, reported over 92,000 individual employee donations are hours of volunteer eligible to be matched up to $10,000 work, and Steelcase per year to support eligible disaster and the Steelcase relief organizations before, during Foundation donated or after a crisis. This matching over $4.7 million to gift program is in addition to the organizations around existing $10,000/year matched to the world. individual donations to art/culture, conservation and education efforts. Promise + Progress 34 Steelcase Communities Social Innovation Steelcase Foundation Amplifies Impact Steelcase Steelcase founders and original Foundation Foundation trustees, Walter Idema and David Hunting Sr., established 2017 Giving the Steelcase Foundation as an independent trust to support charitable causes. Today, the Foundation focuses on the areas of human service, health, education, community development, the arts and the environment. Total Last year, Steelcase Foundation $3,463,249 provided over $3.46 million in Saving Water and grants, including $515,000 in Supporting Farmers matching grants. This year, a team of 23 Steelcase volunteers banded together with the Watershed Organization Trust 300 hours to help mitigate the impacts local farmers were experiencing due to Total $3,463,249 Steelcase Malaysia severe drought condition in the Maharashtra region of India. Periods Education $1,190,000 employees spent more of severe drought often leave Human Service $827,782 than 300 hours last year farmers extremely impoverished and feeling stressed and anxious Matching Gifts $515,267 volunteering at a local which for some, can lead to suicide. orphanage and in a home Drought relief efforts included raising Arts & Culture $394,000 for abandoned, homeless awareness in local villages and a Health $225,000 publicity campaign to draw more and handicapped seniors supporters to the cause plus two Other $191,200 See how Steelcase employees helped water-saving efforts to relieve stress Community & $120,000 homeless and at-risk teenagers feel for local farmers. Economic more at home at The Bridge at Arbor Development In India, the annual rainy season Circle on pp. 20–21. lasts for 30 days on average. Both activities of Save Water, Save a $515,000 Farmer lead to an annual water savings of 87,177 gallons. Steelcase Foundation 2017 employee matching gifts 92,000 Volunteer hours since 2015. Promise + Progress 35 Steelcase Employees Employee A Holistic Approach Employee health isn’t just physical, it’s also emotional. Our proactive Health + programs encourage overall wellbeing and provide support when an employee or family member is ill or having challenges. Wellbeing A sampling of some holistic offerings includes: • The Grand Rapids Wellbeing Hub offers several physical health supports, from access to a dietician and personal trainer to tele-medicine and an onsite vision clinic and quick blood pressure checks. A free, secondopinion service is one of the most highly-used programs. • Our free mental and emotional health services are available for people who are struggling with relationships, PROMISE The health of our company is financial troubles, addiction, anxiety, depression or even suicide. Create and maintain quite literally a reflection of the a safe, healthy and • Pregnant women and expecting enriching workplace. health of our employees. So, fathers can take free classes to help Provide ongoing helping our employees function them understand and navigate their opportunities for all best at work sometimes means benefits and identify successful employees to improve return-to-work strategies. their physical, supporting topics outside of the • An innovative ergonomics class helps cognitive, emotional office. That’s why we work carefully employees reduce back stress and and financial wellbeing. to promote personal and family improve overall workplace health. health, safety and wellbeing in • Financial wellbeing classes, which PROGRESS a meaningful way, from highly include the basics of budgeting, investing, tax-saving strategies and Intentional focus on motivating worker utilized traditional health benefit even estate planning, help employees wellbeing and safety programs to innovative onsite stay fiscally healthy. through a wide variety wellbeing services. Using surveys, • Fun and social classes, including of self-serve and yoga and cooking demonstrations, customizable physical, focus groups, interviews and are also offered. social and emotional other qualitative measures, we supports and programs. can refine and enhance the way we support our employees to live their healthiest lives. Promise + Progress 36 Steelcase Employees Employee Health + Wellbeing 160+ More than 160 employees took advantage of Steelcase’s onsite tele-med services, a partnership with Spectrum Health, to receive assistance from their doctor over the phone for minor medical ailments like rashes, coughing, sore throat and sinus pain. 29% Reduction in addictive behavior from employees who used Steelcase Proactive Approaches Small Changes, Workit Health addiction We believe protecting and enhancing Big Results support services the health and safety of our employees is multidimensional Through the Steelcase Wellbeing and holistic. Throughout our Hub, Arnold, a Zone Leader in our manufacturing facilities, we’ve Kentwood, Michigan plant, lost enacted a variety of measures aimed more than 100 lbs. Utilizing the Vida at involving employees in supporting health coaching app, our onsite positive behaviors and promoting dietician + personal trainer, workout clear lines of communication. space and classes, Arnold received the assistance he needed to help + + + + + + + + + + + + + + Our continuous improvements are him make small adjustments to + + + + + + + paying off. We’re proud to report our his lifestyle with big results. “The injury and lost time rates are almost half the industry standard. In fact, changes I made where small and the rewards were huge. Slow and steady, 3 Weeks thanks to our safety efforts, we’ve and don’t worry if you stall—stay at In addition to standard family medical been able to reduce our workplace it,” Arnold advises. He also shares leave and existing maternity leave incidents by 40% over the past two that the benefits he’s seen extend programs, all parents in the U.S. are years. To achieve this, we engage beyond himself. “I want everyone given three additional weeks of paid employees about the importance to know that the programs that bonding leave following the birth or of identifying and reporting unsafe Steelcase offers to us are reaching adoption of a child. conditions and behaviors before more than their employees. This has they become injuries. been a help to my family, friends and 10+ my church family. Vendor partners available to help employees navigate and improve their physical, mental, financial and nutritional wellbeing Promise + Progress 37 Steelcase Employees Learning + Purposeful Coaching Makes an Impact In 2016, Steelcase introduced Development a new employee development strategy, impact coaching, in place of traditional annual performance reviews. This new strategy was intended to engage employees and leaders in frequent, purposeful dialogue to inspire continuous achievement and growth. Unlike annual performance reviews which can feel paternalistic and backward-looking, impact coaching is designed to be real-time and collaborative, helping individuals cultivate a growth mindset and achieve their own personal goals while contributing to the overall organization. This year, we evaluated impact coaching to determine its PROMISE Steelcase’s approach to learning effectiveness after one year: Unlock the human fosters an environment where promise of all our • 78% of employees report having at employees by we all teach—and we all learn. least one impact coaching conversation continuing to improve We provide the tools, processes in the last month and expand our offering and strategies to enable • Of those employees—74% are satisfied of innovative and empowering learning employees to take ownership of with the frequency of their discussions. and development their learning and develop their programs. While anyone at Steelcase skills and competencies. can initiate impact coaching conversations, leaders are PROGRESS Across our global footprint, encouraged to engage in these Expanded learning we spread learning and types of conversations with every team member. From the feedback opportunities and teaching through: received, Steelcase made plans evaluated results of new coaching-based to improve the impact coaching • Classes and online courses program moving forward: model to determine its effectiveness in driving • Social learning • Survey team leaders to gather employee engagement. • Speaker series baseline data on quantity and quality of conversations • Conferences • Redesign leader training to include • Lunch and learn events preand postlearning support • Introduce new technology to • Mentoring and coaching. analyze collected data • Reward engagement with positive recognition. Promise + Progress 38 Steelcase Employees Learning + Development 12,000 There are nearly 12,000 people working at Steelcase — each with their own story. Our most important partners, our employees, represent a diversity of perspectives, backgrounds and subject matter expertise that helps us innovate and explore. Dedicated to Employee Development Steelcase is dedicated to the learning and professional growth of every employee, and we do that by: • Providing competitive salaries and benefits Leveraging Talent through Creating Our Own • Offering career counseling and Steelcase Networks Innovation Loops professional training programs What happens when teams identify emerging business needs but lack Backed by our research • Believing in sharing profits the immediate skills or resources to into internal career paths with employees directly address the issue? and reinforced by external signals — including shifting • Being mindful about wellbeing Using sustainability as a design power dynamics, increased lens encourages us to turn inside speed of change, rapid onset • Creating the conditions that allow first, to leverage the value of our of available technology people and communities to reach existing networks and strengthen and the need to develop their full potential. them at the same time. That’s why cross-functional talent Steelcase launched Loop, an and emerging methods internal global talent marketplace, for talent deployment— to identify existing skills within Steelcase decided to build our organization. Using Loop, an an experiment, named Loop, employee may post a request for to rethink traditional ways of support—such as access to a applying talent to business particular skill or resources— problems. Loop is in its and all employees are welcome to second iteration, and actively respond if they have the requisite drawing on insights gained skills and bandwidth. It’s win-win: from its first implementation. employees have new opportunities to contribute, expand their networks, • 265 active users as of March 1, 2018 showcase their talent, teach their • 10% of users posted project work craft, and develop new skills. • 58% completion rate • 3.9/5 overall satisfaction • 100% skills match • Most Project Owners had less than five years tenure • Top participating regions: USA, Mexico, Germany, Malaysia, Romania, Hong Kong Promise + Progress 39 Steelcase Employees Culture + A Culture of Engagement To support employees as we continue building a culture which Engagement embraces innovation, inspiration and inclusion, Steelcase introduced five principles to act: 1. Speak up and take action 2. See the big picture 3. Follow the user 4. Choose inclusion 5. Start small, learn quickly… and try again. These principles serve as a guide for our culture, driving everyone within our organization to seek higher levels of accountability, collaboration and experimentation. PROMISE Steelcase, like most global Empowering Authenticity + Erasing Bias Create and advance a organizations, faces a great culture which embraces An open and inviting working diversity and inclusion challenge—to respond quickly environment—one that inspires across our workforce, to changes in the market and authentic diversity and inclusion— within our partnerships continue thriving in our core is at the core of the Steelcase and throughout our culture. Through reassurance and communities. business. In order to meet these validation, we cultivate spaces challenges, we need top talent, where employees feel comfortable and we need that talent to be engaging in conversations and PROGRESS sharing their unique perspectives. Build on initiatives highly engaged. In our company, that embrace and honor we’re fortunate to have as To ensure equal access and diverse perspectives, outcomes for all current and emphasize inclusivity many different perspectives and potential employees, Steelcase is across our global passions as there are people. actively reviewing and improving how we attract, engage and develop footprint and ensure We work diligently to create a promising future our talent. Through data analysis for our employees a culture which honors and and bias training, we’ve identified and our company. embraces those perspectives, where our biases currently exist and established strategies for expelling so we all can come together to them. This includes incorporating collectively challenge and build new technology to remove language on each other’s ideas. from resumes that may bias hiring. This year, Steelcase employees hosted the first-ever Bias Week in the Grand Rapids Wellbeing Hub— a chance for employees to join team dialogues, ask questions, play games and listen to presentations on identifying and overcoming bias. Promise + Progress 40 Steelcase Employees Culture + Engagement The team identified four categories of bias and used workplace scenarios to drive conversations. A few examples included: 100% “Face time” bias—Co-workers may stereotype colleagues who work remotely and don’t put in long Steelcase was proud to earn hours of face time as unproductive, another perfect 100 score in uncommitted or both. Working all categories on the Human parents with flexible arrangements Rights Campaign’s Corporate face discrimination. Equality Index for the fourth Conformity bias—A tendency to year in a row. take cues for proper behavior in most contexts from the actions of Crafting for the 3000 others rather than exercise our own independent judgement. Community Without a permanent place to Projection bias—Overestimating the house their belongings, homeless Steelcase hosted a global, online degree to which other people agree youth often carry what they have in Strategy Jam session to give with us. People tend to assume plastic bags. A recent study released employees around the world an others think, feel, believe and behave by Covenant House International opportunity to bring ideas and much like they do. and Loyola University found 91% observations forward. The 36-hour event drew more than 3,000 Authority bias/bandwagon of the homeless youth surveyed comments from employees at all effect—The tendency to attribute had been approached with “work levels, encouraging dialogue, greater accuracy to the opinion of opportunities” which turned out to inquiry and deeper connections. an authority figure (unrelated to its be fraudulent, or worse. Replacing context) and be more influenced those plastic bags with “made-withby these opinions. love” tote bags helps eliminate this identifier from the eyes of predators. A Network of Diversity + In 2017, Steelcase Pride and the Inclusion Young Professionals groups teamed 20% up to raise money for homeless and Championing authentic diversity runaway LGBTQ youth in Grand and inclusion is not a choice, Rapids. Employees assembled tote it’s a solution. We foster spaces bags from discarded fabric roles For the seventh year in a row, that support understanding and from the Steelcase Test Lab. They Steelcase was recognized openness to ideas and cultural also held a donation drive, collecting as a Winning “W” Company approaches different from our own donations and toiletries for HQ and by 2020 Women on Boards, experiences, creating opportunities Arbor Circle of Grand Rapids. a national campaign to for people to work well across those differences and be better because increase the percentage of them. Our global network of of women on U.S. company boards to 20% or greater by inclusivity leaders plays an active Employees donated two the year 2020. role in promoting these ideas and encouraging dialogue to help dispel carloads of toiletries stereotypes and bias. and decorated dozens of repurposed fabric bags to help homeless youth in the community. Promise + Progress 41 Steelcase Environment Energy + Greenhouse Gas Emissions PROMISE Reducing our global greenhouse Decentralized Approach Drives Localized Efficiency Reduce our global gas emissions is a process greenhouse gas We launched new programs emissions and cut our of continuous improvement. and systems in 2017 to allow energy use by 25% by Our comprehensive energyour operations teams to get 20201, while continuing more involved in tracking energy optimization approach includes to invest in 100% optimizations in their own locations. renewable energy improving tracking systems, For our Kentwood and Wood plants equivalent to our global refining efficiency efforts and in Michigan, this approach included electricity consumption. the integration of smart meter investing in renewable energy. technology and has resulted in more 1 Based on 2010 baseline frequent and higher-quality reports. This year we continued integrating PROGRESS advances to our lighting systems Lowered our global as a part of our ongoing goal to energy use by 21% decrease energy consumption. since 2010 through Using cloud-based technologies to careful measurement remotely control more targeted areas and management of our in our Kentwood and Caledonia, energy consumption. Michigan facilities has resulted in Continue growing a 22% and 9% electricity reduction our investments in in these buildings, respectively. renewable energy. 2017 was the first full year Steelcase’s Virtual Power Purchase Agreement (VPPA) for 25 megawatts of wind power in Southern Power’s Grant Plains Wind Facility in Oklahoma was fully online, producing at full capacity—147 megawatts of clean, renewable energy. Promise + Progress 42 Steelcase Environment Energy + Greenhouse Gas Emissions Steelcase has invested in 100% clean energy equivalent to global electricity usage. Combatting Climate Top 30 2017 Total Energy Consumption We are the 30th largest Change 100% Green Power User Fuel Type MWh Steelcase continues expanding efforts in the U.S., according to Natural gas 230,179 to reduce our global energy footprint the EPA’s Green Power Propane 122 by partnering with leading energy Partnership. Electric Power 182,523 -21% companies, universities, consultants Coal – and government entities to help us implement, advance and evolve our Diesel 13,076 energy initiatives: Total Energy % Change Gasoline 447 from 2010 to 2017 (Petrol) • RE100 – We partner with RE100, a Liquefied 2,700 150+ global initiative uniting more than 100 Petroleum influential businesses committed to 100% Gas (LPG) renewable electricity, working to massively Jet Fuel 18,954 We actively track the (Jet A or A-1) increase demand for—and delivery of— energy use of over 150 renewable energy. Steam 1278 offices, showrooms, • Business Climate Leaders (BCL) – manufacturing facilities Total 449,320 We work with BCL, which engages and distribution centers American business organizations in worldwide. effective non-partisan climate advocacy. • Green-e – Steelcase is committed to producing certified, reliable Renewable Energy Credits (RECs). This year, we worked with Center for Resource Solutions, a leading third-party energy certification Market-based and Locationbased GHG Emissions program, to ensure our RECs from our VPPA were verified in the U.S. • Science Based Targets – We are exploring In accordance with updated reporting guidelines from the World Resources science-based targets and broadening our Institute, we’re sharing our GHG emissions using both market-based and greenhouse gas emissions goals to include location-based methods. The market-based method reflects emissions reductions in our Scope 3 emissions. Over from electricity purchased, and includes REC purchases. The locationthe next year, we'll be taking a closer look based method relies on average emissions data for the local energy grids at our long-term energy reduction goals. where electricity consumption occurs. • We Are Still In – Local, state and business leaders, including Steelcase, signed the SCOPES Market-based Location-based (tonnes CO2e) We Are Still In declaration to promise world leaders we would honor our commitments 2010 2017 2010 2017 to reduce emissions and eliminate Scope 1 56,216 47,800 56,216 47,800 the causes of climate change. The Scope 2 90,164 0 109,526 79,417 bipartisan coalition includes over 3,500 Total Scope 1 representatives from all 50 states. 146,380 47,800 165,742 127,217 and Scope 2 % Change* -67% -23% *From base year Promise + Progress 43 Steelcase Environment Waste + A Closer Look at Data and Progress For several years our Corporate Water Sustainability Report has shared our progress toward reducing our total waste sent to landfills by 25% between 2010 and 2020. We achieved that goal by 2014 through our waste reduction strategy, which includes recycling, composting and sending to waste-to-energy (WTE) facilities. Unfortunately, we experienced a temporary setback in our progress while we lost access to some WTE facilities beginning in 2016. As a result, our use of landfills increased significantly in 2017, and we expect it to be higher still in our 2018 reporting. We’re pleased to say PROMISE Nowhere is the concept of collective action we’ve recently resolved this problem stronger than in our work to reduce our and expect our results for calendar Measure, manage and 2019 to be much improved, and reduce our waste and environmental footprint. Since our global we believe we are again on track to water use by 25% reduction goals were ﬁrst published meet our 2020 goal. by the year 20201, ﬁfteen years ago, employees have worked and meet or exceed individually and in groups, within and The chart in this section shows all of all applicable codes, across teams, to systematically reduce our waste recycled and disposed, by laws and regulations destination. The waste-to-landfill and water consumption and waste output at all wherever we work. waste-to-energy data for 2016 reflect our owned and leased facilities globally. a significant reporting correction 1 Based on 2010 baseline Environmental responsibility is at the core relative to last year’s CSR. Small of Steelcase’s business. Our commitment adjustments were also made in the PROGRESS to sustainability has led us to set lofty data for other years, but these had no goals of reducing our global footprint by effect on our overall reduction trend. Steelcase has reduced water consumption by 25 percent by the year 2020. We continue 10% compared with to make signiﬁcant progress toward our 2010 baseline. Data reaching these goals from our 2010 and market conditions baseline, with noted success in reducing have impacted waste our volatile organic compounds (VOC) reduction efforts, emissions, energy and water usage. causing us to revisit our goals and reevaluate our internal waste reduction processes and reporting methodology. Promise + Progress 44 Steelcase Environment Waste + Water Looking Ahead Continued Progress in As we approach 2020, we are in the Water Reductions process of creating new goals that reflect a modernized and dynamic view Steelcase facilities continue to pursue initiatives to reduce water 10% of waste reduction. This work includes use in accordance with their ISO investigating other efforts to recycle and 14001-registered Environmental reuse as we grow our business, and Management Systems. Some plants piloting innovative ways to explore and in Europe have an additional EU Reduction in water enact positive change in these areas. Eco-Management and Audit Scheme use from 2010–2017 Today, we are: (EMAS) Registration. • Creating new ways to reuse plastic PolyVision, a Steelcase company, materials to provide feedstock for started reusing water treated in one of new decking products. their manufacturing sites for cleaning • Implementing wood waste initiatives to return pallets to the vendors or reuse in the plant’s grinding room, spraying area, and for lawn watering. Though 82% pallets internally. Other opportunities the system is still being developed, are currently being explored, such as it has already resulted in a signiﬁcant innovative reuse opportunities for wood reduction in the plant’s water usage. Reduction in Volatile ﬂour in new products or in 3D printing. At our facility in Pune, India, a shared Organic Compounds • Improving sorting and diversion industrial waste water treatment plant (VOCs) from 2010–2017 methods for waste streams and reﬁning has sparked conversations about internal processes to reduce scrap. water usage. Steelcase is exploring • Expanding the cardboard baling process how water from the treatment plant to increase the value of this waste can be a source for industrial ﬂush stream and reduce energy demand water to decrease the amount of fresh on the overall recycling process by water cycled through our facility. We reducing the amount of transportation also introduced waterless urinals in required to recycle. our two Mexican plants, Reynosa • Exploring opportunities within the and Amex, saving an average 86,654 supply chain to reduce packaging gallons of water annually. and overall waste coming into the manufacturing facilities. • Aside from some recent acquisitions, all of our manufacturing facilities around the world are ISO 14001 certified. We are beginning the process to bring our new manufacturing facilities in line with ISO 14001 over the next few years. Materials Recycled + Disposed (Tons) Recycling + Waste to Energy: Waste to Energy: Waste to Landfill: Waste to Landfill: Composting Non-Wood Wood Non-Wood Wood 45,000 14% 8% 40,000 0% 2% 0% 2% -2% -6% 35,000 30,000 25,000 20,000 15,000 10,000 62% 5,000 0% -8% -13% -21% -21% -38% -39% 0 CY2010 CY2011 CY2012 CY2013 CY2014 CY2015 CY2016 CY2017 Promise + Progress 45 Steelcase Environment Transportation + Packaging PROMISE As products move from suppliers Leveraging Partnerships Deliver our products to Steelcase to dealers and, Steelcase continues to work with and our people safely dealers, suppliers and customers to their destinations ultimately, customers, we ensure to identify new ways to improve with intentional they arrive quickly, safely and packaging and reduce waste. This focus on efficiency year, we’ve launched a pilot program efficiently. Relying on a system and reducing our with select dealers to return and environmental footprint. of research and our logistics reuse black foam corners left over and packaging expertise, our from packaging and repurpose them for surface materials. We also work PROGRESS approach is one of continuous closely with key clients to better Ongoing efforts to refine improvement, and we use the understand how their local dealer product packaging and same insights to consider how manages associated packaging delivery approaches. waste from deliveries they receive to Unique partnerships our employees travel—to, from expand efforts to reduce, reuse and have allowed for quick and for work. recycle materials. learning opportunities, saving packaging materials throughout the value stream. Promise + Progress 46 Steelcase Environment Transportation + Packaging 5,600+ Products In a one-month study, two dimensioning machines measured over 5,600 individual products, comprising over 970 different materials. In total, the machines enabled us to modify weight and volume for more than 1,200 different outbound deliveries resulting in more efficient transportation. Changing Regulations Create Technology Drives Opportunities Sustainability The recent China National Sword Policy passed in China, which Steelcase IT teams have partnered bans the import of certain recycled with our internal Transportation commodities, presents a unique Planning Specialists to continue opportunity for organizations and optimizing shipment planning municipalities in the United States through improved cube utilization to develop more localized recycling and a reduction in the number of solutions. Steelcase is working trucks on the road. to find further improvements in In our Grand Rapids, Michigan packaging and recycling efforts, and Reynosa, Mexico plants, and partnering with our local Steelcase team members are recycling providers to find innovative using a new machine to make a approaches to managing materials, packaging box exactly fit individual including recyclable plastics and product dimensions, minimizing shrink-wrapped materials. packaging waste and ensuring Additionally, we’ve introduced new more product can be stored in initiatives in our plants—including the same amount of space. new gaylord balers, and new lids and Building on this progress, two new signage to ensure waste materials dimensioning machines, nicknamed are safe for recyclers to handle— Eugene and Lucille, are intercepting to help prevent contamination product as it comes off the line of recyclable materials. And our to obtain its physical dimensions long-term goals include exploring and weight. Using data from the innovative materials like seaweed as machines, and cross-referencing it we integrate new technologies into against our internal systems, we’re our packaging options. incrementally improving how much product can fit on a semi-truck. This new learning has long-term implications on how we continuously improve logistics and adjust for quality and safety. Promise + Progress 47 Steelcase Global Reporting Initiative Index Every year Steelcase annually reports on its vision, goals and progress related to sustainability initiatives. The GRI Index offers additional information about our sustainability strategy and progress. We use an approach of transparency and authenticity to underscore our reporting, and continue to refine our reporting practices to help stakeholders understand our goals, standards and objectives. We do this while remaining consistent with external guidelines and expectations. Sustainability Prioritization Validation Materiality Overview Each potential material Key internal senior decision Steelcase’s sustainability issue is evaluated based makers validate the materiality assessment covers on its influence on external sustainability materiality issues environmental, social and stakeholders’ decisions and included within this report. governance issues. Areas assessments and impact identified as material are those on the business. which significantly impact our Review ability to meet strategic goals These evaluations are based The sustainability materiality and/or significantly influence on primary and secondary assessment results and the decisions and evaluations research including surveys, supporting research is reviewed of stakeholders. The process interviews and workshops, many annually. These findings inform for identifying material issues of which have been conducted future assessments and and defining reporting content by third parties. The results are ensure alignment with is outlined in the following plotted on a matrix to illustrate stakeholder expectations sections. It generally follows the relationships of material and the business context. GRI guidelines and adheres issues to business impacts to the Principles for Defining and influence on stakeholders’ Report content. decisions and assessments. Methods to engage with and collect input from internal Identification and external stakeholders A list of potential material are continually integrated into sustainability issues is ongoing engagement activities. maintained through internal The sustainability materiality and external research, including assessment is updated as benchmarking and reviewing additional research is relevant reporting standards. conducted and new data The Steelcase Sustainability and insights become available. Steering Committee validates this list, taking into account the business and sustainability strategy. Promise + Progress 49 Steelcase GRI Report General Standard Disclosures General Standard Disclosures Strategy + Analysis (102-14 102-15) G4-1 Provide a statement from the most senior Corporate Sustainability Report p. 4 decision-maker of the organization (such as (Welcome from Jim Keane) CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, Annual Report pp. 1–10 and opportunities Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization Steelcase Inc. 102-2 a. A description of the organization’s activities. Annual Report pp. 1–2 b. Primary brands, products, and services, including an explanation of any products or services that are banned in certain markets. 102-3 Location of organization's headquarters Steelcase is headquartered in Grand Rapids, Michigan, U.S.A. 102-4 Number of countries where the organization www.steelcase.com operates, and the names of countries where it has significant operations and/or that are relevant to the topics covered in the report. 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form. Steelcase Inc. (SCS) is a publicly traded company listed on the New York Stock Exchange. 102-6 a. Markets served, including: Annual Report pp. 2–4 i. Geographic locations where products and services are offered; ii. Sectors served; iii. Types of customers and beneficiaries. 102-7 a. Scale of the organization, including: Annual Report Intro i. Total number of employees; ii. Total number of operations; iii. Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations); iv. Total capitalization (for private sector organizations) broken down in terms of debt and equity; v. Quantity of products or services provided. Promise + Progress 50 Steelcase GRI Report General Standard Disclosures 102-8 a. Total number of employees by employment TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT AND GENDERTEMPS, contract (permanent and temporary), CONTRACTORS NOT INCLUDED by gender. b. Total number of employees by employment Female 3,669 contract (permanent and temporary), Male 7,504 by region. Unknown 6 c. Total number of employees by employment type (full-time and part-time), by gender. Total 11,179 d. Whether a significant portion of the organization’s activities are performed by workers who are not employees. If applicable, a description of the nature and scale of work performed by workers who are not employees. e. Any significant variations in the numbers reported in Disclosures 102-8-a, 102-8-b, and 102-8-c (such as seasonal variations in the tourism or agricultural industries). f. An explanation of how the data have been compiled, including any assumptions made. Promise + Progress 51 Steelcase GRI Report General Standard Disclosures TOTAL NUMBER OF PERMANENT EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE AND GENDER Americas Asia (APAC) Europe (EMEA) Total Female Dealer 51 74 Female Employee 2,367 515 736 3,618 Female Non-Employee 19 75 94 Female Total 2,367 534 862 3,763 Male Dealer 54 54 Male Employee 5,133 817 1,492 7,442 Male Non-Employee 12 193 205 Male Total 5,133 829 1,739 7,701 Grand Total 7,500 1,363 2,601 11,464 TOTAL WORKFORCE BY REGION AND GENDER Americas Asia (APAC) Europe (EMEA) Total 8,830 1,661 3,019 13,510 Self-employed, workers other than employees or supervised workers do not make up a substantial portion of the organization’s work. 102-9 A description of the organization’s supply chain, Annual Report pp. 5–6 including its main elements as they relate to the organization’s activities, primary brands, products, and services. 102-10 a. Significant changes to the organization’s In November 2017, Steelcase acquired AMQ Solutions, a California-based size, structure, ownership, or supply provider of height adjustable desking, benching and seating for workstations in chain, including: the open plan, collaborative environments and training rooms. This report does i. Changes in the location of, or changes in, not include information related to AMQ at this time. operations, including facility openings, Annual Report closings, and expansions; ii. Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations); iii. Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination. 102-11 Whether and how the organization applies the Steelcase takes a precautionary approach toward environmental management. Precautionary Principle or approach. We follow insights gained from decades of research, leverage partnerships with leading companies and organizations, and our experiences and feedback from customers, giving us valuable guidance and perspective. It is for these and many other reasons we have taken a leading role in finding creative and responsible ways to operate and design products and applications. Please see the Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 24 and 42 (Customers and Environment). Promise + Progress 52 Steelcase GRI Report General Standard Disclosures 102-12 A list of externally-developed economic, Steelcase participates in the following initiatives: environmental and social charters, principles • AFNOR NF Environment certification program or other initiatives to which the organization • BIFMA level® certification program subscribes, or which it endorses. • Blue Angel certification program • CDP • Circular Economy 100 (CE100) • Civic 50 • Cradle to Cradle CertifiedTM Products Program • Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) • Forestry Stewardship Council Chain of Custody certification • Global Reporting Initiative • ISO 14001 • ISO 26000 • LEED® certification program • OEKO-TEX® certification program • OHSAS 18001 • Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification • Renewable Energy 100 (RE100) • SCS Indoor Advantage™ certification program • World 50 • U.S. EPA Green Power Partnership • UN Global Compact Promise + Progress 53 Steelcase GRI Report General Standard Disclosures 102-13 A list of the main memberships of industry or There are a number of organizations around the world that we are members other associations, and national or international and active partners in. Here are a few: advocacy organizations. • Business and Industrial Furniture Manufacturers Association (BIFMA) • Business Leaders for Michigan • Business Roundtable • Circular Economy 100 (CE100) • Design Industry for Fighting Aids (DIFA) • Gilda’s Club, Leadership and Incubation • Grand Rapids Community College Diversity Speaker Series Sponsor • Greenbiz Executive Forum (GBEN) • Michigan Manufacturing Association • Michigan Minority Supplier Development Council • National Association of Manufacturers • National Association of World Affairs, Executive Leadership Council, Diversity Executive • National Civil Rights Museum • National Minority Supplier Development Council • Renewable Energy 100 (RE100) • Sustainable Brands • Student Advancement Foundation • Talent 2025 • United Way • University Prep Academy • West Michigan Center for Arts & Technology (WMCAT) • West Michigan Environmental Action Council For more information on our partnerships and commitments, please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 34-35 (Communities), and the Community Relations page on our website. 102-14 A statement from the most senior Corporate Sustainability Report pp. 4-5 (Welcome from Jim Keane) decision-maker of the organization (such csr.steelcase.com as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy for addressing sustainability. 102-15 A description of key impacts, risks, Annual Report pp. 1-11 and opportunities. Promise + Progress 54 Steelcase GRI Report General Standard Disclosures Ethics + Integrity 102-16 A description of the organization’s values, Steelcase has developed standards and codes that embody the fundamental principles, standards, and norms of behavior. principles that govern our ethical and legal obligations. They pertain not only to conduct within our company, but also to conduct involving our customers, dealers, suppliers and other stakeholders. They include: • Steelcase Global Business Standards • Steelcase Code of Business Conduct • Steelcase Code of Ethics for Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers 102-17 a. A description of internal and external In the Steelcase Global Business Standards document, a general procedure is mechanisms for: outlined for employees to follow when they have concerns about anything that i. Seeking advice about ethical and lawful behavior, might be considered unethical or unlawful. First, employees are encouraged to and organizational integrity; take their concerns to their manager or team leader. If they are unable to help, or if this is inappropriate, employees may use the Integrity Line. It ensures ii. Reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful employees can speak out about situations that have the potential to cause behavior, and organizational integrity. legal, safety, environmental or other problems at work. The purpose of the Integrity Line is to help resolve concerns. Every effort is made to keep this service confidential. The consultant employees speak with is not a Steelcase employee, no recording devices are used and employees are not required to give their name. If an employee chooses to file a report, they will be given a tracking number to check on the status of the report without revealing their name. Global Business Standards Governance 102-18 a. Governance structure of the organization, Steelcase Inc. Board of Directors including committees of the highest governance body. b. Committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental, and social topics. Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 A list of stakeholder groups engaged by The stakeholder groups Steelcase engages with are global businesses and the organization. organizations (customers), the architectural and design community, employees, academic and research institutions, dealer partners, supplier partners, governmental agencies, industry organizations, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), community partners, nonprofits, investors and media. Please see Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 8–9 (Our Sustainability Promise). Promise + Progress 55 Steelcase GRI Report General Standard Disclosures 102-41 Percentage of total employees covered by Approximately 100 employees in the U.S. are covered by collective bargaining collective bargaining agreements. agreements. Outside of the U.S., 1,900 employees are represented by workers’ councils that operate to promote the interests of workers. Americas: Steelcase Transport 100% Designtex: 45 union employees vs. 250 total US employees = 18% Polyvision: 42 union employees out of 82 total US employees = 51% 130 Work Council employees in Genk out of a total of 135 EMEA/APAC employees = 96% France, Germany, Czech Republic, and Spain: 100% Mexico: 80% 102-42 The basis for identifying and selecting Stakeholder groups were defined and identified based on their connection to stakeholders with whom to engage. Steelcase’s business. The degree of engagement depends on the potential impact each group has on the business. 102-43 The organization’s approach to stakeholder Key Actions p. 8 engagement, including frequency of GRI Index Introduction pp. 48-49 engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and in indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. 102-44 a. Key topics and concerns that have been raised Our Vision pp. 6-7 through stakeholder engagement, including: Our Sustainability Promise pp. 8-9 i. How the organization has responded to those key Key Actions p. 8 topics and concerns, including through its reporting; ii. The stakeholder groups that raised each of they key topics and concerns. Reporting Practice 102-45 a. A list of all entities included in the Annual Report organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. b. Whether any entity included in the Not applicable organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. Promise + Progress 56 Steelcase GRI Report General Standard Disclosures 102-46 a. An explanation of the process for defining the Please see the GRI Index Introduction on pg. 48-49 report content and the topic Boundaries. b. An explanation of how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for defining report content. 6.1 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 102-46, the reporting organization shall include an explanation of how the Materiality principle was applied to identify material topics, including any assumptions made. 102-47 A list of the material topics identified in the Business Integrity, Consumer Health + Safety, Diversity, Inclusion + Equal Rights, process for defining report content. Employee Wellbeing + Development, Energy + Emissions, Sustainable Business Integration, and Waste 102-48 The effect of any restatements of information There are no restatements of information provided in previous reports. given in previous reports, and the reasons for such statements. 102-49 Significant changes from previous reporting No significant changes. periods in the list of material topics and topic Boundaries. 102-50 Reporting period for the information provided. This report covers the calendar year 2017 (CY2017), spanning January 1, 2017, to December 31, 2017 and the company’s fiscal year 2018 (FY2018), spanning February 25, 2017 to February 23, 2018. Key environmental impact metrics (energy, GHG emissions, VOCs, water and waste) are tracked on a calendar year basis for 2017 (CY2017). 102-51 If applicable, the date of the most recent The previous Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report was published in previous report. December 2017 and covered calendar year 2016 (CY2016) and Steelcase’s fiscal year 2017 (FY2017), February 27, 2016 to February 24, 2017. 102-52 Reporting cycle. Steelcase publishes a corporate sustainability report annually. 102-53 The contact point for questions regarding the sustainability@steelcase.com report or its contents. 102-54 a. The claim made by the organization, if it has Steelcase is reporting at the “Core” level for the 2018 GRI report. prepared a report in accordance with the GRI Standards, either: i. ‘This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option’; ii. ‘This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option’. Promise + Progress 57 Steelcase GRI Report General Standard Disclosures 102-55 a. The GRI content index, which specifies each We provide a complete GRI Standards content index in our Corporate of the GRI Standards used and lists all Sustainability Report, starting on pg. 50. disclosures included in the report. b. For each disclosure, the content index shall include: i. The number of the disclosure (for disclosures covered by the GRI Standards); ii. The page number(s) or URL(s) where the information can be found, either within the report or in other published materials; iii. If applicable, and where permitted, the reason(s) for omission when a required disclosure cannot be made. 6.3 When reporting the GRI content index as specified in Disclosure 102-55, the reporting organization shall: 6.3.1 Include the words ‘GRI Content Index’ in the title; 6.3.2 Present the completed GRI content index in one location; 6.3.3 Include in the report a link or reference to the GRI content index, if it is not provided in the report itself; 6.3.4 For each GRI Standard used, include the title and publication year (e.g., GRI 102: General Disclosure 2016); 6.3.5 Include any additional material topics reported on which are not covered by the GRI Standards, including page number(s) or URL(s) where the information can be found. 102-56 a. A description of the organization’s policy At this time, Steelcase does not utilize an external organization to assess and current practice with regard to seeking this report. external assurance for the report. b. If the report has been externally assured: i. A reference to the external assurance report, statements, or opinions. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, a description of what has and what has not been assured and on what basis, including the assurance standards used, the level of assurance obtained, and any limitations of the assurance process; ii. The relationship between the organization and the assurance provider; iii. Whether and how the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking external assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Promise + Progress 58 Steelcase GRI Report General Standard Disclosures Management Approach 103-1 a. An explanation of why the topic is material. All material aspects apply to all Steelcase operations, the boundaries of which b. The Boundary for the material topic, which include all Steelcase owned and leased locations. includes a description of: As a part of our sustainability reporting and materiality assessment, Steelcase i. Where the impacts occur; considers a number of external entities, groups of entities and elements which ii. The organization’s involvement with the are likely to have a significant relationship with our material indicators. These impacts. For example, whether the relationships are considered wherever Steelcase has significant operations which organization has caused or contributed may impact stakeholders. to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. CUSTOMERS PARTNERS COMMUNITIES EMPLOYEES ENVIRONMENT Business c. Any specific limitation regarding the x x x x x Integrity topic Boundary. Consumer x x x x x Health + Safety Employee Wellbeing + x x x x Development Energy + x x x x Emissions Diversity, Inclusion + x x x Equal Rights Sustainable Business x x x x Integration Waste x x x x Promise + Progress 59 Steelcase GRI Report Specific Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Consumer Health + Safety 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health It is a Steelcase Inc. policy to work in full cooperation with the agencies that and safety impacts of products and services regulate our business to ensure that it is compliant with applicable laws and a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations. In the current fiscal year, Steelcase had no material issues occur regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning related to non-compliance with regulations or voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and the health and safety impacts of products or services. services within the reporting period, by: http://ir.steelcase.com/ i. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty; ii. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning; iii. incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes. b. if the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. Promise + Progress 60 Steelcase GRI Report Specific Standard Disclosures Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Please see the Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 28–29 (Circular Services) a. Total weight of hazardous waste, with a and pp. 44–45 (Waste + Water). breakdown by the following disposal methods Steelcase tracks and reports according to the following categories: landfill, where applicable: incineration, compost and recycle. i. Reuse ii. Recycling Type Disposal Method TONS (2017) iii. Composting Sawdust + wood waste Incinerated 8,472 iv. Recovery, including energy recovery Steel recycled Recycled 12,463 v. Incineration (mass burn) Non-steel recycled Recycled 6,315 vi. Deep well injection vii. Landfill Powder recycled Recycled 972 viii. On-site storage Composting Composting 219 ix. Other (to be specified by the organization) Oil Hazardous and oil 6 b.Total weight of non-hazardous waste, with a Coal ash, sawdust, breakdown by the following disposal methods wood + trash Landfilled 11,105 where applicable: Hazardous Landfilled 732 i. Reuse ii. Recycling iii. Composting iv. Recovery, including energy recovery v. Incineration (mass burn) vi. Deep well injection vii. Landfill viii. On-site storage ix. Other (to be specified by the organization) c. How the waste disposal method has been determined: i. Disposed of directly by the organization, or otherwise directly confirmed ii. Information provided by the waste disposal contractor iii. Organizational defaults of the waste disposal contractor Promise + Progress 61 Steelcase GRI Report Specific Standard Disclosures Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Learn about Steelcase energy and greenhouse gas reduction strategies in a. ​Total fuel consumption within the organization our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 42–43 (Energy + Greenhouse Gas from non-renewable sources, in joules or Emissions). Additionally, Steelcase shares in-depth information related to our multiples, including fuel types used. energy usage and greenhouse gas emissions in our annual CDP submission. Please see our 2017 CDP response for more information. ​b. Total fuel consumption within the organization from renewable sources, in joules or multiples, including fuel types used. ​c. In joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: Electricity consumption Heating consumption Cooling consumption Steam consumption ​d. In joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: Electricity sold Heating sold Cooling sold Steam sold ​e. Total energy consumption within the organization, in joules or multiples. ​f. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. g. ​Source of the conversion factors used. 2.1 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 302-1, the reporting organization shall: 2.1.1 avoid the double counting of fuel consumption, when reporting selfgenerated energy consumption. If the organization generate electricity from a non-renewable or renewable fuel source and then consumes the generated electricity, the energy consumption shall be counted once under fuel consumption; 2.1.2 report fuel consumption separately for non-renewable and renewable fuel sources; 2.1.3 only report energy consumed by entities owned or controlled by the organization Promise + Progress 62 Steelcase GRI Report Specific Standard Disclosures 305-1 Energy intensity Learn about Steelcase energy and greenhouse gas reduction strategies in a. Report gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 42–43 (Energy + Greenhouse Gas metric tons of CO2 equivalent, independent of Emissions). Additionally, Steelcase shares in-depth information related to our any GHG trades, such as purchases, sales, or energy usage and greenhouse gas emissions in our annual CDP submission. transfers of offsets or allowances. Please see our 2017 CDP response for more information. ​b. Report gases included in the calculation (whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all). ​c. Report biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent separately from the gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions. ​d. Report the chosen base year, the rationale for choosing the base year, emissions in the base year, and the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. ​e. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. ​f. R  eport the source of the emission factors used and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used or a reference to the GWP source. ​g. Report the chosen consolidation approach for emissions (equity share, financial control, operational control). Emissions 305-1 Energy intensity See 302-1. a. Report gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent, independent of any GHG trades, such as purchases, sales, or transfers of offsets or allowances. ​b. Report gases included in the calculation (whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all). ​c. Report biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent separately from the gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions. ​d. Report the chosen base year, the rationale for choosing the base year, emissions in the base year, and the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. ​e. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. ​f. Report the source of the emission factors used and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used or a reference to the GWP source. ​g. Report the chosen consolidation approach for emissions (equity share, financial control, operational control). Promise + Progress 63 Steelcase GRI Report Specific Standard Disclosures Diversity, Inclusion + Equal Rights 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Total average age of all employees: a. Percentage of individuals within the • Global: 41 organization’s governance bodies in each • Americas: 42 of the following diversity categories: • Asia: 36 • EMEA: 41 i. Gender; ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, Total gender breakdown globally: over 50 years old; • Male: 67% • Female: 33% iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as minority or vulnerable groups). Estimated U.S. minority breakdown: b. Percentage of employees per employee • Salaried: 11% category in each of the following diversity • Hourly: 33% categories: • All U.S.: 22% i. Gender; ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old; iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as minority or vulnerable groups). 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective Steelcase takes seriously its commitment to maintaining workplaces actions taken compliant with applicable anti-discrimination laws and free from any type of a. Total number of incidents of discrimination discrimination. All Steelcase employees are expected to follow the Steelcase during the reporting period. Values and Global Business Standards which include commitments to treating all people with dignity and respect and creating a culture of inclusion and b. Status of the incidents and actions taken non-discrimination. In the current fiscal year, Steelcase had no material issues with reference to the following: occur related to incidents of discrimination or corrective actions taken. i. Incident reviewed by the organization; ii. Remediation plans being implemented; iii. Remediation plans that have been implemented, with results reviewed through routine internal management review processes; iv. Incident no longer subject to action 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women Steelcase routinely assesses discrepancies in compensation with the intent of to men meeting both legal requirements and corporate values regarding equal pay. a. Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of women to men for each employee category, by significant locations of operation. b. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. Promise + Progress 64 Steelcase GRI Report Specific Standard Disclosures Employee Wellbeing + Development 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management Nearly 15 percent of our total workforce worldwide is represented in worker health and safety committees formal joint management-worker health, safety and wellness committees. a. The level at which each formal joint manageThese committees help monitor and advise on occupational health and ment-worker health and safety committee safety programs. typically operates within the organization. b. Percentage of workers whose work, or workplace, is controlled by the organization, that are represented by formal joint management-worker health and safety committees. 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Approximate total new hires worldwide: 2,857. a. Total number and rate of new employee hire Approximate turnover rates by region: during the reporting period, by age group, • Americas: 18.9% gender and region. • Asia: 15.7% b. Total number and rate of employee turnover • EMEA: 6.5% during the reporting period, by age group, Approximate turnover rates by gender: gender and region. • Male: 16.8% • Female: 14.6% Approximate turnover rates by generation: • Boomers: 6.4% • Gen X: 7.8% • Gen Y: 29.8% 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and Please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, p. 38 (Learning + transition assistance programs Development) for more information. a. Type and scope of programs implemented and assistance provided to upgrade employee skills. b. Transition assistance programs provided to facilitate continued employability and the management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment. Business Integrity 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the It is a Steelcase Inc. policy to work in full cooperation with the agencies that social and economic area regulate our business to ensure that it is compliant with applicable laws and a. Significant finese and non-monetary sanctions regulations. In the current fiscal year, Steelcase had no material issues occur for non-compliance with laws and/or regulations related to non-compliance with regulations or voluntary codes concerning the in the social and economic area in terms of: health and safety impacts of products or services. i. total monetary value of significant fines; ii. total number of non-monetary sanctions; iii. cases brought through dispute resolution mechanisms. b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with laws and/or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. c. The context against which significant fines and non-monetary sanctions were incurred. Promise + Progress 65 Steelcase GRI Report Specific Standard Disclosures 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning During the fiscal year there were no instances identified of non-compliance marketing communications with regulations or voluntary codes concerning marketing communications. a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by: i. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty; ii. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning; iii. incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes. b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. 2.2 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 417-2, the reporting organization shall: 2.2.1 exclude incidents of non-compliance in which the organization was determined not to be at fault; 2.2.2 if applicable, identify any incidents of non-compliance that relate to events in periods prior to the reporting period. 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption Globally, all salaried and hourly employees are required to take policy and policies and procedures compliance training regarding our Global Business Standards. We have a. Total number and percentage of governance updated the GBS course materials and plan to roll out training during FY2018. body members that the organization’s antiIn addition, Foreign Corrupt Practices training is required for sales and other corruption policies and procedures have been employees where applicable. communicated to, broken down by region. b. Total number and percentage of employees that the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by employee category and region. c. Total number and percentage of business partners that the organization’s anticorruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by type of business partner and region. Describe if the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to any other persons or organizations. d. Total number and percentage of governance body members that have received training on anti-corruption, broken down by region. e. Total number and percentage of employees that have received training on anti-corruption, broken down by employee category and region. Promise + Progress 66 Steelcase GRI Report Specific Standard Disclosures Sustainable Business Innovation 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Some of the key materials Steelcase uses in products include steel, a. Total weight or volume of materials that are petroleum-based products, aluminum, other metals, wood, particleboard and used to produce and package the organization’s other materials and components. Due to the complexity of manufacturing primary products and services during the Steelcase products, material weight and volume vary significantly by product reporting period, by: type and options selected. Steelcase calculates materials used by products on an individual basis. For more information on how Steelcase incorporates i. non-renewable materials used; sustainability in our materials, products and services, please see our ii. Renewable materials used. Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 24-25 (End-of-Use Strategies and Innovative Products + Spaces). csr.steelcase.com 301-2 Recycled input materials used Steelcase’s approach to embedding sustainability into its business systems is a. Percentage of recycled input materials used to holistic, research-based and measurable. Every step of the way—from design, manufacture the organization’s primary products manufacture, delivery and product life cycle—Steelcase considers the impact and services. of its products and processes on human and environmental health. For our operational initiatives and progress, please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 24-25 (End-of-Use Strategies and Innovative Products + Spaces). http://www.steelcase.com/resources/documents/?tax[doctype]=product-environmental-profile 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Designing products for disassembly and recyclability is an embedded a. Percentage of reclaimed products and their approach in Steelcase’s product development process. To explore our packaging materials for each product category. sustainability product design platforms, including our transportation and packaging strategies, please see pp. 24-25 (Innovative Products + Spaces) B. How the data for this disclosure have and pp. 46-47 (Transportation + Packaging). been collected. Steelcase offers a convenient way for businesses to responsibly dispose of furniture and equipment, with options ranging from refurbishing and resale, to donation or recycling. For details on how we help our customers with end-of-use strategies, please see pp. 28-29 (Circular Services). Promise + Progress 67 Steelcase Thank You The end of this report is just the beginning of what we hope is an ongoing conversation. Please share your sustainability ideas with us at sustainability@steelcase.com. 19-0000007D ©2018 Steelcase Inc. All rights reserved. Please recycle. Trademarks used herein are the property of Steelcase Inc. or their respective owners. Cradle to Cradle Certified™ is a certification mark licensed by the Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. The U.S. Green Building Council’s LEED® green building program is the preeminent program for the design, construction, maintenance and operations of highperformance green buildings. The WELL Building Standard™ is the first standard to integrate human health and wellness into the design, construction, maintenance and operations of buildings. 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report Sustainable Development Goals Index Sustainable Development Goal Corporate Sustainability Report Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index 1 No Poverty Social Innovation, pp. 34-35 2 Zero Hunger Social Innovation, pp. 34-35 3 Good Health + Well-Being Innovative Products + Spaces, pp. 24-25 306-2, p.61 Social Innovation, pp. 34-35 305-1, p.63 Employee Health + Wellbeing, pp. 36-37 4 Quality Education Social Innovation, pp. 34-35 Learning + Development, pp. 38-39 5 Gender Equality Dealer Network, pp. 30-31 405-1, p.64 Supplier Relationships, pp. 32-33 405-2, p.64 Social Investment, pp. 36-37 406-1, p.64 Culture + Engagement, pp. 40-41 404-1, p.65 6 Clean Water + Sanitation Social Innovation, pp. 34-35 302-1, p.62 Waste + Water, pp. 44-45 306-2, p.67 7 Affordable + Clean Energy Energy + Greenhouse Gas Emissions, pp. 42-43 306-2, p.67 8 Decent Work + Economic Growth Our Vision, pp. 6-7 102-8, p.50 403-2, p.65 Our Sustainability Promise, pp. 8-9 102-41, p.56 301-1, p.67 Innovative Products + Spaces, pp. 24-25 405-1, p.64 301-2, p.67 Employee Health + Wellbeing, pp. 36-37 405-2, p.64 301-3, p.67 Learning + Development, pp. 38-39 406-1, p.64 306-2, p.67 404-1, p.65 403-1, p.65 9 Industry, Innovation + Infrastructure Our Vision, pp. 6-7 Our Sustainability Promise, pp. 8-9 Social Innovation, pp. 34-35 10 Reduced Inequalities Our Vision, pp. 6-7 405-2, p.64 Our Sustainability Promise, pp. 8-9 Learning + Development, pp. 38-39 Culture + Engagement, pp. 40-41 Promise + Progress 1 Steelcase 11 Sustainable Cities + Communities Our Vision, pp. 6-7 Our Sustainability Promise, pp. 8-9 Sustainable Procurement Strategies, pp. 26-27 Social Innovation, pp. 34-35 Energy + Greenhouse Gas Emissions, pp. 42-43 Waste + Water, pp. 44-45 12 Responsible Consumption + Production Innovative Products + Spaces, pp. 24-25 306-2, p.61 301-2, p.67 Sustainable Procurement Strategies, pp. 26-27 302-1, p.62 301-1, p.67 Circular Services, pp. 28-29 305-1, p.63 Supplier Relationships, pp. 32-33 301-1, p.67 Learning + Development, pp. 38-39 Energy + Greenhouse Gas Emissions, pp. 42-43 Waste + Water, pp. 44-45 Transportation + Packaging, pp. 46-47 13 Climate Action Sustainable Procurement Strategies, pp. 26-27 302-1, p.62 Learning + Development, pp. 38-39 305-1, p.63 Energy + Greenhouse Gas Emissions, pp. 42-43 14 Life Below Water Social Innovation, pp. 34-35 305-1, p.63 Waste + Water, pp. 44-45 15 Life on Land Innovative Products + Spaces, pp. 24-25 305-1, p.63 Sustainable Procurement Strategies, pp. 26-27 Supplier Relationships, pp. 32-33 Waste + Water, pp. 44-45 Transportation + Packaging, pp. 46-47 16 Peace, Justice + Strong Institutions Our Vision, pp. 6-7 102-16, p.55 419-1 p.65 Dealer Network, pp. 30-31 102-17, p.55 417-3 p.66 Supplier Relationships, pp. 32-33 416-2, p.60 205-2 p.66 Social Innovation, pp. 34-35 406-1, p.65 Learning + Development, pp. 38-39 17 Partnerships for Goals Our Vision, pp. 6-7 Our Sustainability Promise, pp. 8-9 Dealer Network, pp. 30-31 Supplier Relationships, pp. 32-33 Learning + Development, pp. 38-39 Promise + Progress 2 Steelcase
