ANNUAL REPORT 2018 On behalf of AB Eidar, 177 rental apartments were finished during the year in the Mars block in Trollhättan. The block is Nordic Ecolabeled – the first multi-family dwellings in the city to receive the label. The project also included a parking garage and center functions, such as retailing, offices and restaurants. Contents About Serneke......................................................2 2018 in brief..........................................................4 Development in business areas....................6 CEO Statement.....................................................8 Objectives, strategy and values............12 Financial objectives..........................................13 Strategy for profitable growth.................... 14 Business model...................................................15 Platform for growth.......................................16 Value creation....................................................18 Market.....................................................................20 Market forces.......................................................22 Sustainability.....................................................25 Governance and Framework.......................28 A safe working environment........................29 A stimulating workplace.................................30 Financial objectives..........................................32 Major focus on ethics and anti-corruption..........................................34 Auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report...........34 Business areas...................................................36 Business Area Construction.........................37 Business Area Civil Engineering.................38 Business Area Project Development.......42 Business Area Property Management.....46 The share...............................................................48 Board of Director’s Report........................50 Risks and risk management.........................53 Corporate governance....................................56 Multi-year summary........................................ 68 Financial definitions.........................................69 Financial reports................................................. 72 Notes.........................................................................84 Auditor’s report.................................................111 Annual general meeting.............................. 115 The audited Annual Report of Serneke Group AB (publ), 556669-4153, consists of pages 50–110. The Annual Report is published in Swedish and English, and the Swedish is the original version. Sustainability priorities are integrated into the entire Annual Report. ABOUT SERNEKE Next generation construction group Serneke is an innovative construction group with a strong endeavor to belong and to add something new. For the customers, the community and the next generation. Serneke provides comprehensive services in construction and property development with the goal of being perceived as the most innovative, committed and dynamic company in the industry. Focus is on large and more challenging projects where Serneke’s competitive advantages make the biggest difference. Stable customers The customers consist of the state, municipalities and county councils, state and INCOME, SEK MILLION municipal property companies, as well as private property companies and industrial 6,516 and commercial companies. Four regions GROWTH 2018 Operations are focused on the three metropolitan areas of Gothenburg (Region West), Stockholm (Region East) and Malmö (Region South). In 2018, Region Central Sweden was 16% also established with a focus on Örebro County, Värmland and Dalarna. The number of employees at the end of 2018 amounted to 1,150. NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES Milestones 1,150 2018 Sale of Säve Airport to Castellum, acquisition of outstanding share of Karlastaden Holding AB, establishment of Region Central Sweden 2017 Detailed development plan for Karlastaden gains legal force 2016 Serneke’s share listed on Nasdaq Stockholm 2015 Inauguration of Prioritet Serneke Arena 2014 Establishment in Stockholm through acquisition of Värmdö Bygg 2012 Sales of SEK 1 billion reached 2011 Wins contract to construct Göteborgs Energi’s new office complex 2010 Opens office in Malmö 2008 Wins contract to construct Vattenfall’s office at Ringhals 2004 Group structure established 2002 Serneke founded SALES TREND 2003-2018 SEK MILLION 8,000 6,000 4,000 Between 2003 and 2018, Serneke’s income increased from SEK 14 million to approxi2,000 mately SEK 6.5 billion, which corresponds to an average 0 annual growth rate of approximately 50 percent. 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 2 ABOUT SERNEKE Focus on construction and civil engineering operations Serneke’s operations are conducted within the four business areas Construction, Civil Engineering, Project Development and Property Management. A high level of collaboration between the business areas enables both a strong customer offering as well as operational and financial synergies. Most of the income comes from the contracting operations business in the Construction and Civil Engineering business areas. CONSTRUCTION, 81% Business Area Construction provides comprehensive services in the construction industry, ranging from major construction contracts to smaller maintenance and repair work. Focus is on larger projects, including the construction of homes, offices, schools, hospitals, sports facilities, shopping centers PERCENTAGE and industrial premises. OF SALES PROJECT DEVELOPMENT, 4% Business Area Project Development is responsible for the acquisition, development and sale of developable land and development rights, primarily for housing, offices and retail space. CIVIL ENGINEERING, 13% The Civil Engineering business area offers all kinds of services in the civil PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, 2% engineering sector. Focus is on excavaBusiness Area Property Management tion work, foundations, infrastructure, develops and manages properties for grids, power plants, port contracts, long-term capital appreciation. In close industrial projects and concrete concollaboration with Business Area Project tracts. Customers mainly consist of Development, properties are acquired and municipalities, the Swedish Transport developed with good potential to increase Administration as well as customers in value. The management takes place in industry and property companies. in wholly owned companies or in The Business Area works with both cooperation with partners through the Group as its client and directly associated companies. with external customers. 3 THE YEAR IN BRIEF 2018 in brief Sale of outstanding interest in Geographic expansion Karlastaden Holding AB Serneke’s operations have to-date been INCOME, SEK MILLION During the year, Serneke acquired all of organized into three regions: South, West 6,516 NREP’s shares in Karlastaden Holding AB for a purchase consideration of SEK 600 million. The acquisition is made in light of and East, with a main focus in and around the three metropolitan areas of Malmö, Gothenburg and Stockholm. During the OPERATING PROFIT, the project entering a new phase with proyear, a new region was established, Central SEK MILLION duction and continued development, which Sweden, with a focus on Örebro County, 595 has entailed a greater need for simplified Värmland and Dalarna. management and faster decision pathways. The acquisition makes it possible for Slightly subdued construction Serneke to continue to control and drive and civil engineering market OPERATING MARGIN, % the project forward and be responsible Activity in large parts of the Swedish con9.1 for the completion. struction and civil engineering market remained high during 2018. The main driving Divestment of Säve Airport forces included major infrastructure investDuring the year, Säve Airport was sold to ments and continued extensive construction ORDER BOOKINGS, SEK MILLION Castellum for a purchase consideration of housing, offices and civil engineering 4,692 of SEK 1.1 billion. The transaction includes work. In some segments, mainly housing in a total of five adjacent properties, which the Stockholm region, a somewhat subdued contain a larger number of buildings and development was seen compared with the around three million square meters of record number of construction and projects ORDER BACKLOG DECEMBER developable land. begun in the previous year. 31, 2018, SEK MILLION 6,382 Large projects in the order backlog The order backlog at year-end amounted to SEK 6,382 million (7,965). At year-end, 30 Impairments in construction projects Impairment losses in two projects in the Construction business area affected the INCREASED SALES AND percent of the value of Construction’s order consolidated operating profit by around IMPROVED EARNINGS backlog consisted of projects with an order SEK 70 million during the year. The impairConsolidated income amounted value of more than SEK 300 million and more ments were made as a result of significant to SEK 6,516 million (5,605), an than 55 percent with an order value of more cost increases related to bankruptcies increase of 16 percent. Operating than SEK 100 million. 29 percent of Conamong subcontractors. The added costs profit amounted to SEK 595 million (419) and was impacted posistruction’s customers and 27 percent of were mainly due to renovations and additively by the sale of Säve Airport of Civil Engineering’s customers consisted of tional work to complete the projects. SEK 271 million and a revaluation municipal or government-owned companies. effect upon acquisition of the remaining 50 percent of the ­Karlastaden project of SEK 229 million. The previous year’s operating profit was affected by an unrealized value change in investment properties of SEK 238 million. 4 THE YEAR IN BRIEF SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AFTER YEAR-END In February 2019, an agreement was signed with Wåhlin Fastigheter to build and renovate around 170 apartments in Solna. The contract is valued at approximately SEK 280 million. At the beginning of March 2019, an agreement was signed with Framtiden Byggutveckling AB on the construction of 125 apartments, offices and an elderly home around the square Selma Lagerlöfs Torg in Gothenburg, Sweden. The order is valued at approximately SEK 315 million. The agreement also includes an option for another phase of 101 apartments worth approximately SEK 168 million. KEY INDICATORS INCOME AND OPERATING PROFIT SEK M 2018 2017 8,000 800 Revenue 6,516 5,605 6,000 600 Operating result 595 419 Operating margin, % 9.1 7.5 4,000 400 Earnings per share , SEK after dilution 26.16 13.81 Equity per share , SEK after dilution 100.47 77.73 2,000 200 Equity/assets ratio, % 40.9 41.3 Net debt 552 254 0 14 15 16 17 18 0 Net debt/equity ratio, % 24.3 13.9 Order bookings 4,692 6,400 Income, SEK million Operating profit, SEK million Order backlog 6,382 7,965 5 THE YEAR IN BRIEF Development in business areas 2018 Construction Project Development The Construction business area increased During the year, a large number of projects its income by 12 percent during the year. were conducted in various phases. ComEXAMPLES OF NEW ASSIGNMENTS IN 2018 A slightly subdued market combined with pleted projects during the year included the • Housing for seniors for Hemsö in Halmstad cut-backs in two construction projects Gamlestaden travel center in Gothenburg, • Porsche Center for Castellum in Jönköping contributed to a lower operating profit the regional public service building Region• Parking garage for Borås Municipality than the previous year. Prominent projects ens Hus in Skövde and housing projects • Housing for seniors for Riksbyggen in Kungälv during the year included a contract for the outside Alingsås. On-going projects • Framework agreement with construction of the headquarters of Lidl included Magasinhusen in Landskrona, ­S pecialfastigheter Sweden and a cooperation agreement with Trevågor in Helsingborg, Karlatornet in • Renovation of office building AFA ­Fastigheter the Swedish Exhibition & Congress Centre Gothenburg, Mälardalen University and • Hotel for Diös in Sundsvall in Gothenburg. continued planning work together with • Development of housing together with Järfälla Municipality for a new city district ­Midroc in Västra Sjöstaden, Trellborg Civil Engineering in Veddesta outside Stockholm. • O ffice building for Scania Industrial The Civil Engineering business area increased Maintenance in Södertälje its income by 39 percent during the year, Property Management • S tudent apartments in Trollhättan for AB Eidar Trollhättans Bostadsbolag with an increase operating margin. Among Extensive focus during the year was on the • Housing for Magnolia in Ophelias Brygga, the larger projects during the year is the development of Säve Airport. Since the Malmö construction of a new boiler house for a acquisition, the vision for the area has been • Office building in Trollhättan new combined heat and power plant for to develop the airport area for industry, • Land preparation work for Karlastaden Borås Energi and Miljö AB, excavation, logistics and experiences segment. At the • Building for Northvolt Labs in Västerås ­leveling and groundwork for the construcbeginning of the summer, the plans crystal• Headquarter for Lidl Sweden in Järfälla, tion of Karlatornet, the construction of a lized for a mixed-purpose industrial zone Stockholm new wastewater treatment plant in Strömwith a mix of industry, logistics, retailing • Renovation of the Royal Dramatic Theatre in Stockholm stad, as well as earthworks and details for and experiences. At the end of the year, • C ollaboration project together with the multi-dwelling buildings and terraced the project was sold to Castellum. Swedish Exhibition & Congress Centre in houses in Upplands Väsby. Gothenburg • Renovation of 600 apartments for AB Eidar Trollhättans bostadsbolag in Trollhättan REVENUE OPERATING RESULT SEK M 2018 2017 SEK M 2018 2017 Business Area Construction 5,530 4,919 Business Area Construction 90 183 Business Area Civil Engineering 866 623 Business Area Civil Engineering 10 1 Business Area Project Development 304 212 Business Area Project Development 230 65 Business Area Property Management 107 51 Business Area Property Management 257 213 Elimination –291 –200 Group-wide* 8 –43 Total 6,516 5,605 Total 595 419 Net financial items –37 –18 Profit/loss before tax 558 401 * G roup-wide: Other operations are reported under Group-wide and primarily comprise central companies and Group functions. 6 THE YEAR IN BRIEF On behalf of AB Svenska Bostäder, Serneke is building a high-rise building in Sabbatsberg called the Tegnér Tower. The building is being built at the corner of Tegnérgatan– Hälsobrunnsgatan in the Sabbatsberg district of Stockholm. The tower block will be 11 floors high and will contain about 40 tenantowner apartments. Tégner Tower in Sabbatsberg, Stockholm 7 “ Säve is a great example of how we commitedly and innovatively take a holistic approach to free up potential and make the value in assets visible that might not be considered as obvious at first glance. A WORD FROM THE CEO Major focus on profitability and control How would you describe development If we look at individual events, there At the end of the year, the properties at in 2018? are mainly two major deals that stand out Säve Airport were sold. Why did you “If we think about the financial development, – the sale of Säve Airport and the acquisichoose to sell? the consolidated income for the year was tion of outstanding participations in the “Our model is based on acquiring properties SEK 6,516 million, an increase of 16 percent Karlastaden project, both fully in line with with potential, developing them and then compared with the previous year. The lower our strategy. Extensive focus was otherselling them when the right situation arises. growth rate can mainly be related to a weaker wise on continuing to develop both offerSäve is a great example of how we comdevelopment for Business Area Construcings and internal processes. In terms of mitedly and innovatively take a holistic tion. Here, the development is a reflection of the market, we perceive more caution, not approach to free up potential and make the a generally subdued market. Operating profit least in the housing sector. We also note value in assets visible that might not be was SEK 595 million, equivalent to a margin that the lead times until decisions among considered as obvious at first glance. We of 9.1 percent. Our financial position is still our customers, municipal and private, are acquired the then Göteborg City Airport in stable, and at year-end we had an equity/ getting longer.” April 2016. The following year, we made a assets ratio of around 41 percent. supplemental acquisition of a nearby prop8 CEO STATEMENT erty. Since then, we have worked hard to ing risk management and internal control put a new vision to the area and also began in every phase – from planning and impleFACTS the work on a new detailed development mentation to governance, control and Name: Ola Serneke plan. We are now passing the baton to the ­follow-­up. Business Area Civil Engineering Born: 1971 new owner.” is showing continued good growth. Behind Background: Master of Engineering the development is extensive work for the from Chalmers University of Technology The other major deal was the acquisiconstruction of Karlatornet in Gothenburg, in Gothenburg. Recruited to Peab after tion of outstanding participations in as well as larger infrastructure assignments graduation. In 2002, Serneke and Fagerberg founded construction and Karlastaden. What does this mean to in Stockholm, Borås and Upplands Väsby, to consulting AB (later SEFA), which in Serneke? name a few.” 2014 changed its name to Serneke. “Through the acquisition, we acquired full Lives in Gothenburg and outside Alingsås. control over the project. Focus in recent In 2018, we saw a somewhat subdued years has to a large extent been on planhousing market. How would a continning. Now, the project is entering a new ued decline affect Serneke? phase. The deal we made at the end of the “The slow-down we have seen mainly conyear enables faster decision pathways and cerns the premium segment in the Stocksimplified management.” holm region. This segment has been overheated – and the pace of construction now What does the timetable look like? slowing down to a normal level feels sound. “For the part of the project that is closest to In extension, it can also have positive completion, Karlatornet, preparatory earth effects, not least when it comes to quality and groundworks were begun in the past and a more stable pricing. If we look at our year. Among other things, the 58 pilings that operations, an absolute majority of the the tower will sit on were anchored to the income comes from our construction and rock 50–70 meters underground. With the civil engineering operations. The assignaim of optimizing the potential in all upcomments here mainly consist of larger and ing areas, we will review both the use and the ­longer projects with customers such as block divisioning of the development rights the government, municipalities and stable now this spring 2019. In the time that the property owners. The order backlog includes review is under way, we will have a slightly a wide range of assignments, with both lower level of activity in the area. In parallel residential and commercial properties, with this, we are of course also working on schools and other public sector buildings. the financing of the project.” The breadth of the portfolio makes us to some extent sensitive to developments in The Construction and Civil Engineering specific segments. For our proprietary projbusiness areas accounted for nearly ects, the basic principle is also that we do 95 percent of sales during the year. not begin building until the majority of the Describe the development of the project is sold.” ­contracting operations. “We are continuing to grow, but at a slightly How would you describe the focus slower pace than before. For Business Area in 2019? Construction, sales grew by 12 percent. The “A great deal of energy will be devoted to lower growth rate is partly a consequence improving profitability in the construction of a subdued market, but also a result of a operations. Important parts of this work are greater focus on profitability and control. greater internal efficiency and a continued In terms of earnings, we were impacted by overhaul of internal processes. We will also impairment losses in two construction projcontinue to grow – balanced and under conects totaling approximately SEK 70 million. trol. Here, continued focus will be on larger The impairment losses resulted in even projects in the three metropolitan regions of clearer procedures and processes regardStockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö.” 9 KARLASTADEN AN ENTIRELY NEW CITY DISTRICT TAKES SHAPE Just about ten minutes from Gothenburg Central Station, you will find Lindholmen and Karlastaden. This is where Serneke plans to construct a dense mixed urban development with 2,000 apartments (tenant-owned and rental apartments), as well as offices, shops, restaurants, a medical center and a school. The project involves the creation of a new district, which in total is expected to consist of 8 blocks on a gross area of ​​approximately 275,000 square meters. The district will be built around Karlatornet, Gothenburg’s first skyscraper with a height of approximately 245 meters. The area is designed by renowned US architectural firm, Skidmore, Owings & Merrill LLP, which, among other things, designed the Burj Khalifa in Dubai. 10 “ In total, we have made 58 bored piles, where each pile will bear a load of 4,500 tons. THE KARLASTADEN PROJECT: 58 important milestones completed The Karlastaden project took several important steps forward during the year. The foremost of them included preparatory earth and groundwork prior to the construction of Karlatornet, the part of the project that is closest to completion. Among other things, the 58 pilings that the tower will sit on were anchored to the rock 50-75 meters down in the ground. Magnus Eckert is the production manager at Serneke Civil Engineering and who was responsible for the work during the year on the foundation reinforcement for Karlatornet. “Karlatornet will extend 245 meters into the the year, the 58 pilings that the tower will sky. Building so high demands thorough sit on were anchored to the rock 50–75 foundation work – and great humility for meters down in the ground. the task. In terms of laying foundations and “A bored pile is an in-situ cast, reinforced ground work, we have extensive expertise in pile of concrete. In order to put the piles in the Group, but have also obtained help from place, we have drilled 40–50 meters international experts from Germany and the through clay, then 6–10 meters through UK, to name a few,” says Magnus. frictional soil, to then anchor the pile 4–7 Karlatornet will rest on so-called bored meters into the rock. After we reached the piles with a diameter of two meters. During full depth, we sucked up the remaining sediment and lift down a reinforcement cage. We then filled the hole from the bottom up with around 200 cubic meters of concrete. In total, we have made 58 bored piles, where each pile will bear a load of 4,500 tons, compared with a “regular” pile that bears around 150 tons. So Karlatornet will be very firmly anchored,” explains Magnus. With the bored piles in place, excavating and making space for the base plate now remain. “The base plate consists of 3,500 cubic meters of concrete in a 3.75 meter think layer that will interlink the piles. Once it is in place, we and the civil engineering team will hand it over to Business Area Construction for the continued work on the actual building.” Magnus Eckert, Production Manager Serneke Civil Engineering 11 OBJECTIVES, STRATEGY AND VALUES Vision and business concept VISION MISSION We are to be on the leading edge in the global development We belong and add something new. of smart and sustainable community building. We drive development forward by challenging norms, We do so by challenging the industry, thinking differently and finding new approaches to old problems. engaging the present and inspiring the future. For our customers, the community and the next generation. BUSINESS CONCEPT OFFERING We provide comprehensive services in Smart and sustainable community building. construction and property development. Serneke is an innovative construction group with a strong The goal is to be perceived as the most innovative, committed endeavor to belong and to add something new. For the and dynamic company in the industry. Our focus is on larger customers, the community and the next generation. and more challenging projects where our competitive advantages make the biggest difference. An employee at Serneke is: COMMITTED HONEST & UNCOMPLICATED VISIONARY AND AND COURAGEOUS RESPECTFUL & ABLE TO ACT SOLUTION-ORIENTED We are more committed to Only by accepting short­ We resolve problems closWe do not accept queseverything we do. Everycomings and weaknesses est to the source, and the tions being labeled as thing can be developed, can we develop. We are fastest route to a solution problems. For us, they are and being able to improve always honest, to ourselves is always a straight line. an opportunity to develop and think in new ways motiand ­others. Regardless of We have the courage and ourselves, our offering vates us. We feel proud and whom we meet, where or knowledge to make diffiand our organization. take responsibility. how, we always show respect. cult things easy. Mutual respect paves the way for dialog, cooperation and development. Trust is something you earn. 12 OBJECTIVES, STRATEGY AND VALUES Financial targets GROWTH 8,000 Serneke’s overall growth target is to reach income of SEK 10 billion by 2020, 6,000 primarily through organic growth supplemented with selective acquisitions. 4,000 2,000 0 14 15 16 17 18 Income, SEK million PROFITABILITY 12 The long-term target in the business areas Construction and Civil Engineering 9 is an operating margin of 5 percent. Business Area Project Development strives for a return on capital employed of 20 percent and Property Management for a 6 return on equity of 20 percent. For the Group as a whole, this represents a longterm target of maintaining an operating margin of 8 percent. 3 0 14 15 16 17 18 Operating margin, % Objective ≥8% CAPITAL STRUCTURE 50 20 The equity/assets ratio shall exceed 25 per40 15 cent and the liquidity reserve shall amount 30 to the equivalent of 5 percent of income in 10 the last twelve months. 20 5 10 0 14 15 16 17 18 0 14 15 16 17 18 Equity/assets ratio, % Liquidity reserve from income, % Objective >25% Objective ≥5% DIVIDEND POLICY & PROPOSED DIVIDEND 2018 Serneke’s long-term dividend policy is to distribute 30 to 50 percent of net profit after tax for the previous financial year. Ahead of the Annual General Meeting 2019, the Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 0 (4) per share. 13 OBJECTIVES, STRATEGY AND VALUES Strategy for profitable growth Serneke’s overall goal is to continue to grow, in a structured manner with good profitability. The strategy is based on the Group’s common strengths and an understanding of both the surrounding world and the market. Focus on major construction projects acquisition targets may be either properties in construction and civil engineering developed within the Group with stable The core of Serneke’s operations in the cash flows and the potential for long-term future will also consist of construction appreciation or strategic land and property and civil engineering projects. The overall acquisitions expected to have potential for focus is on larger projects where Serneke’s future development over time. competitive advantages make the biggest ­difference. Utilizing the strength of the entire For Business Area Construction, the stratGroup for increased profitability egy is to continue to grow, while retaining Through continuous investments in profocus on profitability. Business Area Civil cesses, systems and organization, Serneke Engineering is still under development, and gradually adapts the organization for continMarie Engström, Construction Manager, the strategy is to, in a controlled manner, folued growth while maintaining good internal Construction low the development curve of Business Area control. Having its own skilled workers gives Construction and focus on gaining larger the Company the opportunity to influence “I have the projects, primarily in the foundations and implementation and maintain control over earthworks sector as well as infrastructure. the execution phase, even when subconfunnest job tractors are hired in. A large proportion of in the world” Focus on metropolitan regions white-collar workers provides good control in Sweden of time management, economy and quality-­ What drives you? Serneke strives to grow and increase its assurance throughout the process. “If you put together the right team, market position, primarily in the priority they can succeed with almost anyregions of Stockholm, Gothenburg and Supplementary selective acquisitions thing. My main job, besides project Malmö and their environs. Through a strong Serneke has a clearly defined acquisition responsibility and budget responsiorganization and a highly reputable compolicy and a structured strategy for identibility is to lead my staff and be there prehensive offer, the Company estimates fying, implementing and integrating acquifor them. I work closely with my staff that Serneke can grow faster than the sitions. Potential acquisitions that can and am very careful when I put my Swedish construction market in general, ­supplement the existing market offer and teams together. Nobody should be capturing market share from competitors contribute with positive synergies are conan expert; everyone can learn from in construction and civil engineering. tinuously being evaluated. Stable earnings each other.” and a similar corporate culture are among Balanced investments in project the more critical parameters. Our acquisiWhat is the best thing about and property development tion strategy aims primarily at strengthening your job? Parts of the cash flows generated in the the position in prioritized regions, gaining “The pace and the constant developConstruction and Civil engineering business access to competent employees and conment! I am passionate about developareas will be used for investments in proptinuing to strengthen the offering in the ing people. The best is seeing when erty and project development. The projects construction business. they understand something, when it are generally characterized by low risk and clicks and they succeed. I have the have good market prospects. Potential funnest job in the world. The complexity is so enjoyable and no two days are alike.” 14 OBJECTIVES, STRATEGY AND VALUES Most of the revenues in 2018, around 95 percent, came from the construction operations. Business model Serneke’s business model is based on synergies between The working capital generated in the construction the business areas, the acquisition of operational and operations enables financing of investments in our own, financial synergies, as well as a weighted balance between risk-weighted, development and property projects – with risk and opportunity for returns. the opportunity for good returns on invested capital. In The core of the business consists of contracting addition to our own returns, these investments, in turn, assignments in construction and civil engineering. The also create assignments for the contracting operations. contracting operations are capital-efficient, generate Project development activities aim to complement the good cash flows and are characterized by limited financial Group’s contracting offering in order to generate higher risk. Through collaboration and cooperation, the entire returns on greater risk takings and to realize, under the process, from land allocation to completed construction, company’s own auspices, the business concept of ​​creating can be controlled to ensure efficiency in terms of time and better and more sustainable communities. Supplemental expenses, as well as quality. expertise in property management enables control over the time of sale, as well as the cash flows and possibility of long-term value growth. Project Property Construction Civil Engineering Development Management Contracting Free working capital Project Development Income Low capital tied up Requires more equity from Stable high cash flows Higher financial risk external Synergies Limited financial risks Return on equity 20% customers Operating margin, 5% Production volume Increased control – Reduced risk Investment opportunities Financing opportunity Operating margin, 8% Balanced risk spread – Better return 15 SUCCESS FACTORS Stable platform for continued growth with good profitability Serneke has the overall goal of growing in a structured manner with greater profitability. The strategy is based on the Group’s common strengths and an understanding of both the surrounding world and the market. A strong position in the construction Large operational and industry financial synergies With sales of SEK 6,516 million, Serneke is A high level of collaboration between the currently one of Sweden’s largest conbusiness areas enables both a strong cusstruction companies. In 2018, growth in tomer offering as well as operational and the construction operations was around financial synergies. Operationally, close 15 percent. ­collaboration allows for coordination within, among other things, planning, calculation Favorable market characterized and project implementation. Financially, the by structural demand stable cash flows from construction compaMajor investments in infrastructure and nies enable ongoing investments in the more continued extensive housing construction capital-intensive project development and as a result of structural changes in demogproperty management operations. raphy and urbanization are expected to contribute to high activity in the construcWell risk-adjusted project and property tion and civil engineering market in the portfolio in attractive locations future as well. Investments in residences, In addition to the contracting operations, commercial buildings and facilities are estiSerneke has a project and property portfolio mated to reach approximately SEK 533.5 with good potential for future appreciation. billion in 2019. The portfolio consists of risk-weighted projects, residential and commercial properties A well-known brand in attractive locations. Through efficient A strong corporate culture and a wellprocesses and experience from previous known brand are among Serneke’s primary complex projects, combined with knowledge assets. The company culture is characterized and resources from its own contracting by an entrepreneurial spirit and enthusiasm, operations, Serneke is able to control the pride, personal commitment, innovation entire construction process and thereby and cost-efficiency. Several large-scale ensure projects are carried out with good and high-profile projects reinforce the profitability. image of Serneke as a responsible and attractive employer that can offer exciting Strong positions in Sweden’s and developmental job opportunities. metropolitan regions Serneke has a strong market position in the metropolitan regions of Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. On this basis, Serneke has established a stable foundation for continued expansion and growth. 16 SUCCESS FACTORS Adem Nyström, Quality, Environment and Work Environment Coordinator “We work for greater environmental awareness” What does the Quality, Environment and Work Environment Department do? “Our job is to increase awareness and knowledge around quality, the environment and work environment to ensure that we work effectively, have safe workplaces and act in an environmentally aware way. By being a central support function that supports production, we build up a broad knowledge base in the organization and can work more effectively.” What is the best thing about your job? “That no two days are alike and being able to meet people all the time. As well as the spirit in the company, being able to talk with anyone and that I have the possibility to influence and make changes at Serneke.” In December 2018, the regional public services building Regionens Hus in Skövde was finished. The building will house hundreds of offices, reception, conference rooms and common areas. 17 VALUE-CREATING Focusing on creating value Based on a strong vision and a clear strategy, Serneke strives to create value for customers, owners, suppliers and employees – but also for society as a whole. The foundation for Serneke’s value creTherefore, Serneke’s view of social responsiFinancial sustainability ation is a competitive offering and a riskbility covers a wide range of areas. Serneke’s business is to be operated in a weighted business model. Based on a • From an employer’s perspective, this manner that ensures long-term sustainable strong brand, clear processes and good entails creating job opportunities and profinancial sustainability – thus allowing coninternal control, Serneke aims to create viding stimulating work that promotes tinuous investments as well as dividends value for both clients and end customers. development. This includes utilizing skills to shareholders. Serneke currently has a and creating jobs for young people and stable platform that creates good condiStrong community involvement other groups who, for various reasons, expetions for continued sustainable growth with In addition, Serneke also strives to be a rience difficulty entering the labor market. good profitability. The goal for the future is ­positive force and contribute to a more continue to develop each of the operations • From an internal point of view, it is ­sustainable development – for society as based on its specific conditions, and to take also about minimizing the negative impact a whole and at the local level, but also for even greater advantage of the economies of the business on the environment and each individual. One of Serneke’s business of scale and synergies that exist between the climate. fundamentals is that good profitability the operations. goes hand-in-hand with active commu• From a societal perspective, it is about nity involvement and responsibility. By conducting operations in a way that genapproaching challenges in society as erates tax revenues and contributes to a ­business opportunities, Serneke creates positive local development. Through the the conditions for long-term sustainable projects, Serneke contributes to a better, growth. more secure society and a positive urban development. 18 VALUE-CREATING The Nolhagabadet aquatic center in Alingsås was completed in 2018 VALUE CREATION FOR SERNEKE’S STAKEHOLDERS Clients and customers Suppliers and partners DISTRIBUTED FINANCIAL VALUE, Internal collaboration, a clear value base in, and Serneke strives to have long-term and SEK 1,380 MILLION close cooperation with, customers and clients, ­m utually value-creating relationships with ensure that the projects are delivered in time, selected suppliers and partners. During with the right level of quality and at the right cost. 2018, the cost of purchases of raw materials and services amounted to SEK 5,464 million Society (4,828). Purchasing is therefore Serneke’s Serneke strives to contribute to the positive largest cost item, corresponding to 84 perdevelopment of society in various ways. cent (86) of sales. Through its operational activities, Serneke wants to contribute to safe residential areas Employee and common places that enable activity, recreSerneke creates value for its employees by ation and health. In addition, the operations offering competitive employment conditions, generate jobs and directly and indirectly conongoing skills development and a forward-­ Retained in operations, SEK 604 million tribute to tax revenues in the local economies looking corporate culture. During 2018, salaries Net interest, SEK 37 million in which the Group operates. amounted to a total of SEK 556 million (437) Taxes and social security contributions, and pension expenses to SEK 55 million (44). SEK 128 million Owners Serneke’s long-term dividend policy is to distribSalaries and pension expenses, ute 30 to 50 percent of net profit after tax for SEK 611 million the previous financial year. For the financial year 2018, a dividend of SEK 0 per share is proposed. Read more about the dividend policy on page 48. 19 MARKET Partly subdued construction and civil engineering market Activity in large parts of the Swedish construction and civil engineering market remained high during 2018. The main driving forces included major infrastructure projects and continued extensive construction of offices and civil engineering work. In some segments, mainly housing, a somewhat subdued development was seen compared with the record number of construction and projects begun in the previous year. According to preliminary figures, total investDivided construction market ments in the Swedish construction and civil in the future CONSTRUCTION INVESTMENT IN engineering sector in 2018 amounted to Growth in housing construction is expected METROPOLITAN REGIONS 2017-2019 approximately SEK 520* ­billion, which is to slow relatively strongly in 2019 due to around 2 percent higher than the previous stricter lending, modest increases in real year. For the first time in several years, investwages and rising mortgage rates. However, SEK billion 2017 2018* 2019* ments in housing decreased during the year, there are large differences between differSweden albeit marginally and from extremely high ent segments. On the office and infrastrucHousing 260.5 256.0 233.0 ­levels. Behind the slowdown are such factors ture side, a continued high level of activity Premises 164.8 172.7 176.5 as the extensive credit restrictions introis expected in the future as well. The need Civil engineering duced in recent years that affect both for new public service properties is extenworks 86.7 91.7 95.2 ­businesses and private households. The sive and there is also a large need for Total 512.0 520.4 504.7 investments in offices and infrastructure modernization since existing buildings are Stockholm continued to increase during the year. beginning to get old. In 2019, investments Housing 103.1 92.8 75.9 In terms of the different market segments, in housing are expected to amount to Premises 59.8 63.2 64.4 investments in residential housing accounted approximately SEK 233 billion, in premises Civil engineering for approximately 50 percent, premises for to approximately SEK 177 billion and in civil works 25.6 27.7 28.5 approximately 33 percent, and civil engineerengineering to approximately SEK 95 billion. Total 188.5 183.7 168.8 ing for approximately 17 percent. Division and players in Swedish Gothenburg Boost from metropolitan regions construction market Housing 33.3 37.6 38.0 Of the total investments in construction and The Swedish construction market is generPremises 17.1 17.8 18.7 civil engineering projects, the metropolitan ally divided into contracts for construction Civil engineering regions of Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö and civil engineering, respectively. Conworks 10.1 11.1 12.7 accounted for more than 50 percent. struction includes the construction of Total 60.5 66.5 69.3 In Stockholm, in addition to extensive ­properties intended for residential and/or housing construction, a number of major commercial use. Civil engineering mainly Malmö infrastructure projects are expected, such encompasses substructures and earthworks Housing 21.2 22.4 21.7 as the Odenplan–Arenastaden metro line, for properties and construction of infraPremises 15.4 15.6 15.6 the Stockholm Bypass and the rebuilding of structure. In addition to these segments, Civil engineering works 3.8 4.0 4.1 Slussen. In Gothenburg, preparations for the most of the major Swedish players in the Total 40.4 42.0 41.5 West Link Project and Hisingsleden, newly-­ construction market are also active in projstarted projects in, for example, The Forsåker ect development and property management. *Forecast area, new construction at Almedal’s factories The construction market is characterized Source: Swedish Construction Federation as well as the expansion of the Östra sjuk­ by a handful of major nationwide companies huset hospital contribute to a strong market. and a large number of smaller local compaIn Malmö, the market benefited from new nies. Combined, three major players (Peab, projects in Västra hamnen, a new medical Skanska and NCC) account for about a third center at the U ­ niversity hospital and the of total sales in the Swedish market. In addi­railway link Flackarp–Arlöv. tion to this, there are housing developer JM, government-owned infrastructure companies Svevia and Infranord, the Norwegian * h ttps://www.sverigesbyggindustrier.se/UserFiles/Files/ Byggkonjunkturen-nr2-2018.pdf construction company Veidekke and Serneke. 20 MARKET Collaboration between developers and construction companies is becoming increasingly common. The results are a more efficient and more transparent process. Trends in the construction market Turnkey contracts increasingly common into the finances of the project. This often proficiency and the individual project In recent years, turnkey contracts have results in a more efficient process, in which ­members’ experience. become more common; these are assignthe construction company has a clear ments in which the client contracts a develincentive to deliver good quality at the right Increased international competition oper that takes full responsibility and carries price and on schedule. As a result of declining local markets, there has out everything from the design and planning been a noticeable increase in interest from to the selection and purchase of materials as New property ownership category major international construction companies well as the construction. This differs from With the strong demand for construction and based in Europe. The specific conditions pretraditional contracts in which the customer, civil engineering services in recent years, it vailing in the regulated Swedish construction in consultation with architects and other has become more common for property commarket have led to increased demand for partconsultants, determines how the assignpanies to buy into construction companies to ner arrangements with local Swedish partners. ment is to carried out and then procures secure capacity for their own projects. the actual construction service. Changed regulations for greater ­ More stringent procurement housing construction Collaboration agreements between requirements A series of regulations have been proposed in developers and construction companies In recent years, customers have introduced recent years to facilitate housing construction. The construction industry has become stricter procurement requirements, which These include a noise-level ordinance, resulting more transparent and collaboration has entails that it is no longer possible to comin a simpler and clearer set of regulations, perbecome increasingly commonplace. Collabpete mainly by price. Contracting compamitting modestly increased noise levels for oration entails the developer and the connies today must meet requirements such as housing. This means that residences can be tractor working together closely throughout minimum sales, ISO certification for quality built in more places and construction will be the project, with all parties having insight as well as the environment, organizational easier to initiate. 21 MARKET Market forces Macroeconomic factors that on average 63,200 new residences and considerations. Examples of policy GDP need to be built during the period 2019 to decisions that can affect the market for Strong GDP growth is a key prerequisite for 2025 to meet demand. About 75 percent major construction works include largethe construction industry, although weaker of this need is expected to derive from the scale infrastructure projects. periods may also be beneficial in certain three metropolitan regions. In 2018, the Government decided on a cases. Construction projects can then be national plan for the transport system for used to stimulate the economy. In Sweden, Housing prices 2018–2029. The plan covers measures GDP growth has historically moved in a staThe sharply increasing price trend on housthat entail an important step towards a ble and positive direction, and the National ing has in recent years been largely the modern and sustainable transport system. Institute of Economic Research (NIER) foreresult of high demand for housing comThe financial framework for the plan is SEK casts suggest that economic activity will bined with falling interest rates. Develop622.5 billion. Examples of policy decisions remain at good levels in the future. In genment is positive for the construction industhat can affect the market for major coneral, per capita GDP is higher in the metrotry, since demand for housing tends to struction projects include decisions on the politan regions than in Sweden as a whole. correlate strongly with demand for new development of districts or the repurposing construction and renovation of housing. of neighborhoods from industrial use to Demography and urbanization housing and office space, or decisions to Changes in population size are an important Interest rates extensively refurbish and renovate older factor for property market development. The In low interest rate environments, large property holdings. As an example, the housrapidly growing Swedish population has a amounts of capital are generally channeled ing companies with holdings that largely positive effect on the construction industry into the property markets and housing consist of apartments built during the through the increased demand for housing, prices tend to rise sharply, making new ­Million Homes Program of the 1960s and public properties, commercial properties ­construction and renovations relatively 1970s are facing a major challenge, as and infrastructure investments. Population cheaper. In recent years, low interest rates these properties have often been neglected growth is expected to continue to be have resulted in low funding costs and more in terms of maintenance and are in major strong. Historically, population growth has borrowers who are prone to initiate conneed of renovation. In total, the Million been strongest in the metropolitan regions. struction projects than previously. Homes Program properties consist of more This trend is expected to continue in the than 900,000 residential units, most of future, resulting in continued high demand Industry-specific factors which are owned by municipal property for housing, public buildings and commerPolitical initiatives companies in major cities. cial real estate, as well as infrastructure Many major construction and infrastructure investments. Altogether, the National Board projects procured by the public sector are of Housing, Building and Planning estimates dependent on political decisions, objectives GDP DEVELOPMENT AND POPULATION REPO RATE 2012–2019, % GROWTH 2010–2018 6 11 2 4 10 1 2 9 0 0 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 8 –1 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 GDP growth Population growth, SEK million 22 MARKET The Mars block in Trollhättan DISTRIBUTION OF BUILDING INVESTMENTS CONSTRUCTION INVESTMENT IN SWEDEN IN SWEDEN IN 2018 (SEK BILLION) BY SEGMENT IN 2018 (SEK BILLION) 600 400 200 Housing, 256 Premises, 172,7 0 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18* 19* Civil engineering, 91,7 Housing Premises Civil engineering *Forecast Source: Swedish Construction Federation Source: Euroconstruct 23 “We want to be involved and contribute to a better, more inclusive, society and positive urban development – and improved public health. We are convinced that this approach is good for the community and the local businesses.” Ola Serneke 24 SUSTAINABILIT Y A strong community involvement Serneke wants to take an active role in community development. By virtue of our size, we have both an opportunity and a responsibility to be involved and make a difference. Our commitment is demonstrated by our projects and in our extensive commitments alongside our strictly operational activities. Through our projects, we want to contribute to the positive development of society, safe residences and common buildings and places for activities, recreation and relaxation. In addition to the direct operational activities, we offer various forms of targeted support. In accordance with the guidelines for community involvement, Serneke prioritizes initiatives related to its values, competence and operations. Projects or initiatives related to child and adolescent health and learning are the first priority. The projects should contribute to a positive development of the individual, the Group and the local markets in which we operate. The support can be given either in the form of financial contribution or through the transfer of knowledge. Partnerships with social overtones Plans for the future Serneke is involved in several projects in Serneke is one of the main sponsors of IFK which social responsibility is an important Göteborg’s “Plans for the future” project. part. Among other things, Serneke is The project, which is being conducted involved in a project with the City of together with the organization Cruyff FounGothenburg that aims to provide young dation, aims to create better conditions for people in one of Gothenburg’s problem children and young people by promoting areas hope for the future by offering guidhealth, community and security. In cooperaing practical placements. Another social tion with the Johan Cruyff Foundation, IFK engagement project is in conjunction with a Göteborg and Serneke are building three private property manager, in which Serneke soccer fields in the Gothenburg suburbs of has an active role in the employment of Hammarkullen, Biskopsgården and Bergsjön. 5–10 unemployed youths who will be The plans are called courts and are sigrecruited as apprentices during the construcnificantly smaller than regular soccer fields. tion phase and who will, upon completion They are built up in urban environments of the apprenticeship period, be granted that are natural gathering points for chilthe opportunity for permanent employdren and young people. The areas will invite ment. Moreover, the youths will be given both organized activities and spontaneous the opportunity to gain access to their own sports and be framed by the rules and valapartment after completing the training. ues prepared by the Johan Cruyff Foundation. Today, the concept is in 21 countries and to-date, around 200 courts have been built throughout Europe. Cruyff Court, Biskopsgården 25 SUSTAINABILIT Y Sustainability At Serneke, we believe that focused sustainability work and strong community involvement go hand-in-hand with long-term growth with good profitability. By virtue of our size, we have both an opportunity and a responsibility to contribute to a more sustainable development. Through our activities, we contribute to the development of towns, cities and society as a whole. One of the construction and civil engineering For several years, Serneke has made Priorities and overall objectives industry’s biggest sustainability challenges is active efforts to continuously make The central parts of Serneke’s sustainability to reduce the environmental impact related improvements in all stages of the value work focus on an active commitment to to construction and production. The conchain. These efforts are conducted within society and minimizing the risk of injury to struction industry uses large amounts of our own organization, but also in collaborapersons, property and the environment, as material resources and energy. Assessments tion with customers, partners and suppliers. well continuously reducing the direct and from IVA (Royal Swedish Academy of EngiOther sustainability areas that are highly indirect impact on the environment. In neering Sciences) and the Swedish Construcrelevant for the construction and civil engiaddition, the operations are conducted in tion Federation indicate that the overall neering industry are social responsibility, a way that ensures financial sustainability, environmental impact of the construction ethics and anti-corruption issues. There are thereby enabling continued value creation processes in Sweden is about 10 million tons also structured efforts being conducted for customers, employees, communities of carbon dioxide per year, 4 million tons of regarding these issues in connection with and shareholders – in the short and long which comes from housing projects and 6 all activities carried out within the Group. term. A strong employer brand and the million tons from construction projects. This ­confidence of all stakeholders are crucial is the same size as the emissions from all for achieving objectives. passenger cars in Sweden, and more than all trucks and buses generate together. In addition to the direct impact during the construction phase, there is then an impact from use as well as from demolition. VALUES ABOUT THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Together with the Code of Conduct, Serneke’s core values ​​ This statutory sustainability report is submitted by the Board comprise the overall guidelines for all activity within the comof Serneke Group AB, but does not form part of the formal pany. A common approach makes it easier to make the right annual report. Serneke’s business model is presented on decisions, and increases transparency to the outside world page 15. The sustainability framework is presented on pages and attractiveness among both current and future employees. 26–28, Work environment aspects on page 29, environmental The core values a​ re the most important foundation in the aspects on page 32, human rights on page 30 and anti-­ quest to be the next generation of construction groups. corruption on page 34. Risk descriptions can be found on An employee at Serneke is: pages 53–55. Unless otherwise stated, the information relates to the entire Serneke Group, including subsidiaries. • Committed & courageous • Uncomplicated & able to act • Honest & respectful • Visionary & solution-oriented 26 SUSTAINABILIT Y A STIMULATING WORKPLACE It is stimulating to work at our workplaces and our employees are encouraged to take responsibility and strive for development. A SAFE AND SECURE ENVIRONMENTALLY WORK ENVIRONMENT A STIMULATING AWARE CHOICES WORKPLACE At our workplaces, we have a We show consideration of the environhigh safety culture and show ment and future generations. E E each other consideration. NT A SA LLY NTA WOR FE AN ME ICES K EN D S ON HO VIR EC IR E C ON UR NV WAR M A E AREAS OF FOCUS AND OVERALL OBJECTIVES IT Y S O CI A B IL AL I TAI N VE OL US NV LS M IA EN T NC A FI N ET H IC A AND CON L APPROACH SS SIDERATE BUSINE SOCIAL INVOLVEMENT FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY We are drivers of creating the next Through a market-adapted product generation of society with the help portfolio and high delivery reliabilof innovation, novel thinking and ity, we obtain a financial developETHICAL APPROACH AND genuine consideration. ment that ensures resources for CONSIDERATE BUSINESS continuous investments. Legally and ethically correct transactions and delivery of the right quality are a given. 27 SUSTAINABILIT Y Governance and Framework As a complement to the existing legislation, tions, internally as well as for our suppliers. ILO Core Conventions Serneke’s Board of Directors and manageThe environmental policy describes Serneke’s Serneke follows the International Labor ment have together formulated and adopted comprehensive approach to environmental Organization’s (ILO) eight Core Conventions a framework that sets the guidelines for issues and overall principles for the manregarding a minimum standard for working Serneke’s actions as a responsible company agement and monitoring of the environconditions worldwide. This regards basic and employer. The framework consists of mental work. The work environment policy human rights in the workplace. both internal regulations and guidelines as describes the framework for the physical a link to external principles and recommenand psychosocial work environment. The Industry-wide agreements dations. Key regulations and guidelines are diversity and equal opportunity policy In addition to the aforementioned framepresented below. describes Serneke’s ambitions with regard work, Serneke adheres to a number of to gender equality, diversity and equal industry-wide agreements and guidelines. Code of Conduct opportunity issues. The alcohol and drug Among them are the “Keep the zero” The Code of Conduct describes Serneke’s policy describes Serneke’s view of alcohol ­(collaboration to prevent accidents in the guidelines for employees, suppliers and and drugs. construction industry), the shared road partners. The company’s attitude to gifts map for how the construction and civil and bribes is described here. It applies to Global Compact engineering sector can enable a transition the Board of Directors and all employees Serneke adheres to both the UN Global to a fossil-free Sweden and an industry-­ of Serneke. All employees must abide by its Compact and the Universal Declaration of wide agreement that aims to combat bribes principles in their daily work. Serneke’s Human Rights. The Global Compact was and corruption in the publicly financed Group Management is responsible for introduced in 1999 by the UN former Sec­construction and property sector. ­compliance with the Code. Monitoring is retary General Kofi Annan and is currently, continuous within the framework of the with over 6,000 corporate members from Certifications ongoing operations. 135 countries, the largest global initiative Serneke Bygg AB and Serneke Anläggning for corporate responsibility and sustainability AB are certified in accordance with ISO Group policies issues. Corporate members commit them14001:2015(environment), ISO 9001:2015 Serneke has several policies to clarify reguselves to live up to ten principles on human (quality), EN 1090:2 (construction steel). lations and instructions. Among these are rights, environment, labor standards and A hotel in Serneke Fastigheter is certified the aforementioned Code of Conduct and anti-corruption, and respect these according to the Green Key environmental purchasing policy that clarify ethical posithroughout the value chain. certification. ORGANIZATION AND RESPONSIBILITY MONITORING AND CONTROLS Serneke is a nationwide company with several business areas The construction and civil engineering industry is subject that operate in close cooperation with one another. The to extensive regulations and continuous external review Group’s operations are divided into four business units, which regarding environmental and technical aspects as well as operate on the basis of a regional structure. The ongoing safety and working environment laws. Along with the internal sustainability efforts are primarily carried out within the regulations and clear processes regarding internal control, business areas and in close cooperation with clients and these control procedures ensure a consistently high level of ­customers. Collaboration between the business areas and quality. The principal external controls include audits in relathe central support functions enables high quality and a tion to ISO certification and re-certification, inspections by ­continuous exchange of experience. The CEO is responsible the Swedish Work Environment Authority and the Swedish for the continuous reporting to the Board of Directors. The Tax Agency’s control of personnel ledgers and the trade responsible managers in each business area are responsible unions’ job site and workplace inspections and ongoing for implementation. ­monitoring. 28 SUSTAINABILIT Y A safe and secure work environment The construction and civil engineering dents, as well as outcomes from employee riences. Implementation of the system, operations include work activities that may surveys and health surveys are used as a which enables statistics and further analybe associated with risks for the individual basis. The risk analysis is then used to sis in real time, was begun in 2018 and will employee. Serneke conducts extensive develop the relevant measures and a plan be completed in 2019. efforts to minimize the risk of serious incito implement them. In addition to annual dents and accidents to the greatest degree follow-up procedures, structured and regu“Keep the zero” possible. Systematic work environment lar monitoring of incidents and accidents Since 2018, Serneke has been affiliated efforts with primarily preventive risk identakes place at both the Group and Business with the collaboration project “Keep the tification with action plans, continuous Area level. Within the project, a risk analysis zero” with the overall purpose of preventing ­follow-­up and competence-improvement is always done of all work steps and actions and eliminating accidents in the construcmeasures for the employees form the basis are taken to help or minimize the risks. tion industry. A number of actors are behind of this work. Serneke has a Quality, Environment and the project that in various ways are involved Work environment-related issues, physiWork Environment department (KMA) that in the various phases of a building project, cal as well as social, constitute an integral visits the Group’s projects to monitor and both entrepreneurs and developers. Among part of daily operations and are in focus identify improvement areas. Once a year, the main focus areas are leadership and both at the Group and Business area levels joint meetings with safety officers are held culture, knowledge and expertise, common and in the projects. There is collaboration at to review procedures and improvement approaches and standards, requirement all levels in terms of health and safety areas. setter and client. aspects. A new system for reporting Preventative measures and follow-up Identification of potential risks and a distinct To create a further overview, it was decided safety culture form the basis for effective in 2018 to introduce a new support system, safety efforts. Serneke works actively to IA, with a focus on reporting and follow-up identify risks, both overall and in each projof work environment events. The system ect. The work is based on a regular annual makes it possible within the Group to share overall risk analysis, in which different types information on work environment events, of operational risks are analyzed and moniinvestigations and measures – and thereby tored. Collected data on incidents and accilearn from both their own and others’ expeACCIDENT RATE THE MOST COMMON KIND OF ACCIDENTS AND INJURIES IN 2018 1,200 15 In 2018, 25 accidents occurred that resulted in absence of more than eight hours and/or medical treatment 900 10 with subsequent sick leave. 600 5 300 Sprains, strains, and dislocations, 5 0 0 Crushing injuries, 6 17 18 Wounds and superficial injuries, 30 Number of employees at year-end Skeletal injuries and fractures, 7 Others, 18 Lost time injury 29 SUSTAINABILIT Y A stimulating workplace Serneke has a strong employer brand charThe courses are based on both a surroundparty reporting improprieties. The purpose acterized by clear values and ambitious ing world analysis and a structured skills of the function is to ensure that any irreguobjectives. The pursuit of continued growth inventory. larities are brought to the attention of provides a good opportunity for those who All courses required and offered for the Serneke in the event the normal communiwant to develop and grow in responsibility. respective position are described in a comcation channel via the immediate super­ Competition among talented, experimon course catalog. In 2018, the number visor or HR function is not possible. In enced and dedicated employees is high. of implemented training hours increased 2018, no cases were received with a bearSerneke’s ability to identify, develop, sharply, not least as a result of higher ing on Serneke’s operations, employees or attract and retain the right employees with investments in contract law and internal management. the right skills and attitude is crucial to the business systems. During the year, a major Group’s continued success. Employees’ investment in leadership training was also Health promotion skills and performance are crucial for begun for selected managers. In addition to At Serneke, movement is encouraged. In achieving set goals and continuing to this, a preparatory course for prospective addition to health care contributions, a develop as a company. managers is also being planned. variety of exercise opportunities are proAt Serneke, continuous work is conducted vided. The Company’s own sports associato develop the employee offering. This is Human rights tion Serneke IF arranges ski trips, running partly done by striving to offer market-based Serneke supports and respects the UN’s training, yoga and cycling, as well as the terms of employment and benefits, as well Universal Declaration of Human Rights and possibility to participate in many different as by offering good opportunities to develop the International Labor Organization’s (ILO) exercise competitions. skills, as well as a stimulating, safe and international program on the elimination of In the continued efforts for health and healthy work environment. In addition to child labor (IPEC). fitness, a Health Promotor was employed in extensive external recruitment, goal-­ 2018 with the task of continuing to develop oriented work is also carried out to enable Equality and diversity the health promotion work, increasing internal mobility and career development. Everyone within Serneke, regardless of genknowledge and understanding and inspiring der identity, ethnicity, sexual orientation, a sound lifestyle. Continued strong growth in 2018 age, religion or other beliefs is given the At year-end, the number of employees in same opportunity of recruitment and Regular employee surveys the Group was approximately 1,150. In career development. Diversity and equality A great focus is placed on measuring and recent years, recruitment rates have been are undisputed values and a clear position following up the employees’ attitude and high, and in 2018 the number of employees strengthens Serneke’s brand in relation to the initiatives undertaken within the Group. grew by about 150 people. Reinforcements both customers and employees. Regular employee surveys are an important have been made in all areas of the Group, The proportion of women in the organipart of this work. Previously, a more extenboth in the business areas and centrally. zation is still relatively low, but increased sive survey has been conducted every two The high portion of white-collar employees, from 10 percent in 2015 to 17 percent. The years. In 2018, the work was begun to around 67 percent of the average number stated objective is that both sexes should replace the traditional survey with webof full-time employees, provides good posbe represented among final candidates in based pulse measurements at more fresibilities to govern and control the entire all recruitment processes. The goal for quent intervals. Continuous follow-up, process from tender to delivery. 2020 is to reach a 40 percent gender greater transparency and more possibilities ­distribution in all recruitment and senior of rapidly applying the right kind of measure Skills development positions. In 2018, the percentage was were thereby made possible. Continuous professional development is 28.5 percent. offered for both blue-collar and white-­ collar employees. In addition to the compulAnonymous reporting of incidents sory courses in areas such as health and If an employee discovers something that safety and environmental protection, violates Serneke’s Code of Conduct, values, opportunities for further training are policies or applicable law, there is the possioffered based on function and skills profile. bility of anonymously and through a third 30 SUSTAINABILIT Y PROPORTION OF BLUEPERCENTAGE OF PERCENTAGE OF NUMBER OF COLLAR WORKERS TO WOMEN AND MEN EMPLOYEES BY BUSINESS EMPLOYEES WHITE-COLLAR WORKERS 1,200 900 600 300 Blue-collar workers, 33% Women, 17% Construction, 65% White-collar workers, 67% Men, 83% Civil Engineering, 16% 0 16 17 18 Project Development, 5% Property Management, 2% Other divisions, 12% 31 SUSTAINABILIT Y Environmentally aware choices Serneke strives to continuously reduce contions. Primarily the direct climate impact was In 2018, an agreement was signed with sumption of resources and environmental mapped. Focus in the future is to find effecGöteborg Energi for the possibility of Good impact in all business areas. The work occurs tive measurement methods for the indirect Environmental Choice labeled electricity to at all levels of the organization and is an inteclimate impact. For the calculation of greenall of the Group’s properties and projects. gral part of all activities within the Group, house gas emissions, translation from con4GWH comes directly from the solar park in from purchasing that takes this into considsumption to emissions was done according Säve. In terms of total electricity consumperation to sorting and handling of waste. to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s guidelines. tion, renewable electricity accounted for The environmental impact of construction approximately 98 percent in 2018. and civil engineering projects comprises a Purchasing direct impact from the project itself and an On a larger scale, purchasing activities and Materials – and resource efficiency indirect impact as a consequence of the supplier relationships are regulated in accorResource consumption and waste manageoperation and use of the property or building. dance with the applicable Code of Conduct, ment constitute one of Serneke’s highest Serneke’s focus is on minimizing environmenadopted purchasing policy and environmental priority environmental issues. The constructal impacts during construction. However, policy. Environmental considerations should tion and civil engineering industry accounts through the planning, active choices and docalways be used as a parameter in each profor about one-third of all waste generated in umentation, environmental performance is curement process. At the project level, the Sweden and about a quarter of the hazardoptimized for the use and demolition stages purchasing work is also governed by defined ous waste. The objective of the Group is to as well. In the investment properties, continurequirements, environmental as well as social, minimize material and resource consumpous work is conducted to streamline energy from clients and customers. It can be anytion, reduce waste generation and reduce use and minimize the environmental impact thing from special materials to ensuring the the proportion of unsorted waste. in the operations by providing good sorting projects at the overall level meet specific Among the more important aspects is possibilities for waste. assessment criteria, such as SundaHus and increasing the precision of the calculation The processes with the highest environBasta, or requirements of new start work and of how much materials will be needed and mental impact in construction and civil internships. to choose environmentally friendly materiengineering comprise energy consumption als. Concrete is one of the common materiin projects and at workplaces, material use Energy consumption and transports als with a high environmental impact. In the and production, and waste and transport. Serneke conducts a systematic effort with the Civil Engineering operations, major focus is aim of continuously reducing energy use from therefore placed on minimizing spillage in Climate impact the operations and minimizing the impact from concrete work. The objective is for the In 2018, Serneke began work to map and transports. Energy mapping is done continuamount of spillage to be less than 2 permeasure climate impact from the operaously in every part of the operations. cent. In 2018, the amount in examined projects was 0.9 percent. Waste management The work on waste management is conducted based on the so-called waste hierENVIRONMENTALLY We have extensive experience and are well-versed in working with different types of environmental archy . The order of priority entails first preCERTIFIED PROJECTS certifications. Within the organization, there is venting waste material, secondly reusing, qualified competence within the certification sys26 Completed In progress thirdly recycling, and only then depositing in tems BREEAM, LEED, the Nordic Swan ecolabel, and the Sweden Green Building Council. Through the landfills. The hierarchy applies on the con20 certifications, systematic work on environmental dition that it is environmentally appropriate and sustainability issues is facilitated all the way and economically feasible. 15 from planning to operation. The benefits are many, both for property owners, entrepreneurs and soci10 ety at large. Examples of this include more efficient use of energy in operation, a healthier indoor cli5 mate and reduced use of building materials with hazardous substances. In 2018, the proportion of 0 17 18 17 18 on-going projects with some kind of environmental certification increased considerably. To further Sweden Green BREEAM support this work, a specific environmental certifiBuilding Council LEED Nordic Swan cation coordinator was employed. 32 SUSTAINABILIT Y PERCENTAGE OF RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY 2018 98% WASTE ENERGY CONSUMPTION: GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS MWH SEK MILLION 2018 45,000 7,500 Greenhouse gas emissions CO2E (ton) (scope1+2) 1,509 Of which scope 1 1,276 30,000 5,000 Of which scope 2 233 Net sales (SEK million) 6,516 15,000 2,500 CO2E (ton)/SEK million 2.3 Contaminated mass, 29.1% For the calculation of emissions, translation from Recycling, 20.1% consumption to emissions was done according to the For sorting by waste handler, 18.1% 0 0 Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s guidelines. Re-use, 16.7% 17 18 Energy recovery, 13.1% Buildings Transports Landfill, 2.5% Operation Rate of consumption Hazardous waste*, 0.4% * Handling of hazardous waste according to the waste stairway varies depending on materials 33 SUSTAINABILIT Y Major focus on ethics and anti-corruption For Serneke, it is important to act ethically. Serneke is characterized by extensive Industry agreement on bribery It strengthens competitiveness and condelegation of responsibility and authority. In December 2015, several major players in tributes to a high level of trust among The Group gives employees extensive freethe Swedish construction industry signed employees, customers, suppliers, capital dom with their responsibility and encouran agreement to combat bribery and cormarket and society as a whole. ages quick and aggressive leadership. The ruption in the publicly-funded construction Serneke respects the laws and regulaculture encourages commitment, responsiand property sector. Apart from several tions of the jurisdiction where we operate. bility and ethics in relationships and a posinationwide construction companies, the We have zero tolerance for all forms of cortive interaction with society as a whole. Swedish Construction Federation and the ruption, including all types of bribery and Through clear governance and monitoring Swedish Association of Local Authorities corruption. The corporate Code of Conduct of the projects throughout the entire develand Regions are parties to the agreement. describes the basic principles of how manopment chain, we prevent risks and ensure The overall aim of the agreement is to agers and employees throughout the orgathat the ethical guidelines are followed. meet external demands for greater transnization are to conduct their daily work and parency. In addition to principal positions, contact with suppliers, competitors and it also provides concrete guidance on topics other third parties. It also clearly defines such as business entertainment and sponpolicies on gifts, drugs and alcohol, and sorship. Serneke wholeheartedly supports potential conflicts of interest. the agreement. Auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report To the Annual General Meeting of SERNEKE Group AB (publ), corporate identity number 556669-4153 Assignments and responsibilities Auditing and good auditing practice in Sweden. We consider this The Board is responsible for the sustainability report for the finanaudit to provide us with sufficient grounds for our statement. cial year 2018 on pages 25–34 and for its preparation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Statement A sustainability report has been prepared. Focus and scope of the audit Our audit has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s recomGothenburg, April 4, 2019 mendation RevR 12 Auditor’s opinion on the statutory sustainabilDeloitte AB ity report. This entails that our review of the sustainability report has a different focus and a significantly lesser scope than the Harald Jagner focus and scope of an audit under International Standards on Authorized Public Accountant 34 SUSTAINABILIT Y SERNEKE GOALS Sponsorship for the next generation Goals is the collective name of all of our sponsor activities and aim to realize goals. Our own and those set by society, associations, athletes and organizations. We actively want to contribute to a positive development in environments where people can thrive and grow, which in turn benefits society and the next generation. It is difficult to find an expression that better captures what we want to achieve with our sponsor involvement. Goals are what our athletes and teams always strive to achieve, match after match, competition after competition. But visionary and long-term ambitions that extend far beyond sports also fit within this expression. Serneke Goals build on the three overall goals that all of our efforts shall aim for. BENEFIT THE NEXT GENERATION We want to be involved and help the next generation by creating the right conditions for their ambitions. Therefore, all of our sponsored activities shall do the same. BREAKING NEW GROUND Challenging and thinking new are in our DNA. We want the activities, associations or organizations that we sponsor to have the same ambitions. JOY AND COMMUNITY Goals and achievements may never supersede the joy of what one does. Joy should be the foundation of all of our undertakings. 35 ORDER BACKLOG, DEC 31, ORDER BACKLOG, DEC 31, INCOME AND OPERATING MARGIN 2018 BY CLIENT 2018 BY PRODUCT MIX 6,000 4 3 4,000 2 2,000 1 Public sector clients, 29% Housing (new production), 46% Private clients, 71% Renovation/expansion, 4% 0 0 16 17 18 Offices, 11% Retail, 2% Public buildings, 20% Income, SEK million Operating profit, % Other, 17% 36 BUSINESS AREAS BUSINESS AREA CONSTRUCTION Increasing numbers of collaborative projects The business area offers comprehensive services in the construction sector, focusing on major construction contracts in the metropolitan regions. The operations mainly comprise housing construction and commercial and public properties. Business Area Construction operates in all Nortvolt Labs’ major battery production inisegments of the construction industry: new tiative in Västerås. The project is a turnkey construction, renovation and expansion. The contract, including groundwork, foundaINCOME, SEK MILLION 5,530 focus is mainly on large projects. The business tions, the new plant building and offices. area’s customers mainly comprise municipal and private property companies, state-owned Large projects in the order backlog companies, major project development comAs at year-end, 30 percent of the order OPERATING PROFIT, panies, industrial companies, central governbacklog consisted of projects with an order SEK MILLION ment, municipalities and county councils, value of more than SEK 300 million. 55 perdevelopers of commercial centers, and ­Business Area Project Development. cent consisted of projects with an order value of more than SEK 100 million. The large contracts create the conditions for 90 Multiple new collaborative projects long-term planning while allowing longOPERATING MARGIN, % 1.6 Fully in line with the strategy, several major term relationships with clients and councollaboration agreements were signed during teract any cyclical fluctuations in a cyclically-­ the year with both public and private actors. oriented industry. Order bookings amounted At the beginning of the year, a collaborato SEK 4,071 million (5,815) and at the end ORDER BOOKINGS, tion agreement was signed with the Swedish of the period, total order backlog amounted SEK MILLION Exhibition & Congress Centre. The agreeto SEK 6,190 million (7,649). ment means that Serneke in collaboration with the Centre will conduct a development project that among other things concerns Strengthened organization and geographic expansion 4,071 expanded entrances, flexible conference The organization was strengthened during ORDER BACKLOG, and even areas and increased hotel and the year through a relatively large amount SEK MILLION 6,190 office capacity in a new fourth tower. As an of recruitment, mainly of white-collar workinitial step in the development project, at ers. During the year, a regional manager and the beginning of 2019, a construction conseveral supervisors were appointed in the tract was signed for the construction of new South region and a new regional manager congress and exhibition halls. was appointed in the West region. In paralINCOME AND PROFIT Among other prominent collaboration lel, the new region Central Sweden was Income amounted to SEK 5,530 million (4,919), an projects are agreements on the construction established with a focus on Örebro County, increase of 12 percent. Operof 100 student apartments for AB Eidar TrollVärmland and Dalarna. ating profit amounted to SEK hättans Bostadsbolag, renovation of Falken90 million (183) and the operating margin was 1.6 percent berg Uppersecondary School Building 3 for Focus 2019 (3.7). The margin was negaFalkenberg Municipality and renovation of Focus in 2019 will partly be on strengthtively impacted by the project Skara’s new city hall for Skara Municipality. ening profitability, and partly on continued impairments of SEK 70 million recognized in the third quarter. During the year, contracts were also growth. The objective is to maintain the signed on the construction of a new headstrong position in Gothenburg and at the quarters for Lidl in Stockholm, offices for same time continue to strengthen the Scania in Södertälje and the first stage of ­position in the East and South regions. 37 ORDER BACKLOG, DEC 31, ORDER BACKLOG, DEC 31, INCOME AND OPERATING MARGIN 2018 BY CLIENT 2018 BY CUSTOMER SEGMENT 900 1 600 –2 300 –5 Public sector clients, 27% Land, 93% Private clients, 73% Concrete, 1% 0 16 17 18 –8 Road, 5% Industry, 1% Income, SEK million Operating profit, % 38 BUSINESS AREAS BUSINESS AREA CIVIL ENGINEERING Strong growth and improved margin Business Area Civil Engineering conducts concrete and civil engineering-related operations. The operation carries out construction contracts for both external customers, as well as the Group’s other business areas. Focus is on national and regional infrastructure projects and civil engineering contracts in industry and maintenance services. Business Area Civil Engineering performs In Stockholm, the civil engineering work all kinds of services within the excavation began prior to the start of construction of the and civil engineering sectors: earthworks, district Vega growing forth. The project entails INCOME, SEK MILLION 866 foundations, infrastructure, electrical grids, the construction of roads and electricity, telepower plants, harbor contracts, industry communications, heating, water and sewerage projects and concrete works. Customers mains. Among other large projects is a conmainly consist of the Construction and struction contract for Midroc for a development OPERATING PROFIT, Project Development business areas, area in Upplands Väsby. The contract includes SEK MILLION municipalities, the Swedish Transport excavation work and detailed planning for 194 Administration, property companies and actors in the industry. Including intra-Group joint ventures, the apartments in multi-dwelling buildings and 25 terraced houses and associated garage and restaurant space to be built in the up-and-­ 10 proportion of external customers during the coming area of ​​Eds Allé. Large new projects in OPERATING MARGIN, % 1.2 year amounted to 86 percent. Of them, priRegion South include a contract with the City of vate and public customers each accounted Malmö on a civil engineering project in the new for around 50 percent. city district Hyllie. The project comprises completion of the street environment in a number Continued projects in Stockholm, of blocks where new housing had been built. ORDER BOOKINGS, Gothenburg and Malmö SEK MILLION 621 Among the more prominent projects during Good growth the year were continued earthwork prepaIn total, income increased by 39 percent during rations for the construction of Karlatornet in the year. Operating profit amounted to SEK 10 Gothenburg. During the year, the 58 pilings million, an operating margin of 1.2 percent. ORDER BACKLOG, that the tower will sit on were anchored to Order bookings amounted to SEK 621 million SEK MILLION the rock 50–70 meters down in the ground. and at the end of the year, total the order backEach pile has a diameter of two meters and has a bearing strength of 4,500 tons. In Borås, construction continued of a new log amounted to SEK 192 million. Focus 2019 192 boiler house for a new combined heat and Focus in 2019 will be on continued growth INCOME AND PROFIT power plant for Borås Energi och Miljö AB. with good profitability. In terms of geographical Income amounted to SEK 866 milThe boiler house will have 4,000 square markets, particular focus will be on continuing lion (623), an increase of 39 percent. Operating profit amounted to meters of floor space, be ten stories high expansion in every region. Another objective is SEK 10 million (1) and the operatand 45 meters tall at the highest point. The to continue to grow in the market for larger projing margin was 1.2 percent (0.2). project is one of the largest to-date for ects in a controlled manner. Extensive focus Business Area Civil Engineering. will also be on infrastructure projects, espeAmong other large projects in Region cially in railways. Of the SEK 700 billion the State West was the construction of a new wastedecided to invest in infrastructure in the next water treatment plant in Strömstad. The ten years, SEK 460 billion is earmarked for the project comprises about 11 different prorailways. A further SEK 300 billion has been allocessing facilities, including remodeling, cated to a new high-speed rail network. This will extension and new construction. increase the need for construction contractors with expertise in rail construction. 39 BUSINESS AREAS CONSTRUCTION AND CIVIL ENGINEERING Focusing on major construction projects The assignments in the Construction and Civil Engineering business areas usually consist of different types of construction projects. These projects are complex and often extend over long periods of time, entailing a need for efficient processes, and close collaboration between the customer and contracting company. Usually take the shape of turnkey or tradiTenders and market analysis contracts and purchasing of goods. tional contracts. In the case of a turnkey The tender process begins with a market Together with the site manager and supcontract, the contractor is responsible for analysis to identify potential assignments ported by Serneke’s central purchasing both planning, design and execution. In the suited to the organization. A costing proorganization, the purchaser performs the case of a traditional contract, the client cess then ensues to evaluate any tender purchasing for the assignment. The purthemselves have been responsible for the documents. The process then proceeds chasing process is characterized by planning and design for the contract. with costing and calculations, bids being cost-consciousness, quick decision-making requested from subcontractors, quantifiand good communication with all expenses High proportion of turnkey contracts cation (estimating how much material is being consistently assessed. Within the The majority, about 90 percent, of Serneke’s needed) and identification of risks and framework of Serneke’s quality work, supconstruction projects in 2018 consisted of opportunities. After that, tender evaluation plier evaluation is included as an important turnkey contracts. To create the conditions is performed to assure the quality of the parameter. Prior to procurement, the purfor an efficient process that ensures projcosting. When the costing process is comchaser conducts a thorough evaluation and ects are delivered on time, cost-effectively pleted, the tender is submitted to the client. control to ensure the supplier’s professionand with the right level quality, Serneke has alism. A supplier evaluation is also peran established form of cooperation whereby Planning, design, production formed following completion of an assigndevelopers, contractors, consultants and and completion ment, providing a basis for the continued other key players in the current project Serneke’s core competencies include being strategic purchasing work. jointly solve a task based on a common able to lead and coordinate not only its own understanding of objectives, organization, organization, but also suppliers, subconStable customers plan and budget. tractors and clients, as well as optimizing The customers to the Construction and Civil The collaboration is characterized by the purchase of materials. Engineering business areas are comprised honesty, openness and a high degree of of both private and publicly owned actors. joint planning – creating the best conditions Purchasing At the end of 2018, the total order backlog for project optimization. They also create In 2018, purchase of materials and services amounted to SEK 6,382 million (7,965). good conditions for long-term customer amounted to an average of two-thirds of Of this amount, private clients accounted relations, where close collaboration and the production costs. Serneke’s purchasing for around 70 percent and public clients shared experience contribute to increased strategy combines assignment-related accounted for around 30 percent. The pubefficiency, lowered costs, higher quality and contracts, long-term comprehensive conlic clients include the State, county councils reduced risk. tracts with retained freedom to sign conand regions, municipalities and publicly tracts locally on the spot market. Purchasowned companies. The private clients are Flexible process for unique projects ing is managed locally at the project level, comprised of stable, solvent and profesContracting assignments vary in size, type, supported by a central purchasing organisional actors with a long history where the form of procurement and complexity, which zation, resulting in a high degree of flexicredit risk is deemed to be low. places high demands on efficient and bility and economies of scale on products adaptable processes. The Company has purchased in bulk. For each project, a purdeveloped a comprehensive process with chaser is appointed, tied directly to the proa common approach designed to manage duction operation. Detailed knowledge of unique assignments tailored to the custhe projects and experience of similar projtomer’s needs and requirements. ects is essential for optimal procurement of 40 BUSINESS AREAS EXAMPLES OF COLLABORATIVE PROJECTS AND PARTNERSHIP 1 Workshop and develop3 J oint evaluation of alter5 P rocurement of sup7C  ompilation of 10 S tart-up of the ment of Partnership or native solutions and pliers and contractors documentation guarantee and collaboration declaration target cost calculations in collaboration management phase TENDER DESIGN COMPLETION PRODUCTION PREPARATION PRODUCTION AFTERMARKET 2 Planning and 4 P roduction 6 C ontinuous moni8H andover and 9 F inal Meeting for 11 Guarantee development phase start meeting toring of budget operations follow-up and inspection, and schedule review experience analysis and ­f eedback evaluation 41 BUSINESS AREAS BUSINESS AREA PROJECT DEVELOPMENT Development of properties and housing Since 2014, the Project Development business area has focused on building an organization and developing a risk-adjusted project portfolio. In 2018, projects are conducted in every phase, from planning and construction to housing sales. The Business Area Project Development is Housing projects in various phases responsible for acquisitions and developDuring the year, construction was comINCOME, SEK MILLION ment of projects and development properpleted of apartments and terraced houses 304 ties. The operations mainly comprise acquiin Ingared outside Alingsås. On-going projsitions of developed or undeveloped land ects in a sales phase included the Magasinthat is being refined into residential and husen in Landskrona, Trevågor in Helsingcommercial properties. The development of borg, Karlatornet in Gothenburg and OPERATING PROFIT, project and development properties takes Sadelmakaren in Strömstad. SEK MILLION place in-house or together with coopera230 tive partners. Customers are mainly private individuals, tenant-owners’ associations and private housing companies and pubUrban development project in Trelleborg Serneke and Midroc acquired two industrial VALUE OF PROJECT licly financed tenants, but also property properties on the coast in central Trelleborg PORTFOLIO, SEK MILLION companies or companies that need comduring the year. Then a declaration of intent 2,507 mercial space. was signed with Trelleborg Municipality concerning development of a new city disA well-balanced project trict in the area, with room for around 1,000 development portfolio new homes, service premises and a new INCOME AND PROFIT The portfolio consists of land for developbeach and promenade. The first detailed Income amounted to SEK 304 million (212), an increase of 43 ment of residential and commercial properdevelopment plan is expected to be finished percent. There, SEK 30 million ties in attractive locations with a focus on in 2020. Development work can then begin. is included as other income metropolitan regions in Sweden. From an attributable to the final agreement with NREP. Operating earlier focus on acquisition of land and Land allocations profit amounted to SEK 230 properties, as well as planning work, projDuring the year, planning work also continmillion (65). Operating profit ects are now conducted in every phase. ued with Järfälla Municipality for a new city includes a revaluation effect of SEK 229 million. Completed projects during the year district in Veddesta outside Stockholm. included the Gamlestan travel center in Besides homes, schools, retailing and Gothenburg and the regional public service hotels, a large multisport facility is also building Regionens Hus in Skövde. On-going being planned. The land allocation agreeprojects included continued work with ment gives Serneke, for a period of three Mälardalen University. All three projects are years, exclusive negotiation rights with the sold. The project with Mälardalen University municipality regarding transfer and develis scheduled for completion in 2019. opment of the area. 42 BUSINESS AREAS In December 2018, the regional public services building Regionens Hus in Skövde was finished. Now, around 400 people gather here, all working with regional issues. The building will house hundreds of offices, reception, conference rooms and common areas. In March, Serneke secured a land allocation for major hotel investment in Halmstad. Together with Andreas Martin-Löf Arkitekter, Serneke also won the land allocation competition for young architects organized by the City of Stockholm for an area in the Solberga district of Älvsjö. Focus 2019 The strategy moving ahead is based continuing to invest in projects with a low risk profile, at the right price and in good locations that over time have a good return in the market. Focus in 2019 will be on continued implementation. As the majority of projects enter production, the exchange with the other business areas in Serneke will increase. INCOME AND OPERATING PROFIT 600 300 400 200 200 100 0 16 17 18 0 Income, SEK million Operating profit, SEK million 43 BUSINESS AREAS PROJECT DEVELOPMENT – STEP BY STEP Capacity for large and complex projects Serneke has experience in large and complex projects. Knowledge and resources from the internal contracting operations enable control over the entire chain and implementation characterized by high quality and good cost control. The operations cover all stages of the value chain, from market surveillance, land acquisition, project planning, design and production for sale and management of the property. 1 2 Market monitoring and land acquisition Design and planning The first step in the project development At the start of a project a responsible project process is usually the acquisition of land. developer is appointed, whose assignment is Serneke acquires developed and undevelto develop and implement the project. The oped land. Opportunities and risks are idenplanning process takes place in dialog with tified from a prospect list with identified both the customer and the municipality to objects. In connection with property acquiensure that all of the municipality’s requiresitions, Serneke identifies whether a propments and restrictions are met while the erty is suitable to be held long-term or for customer’s wishes are taken into account. immediate sale after refinement. The contracting segment is also brought in to contribute experience and views on various construction solutions. This creates the conditions for simple and cost-effective solutions that benefit everyone involved. Design, project costing, budget, detailed development plan and schedule are established in the planning phase. After the drawings and plans have been confirmed, contracts are signed with external partners. 44 BUSINESS AREAS 3 4 Sales and marketing Production and aftermarket Customers to housing projects developed Only when the project preparations have by the Company by itself are typically indibeen completed and a predetermined perviduals who acquire freehold or tenantcentage of homes has been sold through owner rights. Sales to private individuals binding agreement or a predetermined perwere conducted mainly through real estate centage of leases has been signed, producagents, digital channels, advertising and tion commences. Cooperation between the mailing. For commercial projects, the cusdifferent business areas in planning and tomers are usually public or private propproject implementation creates the condierty owners or tenants. tions for superior efficiency and utilization of skills. When the building is complete, the project is handed over to the client. After completion of the project, a project review is performed, in which the project is analyzed and evaluated. 45 Prioritet Serneke Arena is the Nordic region’s largest multi­sport facility. The arena includes an indoor ski facility, full-sized soccer field, schools, a hotel, gym, and more. Construction of the facility began in the autumn of 2012 and the arena opened to the public in 2015. INCOME AND OPERATING PROFIT 120 300 80 200 40 100 0 16 17 18 0 Income, SEK million Operating profit, SEK million 46 BUSINESS AREAS BUSINESS AREA PROPERTY MANAGEMENT Focus on long-term value creation Business Area Property Management’s operations consist of acquisitions, development and management of properties with potential for good appreciation. Since the beginning in 2015, the property ment continued, among other things, portfolio has been developed through through co-working areas for companies selective acquisitions of commercial propactive in health and sports. In addition to INCOME, SEK MILLION 107 erties, primarily in the Gothenburg region. this, a renovation of the restaurant was also begun. The occupancy rate as of December Focus on properties with 31, 2018 was 100 percent. Interest in multi­ development potential sport facilities in 2018 remained extensive OPERATING PROFIT, Serneke is no traditional property owner. and Serneke conducted discussions during SEK MILLION Focus is on acquisitions and development the year with multiple municipalities of properties that generate cash flows, but have development potential – and thereby a possibility for long-term appreciation. When regarding establishments. Fjätervålen mountain 257 the anticipated value of the property has wintersports facility VALUE INVESTMENT been achieved, the goal is that it will be sold Serneke is a part-owner in the mountain PROPERTIES, SEK MILLION 281 on the market. sports facility Fjätervålen and during the year, the plan for the development of this Divestment of Säve Airport took several steps forward. The initiatives The year’s single largest event was the sale include more cabins and apartments, a new INCOME AND PROFIT of Säve Airport to Castellum for a purchase chair lift, a new center building with a hotel, Income amounted to SEK 107 consideration of SEK 1.1 billion. Serneke camping, increased investments in downhill million (51), an increase of 110 acquired the then Göteborg City Airport in and cross-country skiing, as well as yearpercent. Property management earnings amounted to a loss of April 2016. The following year, the acquisiround activities. SEK 33 million (7), which is tion was supplemented with a nearby propattributable to an increase in erty. The transaction includes a total of five Focus forward allocated overhead. Changes in the value of the investment adjacent properties, which contain a larger The ambition in the future is to continue to properties were positive in the number of buildings and around three mildevelop the property portfolio through amount of SEK 281 million (228). lion square meters of developable land. selective acquisitions of properties. PotenOf the value change, SEK 302 million is realized (of which SEK According to the contract, Serneke has a tial acquisition targets can be either prop42 million was recognized as responsibility for the decontamination of erties developed in the Group with stable unrealized from earlier quarters) pollutants that were in the area. For this cash flows and the potential for long-term and attributable to the sale of Säve Airport. Unrealized value purpose, Serneke has made a required appreciation, or other properties with good changes account for a decrease ­reservation, which will continuously be development potential. Major focus is also by SEK 21 million regarding the ­evaluated as the area is developed. on the strategic land and property acquisiGroup’s other investment properties and are based on external tions over time that are deemed to have valuations. Extensive interest for a potential for positive development multisport facilities because of their location or other condiThe most prominent holdings in the proptions. Through an active and committed erty portfolio include jointly owned Prioritet management, the objective is to achieve Serneke Arena, the Nordic region’s largest a balance between risk and opportunities, multisport facility. During the year, developcapital and returns. 47 the share The Share Serneke’s Class B share is listed on Nasdaq Incentive program programs for the employees for 2018, 2019 Stockholm. Serneke is in the Mid Cap segment Serneke’s permanent employees have had the and 2020. Participation in the programs preand belongs to the sector index of Industrials opportunity to subscribe to convertibles in supposes that the employee acquires and keeps and Construction & Materials, according to Serneke Group AB (publ). Class B shares in Serneke during the term of the ­Nasdaq Stockholm’s classification. The Extraordinary General Meeting of June program. The participants who keep the savings The price paid for Serneke’s Class B share 29, 2016 resolved to issue convertible debenshares during the savings period of around decreased by around 33 percent in 2018. The tures with a nominal value of approximately three years and are also employed during the highest price during the year was reached on SEK 15.9 million. The convertible debentures period will, after the end of the respective January 10 at SEK 110 and the lowest price on are valid up to and including August 26, 2019, ­savings period, receive 0.5 Class B shares in December 6 at SEK 47.65. The price at year-end carry 1.6 percent annual interest and have a Serneke, so-called matching shares, for every corresponded to a market capitalization of conversion price of SEK 120. Upon conversion, savings share attributable to such a savings around SEK 1,405 million. a maximum of 132,350 Class B shares may be period at no cost. In addition to matching In total in 2018, 6,135,013 shares were traded, added and share capital may increase by a shares, participants will also be able to receive corresponding to a turnover rate of 26.39 percent. maximum of SEK 13,235. The holders have at no cost more Class B shares in Serneke, The combined value of the trade in the Class B the right at certain times during the term to so-called performance shares, on condition share amounted to SEK 306,685,042. The averrequest conversion into new Class B shares. that the participant is employed in the Group age daily turnover amounted to 24,540 shares or At December 31, 2018, a total of 850 conduring the entire savings period and that certain SEK 1,226,740. vertibles had been converted to Class B performance requirements are met. shares and 131,500 convertibles remain. The maximum number of shares covered by Shareholders At the Annual General Meeting on May 3, the programs amounts to 1,553,120 Class B At December 31, 2018, there were 6,202 share2017, a long-term convertible program was shares corresponding to around 5.5 percent holders, an increase of 806 shareholders comadopted for employees in the Group. The proof the number of shares issued after dilution pared with the preceding year. At the same time, gram means that the Company raises a conand around 1.9 percent of the number of votes the largest shareholder was Ola Serneke Invest AB, vertible loan of a maximum nominal value of after dilution. with 27.0 percent of the number of shares and SEK 20 million through the issue of convertThe Annual General Meeting resolved in 56.9 percent of the number of votes. The second ibles. The subscribed amount amounted to accordance with the Board’s proposal that the largest shareholder was Lommen Holding AB, with approximately SEK 7.6 million, which means supply of matching and performance shares in 17.8 percent of the number of shares and 12.8 that a maximum of 48,503 Class B shares can accordance with the program shall be ensured percent of the number of votes. The remaining increase share capital by no more than SEK by the Company buying back Class B shares. shares and votes were owned by institutional 4,850.30 at full conversion. The conversion Until the next Annual General Meeting, the investors and private individuals in Sweden and rate was fixed at SEK 157.70. The convertibles Board was authorized to buy back a maximum abroad. The percentage of shares owned by interfall due September 8, 2020, provided converof 1,778,271 Class B shares. In 2018, a total of national shareholders at year-end was 1.5 percent. sion has not taken place before this date. The 814,987 Class B shares had been bought back convertibles will carry a fixed annual interest at a value of SEK 65 million. Dividend policy rate of 2.6 percent. At December 31, 2018, Serneke’s long-term dividend policy is to distribno convertibles had been converted. ute 30–50 percent of net profit after tax for the At the Annual General Meeting on May 3, previous financial year. 2018, it was resolved to introduce share savings KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS PER SHARE SHARE PERFORMANCE 2018 SEK (unless otherwise stated) 2018 2017 Price Number Profit/loss before dilution 26.37 13.94 110 1,500 Profit/loss after dilution 26.16 13.81 Weighted average number 90 1,200 of shares before dilution 22,905,389 23,169,394 Weighted average number 70 900 of shares after dilution 23,085,392 23,396,120 Cash flow from operations, before dilution 11.57 2.03 50 600 Cash flow from operations, after dilution 11.48 2.01 30 300 Shareholders’ equity, before dilution 101.28 78.33 10 0 Shareholders’ equity, jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec after dilution 100.47 77.73 Provision at December 31 60.1 89.25 Serneke B Shares traded per month, Dividend, SEK 1) 0 4.00 OMX Mid Cap Stockholm Index thousands 1) Board’s proposal to the 2019 Annual General Meeting. Source: & 48 the share SERNEKE’S TEN LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS, DECEMBER 31, 2018 Total number Percentage Percentage Name Class A shares Class B shares of shares shares, % of votes, % Ola Serneke Invest AB 3,710,000 2,342,399 6,052,399 26.98 56.90 Lommen Holding AB 540,000 3,457,803 3,997,803 17.82 12.78 Christer Larsson i Trollhättan AB 380,000 497,000 877,000 3.91 6.20 Ledge Ing AB 330,000 459,980 789,980 3.52 5.42 Vision Group i väst AB 250,000 536,000 786,000 3.50 4.38 Svolder Aktiebolag 1,203,941 1,230,941 5.37 1.74 Cliens fonder 855,000 855,000 3.81 1.23 Handelsbankens fonder 670,441 670,441 2.99 0.97 BNY Mellon 345,932 345,932 1.54 0.50 Bert-Åke Eriksson 271,684 271,684 1.21 0.39 Madeleine Olsson Eriksson 271,684 271,684 1.21 0.39 Total, 10 largest 5,210,000 10,911,864 16 121,864 71.87 90.90 Other shareholders 6,311,601 6,311,601 28.13 9.10 Total 5,210,000 17 223,465 22,433,465 100.0 100.0 Repurchased shares 814,987 814,987 Total shares registered 5,210,000 18,038,452 23,248,452 Source: Euroclear and Serneke SHARE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT Change in Total number Change in Total share Par value per Date Event number of shares Class A shares Class B shares of shares share capital capital share 2004 Founding of Company 1,000 1,000 100,000 100 2005 New share issue 4,000 5,000 400,000 500,000 100 2011 Bonus issue/share split 9,995,000 5,000,000 4,995,000 10,000,000 500,000 1,000,000 0.10 2012 New share issue 478,000 478,000 10,478,000 47,800 1,047,800 0.10 2012 New share issue 1,047,670 1,047,670 11,525,670 104,767 1,152,567 0.10 2013 New share issue 2,717,256 360,000 2,357,256 14,242,926 271,725.6 1,424,292.6 0.10 2014 New share issue 286,000 286,000 14,528,926 28,600 1,452,892.6 0.10 Exchange of 2015 convertibles 1,309,586 1,309,586 15,838,512 130,958.6 1,583,851.2 0.10 2015 New share issue 727,273 727,273 16,565,785 72,727.3 1,656,578.5 0.10 New share issue in conjunction with the 2016 initial public offering 5,681,818 5,681,818 22,247,603 568,181.8 2,224,760.3 0.10 Exchange of 2016 convertibles 467,249 467,249 22,714,852 46,724.9 2,271,485.2 0.10 Exchange of 2017 convertibles 533,600 533,600 23,248,452 53,360 2,324,845.2 0.10 2018 Conversion 0 –150,000 +150,000 23,248,452 0 2,324,845.2 0.10 OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE, DECEMBER 31, 2018 SHARE CLASS, NUMBER OF SHARES AND NUMBER OF VOTES, Number of Number of Percentage DECEMBER 31, 2018 Number of shares shareholders shares of shares, % Share class Shares Votes 1–1,000 5,684 828,433 4.8 1,001–10,000 410 1,348,168 7.8 Class A shares 5,210,000 5,210,000.0 10,001–100,000 89 2,507,702 14.6 Class B shares 17,223,465 1,722,346.5 100,001– 19 12,539,162 72.8 Total 22,433,465 6,932,346.5 Source: Euroclear and Serneke ANALYSTS MONITORING SERNEKE SHARE INFORMATION SHARE CAPITAL AND VOTES Erik Granström, Carnegie Name Serneke Group B Share capital amounts to SEK 2,324,845.20 erik.granstrom@carnegie.se Exchange Nasdaq Stockholm distributed over 23,248,452 shares, each Bertil Nilsson, Jarl Securities Listed since November 24, 2016 with a quota value of SEK 0.10. Each Class A bn@jarlsecurities.com Listing Mid Cap Stockholm share carries one (1) vote and each Class B Sector Construction & Materials share carries one tenth (0.1) of a vote. Niclas Höglund, Nordea Symbol SRNKE B niclas.hoglund@nordea.com Currency SEK ISIN Code SE0007278841 49 Board of Director’s Report Board of Director’s Report The Board and Chief Executive Officer of Serneke Group AB (publ), corp. ID no. 556669-4153, hereby present the Annual Report and Consolidated Financial Statement for the 2018 financial year. Serneke Group AB, headquartered in Gothenburg, Sweden, is the Parent Company of the Group. Operations Business concept The Serneke Group conducts operations within the four business Serneke provides comprehensive services in construction and areas Construction, Civil Engineering, Project Development and property development. The goal is to be perceived as the most Property Management. The Group provides comprehensive services innovative, committed and dynamic company in the industry. Focus in construction operations and property development for property is on large and more challenging projects where Serneke’s competicompanies, industrial companies and commerce in both the private tive advantages make the biggest difference. and public sectors. Serneke’s operations are focused on the three metropolitan regions of Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö, which Order bookings and order backlog are the Group’s most important markets even if the Group is also For the period January-December 2018, the order bookings decreased expanding geographically to regional growth regions. to SEK 4,692 million (6,400). The underlying market is deemed to still be good even if the Group is experiencing a slow-down in some segments. At the end of 2018, the order backlog was SEK 6,382 million, compared with SEK 7,965 million at year-end 2017. MULTI-YEAR, Revenue THE GROUP Jan–Dec Jan–Dec Jan–Dec Jan–Dec Consolidated income for 2018 amounted to SEK 6,516 million SEK M 2018 2017 2016 2015 (5,605), an increase of 16 percent compared with the corresponding Income statement period in the preceding year. The activity in the Swedish construction Revenue 6,516 5,605 3,978 3,107 market in 2018 was good even if there is more caution in the market. Operating result 595 419 411 128 The income from the construction operations Construction and Civil Profit after net financial Engineering amounted to SEK 6,396 million (5,542), a growth of 15 items 558 401 394 112 percent. Income during the period amounted to SEK 304 million Profit/loss for the year 604 323 394 137 (212) and was mainly attributable to project income from tenantKey indicators owner housing projects. Income from Property Management Growth, % 16.3 40.9 28.0 72.6 amounted to SEK 107 million (51) and the strong increase is mainly Organic growth, % 16.2 39.1 28.0 51.8 attributable to a larger property portfolio and hotel operations. Operating margin, % 9.1 7.5 10.3 4.1 Earnings Equity/assets ratio, % 40.9 41.3 42.7 27.4 Consolidated operating profit amounted to SEK 595 million (419), an increase of 42 percent compared with the preceding year. The conINCOME struction operations accounted for SEK 100 million (184) of the operJan–Dec Jan–Dec SEK M 2018 2017 ating profit. For the full-year, Construction had an operating margin of Construction 5,530 4,919 1.6 percent (3.7), accounting for SEK 90 million (183). The operating Civil Engineering 866 623 profit was negatively impacted by the project impairments of SEK 70 Project Development 304 212 million recognized in the third quarter. The operating profit from Civil Property Management 107 51 Engineering was SEK 10 million (1). The business area’s growth contribEliminations and Group-wide –291 –200 uted to reducing central overhead in relation to the revenues, which Total 6,516 5,605 has an impact on the operating profit. The operating profit from Project Development was SEK 230 million (65). Operating profit includes a revaluation effect that occurred in connection with the acquisition of OPERATING PROFIT Jan–Dec Jan–Dec the remaining 50 percent of the Karlastaden project of SEK 229 million SEK M 2018 2017 when existing holdings were restated at fair value. Construction 90 183 Business Area Property Management’s operating profit rose Civil Engineering 10 1 during the year and amounted to SEK 257 million (213), which is Project Development 230 65 mainly attributable to the sale of Säve Airport to Castellum. The sale Property Management 257 213 impacted operating profit by SEK 271 million and meant that earlier Group-wide 8 –43 unrealized value changes on the investment properties have now Total 595 419 been realized. 50 Board of Director’s Report The operating margin for the Group was 9.1 percent (7.5). Net Sale of Säve Airport financial items were negative in the amount of SEK 37 million (18), On December 21, Serneke reached an agreement with Castellum which was negatively affected in an amount of SEK 12 million by on the sale of properties at Säve Airport. Serneke is receiving a fixed the expanded bond that was issued in July in an amount of SEK purchase consideration of SEK 1.1 billion of which SEK 750 million 700 million. The report tax for the year was SEK 46 million (negawas paid in connection with occupancy and the remained is paid in tive 78) and the positive tax effect is mainly due to a tax-free sale connection with the fulfillment of conditions, although no later than of Säve Airport and a tax-free revaluation effect attributable to 2030. If the detailed development plan and building permits were the Karlastaden project. The positive tax effect is also attributable to gain legal effect before 2030, the purchase consideration is paid to a turnaround of deferred tax liabilities attributable to the propout proportionately for the respective relevant land area. erties in Säve. In addition, there are supplementary purchase considerations of Earnings for the year amounted to SEK 604 million (323). a maximum of another SEK 910 million, excluding a tax discount of SEK 61 million, depending on the outcome of new detailed developFinancial position ment plans and building permits on condition that these have been On December 31, 2018 the equity/assets ratio was 40.9 percent approved by 2030. The transaction generated an operating profit of (41.3). At the end of the period, consolidated cash and cash equivaSEK 271 million and a positive effect on deferred tax of SEK 76 million lents, including unutilized credit facilities, amounted to SEK 789 and accordingly SEK 347 million on profit for the year. The operating million (631). profit includes an additional purchase consideration of SEK 76 million, Over the period, shareholders’ equity rose to SEK 2,272 million which is Serneke’s assessment of the probability that new detailed (1,821). The change is comprised of profit for the year of SEK 604 development plans and building permits will be approved. million, a minority interest of SEK 4 million and share savings program of SEK 1 million, at the same time that there were charges to Other significant events during the year shareholders’ equity of SEK 93 million for dividends and SEK 65 milDispute regarding acquisition of Värmdö lion for share repurchases. Byggentreprenader AB resolved On December 31, 2018, net borrowing amounted to SEK 552 On August 27, 2014, an agreement was signed to acquire 100 million (254). The net debt/equity ratio was 24.3 percent (13.9). percent of the shares in Värmdö Byggentreprenader AB. AccordUnutilized committed credit facilities amounted to SEK 400 million ing to the agreement regarding conditional purchase consider(200) at year-end. ation, Serneke was to pay a variable purchase consideration based on the Company’s operating profit for 2015, amounting at most Cash flow to SEK 30 million. Serneke and the seller of Värmdö ByggentrepreCash flow from operating activities amounted to SEK 265 million nader AB disputed the payment of a possible additional purchase (47). The change is mainly attributable to a decreased amount of consideration, upon which the seller initiated arbitration proceedcapital being tied up. Cash flow from investing activities amounted ings. Serneke’s view was that the additional consideration should to negative SEK 477 million (319). The foremost explanation of the not be paid. The ruling on the arbitration proceedings was issued change is the acquisition of the Karlastaden project, sale of the in February 2018 and was to Serneke’s advantage, meaning that properties at Säve Airport, investments in investment properties no additional purchase price was payable. In connection with the and investments in tangible fixed assets. dispute, Serneke reversed a provision of SEK 19.6 million, that was Cash flow from financing activities amounted to SEK 170 million reported under Group-wide in the segment reporting. (132) and mainly involved new loans in the form of bonds, premature redemption of previous bonds, dividends paid and share repurSerneke has issued a bond and implemented premature chases attributable to share saving programs. redemption of existing bonds Cash flow for the period amounted to a negative SEK 42 million (140). Serneke has issued new senior non-covered bonds totaling SEK 700 million within a framework of SEK 1 billion and maturing in Acquisitions and disposals 2021. Serneke used the net proceeds to prematurely redeem all Acquisition of remaining 50 percent of the Karlastaden project outstanding bonds under its existing SEK 300 million bond loan On December 28, Serneke acquired all of the shares in Karlastamaturing in 2019 (ISIN: SE0008992184), as well as in the operden Holding AB, which constituted 50 percent of the total numating activities. The cost of early redemption of existing bonds ber of shares. The purchase consideration amounted to SEK 600 impacted earnings negatively by SEK 12 million, which is recogmillion and was paid in connection with possession. As Serneke nized in net financial items. owns 100 percent of the shares, Karlastaden Holding AB with The new bond loan carries a variable interest rate of three-month associated subsidiaries have been consolidated as of the date STIBOR +5.25 percent and expires in June 2021. Serneke applied of possession. for listing of the new bond loan on Nasdaq Stockholm and the first The acquisition is a step by step business combination, which trading day was July 5. means that Serneke must value the previously held 50-percent interest at fair value. This entailed a revaluation effect of SEK 229 Additional purchase consideration for Säve million that positively impacts operating profit to a corresponding In May 2016, Säve Airport was acquired from Swedavia. In addition amount. The revaluation matches the difference between fair value to the purchase consideration, Serneke was to pay the seller an of earlier holdings of SEK 600 million and the previous carrying additional purchase consideration of up to SEK 200 million if a amount of SEK 371 million as of possession on 28 December. number of conditions specified in the share purchase agreement 51 Board of Director’s Report are met. The parties agreed to settle prematurely the additional Work of the Board in 2018 purchase consideration, meaning that Serneke paid SEK 55 million Serneke’s Board consists of five members. In 2018, the Board held to Swedavia. The payment negatively impacted cash and cash 24 minuted meetings in addition to continuous contacts. The Board of equivalents by SEK 55 million and earnings by SEK 8 million. Directors is responsible for the organization and management of the company’s affairs, including establishing targets and strategy, ensuring Outlook procedures and systems for monitoring the stated targets, ongoing A continued strong urbanization trend is driving the development of assessment of the Group’s financial position and evaluating operational commercial properties and investments in public services. Several management. In general, the Board addresses issues that are of matemajor infrastructure projects are in the pipeline, which directly and rial significance to the Group. In addition to the issues incumbent on indirectly create business opportunities for Serneke. With a strong the Board to address according to the Board’s formal work plan, main foothold in the country’s three major metropolitan regions, the issues during the year were strategic decision on property deals and Group is well-positioned to continue to grow organically and financing, among other matters. A separate description of the Board’s through acquisitions. work is presented by the Corporate Governance Report on page 56. Environment and sustainability report Remuneration to senior executives In accordance with Chapter 6 Section 11 of the Swedish Annual According to the Swedish Companies Act, a resolution is to made Accounts Act, the company has chosen to prepare the sustainabilat the Annual General Meeting on guidelines for remuneration and ity report as a report separate from the annual report. The sustainother terms of employment for senior executives. “Senior execuability report is found in the annual report on pages 24–35. tives” refers to Serneke’s Group Management. The Board of Directors at the Annual General Meeting in 2019 put Employee forward a proposal for a decision regarding these payments, includIn 2018, the average number of employees amounted to 1,070 ing that they should be commercially competitive. The full proposal compared with 942 in the preceding year. will be published in conjunction with the invitation to the Annual The Group’s future development is contingent on retaining existing General Meeting. Current employment is not different from the dedicated and skilled employees and attracting new ones. Serneke future proposal principles. has, therefore, declared a strategic objective to be recognized as the most attractive employer in the industry. Through continuous dialog PARENT COMPANY and responsiveness, Serneke wants to create personal development The operations of Serneke Group AB (publ) consist mainly of Group opportunities in a challenging environment. With stimulating projects Management and Group-wide services. Annual sales amounted to SEK and a belief in the ability of our employees, Serneke wants to provide 143 million (117) and operating profit was SEK 30 million (loss: 19). a corporate culture of great personal responsibility and participation. With a systematic and prioritized work environment through all The Share stages of the process, we strive for a safe and secure work environSerneke’s Class B share has been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm since ment that encourages personal growth and commitment. November 2016. For more information, please refer to page 48 under “The Share”. Convertibles The Extraordinary General Meeting of June 29, 2016 resolved to issue Dividend policy & proposed dividend convertible debentures with a nominal value of approximately SEK 15.9 Serneke’s long-term dividend policy is to distribute 30 to 50 permillion. The convertible debentures are valid up to and including August cent of net profit after tax for the previous financial year. The 26, 2019, carry 1.6 percent annual interest and have a conversion Board confirms the dividend policy, but currently chooses to price of SEK 120. Upon conversion, a maximum of 132,350 Class B propose no dividend for the 2018 financial year. This is because shares may be added and share capital may increase by a maximum of the Company has a need for financial flexibility to manage its SEK 13,235. During the term of the convertibles, holders are entitled, own project portfolio. In the prevailing situation, the Board on certain occasions, to request conversion into new Class B shares. therefore considers it to be prioritized that the Company mainAs at December 31, 2018, a total of 850 convertibles were contains a strong financial position. verted to B shares and 131,500 convertibles remained. At the Annual General Meeting on May 3, 2017, a long-term Proposed appropriation of earnings incentive program was adopted in the form of employee convertThe Annual General Meeting has at its disposal the following ibles for employees in the Group. The program entails that the Comamounts, SEK pany take a convertible loan of a maximum nominal value of SEK 20 Retained earnings –283,591,759 Share premium reserve 802,570,581 million through the issue of convertibles. The subscribed amount Profit for the year –17,475,067 amounted to approximately SEK 7.6 million, which means that a Total 501,503,755 maximum of 48,503 Class B shares can increase share capital by no more than SEK 4,850.30 at full conversion. The conversion rate was The Board proposes that the unappropriated earnings fixed at SEK 157.70. The convertibles fall due September 8, 2020, be distributed as follows, SEK: provided conversion has not taken place before this date. The conDividend 0 vertibles will carry an annual interest rate of 2.60 percent. Carried forward: 501,503,755 Total 501,503,755 52 Board of Director’s Report Risks and risk management The ability to identify, assess, manage and monitor risks plays a central role in the management of Serneke. The goal is to implement the Group’s strategy with a well-thought-out and well-balanced risk level. Future events can affect the business operations both positively and negatively. Serneke’s operations entail several types of risks, both operational Furthermore, the Board is responsible for ensuring that accurate and financial. Operational risks are related to the daily operations information is provided to the Company’s stakeholders, that the and can apply to tenders or project development, assessment of Company complies with laws and regulations and that the Company profits, risks linked to production or the price trend. Operational develops and implements internal policies and ethical guidelines. A risks are managed by the internal business management that has risk analysis for the Group is conducted annually in conjunction with been developed within the Group. Each business area manages its the Board of Directors decides on the update of the Group’s risk risks based on the business management and developed procepolicy. The CEO and management are responsible for compliance dures and processes. Serneke’s financial risks such as interest rate, with policies. Related party transactions and internal control are liquidity, financing and credit risks are managed centrally in order to reported to the Board on a monthly basis. minimize and control risk exposure. Risk Description of the risk Management EXTERNAL RISKS Economic growth The contracting and property sectors are largely affected by macroecoSerneke closely monitors macroeconomic develnomic factors such as general economic trends, growth, employment, opments and continuously focuses on efficiency production rates and trends in prices for new housing and commercial improvements and cost control. premises, changes in infrastructure, inflation and interest rates. If there were to be a negative trend in one or more of these factors, this could have a material adverse effect on Serneke’s operations, performance and financial position. Demography Population growth and migration flows affect housing demand. Serneke Serneke carefully monitors demographic trends strives to be active in regions with sustained population growth, such as and strives to be active in regions of sustained the metropolitan regions of Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. There population growth. is nonetheless a risk that changing patterns of population growth and migration flows will negatively affect the conditions for Serneke’s operations, which could have a negative effect on Serneke’s operations, performance and financial position. Competitive situation Serneke operates in an industry that is exposed to competition. Among Serneke focuses on distinguishing the offer by other factors, Serneke’s future competitive opportunities rely on being more innovative, to think in new and differSerneke’s capacity to anticipate future changes and react quickly to ent and work smarter and more cost-effective. existing and future market needs. Serneke may be forced to make costly investments, restructuring or price reductions to adapt to a new competitive situation, which could have a negative effect on Serneke’s operations, performance and financial position. Political risks Political decisions, such as amended tax regulations, conditions of Serneke’s business is diversified within several ­tenure, changed regulations on housing construction, infrastructure disciplines, such as both residential and cominvestments and municipal planning, could change the conditions of the mercial projects, and through various leasing market and, accordingly, of Serneke’s operations. Worthy of specific forms. mention are possible regulatory changes regarding interest deductions, amortization requirements and possible debt ceilings for private individuals, all of which could change the conditions of the market and, accordingly, of Serneke’s business. In individual projects, there is a risk that political decisions, and amendments to previous political decisions (that previously approved infrastructure investments are postponed, for example), entail a deterioration in the terms of the project, which could have a negative impact on Serneke’s operations, performance and financial position. 53 Board of Director’s Report Risk Description of the risk Management OPERATIONAL RISKS Risks related to In contracting operations, the primary limitation of operational risk norBefore submitting a tender, resources are always production mally occurs in the tender process. Tenders that are not sufficiently hedged for management of the projects. In the elaborate, or based on inaccurate calculations, can lead to both lower tenders submitted, it is always ensured that earnings, loss of internal control, and increased costs. The risk that the identified risks can be estimated and managed. planning process is delayed, detailed development plans are not Serneke has in recent years gained some experiapproved or that building permits or other permits required for the ence from large and complex projects and hired ­construction or renovation are not obtained or are delayed. senior expertise in risk analysis, cost estimation and project management. Price development The risk that the property market developed negatively during the Always aiming for sales prior to or in conjunction during the project’s ­project, which can make the property difficult to sell. with the start of production. Established process production time with clear analytical and decision-making structure that takes into account market outlets before an investment is made. Pollution, work Serneke’s construction and civil engineering operations have an enviMeasures related to pollution, occupational environment and ronmental impact for which Serneke is responsible. In connection with health and environmental risks normally handled environmental risks property acquisitions within the framework of the project development as part of ongoing operations. operations, there is also a risk of the acquired property having previously been contaminated. Depending on the scale of any pollution, this could have a negative impact on Serneke’s brand, operations, performance and financial position. Serneke’s operations also include risks related to the work environment. Accidents or serious incidents can incur liability and negative publicity, which could have a negative effect on Serneke’s brand, operations, performance and financial position. Risks related to the In addition to the contractor risk (where applicable), the development Serneke has competent employees supported by development of of projects and properties, both residential and commercial, under the ongoing training and the most current industry projects and properties Company’s own auspices and with partners, also entails development, experience. An important element is the Group’s sales and value risk. The realization of such risks could result in addicollective experience from similar projects and tional capital being tied up, but also losses. the solutions developed for special situations. FINANCIAL RISKS (See Note 4 Financial risk management) Interest rate risk In addition to shareholders’ equity, Serneke’s operations are financed Financial policy governs the handling of Serneke’s through borrowing. Interest expenses are primarily affected by the level interest rate risk. Prevailing interest rates are of current market interest rates and the credit institutions’ margins, as continuously monitored. well as the strategy chosen by Serneke in fixing interest rates. Market interest rates are mainly affected by the anticipated rate of inflation. Shorter-term rates are affected primarily by the Riksbank’s “repo rate”, which acts as a monetary policy instrument. In periods with rising inflation expectations, interest levels are expected to rise, which could have a negative effect on Serneke’s performance and cash flow. Liquidity risk Serneke’s payment commitments consist primarily of expenses for The Group continuously monitors its liquidity materials and subcontractors, as well as personnel expenses. Should with monthly reporting to the Board and manSerneke lack sufficient liquidity to meet its payment commitments, this agement. Liquidity planning takes place on a could have a negative effect on Serneke’s operations, financial position running basis with a focus on both shortand and performance. long-term needs. 54 Board of Director’s Report Risk Description of the risk Management Refinancing risk Refinancing risk is the risk that financing cannot be secured or renewed The Group’s external financing needs are monion maturity, or can only be obtained or renewed at significantly increased tored regularly by management and the Board. expense. The Company primarily finances its operations through shareThe Group’s financing activities are centrally holders’ equity, borrowing and the Company’s own cash flow. There is a organized, which provides a good overview of risk that it will not be possible to raise additional capital or that it can only their financial positions. be obtained on terms that are unfavorable for Serneke. Although the Group currently has access to long-term financing, Serneke could, in the future, breach its financial covenants and other commitments under credit and loan agreements due to general economic conditions or disruptions in the capital and credit markets. If the Company fails to obtain the necessary capital in the future, this could have a negative impact on the Company’s operations, financial position and performance. If the Company fails to refinance its loan agreements or can only obtain refinancing of its loan agreements at significantly increased expense, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations, financial position and performance. Risk of commitments in Serneke’s borrowings from credit institutions and the issued debenture Group fulfillment of loan conditions and coveloan agreements and loan contains commitments. If a Group company were to breach any of nants is continuously monitored by the Board debenture loans the obligations included in a loan agreement or the terms of the debenand management. ture, this could result in the loan being terminated, and even in other loan agreements being terminated as a result of so-called cross-default provisions. A termination of this kind could have a negative effect on Serneke’s operations, performance and financial position. Credit and counterparty Uncertainty in the external environment and in the financial markets The Group’s finance policy regulates the handling risk may mean that customers, suppliers and subcontractors encounter difof credit risks and counter party risks. Credit ratficulties with their financing. This could also cause planned investments ing of each new customer is done regularly. The to be delayed, as well as difficulties in meeting existing commitments. financial situation for existing customers and Serneke may suffer losses that have a negative effect on its operations, suppliers is continuously monitored for the early financial position and performance. identification of warning signs. Risk on sale of On the disposal of properties and development rights, different assessIn all significant sales transactions, managers in properties and ments and estimates may be made regarding the likelihood of various the business area along with the CFO perform an development rights factors, such as changes to detailed development plans and outstanding assessment of outstanding commitments and commitments, which could have a highly significant impact on the other uncertainties. These estimates are Group’s performance and financial position. Outstanding commitments updated regularly. may also be difficult to identify by their nature and extent. A sale may be conditional on a future detailed development plan being accepted. In the event that the detailed development plan is not accepted, the occurrence of which had been assessed by the Group as highly probable, there could be significant impact on performance and financial position. Risk at revenue The profit of contracts is recognized in pace with completion before Construction projects are followed up by manrecognition final profit results are known. Miscalculation can lead to misleading agement monthly. Through clear processes for accounting and/or strategic decisions being based on incorrect inforproject management and continuous follow-up mation. of production estimates, work done and final cost forecasts, it is ensured that reporting is accurate and the strategic decisions are made on the right grounds. Disputes Serneke operates in an industry in which disputes occur, both with cliDisputes are regularly monitored and followed ents and suppliers. Large-scale and complicated disputes can be costly, up on monthly by management. Through decentime and resource intensive and may disrupt normal operations, which tralized earnings responsibility and leadership, a could have a negative impact on Serneke’s brand, operations, perforcustomer-focused organization is created that mance and financial position. works closely with clients and subcontractors to minimize the risk of disputes. 55 Corporate governance Corporate governance Good corporate governance is about ensuring that companies are managed sustainably, responsibly and as efficiently as possible. A high level of trust among shareholders, legislators and society is crucial to the companies’ freedom to realize their strategies to generate value. The central external and internal steering instruments for Serneke Serneke’s Board is responsible for the organization and manageare the Swedish Companies Act, Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule Book for ment of the Company’s affairs. The CEO is responsible for ensuring Issuers, the Swedish Corporate Governance Code (the Code), the the operating management of the Company takes place according Articles of Association adopted by the Annual General Meeting, the to the Board’s guidelines and instructions. In addition, the CEO in Board of Directors’ formal work plan, instructions for the Board’s dialog with the Chairman of the Board compiles an agenda for the committees, the instructions for the CEO including the instructions Board meetings and is otherwise responsible for preparing informafor financial reporting and policies adopted by the Board. tion and decision documentation for the Board. SERNEKE’S GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE 1 Shareholders 2 3 4 Nominating Committee Annual General Meeting Audit 5 Board of Directors 6 7 Audit committee Remuneration Committee 9 CEO 8 Internal control Management group 56 Corporate governance CHAIRMAN STATEMENT Focus on profitability and controlled growth Two major transactions, a somewhat subdued market development and greater focus on internal control in the past year had an impact on the Board’s work. The Board’s primary tasks include staking out a long-term direction and creating the best possible conditions for continued positive development. Through sound and well-adapted corporate governance, the goal is to ensure a healthy corporate culture that contributes to developing the Group and its operations – both as a Kent Sander, Chairman of the Board whole and as individual parts. Transactions, external environment and internal control Looking at the past year, the Board has devoted considerable energy to two major transactions: the divestment of Säve Airport and the Extensive commitment and a good mix of expertise acquisition of the outstanding participations in Karlastaden. In terms The Board’s work during the year was conducted through ordinary of the divestment of Säve, it is in many ways a good example of the Board meetings, a dedicated strategy conference and through our realization of Serneke’s strategy. We see the potential and developvarious committees. The fact that all members are on at least one of ment possibility, set a clear vision and prepare a concrete plan. In this the committees creates participation and continuity between the case, we chose to subsequently sell and thereby realize the value meetings as well. increase. The acquisition of the participations in Karlastaden means In order to make long-term decisions, knowledge and insight are that we now own the project entirely, which facilitates the process needed in both the daily work and external environment and market moving forward as it now enters a new phase. changes. In my opinion, the Board has a good mix of expertise. The In addition to these two large transactions, the Board also had Nomination Committee’s proposal on the election of Anna Belfrage continued focus on internal control and the Group’s overall capital and Fredreik Alvarsson as new members would strengthen us further. structure. We have also carefully followed the general development of the construction and civil engineering market. During the year, we Board’s proposal on dividend could see some slowing in certain segments. The decline is mainly With regard to the proposed dividend, the Board confirms the longnoticeable in the housing sector, and then primarily premium projterm dividend policy, but at present chooses to propose no dividend be ects in the Stockholm region. It was expected that there would be a paid for the 2018 financial year. The background of this is that Serneke recoil after several years of strong growth. Nonetheless, our assessis deemed to have a need for financial flexibility to be able to best ment is that the development in our main segments will continue to ­manage its own project portfolio. In the prevailing situation, the Board be strong in the future. The driving forces include continued demotherefore prioritizes the maintenance of a strong financial position. graphic changes, with growing populations and urbanization. In all three of Serneke’s main regions, Stockholm, Gothenburg and Commitment and drive Malmö, extensive infrastructure projects are under way, at the same The Board’s tasks also include supporting Group Management and time that the structural deficit in housing remains extensive. continuously reviewing and evaluating its work. To succeed in this, For the Board, we are monitoring developments in the external an open dialog is needed between the Board and management. For environment, as well as our own order bookings, the project portthe Board, we perceive this to be the case. Here, I would also like to folio’s composition and the overall risk profile. express our appreciation of the commitment that characterizes the work in the entire organization. We live and work in a rapidly changMajor focus on profitability ing time, where the ability to think along new lines is absolutely cruSerneke’s growth rate has been high since the beginning. Looking cial to succeed. The enthusiasm that characterized the past year ahead, we will have an even greater focus on profitability in the bodes well as we are now taking on the next financial year. next few years. As important parts in this effort, we will intensify the work on internal control, risk management and internal effiStockholm, March 2019 ciency. Looking at the project portfolio, we will continue to focus extensively on larger assignments for the State, municipalities and Kent Sander stable private clients. Chairman of the Board 57 Corporate governance 1. Shareholders Nomination Committee’s work prior to the 2018 The Serneke Group consists of 172 companies*. The Parent ComAnnual General Meeting pany is the Swedish limited liability company Serneke Group AB, The composition of the Nomination Committee was announced on the Class B shares of which are listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm November 6, 2018. Ahead of the 2019 Annual General Meeting, the exchange in the Mid Cap segment since November 24, 2016. Nomination Committee consists of the following members: Share capital in Serneke is represented by Class A and B shares. • C arl Sandberg (Chairman of the Nomination Committee), Each Class A share entitles the shareholder to one vote and each appointed by Ola Serneke Invest AB and representing 55.1 percent Class B share to one-tenth (0.1) of a vote. All shares carry equal of the vote at September 30, 2018, and 56.9 percent at December rights to the Company’s assets and profits. As of December 31, 31, 2018, 2018, there were 6,202 shareholders. • L udwig Mattsson, appointed by Lommen Holding AB and repreThe largest shareholder is Ola Serneke Invest AB with a particisented 12.4 percent of the votes at September 30, 2018, and pating interest of 27.0 percent. The second largest shareholder, 12.8 percent at December 31, 2018, Lommen Holding AB, owns 17.8 percent. The larger primary share• Christer Larsson, appointed by Christer Larsson in Trollhättan AB holders in Serneke exercise an active ownership role. The Board and and represented 6.0 percent of the vote at September 30, 2018, Group Management control a total of 75.6 percent of the votes and and 6.2 percent at December 31, 2018. 49.8 percent of the capital in the Company. The Articles contain no • S ofia Åstenius, appointed by Ledge Ing AB and representing 5.2 reservations about voting restrictions. percent of the votes at September 30, 2018, and 5.4 percent at As of December 31, 2018, where were no outstanding authorizaDecember 31, 2018, tions from the Annual General Meeting to the Board to issue new • Kent Sander, Chairman of the Board of Serneke Group AB. shares. The Annual General Meeting authorized the Board to decide on the buy-back of a maximum total of 1,778,271 Class B shares on Prior to the 2019 Annual General Meeting, the Nomination Commitone or more occasions in the time until the next Annual General tee held five minuted meetings. The Nomination Committee’s Meeting. ­proposal is available on the corporate website www.serneke.se. For further information on the ownership structure, trading and For its work, the Nomination Committee reviewed the internal share performance, see pages 48-49 of the Annual Report. evaluation of the Board’s work, the Chairman of the Boards account of the Board work and the Company’s internals strategy, as well as 2. Nominating Committee interviewed individual Board members. The Nomination Committee The rules regarding the composition of Serneke’s Nomination Comdeems that the proposed members altogether have the breadth mittee was decided at the 2018 Annual General Meeting. According and expertise necessary. to them, the Nomination Committee shall consist of the four largest In drafting its proposal, the Nomination Committee applied secshareholders in the Company by votes, who then have a right to tion 4.1 in the Code as the diversity policy, whereby the Nomination appoint one member each to the Nomination Committee. If one of Committee took into account that the Board, with regard to the the four largest shareholders, in terms of votes, declines to exercise Company’s Boards operations, phase of development and circumthe right to appoint a member to the Nomination Committee, the stances otherwise, shall have a suitable composition characterized next largest shareholder is then given the opportunity to appoint a by diversity and breadth in terms of the competence, experience member. These four owner representatives, together with Chairman and background of the AGM-elected members. of the Board, form Serneke’s Nomination Committee. In consideration of the above, the Nomination Committee The largest shareholders by votes shall be determined on the received a good basis for assessing if the Board’s composition is basis of a list of registered shareholders provided by Euroclear satisfactory, if the need for competence, breadth and experience ­S weden AB as of the last bank day in September. on the Board is satisfied and to submit proposals on the election of The Nomination Committee submits recommendations to the auditors. Annual General Meeting, including proposals for the chairman of the Shareholders have had the opportunity to submit suggestions Annual General Meeting, the number of members of the Board to be and comments regarding the Nomination Committee’s work for the elected by the Annual General Meeting, the Chairman of the Board 2019 Annual General Meeting. and other Directors elected by the Annual General Meeting, fees and other remuneration to each of the members of the Board and to Directors serving on the Board’s committees. The Nominating Committee makes further proposals for the election of auditors, remuneration to the auditors, principles for appointing the Nomination Committee and the instruction for the Nomination Committee. * Subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures 58 Corporate governance 3. General Meeting 4. Audit The right of shareholders to make decisions in Serneke’s affairs is The Company’s auditors review the annual accounts and annual exercised through the highest decision-making body, the Annual report and the Company’s ongoing operations and routines to then General Meeting, or Extraordinary General Meeting. The meeting rule on the financial statements and the administration by Board of resolves on matters such as amendments to the Articles of AssociaDirectors and the CEO. After each financial year, the auditors shall tion, election of the Board of Directors and auditors, adoption of the submit an audit report to the Annual General Meeting. Each year, income statement and balance sheet, discharge from liability of the the Company’s auditors report their observations from the audit Board and Chief Executive Officer, allocation of profit or loss, princiand their assessment of the Company’s internal control to the ples for appointing the Nomination Committee and guidelines for Board in person. remuneration to senior management. According to the Articles of Association, the Annual General According to the Articles of Association, notice to attend the Meeting shall appoint at least one and at most two auditors or one Annual General Meeting will be issued through publication by mail, or two authorized public accounting firms. The 2018 Annual Genin Swedish print media and on the Company’s website. An announceeral Meeting elected the accounting firm Deloitte AB as the Compament that an invitation has been issued shall be published simultany’s auditor, with authorized public accountant Harald Jagner as the neously in Swedish financial daily Dagens Industri. principal auditor, for the period extending until the end of the next Annual General Meeting. Harald Jagner is a member of FAR. The Right to participate in General Meetings Annual General Meeting also resolved that remuneration of the To participate in a General Meeting, shareholders must notify auditor would be paid according to an approved invoice. For inforSerneke no later than on the date specified in the invitation to mation on remuneration of auditors, see Note 9. attend. This day may not be a Sunday, other public holiday, Saturday, The auditors participated in three meetings of the Board’s Audit Midsummer Eve, Christmas Eve or New Year’s Eve and not fall earlier Committee and had one separate meeting with the Board during than the fifth weekday prior to the meeting. Shareholders wishing to the year. have matters considered at the General Meeting must produce a written request to the Company’s Board of Directors. Such a request 5. Board should normally reach the Board no later than seven weeks before After the Annual General Meeting, the Board of Directors is the the General Meeting. highest decision-making body. The Board of Directors is responsible for the organization and management of the company’s affairs, Annual General Meeting 2018 including establishing targets and strategy, ensuring procedures The Annual General Meeting 2018 was held on May 3, 2018 at the and systems for monitoring the stated targets, ongoing assessment Company’s headquarters in Gothenburg. Overall, 60.9 percent of the of the Company’s financial position and evaluating operational total number of shares and 85.4 percent of the total number of votes management. Furthermore, the Board is responsible for ensuring were present. The accounts for 2017 were adopted and the Board that accurate information is provided to the Company’s stakeholdMembers and the CEO were discharged from liability. A decision was ers, that the Company complies with laws and regulations and that also taken on the election of directors and auditors and fees to Board the Company develops and implements internal policies and ethical members and auditors. The Meeting also resolved in accordance guidelines. The Board also appoints Serneke’s Chief Executive Offiwith the Board’s proposal to adopt a share savings program for the cer and sets salaries and other remuneration to the Chief Executive employees for 2018, 2019 and 2020. For more information on the Officer based on guidelines adopted by the Annual General Meeting. share savings program, see page 48 in the annual report. Composition of the Board of Directors Annual General Meeting 2019 The elected members of the Board are elected by the Annual GenAnnual General Meeting 2019 will be held on Thursday, May 8, 2019 eral Meeting for the period until the conclusion of the next Annual in the Company’s premises at Kvarnbergsgatan 2 in Gothenburg, General Meeting. According to the Articles of Association, the Board Sweden. Shareholders wishing to take part in Annual General Meetof Directors shall consist of no less than three (3) and no more than ing must be registered as shareholders in the shareholders’ register nine (9) ordinary members elected by the General Meeting, without maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB as of Thursday, April 30, 2019, deputies. Board Members are presented on page 65. and have notified the Company of their attendance, no later than the same date. 59 Corporate governance Chairman of the Board Evaluation of the work of the Board The Chairman of the Board is responsible for ensuring that the Evaluation of the Board is conducted within the framework of the Board’s work is carried out efficiently and that the Board discharges work of Nomination Committee. The Board also performs an annual its duties. In particular, the Chairman shall organize and lead the evaluation of its work, including planning for the year. Board’s efforts to create the best possible conditions for this work. The Board’s evaluation of its work has been carried out with the The Chairman’s task is to ensure that new members of the Board assistance of external consultants, through questionnaires and receive adequate initial training and other training that the Chairindividual interviews with the Board Members and the CEO. The man and such new members of the Board agree to be appropriate, result of the interviews have since been compiled by the consultant that members of the Board regularly update and deepen their and submitted to the Board. The Committee has also taken note of knowledge of the Company, that the Board receives sufficient inforthe evaluation report. mation and documentation for its work, that the proposed agenda The Board’s evaluation indicated that the Board work functioned for Board meetings is adopted after consultation with the Chief well and that opinions regarding the evaluation for 2018 were taken Executive Officer, that the Board’s decisions are implemented and into account, but that there is room for some further improvements. that the work of the Board of Directors is evaluated annually. The evaluation also showed that the Board is a well-composed group The Chairman is responsible for contacts with the owners regardwith extensive commitment and that the members contribute broad ing ownership issues and for conveying the view of the owners to expertise and have extensive experience from various areas that are the Board. The Chairman is not part of Group Management and also relevant to Serneke’s operations. does not participate in the operating work in the company. Remuneration to the Board of Directors The work of the Board of Directors The 2018 Annual General Meeting resolved that fees totaling SEK The Board follows written procedures that are reviewed annually 2,500,000 would be paid to the Board, with the Chairman receivand adopted at the constituent meeting. These rules of procedure ing SEK 750,000, each of the other members of the Board not regulate the Board’s work, tasks, decision-making within the Comemployed by the Company receiving SEK 250,000, the Chairman pany, Board meeting procedure, the Chairman’s responsibilities and of the Audit Committee receiving SEK 100,000 and the other two an appropriate division of tasks between the Board and the CEO. members receiving SEK 50,000. For work in the Remuneration Instructions regarding financial reporting and instructions for the Committee, no fee is payable to the chair (included as a part of the Chief Executive Officer are also defined in conjunction with the Chairman of the Board members ordinary compensation) and SEK ­constituent Board meeting. 25,000 each to the other two members. The Nomination CommitThe work of the Board is also based on an annual meeting schedtee’s proposal on remuneration prior to the 2019 Annual General ule that meets the Board’s needs for information. The meeting plan Meeting is presented by the convening notice for the Annual shall be designed so that the meetings coincide with the production ­General Meeting. of quarterly reports, financial statements and financial statements. The Board as a whole handles matters of internal control incumbent Board Committees upon the Board. In addition to Board meetings, the Chairman of the Serneke’s Board has two ordinary committees: the Audit Committee Board and the Chief Executive Officer maintain an ongoing dialog and the Remuneration Committee. The work conducted in the comconcerning the management of Serneke. mittees is reported continuously to the Board. The committees shall The Board meets according to an annual schedule and must hold be seen as working committees for the Board and do not take over at least five regular meetings between Annual General Meetings. In responsibility that is incumbent on the Board as a whole. addition to these meetings, further meetings can be arranged to address issues that cannot be postponed to any of the regular 6. Audit committee meetings. During the 2018 financial year, the Board has held 24 Mari Broman succeeded Susanne Lithander as the Chair of the meetings, for all of which minutes were recorded. Audit Committee during the year. The other member was Ludwig Mattsson. The Audit Committee’s main task is to monitor Serneke’s financial reporting, monitor the efficiency of the Company’s internal control, internal audit and risk management with respect to financial reporting and make recommendations and suggestions to ensure reporting accuracy. The Audit Committee shall, in cooperation with Serneke’s auditor, ensuring audit planning, monitoring, and auditing status for the annual report and consolidated financial statements and the conclusions of the Supervisory Board of Public Accountants’ quality control. 60 Corporate governance WORK OF THE BOARD IN 2018 DECEMBER FEBRUARY/MARCH DEC JAN Board Board • Budget and business objectives • Year-end report • Corporate governance NOV FEB • Dividend proposal • Monitoring and evaluation of • Preparation for the Annual the Board’s work General Meeting • Corporate Governance Report OCT MARS • Board evaluation • Audit Status financial audit Audit committee • Audit Status financial audit SEP APRIL • Evaluation of auditors SEPTEMBER/OCTOBER Remuneration Committee • Evaluation of the work of the Board AUG MAY CEO and management team • Interim Report third quarter as well as planning for future • Strategic development, evaluation, needs strategic direction and goals JULY JUNE • Overall wages and conditions policy for the Group Audit committee • Remuneration of senior • Evaluation of internal controls and executives, including the risk management proposed guidelines for • Review of the auditors’ examinaAnnual General Meeting APRIL/MAY decisions tion of the interim report • Review of policies Board Audit committee • Interim Report first quarter Statutory Meeting • Audit plan • Audit Plan • Board and Committees rules • Evaluation of incentive of procedure, the CEO’s JULY programs instruction • Members of the Audit and Board Remuneration Committee • Interim Report second quarter 61 Corporate governance In addition, the audit committee shall oversee the impartiality framework structure and comprises the continuous monitoring of and independence of the auditor, and in particular, where approprifive critical business processes, and for each process a number of ate, pre-approve all other permitted services the auditor provides. controls are then carried out of essential activities and events. The Audit Committee also evaluates the audit work and informs Among other things, the Board shall ensure that Serneke has ahead of appointment of auditor, the Company’s nomination comgood internal control and formalized routines ensuring that the mittee on the results of the evaluation and assists the Nomination established principles for financial reporting and internal control are Committee in preparing proposals for appointment of auditors and adhered to and that there are effective systems for monitoring and audit fees. controlling the Company’s operations and the risks with which the The Board of Directors believes that the requirement that at least Company and its operations are associated. one Board Member shall be independent and have accounting or The overall purpose of the internal control is to ensure to a reaauditing skills has been met. sonable extent that the Company’s operating strategies and targets The Audit Committee held seven minuted meetings in 2018. In are monitored and that the owners’ investments are protected. The these meetings, the auditor’s review of the financial statements and internal control shall also ensure that the external financial reportthe Company’s internal controls has been reported and discussed. ing is, with a reasonable degree of certainty, reliable and prepared in accordance with good accounting practices and applicable 7. Remuneration Committee laws, that regulations are complied with and that the requirements The Remuneration Committee consists of Kent Sander (Chair), imposed on listed companies are met. Serneke’s policies and Anna-Karin Celsing and Ludwig Mattsson. The CEO presents instructions are reviewed annually. This report on Serneke’s internal ­matters not involving remunerations to the CEO. control is prepared in accordance with the Swedish Code of CorpoThe Remuneration Committee is responsible for reviewing and rate Governance and mainly includes the following components. recommending to the Board the principles for the terms and remuneration of the Company’s senior executives. Control environment The Remuneration Committee shall evaluate the CEO annually. The Board bears the overall responsibility for internal control Questions concerning the CEO’s terms of employment, remuneraregarding financial reporting. To create and maintain a functioning tion and benefits are prepared by the Remuneration Committee and control environment, the Board has adopted a number of policies approved by the Board. and governance documents that regulate the financial reporting. An important part of the Remuneration Committee’s tasks is to These primarily comprise the Board’s agenda, instructions for the ensure that the right skills are available in the Group’s key positions. CEO and instructions for financial reporting. The Board has also The Committee conducts an annual review and evaluation of the adopted specific authorization rules and a financial policy. The management organization based on specific criteria and requireCompany also has a financial manual containing principles, guidements to meet future needs. The evaluation takes place both as lines and process descriptions for accounting and financial individual conversations and with the CEO presenting. reporting. The Committee has had two meetings regarding remuneration This manual is updated regularly to reflect changes in legal and a number of reconciliations by telephone and e-mail throughrequirements, listing requirements and/or accounting standards. out the year. The handbook is also a detailed time and activity plan for the Company’s financial closing and reporting process. Dates of 8. Internal control reporting are published in the Group’s financial calendar, availThe Board’s responsibility for internal control is regulated in the able via its website. Code and the Swedish Companies Act, which requires that informaThe Board has also established an Audit Committee whose main tion on the principal features of Serneke’s system of internal control task is to monitor the Company’s financial position, monitor the and risk management in connection with financial reporting be effectiveness of the Company’s internal control, internal audit and included each year in the Corporate Governance Report – and the risk management, to stay informed about the auditing of the finanCode. cial statements and to review and monitor the impartiality and indeThe Company has established and complies with an internal conpendence of the auditor. The Board also receives reports from the trol plan adopted by the Board. The plan is based on the COSO Serneke’s auditor. 62 Corporate governance Risk assessment Need for internal audit The Board receives further information on risk management, interThe efficiency of the internal audit is largely dependent on the Companal control and financial reporting by the auditor through the Audit ny’s organizational structure and size of the organization. Serneke has Committee or Board meetings with the auditor present. a relatively small organization in which the financial, economic and In a special risk assessment document, Serneke’s Board has idenrental administration is conducted from the company’s offices in tified and evaluated the risks incurred in the Company’s operations, Gothenburg. Review of financial statements and accounts is conand assessed how the risks can be managed. Within the Board, it is ducted monthly of the various functions within the Company and those primarily the Audit Committee that is responsible for continuously of the Company management and the Board. Overall, this means that it assessing the Company’s risk situation, after which the Board also is not considered necessary to conduct a separate internal audit. conducts an annual review of the risk situation. The significant risks that Serneke has identified are misstatement Monitoring of the financial statements and the valuation of ongoing projects, Compliance with the internal controls and their efficacy is monicontracts, control and documentation of IT risks and the loss or tored on an ongoing basis. The CEO ensures that the Board continumisappropriation of assets on the sale of subsidiaries and properously receives reports on the development of the Company’s operaties. The Company has established procedures to prevent and tions, including the development of the Company’s profits and detect irregularities and fraud that could materially affect the comfinancial position, as well as information about significant events. pany’s financial position. 9. Chief Executive Officer and Management Control activities The role of the Chief Executive Officer is subordinate to the Board Control activities mitigate the risks identified and ensure accurate of Directors and the main task is to attend to the ongoing manageand reliable financial reporting. The Board is responsible for internal ment of the Company and its day-to-day operations. The Board’s control and monitoring of Company management. This involves rules of procedure and instructions for the Chief Executive Officer both internal and external control activities, and by reviewing and clarify which issues the Company’s Board of Directors shall decide monitoring the Company’s governance documents. An important on and which decisions should be made by the Chief Executive Offipart of Serneke’s control activities include standardized reporting cer. The Chief Executive Officer also produces reports and essential and clear and documented work procedures and responsibilities. documentation necessary to make decisions at Board meetings and Controls are carried out monthly both manually and automatically presents the material at Board meetings. by system support, and compiled in a report to the CFO who then In addition to the CEO, Serneke has ten senior executives, see informs the CEO and Board of the outcome. pages 66–67. Management and review Remuneration to senior executives Continuous monitoring of performance outcomes occurs at multiIn 2018, a total of SEK 16.8 million was paid in fixed remuneration to ple levels in the Group, both at the corporate level and at the Group the Company’s senior executives (Group Management). The total level. Budget and forecasts are reviewed. The results are analyzed gross remuneration paid to the CEO and Group Management, by the contracting operations and the administrative and accountincluding base salary, pension premiums, car and health insurance ing departments. benefits amounted to SEK 21.6 million in 2018, of which SEK 4.0 The teams report to the CEO and Board of Directors. According million constituted remuneration to the CEO. to the Board’s instructions to the Audit Committee, the Committee shall annually have at least one meeting where the Company’s Principles for remuneration to senior executives auditors attend without the presence of employees in Serneke. The The Annual General Meeting of May 3, 2018 adopted the following auditors shall report on audit scope and on their observations made guidelines for remuneration and other terms of employment for during the audit and internal control. The proceedings of the Audit senior executives. In this context, “senior executives” refers to the Committee meetings are entered in the minutes, which are provided CEO and other senior managers in the Serneke Group. These remuto the Board. neration guidelines also apply to members of the Board to the extent these receive compensation for services rendered to the Serneke Group beyond their roles as members of the Board. 63 Corporate governance Serneke shall apply remuneration levels and other terms of Transactions with Adapta are considered to constitute related employment necessary to be able to recruit and retain senior execparty transactions since the principal owner, Ludwig Mattsson, is a utives with the expertise and capacity to achieve the established member of the Board of Serneke Group. The transactions consist targets, and that are designed to promote long-term generation of mainly of construction contracts and rental of Serneke’s headquarvalue by the Company. ters. Transactions with Ola Serneke Invest AB are considered to be Remuneration shall be paid in the form of fixed salary, other benrelated party transactions, as Ola Serneke is the principal owner, CEO efits and pension. No variable remuneration shall be paid. Pension and a member of the Board of Serneke Group AB. The transactions benefits shall be contribution-based, with retirement age set indiare mainly comprised of an acquisition of an investment property vidually, albeit not lower than at 60 years of age. The period of (Landskrona Örja 34:34) and rents. Transactions with Michael Berglin notice shall normally be six months if the executive resigns. On terare considered to constitute related party transactions as Michael mination by the Company, the notice period and the period during Berglin is a member of Group Management for Serneke Group AB. which severance pay applies should not exceed 12 months. In speThe transactions are comprised of construction contracts. cial cases, it shall be possible for Board Members to receive fees for No company in the Group has entered into agreements that give services rendered in their respective areas of expertise that do not Board Members or members of management entitlement to beneconstitute Board work. For these services, a market-based fee shall fits after each respective assignment is completed. be paid, which must be approved by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors shall be entitled to deviate from these guidelines Regulations where specific reasons exist. External rules As a Swedish public limited company with securities listed on Nasdaq Additional information regarding the Board of Directors Stockholm, Serneke is obliged to comply with the Swedish Compaand management nies Act, Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule Book for Issuers and the Code. According to the Code, Chairman of the Board Kent Sander and Board Members Mari Broman and Anna-Karin Cellsing are indepenDeviations from the Code, market rules or generally accepted dent of Serneke, Company management and its principal owners. practice on the stock market Board member Ludwig Mattson represents more than 10 percent The Company has not deviated from the Code or market rules. In of the vote and is regarded as dependent in relation to major shareaddition, the Company has also not been subject to decisions in holders. Ola Serneke, CEO of Serneke Group AB holds more than 10 the Nasdaq Stockholm Disciplinary Board or decisions of violations percent of the votes and therefore is dependent in relation to major of generally accepted practice on the stock market by the Securities shareholders and the company. Council. None of the members of Serneke’s Board of Directors or Group Management have any family ties to any other member of Serneke’s Internal rules Board of Directors or Group Management. Serneke has a number of internal regulations that together with There are also no conflicts of interest, through which Board the external rules constitute the framework for the operations. The Members or members of Group Management’s private interests central regulations comprise the Articles of Association, the formal could conflict with the Company’s interests. Board member Ludwig work plan for the Board and committees, the CEO’s instructions Mattsson has a 25 percent shareholding in Lommen Holding AB. including instructions for financial reporting, instructions on Among other holdings, Lommen Holding AB owns the Adapta Group, ­handling conflicts of interest and the delegation of authority. which buys contracting services from Serneke, and holds 10 perThe Company’s internal rules with regard to ethics and sustaincent in Änglagården Holding AB, a company in which Serneke holds ability are collected in the sustainability policy and the business 40 percent of shares. ethics policy. Linked to the sustainability policy and the business ethics policy, there are guidelines that describe practical application Related-party transactions in the daily operations. In addition to this, there are the following Related-party transactions in the Serneke Group are normally basic policies: the finance policy, the policy for risk management, attributed to contracting assignments, financing and purchasing of insider policy and communication policy. consulting services. The main objective is to generate more transAll employees have a responsibility for the Company complying actions, primarily in the form of construction projects. with external and internal rules. Employees are encouraged to report improprieties in the Company’s operations. Such a report can be made to the immediate superior, the safety delegate or to the HR department. 64 Corporate governance Board of Directors KENT SANDER MARI BROMAN LUDWIG MATTSSON OLA SERNEKE ANNA-KARIN CELSING Born 1953 1951 1983 1971 1962 Nationality Swedish Swedish Swedish Swedish Swedish Function Member of the Board and Board member since 2015. Member of the Board since Member of the Board since Board member since 2018. Chairman of the Board since Chairman of the Audit 2012. Member of the 2004 and CEO since 2008. Member of the Remunera2017. Chairman of the Committee. Remuneration Committee tion Committee. Remuneration Committee. and Audit Committee. Education Graduate Business AdminisMA in political science, Graduate Business AdminMaster of Engineering, Graduate Business Admintrator, Stockholm University. Gothenburg University. istrator, Stockholm School Chalmers University of istrator, Stockholm School of Economics. Technology. of Economics. Experience More than 30 years’ experiDeputy CEO, Riksbyggen, CEO of Gavia Group, assignPresident and CEO of Head of Investor Relations ence of senior positions in chairman and member of ments in the Gavia Group Serneke Group AB. Founder Swedbank, CIO Ratos, forinternational telecom and the Boards of several propand assignments in the of Serneke Group AB. mer member of the Boards high-tech IT companies. erty companies and indusLommen Group. of the Swedish Financial Kent Sander has been the try bodies. Supervisory Authority, CEO of TruePosition, held Tengbom, the Royal Opera. the position of Executive Consultant in strategy, VP Sales at Ericsson in the financing and corporate U.S. and the Chairman of governance. the Board of Transmode. Other assignments Chairman of the Boards of Chairman of the Board of Chairman of the Board of Member of the Boards of Chairman of the Board of Tobii AB, OnePhone Holding IQ Samhällsbyggnad AB Adapta Fastigheter AB and Änglagården Fastighets­ Sveriges Television AB, AB, Triboron International AB and Sharing Capabilities AB. Deputy member of the utveckling AB and Götemember of the Boards of and Mr Green & Co AB. Member of the Boards of Board of other companies in borgs Nya Arena drift och Landshypotek Bank AB, Member of the Boards of Forserum Safety Glass AB the Adapta Group. Chairman event AB. Member of the Lannebo Fonder AB, OX2 Expander Business Consultand ChromoGenics AB. of the Board of Lommen Boards and President of Group and Volati AB. ing AB, BT OnePhone Ltd Invest AS and member of the Ola Serneke Invest AB, and Incell Internationall AB. Boards of other companies Landskrona Fröfabriks­ in the Lommen Group. Chairutvecklings AB. Member man of the Board of Spisa of several cooperative Holding AB and member of societies and, in addition, the Boards of Ativo Finans several assignments as AB, Änglagården Holding AB, Chairman of the Board, Änglagården Fastighetsutmember of the Board or veckling AB and GBG Nya President of companies Arena Drift och Event AB. within the Serneke Group. AGM-approved SEK 750,000 SEK 350,000 SEK 325,000 – SEK 275,000 remuneration Holdings in Serneke 0 shares 909 Class B shares in 540,000 Class A shares 3,710,000 Class A shares 0 shares Group AB, own and Serneke Group AB (publ). and 3,475,803 Class B and 2,342,399 Class B related parties, shares in Serneke Group AB shares in Serneke Group AB Dec 2018 (publ). (publ). Independent of Yes Yes No No Yes major shareholders Independence to Yes Yes Yes No Yes the Company and its management Member of Remuneration Committee Audit committee Audit committee Not a member Remuneration Committee committee Remuneration Committee Meeting Board meetings 24/24 Board meetings 23/24 Board meetings 23/24 Board meetings 22/24 Board meetings 18/24* attendance Remuneration Committee 2/2 Audit Committee 7/7 Audit Committee 6/7 Audit Committee 4/4 Remuneration Committee 2/2 * A nna-Karin Celsing attended all Board meetings since she joined at the Annual General Meeting 2018. 65 Corporate governance Management OLA SERNEKE MICHAEL BERGLIN ANDERS DÜRING DANIEL ÅSTENIUS FREDRIK JONSSON Born 1971 1973 1965 1971 1976 Nationality Swedish Swedish Swedish Swedish Swedish Function CEO Deputy CEO CFO Business Area Manager Head of Business Area Civil Construction, President Engineering, President of of Serneke Bygg AB Serneke Anläggning AB Employed 2002 2012 2017 2007 2014 since Education Master of Engineering, Structural engineering proExecutive MBA Finance & Structural engineer, MSc Project Management, Chalmers University of gram, University of Borås, Accounting, University of Chalmers University of University of Northumbria, Technology, 1998. 1994, and upper-secondary Gothenburg, 1998 and MSc Technology, 1992. Newcastle, 2001 and BSc engineering program, Sven Business Administration, Civil Engineering, Structural Erikson upper-secondary University of Gothenburg, Engineering, Chalmers Unischool, Borås, 1992. 1990. versity of Technology, 2000. Experience President and CEO of Head of a claims departCFO KappAhl AB (publ.) Senior positions within Assignments within the Serneke Group AB. Founder ment, Folksam 2000–2012 2013–2017, CFO Volvo IT Serneke. Previous assignBilfinger Group, including of Serneke Group AB. and assignments in NCC and 2007–2013, Group Controlments as structural engias Project Manager and Skanska in 1994–2000. ler & CIO Ballingslöv 2003– neer and project manager Regional Manager for the 2006. Worked as a consulwithin the Startec Group period 2007–2014, as well tant at Arthur D. Little and 1992–1998, and owner, as Production Manager at Andersen Consulting, President and project manSkanska – 2001–2007. 1990–2003. ager within Ledge Ing AB 1998–2007. Other Member of the Boards of Several assignments in the Assignments as a Board Assignments as a Board assignments Änglagården FastighetsutSerneke Group as a Board member in the Serneke member in the Serneke veckling AB and Göteborgs member. Also assignments Group. Member of the Group. Nya Arena drift och event as a member of the Boards of Board and President of AB. Member of the Boards associated companies and Ledge Ing AB. and President of Ola Serneke joint ventures, such as Invest AB, Landskrona Änglagården Fastighetsut­Fröfabriksutvecklings AB. veckling AB and Göteborgs Member of several cooperaNya Arena drift och event AB. tive societies and, in addition, several assignments as Chairman of the Board, member of the Board or President of companies within the Serneke Group. Holdings, 3,710,000 Class A shares 264,500 Class B shares in 2,000 Class B shares in 330,000 Class A shares and 45,000 Class B shares in Dec 2018 and 2,342,399 Class B Serneke Group AB (publ). Serneke Group AB (publ). 459,980 Class B shares in Serneke Group AB (publ). shares in Serneke Group AB Serneke Group AB (indirectly (publ). through Ledge Ing AB). 66 Corporate governance PATRIK LINDSTRÖM KRISTER JOHANSSON DANIEL MODÉUS JONAS FJELLMAN ROBIN GERUM 1972 1970 1970 1979 1987 Swedish Swedish Swedish Swedish Swedish Business Area Manager Business Area Manager General Counsel HR Director Director of Business DevelProject Development, Property, President of opment President Serneke Serneke Fastighet AB Projektutveckling AB. 2014 2016 2018 2017 2017 Master of Engineering in Civil Upper-secondary engineerGraduate in Law, University M.Sc. Political Science, UniM.Sc. Finance and InvestEngineering, Royal Institute ing program, Property of Lund, 1998. versity of Gothenburg 2005. ments, Rotterdam School of of Technology, 1997 and Development Masterclass Management, 2012, and Graduate Engineer, ConDiploma B.Sc. Business Administrastruction, Royal Institute of tion, University of New Technology, 1994. Hampshire, 2011. Assignments within the President of FastighetsakModéus Advokatbyrå 2012– Senior positions in HR since Corporate Finance at CarnePeab Group 1999–2014, tiebolaget Tornstaden 2018, lawyer Stockholms 2008. 2011–2017 within gie Investment Bank 2012– including management 2014–2016, Construction Byggmästareföreningen IAC Group, most recently as 2017 and Private Equity at positions during the period Manager Mölndalsbostäder 2007–2011, Advokatfirman the HR Director Europe. Liberty Lane Partners 2011. 2008–2014. Trainee, AB 2009–2014, Technical Foyen 2005–2007, Celsus Skanska AB 1997–1998. Manager Mölndalsbostäder Advokatbyrå 2000–2005. AB 2004–2009, Operations Manager Mölndalsbostäder AB 1998–2004, Consultant at Bengt Dahlgren AB 1994–1998. Chairman of the Board of Form Factory of Sweden AB, member of the Board of Fagered Invest AB, deputy member of the Board of Alera AB. 20,000 Class B shares and 191 Class B shares and 5,000 Class B shares in 634 convertibles in Serneke 6,000 Class B shares and 7,000 convertibles in 1,902 convertibles in Serneke Group AB (publ). Group AB (publ). 25,364 convertibles in Serneke Group AB). Serneke Group AB). Serneke Group AB). 67 MULTI-YEAR SUMMARY Multi-year summary SEK M Jan–Dec 2018 Jan–Dec 2017 Jan–Dec 2016 Jan–Dec 2015 Jan–Dec 2014 Income statement Revenue 6,516 5,605 3,978 3,107 1,800 Operating result 595 419 411 128 82 Profit after net financial items 558 401 394 112 70 Profit/loss for the year 604 323 394 137 68 Balance sheet Non-current assets 1,094 1,682 1,160 408 204 Current assets 4,461 2,722 2,277 1,244 1,156 Total assets 5,555 4,404 3,437 1,652 1,360 Shareholders’ equity 2,272 1,821 1,469 453 280 Non-current liabilities 1,289 980 764 398 196 Current liabilities 1,994 1,603 1,204 801 884 Total equity and liabilities 5,555 4,404 3,437 1,652 1,360 Orders* Order bookings 4,692 6,400 5,539 5,094 Order backlog 6,382 7,965 7,041 5,125 Staff Average number of employees 1,070 942 779 618 479 Key indicators Growth, % 16.3 40.9 28.0 72.6 57.5 Organic growth, % 16.2 39.1 28.0 51.8 41.3 Operating margin, % 9.1 7.5 10.3 4.1 4.6 Earnings per share , SEK, before dilution 26.37 13.94 22.40 8.49 4.73 Earnings per share , SEK, after dilution 26.16 13.81 21.22 8.11 4.37 Cash flow before financing –212 –272 –156 32 4 Cash flow from operations per share, SEK before dilution 11.57 2.03 2.56 2.23 3.83 Cash flow from operations per share, SEK after dilution 11.48 2.01 2.42 2.13 3.53 Working capital 2,467 1,119 1,073 443 272 Capital employed 3,264 2,516 1,985 670 695 Return on capital employed, % 21.9 21.6 31.8 19.0 16.2 Return on equity after taxes, % 29.5 19.6 41.0 37.4 29.7 Equity per share, SEK, before dilution 101.28 78.33 64.67 27.35 17.68 Equity per share , SEK after dilution 100.47 77.73 62.83 25.79 17.68 Equity/assets ratio, % 40.9 41.3 42.7 27.4 20.6 Net debt 552 254 –37 223 313 Net debt/equity ratio, % 24.3 13.9 –2.5 49.2 111.8 Average number of shares before dilution 22,905,389 23,169,394 17,590,630 16,141,542 14,375,892 Average number of shares after dilution 23,085,392 23,396,120 18,567,901 16,891,542 15,576,345 *Order backlog and order intake reported accordingly from January 2015 68 Financial definitions Financial definitions KEY INDICATORS DEFINITION PURPOSE Revenue Within the construction operations, income is reported in In the Company’s view, the key indicator allows investors, accordance with the percentage-of-completion method. who so wish, to assess the Company’s earnings capacity. This income is recognized in pace with construction projects within the Company being completed. For project development, revenues and gains on disposals of land and development rights are recognized at the point in time at which the material risks and benefits are transferred to the buyer, which normally coincides with the transfer of ownership, as well as other income, such as rental income. In the Parent Company, income corresponds to invoiced income of Group-wide services and rental income. Growth Revenues for the period less revenues for the previous In the Company’s view, the key indicator allows investors, period divided by revenues for the previous period. who so wish, to assess the Company’s capacity to increase its earnings. Organic growth Revenues for the period, adjusted for acquired growth, In the Company’s view, the key indicator allows investors, less revenues for the previous period, adjusted for who so wish, to assess the Company’s capacity to increase acquired growth, divided by revenues for the previous its income without acquiring operating companies. period, adjusted for acquired growth. Jan–Dec Jan–Dec Calculation of organic growth 2018 2017 Income current period 6,516 5,605 Income corresponding period previous period 5,605 3,978 Income change 911 1,627 Adjustment for structural effect –1 –70 Total organic growth 910 1,557 Total organic growth (%) 16.2 39.1 Order bookings The value of new projects and changes in existing projIn Serneke’s view, the key indicator allows investors, who ects during the period. so wish, to assess the Group’s sales by Business Area ­C onstruction and Business Area Civil Engineering for the current period. Order backlog The value of the Company’s undelivered orders at the end In the Company’s view, the key indicator allows investors, of the period excluding cooperation agreements. who so wish, to assess the Company’s income through Business Area Construction and Business Area Civil ­Engineering in future periods. 69 Financial definitions KEY INDICATORS DEFINITION PURPOSE Operating margin Operating profit divided by revenues. In the Company’s view, the key indicator allows investors, who so wish, to assess the Company’s profitability. Working capital Current assets less current liabilities. In the Company’s view, the key indicator allows investors, who so wish, to assess the Company’s tied-up capital in relation to its competitors. Capital employed Consolidated total assets less deferred tax assets less In the Company’s view, the key indicator allows investors, non-interest-bearing liabilities including deferred tax liawho so wish, to assess the total capital placed at the bilities. For the business areas, the net of Group-internal ­C ompany’s disposal by shareholders and creditors. receivables and liabilities is also deducted. Calculation of capital employed Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Total assets 5,555 4,404 Other deferred tax assets – – Less non-interest-bearing liabilities including deferred tax liabilities –2,291 –1,888 Capital employed 3,264 2,516 Return on capital Profit after net financial items plus financial expenses In the Company’s view, the key indicator allows investors, employed divided by average capital employed for the period. Accuwho so wish, to assess the Company’s capacity to genermulated interim periods are based on rolling 12-month ate a return on the total capital placed at the Company’s earnings. disposal by shareholders and creditors. Calculation of average capital employed Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 December 31, 2018 (3,264) + December 31, 2017 (2,516) / 2 2,890 December 31, 2017 (2516) + December 31, 2016 (1,985) / 2 2,251 Calculation of return on capital employed Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Profit after net financial items 558 401 Plus financial expenses 75 85 Average capital employed 2,890 2,251 Return on capital employed, % 21.9% 21.6% 70 Financial definitions KEY INDICATORS DEFINITION PURPOSE Return on equity Profit for the period as a percentage of average shareIn the Company’s view, the key indicator allows investors, holders’ equity. Accumulated interim periods are based who so wish, to assess the Company’s capacity to generon rolling 12-month earnings. ate a return on the capital shareholders have placed at the Company’s disposal. Calculation of average shareholders’ equity Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 December 31, 2018 (2,272) + December 31, 2017 (1,821) / 2 2,047 December 31, 2017 (1,821) + December 31, 2016 (1,469) / 2 1,645 Calculation of return on shareholders’ equity Dec 31, 2017 Earnings for the period 604 323 Average shareholders’ equity 2,047 1,645 Return on equity % 29.5% 19.6% Equity/assets ratio Shareholders’ equity less minority interests as a percentThe equity/assets ratio shows the proportion of total age of total assets. assets represented by shareholders’ equity and has been included to allow investors to be able to assess the Company’s capital structure. Net debt Interest-bearing liabilities less liquid assets less interNet debt is a measure deemed relevant for creditors and est-bearing receivables. credit rating agencies. Net debt/equity Interest-bearing net debt divided by shareholders’ equity. Net debt/equity ratio is a measure deemed relevant for ratio creditors and credit rating agencies . Equity per share, Total equity according to the balance sheet divided by the The Company believes that key indicators give investors a before/after dilution number of shares outstanding on the closing date. The better understanding of historical return per share at the difference between before and after dilution is closing date. accounted for by the convertibles issued by the Group. Cash flow from operCash flow from operating activities divided by the averIt is the Company’s view that the key indicator gives invesations per share, age number of shares for the period. The difference tors a better understanding of the operations’ cash flow in before/after dilution between before and after dilution is accounted for by the relation to the number of shares, adjusted for changes in convertibles issued by the Group. the number of shares during the period. Earnings per share, Profit/loss for the period divided by the average number It is the Company’s view that the key indicator gives invesbefore/after dilution of shares outstanding during the period. The difference tors a better understanding of profit per share. between before and after dilution is accounted for by the convertibles issued by the Group. 71 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Consolidated income statement SEK million Note 2018 2017 Revenue 5, 6, 7 6,516 5,605 Production and administration expenses –6,273 –5,299 Gross profit 243 306 Sales and administration expenses –134 –151 Change in value of investment properties 18 281 238 Revaluation of previous holdings in joint ventures 21 229 Share in profit of associates and joint ventures 21 –24 26 Operating result 8, 9, 10, 11 595 419 Financial income 12 38 18 Financial expenses 13 –75 –36 Net financial items –37 –18 Earnings after financial items 558 401 Taxes 15 46 –78 Profit/loss for the year 604 323 Attributable to: Parent Company’s shareholders 607 323 Non-controlling interests –3 0 Earnings per share Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 26.37 13.94 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 26.16 13.81 Weighted average number of ordinary shares before dilution, number of shares 22,905,389 23,169,394 Weighted average number of ordinary shares after dilution, number of shares 23,085,392 23,396,120 72 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Consolidated statement of comprehensive income SEK million Note 2018 2017 Profit/loss for the year 604 323 Other comprehensive income Items that may be reclassified to profit/loss: Translation differences for the year 0 0 Total comprehensive income 604 323 Attributable to: Parent Company’s shareholders 607 323 Non-controlling interests –3 0 73 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Consolidated statement of financial position SEK million Note Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible fixed assets 17 23 23 Managed properties 18 213 895 Other tangible fixed assets 19 122 95 Participations in associated companies and joint ventures 21 122 446 Non-current interest-bearing receivables 22 51 10 Other non-current receivables 22 563 213 Total non-current assets 1,094 1,682 Current assets Project and development properties 23 2,507 283 Inventories 24 1 1 Accounts receivable 25 972 845 Accrued but not invoiced income 26 398 319 Prepaid expenses and deferred income 27 36 57 Other current receivables 28 158 786 Cash and bank balances 389 431 Total current assets 4,461 2,722 Total assets 5,555 4,404 74 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION SEK million Note Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders’ equity 29 Share capital 2 2 Other capital contributions 807 806 Translation reserve –1 –1 Retained earnings including profit/loss for the year 1,463 1,014 Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders 2,271 1,821 Non-controlling interests 1 0 Total shareholders’ equity 2,272 1,821 Non-current liabilities Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 30 826 641 Other non-current liabilities 30 83 152 Deferred tax liability 31 157 29 Other provisions 32 223 158 Total long-term liabilities 1,289 980 Current liabilities Current interest-bearing liabilities 30 166 54 Accounts payable 991 799 Current tax liabilities 13 8 Other current liabilities 180 185 Invoiced but not accrued income 26 532 297 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 33 112 260 Total current liabilities 1,994 1,603 Total equity and liabilities 5,555 4,404 75 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUIT Y Consolidated statement of changes in equity Retained Total equity earnings attributable including to Parent NonTotal Other capital Translation profit/loss for Company controlling shareholders’ SEK million Share capital contributions reserve the year shareholders interests equity Opening balance as at January 1, 2017 2 777 –1 691 1,469 0 1,469 Total comprehensive income Profit/loss for the year 323 323 0 323 Other comprehensive income Translation differences 0 0 Total other comprehensive income, after tax 0 0 0 0 0 Total comprehensive income 0 323 323 0 323 Transactions with shareholders: New share issue 0 2 2 2 Conversion, convertible debenture loans 0 27 27 27 Total transactions with shareholders 0 29 29 29 Closing balance as at December 31, 2017 2 806 –1 1,014 1,821 0 1,821 Opening balance as at January 1, 2018 2 806 –1 1,014 1,821 0 1,821 Total comprehensive income Profit/loss for the year 607 607 –3 604 Other comprehensive income Translation differences 0 0 Total other comprehensive income, after tax 0 0 0 0 0 Total comprehensive income 0 607 607 –3 604 Transactions with shareholders: Acquisition of non-controlling interests 4 4 Share-related compensation 0 1 1 1 Dividend 0 0 –93 –93 –93 Share repurchases –65 –65 –65 Total transactions with shareholders 0 1 -158 –158 4 –158 Closing balance as at December 31, 2018 2 807 -1 1,463 2,271 1 2,272 76 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW Consolidated statement of cash flow SEK million Note 2018 2017 Cash flow from current operations Operating result 595 419 Adjustment for non-cash items 35 –570 –195 Interest received 38 3 Interest paid –75 –33 Income taxes paid 5 –2 –7 192 Decrease (+)/increase (–) in project and development properties –62 –41 Decrease (+)/increase (–) in inventories 0 1 Decrease (+)/increase (–) in accounts receivable –127 –248 Decrease (+)/increase (–) in receivables 488 –139 Decrease (+)/increase (–) in accrued but not invoiced –136 –67 Decrease (–)/increase (+) in accounts payable 189 258 Decrease (–)/increase (+) in current liabilities –315 –34 Decrease (+)/increase (–) in invoiced but not accrued income 235 125 Cash flow from current operations 265 47 Investment activities Acquisition of fixed assets –90 –62 Acquisitions of investment properties –26 –248 Sale of investment properties 222 Sale of fixed assets 23 0 Business acquisitions –592 –8 Investments in associated companies –23 Divestments/decrease of financial assets 9 –1 Cash flow from investment activities –477 –319 Financing activities New share issue 29 2 Borrowings 35 691 218 Convertible debenture loans raised 35 8 Amortization of loans 35 –338 –79 Share repurchases –65 Dividend paid –93 Changes in financing activities 35 –25 –17 Cash flow from financing activities 170 132 Cash flow for the year –42 –140 Cash and equivalents at the beginning of the year 431 571 Cash and equivalents at year-end 389 431 77 PARENT COMPANY INCOME STATEMENT Parent Company income statement SEK million Note 2018 2017 Revenue 6 143 117 Sales and administration expenses 8 –113 –136 Operating result 9, 10, 11 30 –19 Impairment on participations in Group companies 20 –4 Financial income 12 2 1 Financial expenses 13 –48 –24 Net financial items –50 –23 Year-end appropriations 14 22 33 Profit after financial items and appropriations 2 –9 Tax on profit/loss for the year 15 –19 –24 Profit/loss for the year –17 –33 78 STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME, PARENT COMPANY Parent Company statement of comprehensive income SEK million Note 2018 2017 Profit/loss for the year –17 –33 Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income –17 –33 79 BAL ANCE SHEE T, PARENT COMPANY Parent Company balance sheet SEK million Note Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 ASSETS Non-current assets Tangible fixed assets Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 19 12 5 Total tangible fixed assets 12 5 Financial assets Participations in Group companies 20 162 127 Participations in associated companies and joint ventures 21 10 Deferred tax assets 31 10 29 Other long-term receivables 22 2 2 Total financial fixed assets 184 158 Total non-current assets 196 163 Current assets Project and development properties 23 3 3 Current receivables Receivables from Group companies 1,553 903 Other current receivables 28 1 6 Prepaid expenses and deferred income 27 18 9 Total current receivables 1,572 918 Cash and bank balances 310 392 Total current assets 1,885 1,313 TOTAL ASSETS 2,081 1,476 80 BAL ANCE SHEE T, PARENT COMPANY SEK million Note Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders’ equity 29 Restricted equity Share capital 2 2 Statutory reserve 1 1 3 3 Non-restricted equity Share premium reserve 803 803 Profit/loss brought forward –284 –94 Profit/loss for the year –17 –33 502 676 Total shareholders’ equity 505 679 Non-current liabilities Convertible debentures 30 8 23 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 30 694 298 Other provisions 32 20 Total long-term liabilities 702 341 Current liabilities Current interest-bearing liabilities 30 16 1 Accounts payable 21 14 Liabilities to Group companies 816 430 Current tax liabilities 1 1 Other current liabilities 5 3 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 33 15 7 Total current liabilities 874 456 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 2,081 1,476 81 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUIT Y, PARENT COMPANY Statement of changes in equity, Parent Company Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Profit or loss brought forward Share premium including profit for Total shareholders’ SEK million Share capital Statutory reserve reserve the year equity Opening balance as at January 1, 2017 2 1 774 –94 683 Profit/loss for the year –33 –33 Total comprehensive income –33 –33 Transactions with shareholders New share issue 0 2 2 Conversion, convertible debenture loans 0 27 27 Total transactions with shareholders 0 29 29 Closing balance as at December 31, 2017 2 1 803 –127 679 Opening balance as at January 1, 2018 2 1 803 –127 679 Profit/loss for the year –17 –17 Total comprehensive income –17 –17 Transactions with shareholders Dividend –93 –93 Share repurchases –65 –65 Share-related compensation 1 1 Total transactions with shareholders –157 –157 Closing balance as at December 31, 2018 2 1 803 –301 505 82 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS, PARENT COMPANY Statement of cash flows, Parent Company SEK million Note 2018 2017 Cash flow from current operations Operating result 30 –19 Adjustment for non-cash items 35 –18 22 Interest received 2 1 Interest paid –48 –24 Income taxes paid 0 –34 –20 Decrease (+)/increase (–) in receivables –670 –196 Decrease (–)/increase (+) in accounts payable 7 –1 Decrease (–)/increase (+) in current liabilities 396 124 –267 –73 Cash flow from current operations –301 –93 Investment activities Purchases of tangible fixed assets –7 –1 Disposal of tangible fixed assets 0 0 Investments in associated companies –10 Cash flow from investment activities –17 –1 Financing activities New share issue 29 2 Borrowings 35 691 8 Amortization of loans 35 –297 Share repurchases –65 Dividend paid 35 –93 Cash flow from financing activities 236 10 Cash flow for the year –82 –84 Cash and equivalents at the beginning of the year 392 476 Cash and equivalents at year-end 310 392 83 NOTES Notes NOTE 1 General information Stage two identifies the performance undertakings agreed to. A perSERNEKE Group AB (publ) (“SERNEKE”), company registration number formance undertaking is a promise to convey to the customer a distinct 556669-4153, is a public limited liability company registered in Sweden product or service, or a series of distinct goods and services that are and headquartered in Gothenburg, Sweden. The address of the head essentially the same and the follow the same pattern of conveyance to office is Kvarnbergsgatan 2, SE-411 05 Gothenburg. the customer. A product or service is distinct if the customer can benefit The Company’s and its subsidiaries’ (“the Group’s”) operations comfrom that product or service separately or together with other resources prise comprehensive services in construction, civil engineering, project available to the customer and if the company’s promise to transfer the development and property management. Serneke operates in both the product or service to the customer can be distinguished from other public and private markets. promises in the agreement. The Parent Company in the largest group in which Serneke is included Stage three determines the transaction price. Fixed agreed pricing, is Ola Serneke Invest AB, corporate identity number 556659-5764, variable compensation, possible additional purchase considerations, based in Gothenburg. deductions, profit supplements, discounts and fines are taken into account. The variable compensation amount is estimated at the most NOTE 2 Significant accounting policies probable amount, that being the most likely amount in an interval of possible compensation amounts or the anticipated value, which is the The consolidated financial statements for Serneke have been prepared sum of probability-assessed amounts in an interval of possible compenpursuant to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as approved sation amounts. If the agreement includes a significant financing comby the EU, as well as interpretations from the IFRS Interpretations Component, the transaction price shall be adjusted for the effect of the time mittee (IFRIC). value of money. The Group also applies the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s In step four, the transaction price is allocated to the various perfor­recommendation RFR 1 Supplementary accounting rules for groups. mance undertakings in the agreement if there is more than one. The In the consolidated financial statements, items have been measured allocated transaction price for each undertaking shall reflect the comat acquisition cost, apart from with regard to certain financial instrupensation amount to which the company expects to be entitled in ments and investment properties, which are measured at fair value. To exchange for the transfer of the promised goods or services to the follow is a description of the significant accounting policies that have ­customer, based on a stand-alone sales price. been applied. Income is recognized in stage five, once the performance undertaking has been completed, either over time or at a specific time, and when New and amended standards applied by the Group the customer gains control of the asset. Income is recognized over time The following standards are applied by the Group for the first time for as the customer simultaneously receives and makes use of the benefits fiscal years beginning on or after January 1, 2018. The application of the provided through the company’s performance of its undertaking, when change has not had any impact on any reported amounts for the previthe company’s performance creates or improves an asset controlled by ous financial year and the change will not have any effect on current or the customer, or when the company’s performance does not create an future periods. asset with an alternative use for the company and the company is also entitled to payment for its performance to date, including expenses IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers incurred and a profit margin. Serneke consistently applies the input The new IFRS 15 standard was issued on May 28, 2014 and came into method to similar performance undertakings, with this method recogeffect on January 1, 2018, replacing IAS 11 Construction Contracts, IAS nizing income based on the company’s efforts or input to fulfill a per18 Revenue and IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate. formance undertaking in relation to the total expected input for IFRS 15 provides a model for revenue recognition for all income generthe fulfillment of the performance undertaking. Exceptions from this ated through agreements with customers, with the exception of leases, expense-based input method may be expenses attributable to signififinancial instruments and insurance contracts. The core principle for cant inefficiencies in the company’s performance or when expenses income recognition in accordance with IFRS 15 is that a company must incurred disproportionate to the process of fulfilling the undertaking. recognize income in a way that reflects the transfer of the promised good If a performance undertaking is not met over time as described above, or service to the customer, in the amount that the company expects to be the company fulfills the undertaking at a specific time. This occurs at the entitled to receive in exchange for the good or service. Income is then time when the customer gains control of the promised asset. Indicators recognized once the customer gains control of the good or service. of control may be that the company is entitled to payment for the asset, Under IFRS 15, income is reported according to a five-stage model: the customer gains legal ownership of the asset, the company has The first stage identifies customer contracts. If two or more agreements transferred the physical holding of the asset, the customer bears the have been entered with a customer and the pricing of one agreement is significant risks and benefits associated with ownership of the asset or dependent on another agreement, these agreements are combined. An the customer has approved asset. Expenses incurred in securing an amendment to an agreement entails a change to an agreement approved agreement, that is, expenses that the company would not have had if by the parties to the agreement and exists when the parties to the agreeit had not secured the agreement, are reported as an asset only if the ment approve an amendment that either creates new rights and obligacompany expects to receive compensation for those expenses. Agreetions for the parties to the agreement or amends existing ones. An ments entered into at a loss for the company are expensed immediately, amendment to an agreement shall be recognized as a separate agreewith provisions being made for anticipated losses on remaining work ment when the extent of the agreement increases due to the addition and reported in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabiliof distinct promised goods or services, and when the price of the agreeties and Contingent Assets. ment increases by a degree of compensation reflecting the company’s Serneke has chosen to implement the standard with a forward-lookstand-alone sales prices for the additional goods or services promised. ing retroactive transition method. An analysis of the effects has been If the parties have not approved an amendment to the agreement, the carried out by Serneke, indicating that the new rules give rise to no sigcompany will continue to apply the standard to the existing agreement nificant translation effects or reclassifications in income recognition. until the amendment to the agreement has been approved. This means that the application of IFRS 15 does not affect the opening 84 NOTES balance of shareholders’ equity for 2018 but is equal to the closing Consolidated financial statements ­balance of shareholders’ equity, which at December 31, 2017 amounted The consolidated financial statements cover the Parent Company to SEK 1,821 million. Serneke Group AB (publ) and the companies over which the Parent A breakdown of income is provided in Note 6. Company has a direct or indirect controlling interest (subsidiaries). The Group has a controlling interest over a company when it has influence IFRS 9 Financial Instruments over the investment object, exposure to or entitlement to a variable The new IFRS 9 standard came into effect on January 1, 2018, replacing return from its involvement in the investment object, and an opportunity IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement. The to exert its influence over the investment object to affect its return. standard is more principle-based than rule-based and contains new Details of the composition of the Group are provided under Note 20. requirements for the classification and valuation of financial instruSubsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements ments, a forward-looking impairment model and general rules for hedge from the date of acquisition and are de-consolidated from the date that accounting. The new rules for hedge accounting do not affect Serneke, control ceases. since hedge accounting is not applied. The new rules for classification Consolidated earnings and components in other comprehensive and valuation entail financial assets being classified in various categoincome are attributable to the Parent Company’s owners and to ries, some of which are valued at amortized cost and others at fair value. non-controlling interests, even if this results in a negative value for Serneke has conducted an analysis of the effects of IFRS 9, which non-controlling interests. shows that the new rules provide such immaterial effects that they The accounting policies for subsidiaries have been adjusted as have not been booked and the new rules thereby have not led to any required in order to make them consistent with the Group’s accounting material conversion effects. This means that the application of IFRS 9 policies. All intra-group transactions, dealings and unrealized gains and does not affect the opening balance of shareholders’ equity for 2018 losses attributable to intra-group transactions have been eliminated on but is equal to the closing balance of shareholders’ equity for 2017: preparation of the consolidated financial statements. SEK 1,821 million. Serneke applies IFRS 9 through a prospective retroactive transition method using the practical relief rules specified in Transactions with non-controlling interests the standard, meaning that comparative figures are not recalculated, Changes to the Parent Company’s share in a subsidiary that result in a and that Serneke has chosen to apply the simplified method in calculoss of controlling interest are recognized as equity transactions (i.e. as lating anticipated credit losses. transactions with the Group’s owners). Any difference between the All financial instruments are reported as financial assets or financial amount by which the non-controlling interest is adjusted and the fair liabilities in the statement of financial position when the company value of the consideration paid or received is recognized directly in becomes party to the contractual terms of the instrument. equity and allocated among the Parent Company’s owners. Interpretations Loss of controlling interest IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) has not published any new When the Parent Company loses its controlling interest over a subsidiinterpretations that have come into effect for the financial year 2018. ary, the gain or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between i) the sum of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair New standards and interpretations that have not yet value of any remaining holdings, and been applied by the Group ii) the previous carrying amounts of the subsidiary’s assets (including New standards and interpretations will gain legal force for financial goodwill) and liabilities, and any non-controlling interests. years beginning after January 1, 2018 and have not been applied in the preparation of this financial report. These new standards and When the divested subsidiary has assets that are measured in accorinterpretations are expected to affect the Group’s financial statedance with the revaluation model or at fair value, and the attributable ments as follows. accumulated gains or losses have been recognized in other comprehenIFRS 16 Leases was published on January 13, 2016, and replaces IAS sive income and accumulated in equity, these amounts that have previ17 Leases. IFRS 16 introduces a ‘right of use model’ and for the lessee ously been recognized in other comprehensive income and accumuit means that essentially all leases are recognized in the balance sheet, lated in equity should be recognized as though the Parent Company had eliminating the need to classify them as operating or finance leases. The divested the assets directly, which means a reclassification to profit/ exception is leases with a term of 12 months or less, and leases that loss or direct transfer to retained earnings. amount to a low value. Amortization of the asset and interest expenses The fair value of the remaining shareholdings in the previous subsidifor the liability are recognized in the income statement. The standard ary at the point at which the controlling interest is lost is regarded as the includes more extensive disclosure requirements compared with the fair value on initial recognition of a financial asset, in accordance with current standard. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, or, where Serneke will begin to apply IFRS 16 Leasing on January 1, 2019 and applicable, the acquisition cost on initial recognition of an investment in will accordingly not apply the standard retroactively. The recognized an associate or joint arrangement. right of use (ROU) assets will be assigned the same value as the recognized leasing liabilities as of January 1, 2019. Serneke’s assessment is Segment reporting that the transition to IFRS 16 will not have any material impact on the An operating segment is a part of a company that pursues business Groups position and performance or cash flow statement. In its capacity operations, from which it can generate income and incur expenses, the as lessee, Serneke conducted a detailed review and analysis of the operating earnings of which are regularly reviewed by the company’s Group’s leases, whereby rental agreements were identified as the single highest executive decision-maker, and for which there is separate most significant. In addition to rental agreements, a number of smaller financial information. The Company’s reporting of operating segments leases were identified, such as vehicles, machinery and construction complies with the internal reporting to the highest executive deciequipment. The effect on the leasing liability as of January 1, 2019 sion-maker. The highest executive decision-maker is the function amounted to SEK 103 million where a corresponding ROU asset is responsible for allocating resources and assessing the results of the ­recognized. operating segments. The Company has identified Group Management Serneke believes that other new and amended standards and interpreas the highest executive decision-maker. tations that have not entered into force will not have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements when applied for the first time. 85 NOTES cont. Note 2 Foreign currency All other changes to the fair value of a contingent additional considerItems included in the financial reports for the different units within the ation classified as an asset or liability are recognized in accordance with Group are valued in the currency used for the primary economic envithe applicable standard. ronment where the unit is active (functional currency). In the consoliThe identifiable acquired assets and assumed liabilities, as well as dated financial statements, all amounts are translated into Swedish contingent assets, are recognized at fair value at the acquisition date, krona (SEK), which is the functional and reporting currency of the with the following exceptions: ­P arent Company. • Deferred tax asset or liability and liabilities or assets attributable to Foreign currency transactions are translated in the respective unit the acquired company’s contracts regarding employee benefits are into the unit’s functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing recognized and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes on the transaction date. Each balance sheet date, monetary items and IAS 19 Employee Benefits. denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate • L iabilities or equity instruments attributable to the acquired compaat that date. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign ny’s share-based payment awards or to the exchange of the acquired currency are retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing on the day the company’s share-based payment awards for the acquirer’s sharefair value was established. Non-monetary items measured at historical based payment awards are measured at the acquisition date in acquisition cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated. accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment. Exchange rate differences are recognized in the income statement • F ixed assets (or disposal group) classified as though they are held for the period in which they arise, with the exception of transactions for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale that are currency hedges that satisfy conditions for hedge accounting and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with this of cash flows or of net investments, as gains and losses are recognized standard. in other comprehensive income. When preparing the consolidated financial statements, the assets and Contingent liabilities that have been taken over in a business combinaliabilities of foreign subsidiaries are translated into Swedish krona accordtion are recognized as though they are existing obligations arising from ing to the exchange rate prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and past events, the fair values of which can be reliably calculated. expense items are translated at the average exchange rate for the period, In business combinations where the sum of the purchase considerunless the exchange rate has fluctuated considerably during the period, in ation, any non-controlling interests and the fair value at the acquisition which case the exchange rate on the transaction date is used instead. Any date of previous shareholdings exceeds the fair value at the acquisition translation differences arising are recognized in other comprehensive date of identifiable acquired net assets, the difference is recognized as income and transferred to the Group’s translation reserve. On disposal of goodwill in the statement of financial position. If the difference is negaa foreign subsidiary, such translation differences are recognized in the tive, it is recognized as a gain on an acquisition at a low price directly in income statement as a portion of the capital gain or loss. profit or loss, after the difference has been reviewed. For every business combination, previous non-controlling interests in Goodwill the acquired company are measured either at fair value or at the value of Goodwill comprises the difference between the sum of the purchase the proportional share of the non-controlling interest of the acquired consideration, any non-controlling interests and fair value at the acquicompany’s identifiable net assets. sition date of previous shareholdings, and the fair value at the acquisiIn the event of an acquisition in stages, or ‘step acquisition’, the prevition date of identifiable acquired net assets. At the acquisition date, ous equity interests in the acquired company are revalued at their fair goodwill is recognized at acquisition cost and following initial recognition values at the acquisition date (i.e. the point at which the controlling is measured at acquisition cost less any impairment. interest is obtained). Any gain or loss is recognized in profit or loss. Any When testing for impairment, goodwill is allocated among the changes in the value of the previous equity interests that prior to the cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies acquisition date were recognized in other comprehensive income, are arising as a result of the acquisition. Goodwill shall be tested annually reclassified to profit or loss on the same basis as would be required had with regard to any impairment requirement, or more often when there these interests been divested. is an indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is established as a value Asset acquisitions lower than the carrying amount, the impairment amount is distributed. When an acquisition is made of shares in a subsidiary, the acquisition First, the carrying amount of goodwill assigned to the cash generating comprises either an acquisition of a business or an acquisition of unit is reduced and then the carrying amount of goodwill assigned to assets. An asset acquisition has occurred if, for example, the acquired other assets in the unit is reduced. A recognized impairment of goodwill company only owns one or several properties with leases, but the cannot be reversed in a later period. acquisition does not include the necessary processes in order to When a subsidiary is sold, the remaining carrying amount of goodwill ­pursue business activities. is included in the calculation of the capital gain or loss. When the acquisition of a subsidiary involves the acquisition of net assets that do not comprise a business, the acquisition cost is allocated Business combinations among the individually identifiable assets and liabilities, based on their Subsidiaries are reported according to the purchase method. fair values at the acquisition date. In asset acquisitions, transaction The purchase consideration of the business combination is measured expenses are added to the acquisition cost of acquired net assets. In at fair value at the acquisition date, which is calculated as the sum of asset acquisitions, no deferred taxes related to property acquisition the fair values at the acquisition date of assets paid, arising or assumed were recognized. Any negotiated tax rebates decrease the acquisition ­liabilities and equity interests issued in exchange for control over the cost of a property, which entails that the changes in value with subseacquired business. Acquisition expenses are recognized in the income quent valuation are affected by the tax rebate. statement as they arise. The contingent purchase consideration for acquisition of assets is The purchase consideration also includes the fair value at the acquirecognized initially at fair value and included as part of the cost of the sition date of the assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent considasset. The equivalent amount is reported as a liability. In the case of eration arrangement. Changes in the fair value of a contingent considerchanges in assumptions about the conditional purchase consideration, ation arising as a result of additional information received after the the liability is revalued. Adjustments in a liability’s carrying amount in acquisition date regarding facts and conditions that existed on the subsequent accounting instances are recognized as a corresponding acquisition date qualify as adjustments during the valuation period and adjustment of an asset’s acquisition cost. are adjusted retroactively, with a corresponding adjustment of goodwill. 86 NOTES Holdings in associated companies and joint ventures an agreement shall be recognized as a separate agreement when the An associate company is a company over which the Group exercises a extent of the agreement increases due to the addition of distinct promcontrolling interest via the possibility of participating in decisions affectised goods or services, and when the price of the agreement increases ing the company’s economic and operational strategies. These circumby a degree of compensation reflecting Serneke’s stand-alone sales stances normally exist in cases in which the Parent Company directly or prices for the additional goods or services promised. If the parties have indirectly owns shares representing 20–50 percent of the votes. not approved an amendment to the agreement, Serneke will continue to A joint venture is a joint arrangement through which the parties that apply the standard to the existing agreement until the amendment to have a joint controlling interest over the business are entitled to the net the agreement has been approved. assets in the business. In fixed price agreements, the customer pays the agreed price at Associates and joint ventures are recognized in accordance with the agreed payment times. If the services that Serneke provided exceed equity method. In applying the equity method, the investment is initially the payment, a contract asset is recognized. If the payments exceed valued at cost and the acquisition cost is subsequently increased or the services rendered, a contract liability is recognized. decreased to recognize the Group’s share in the profit or loss of associIf the contract is on open account based on the price per hour and ates and joint ventures, after tax, after the acquisition date. Recognition costs of materials, the revenue is recognized insofar as Serneke has the of the associate/joint venture is adjusted so that it complies with the right to invoice the customer. Customers are invoiced after work done and Group’s accounting policies. the compensation is to be paid upon invoicing. If the services that Serneke When the Group’s share of the losses in an associate/joint venture provided exceed the payment, a contract asset is recognized. If the paycorrespond to or exceed its holding in the associate/joint venture ments exceed the services rendered, a contract liability is recognized. (including any long-term holdings that, in spirit, comprise part of the On the commencement of construction of tenant-owner housing Group’s holding in the associate/joint venture), the Group does not recproject, with a tenant-owner association as the client, in those cases ognize additional losses, unless the Group has taken on commitments or where the property is already owned by Serneke, the property is transmade payments on behalf of the associate/joint venture. ferred at its book value to the contracting project and is included in the The Group performs an assessment at the end of each reporting other production costs of the project. The project agreements with the period of whether there is objective evidence that the investment in the housing association meet the requirements set by IFRS 15 for reporting associate/joint venture is impaired. If this is the case, the Group calcuover time when the project is created by Serneke but is controlled by the lates the impairment requirement as the difference between the associtenant-owner housing association. Income is then based on the degree ate/joint venture’s recoverable amount and the carrying amount and of completion and earnings are calculated based on the same principles recognizes the amount in Share of earnings in associates in the as above. Risks associated with commitments to the tenant-owner income statement. association in respect of unsold apartments are taken into account in For transactions between affiliates and associates/joint ventures, the accumulated earnings. the portion of the unrealized gains and losses that corresponds to the Group’s share of the associate or joint venture is eliminated. Dividends Sale of properties and development rights received from associates/joint ventures reduce the investment’s On disposal of properties or development rights directly or indirectly carrying amount. through a sale of shares, the underlying property or development In the event of a step acquisition of an associate’s shares, separate right’s value is recognized in the Group as income. The sales revenue valuations are carried out at each acquisition date. Goodwill or surplus from property sales is recognized at occupancy and the revenue is valvalues are calculated for each acquisition. When bolt-on acquisitions ued at the contractual transaction price. The compensation is normally entail that the Group acquires a controlling interest in the holding, all due for payment when the right of ownership has been transferred. If shares are revalued at fair value at the point at which the controlling the terms of payment exceed 12 months, the transaction price may be interest is acquired. See above under the section entitled ‘Business adjusted for effects of significant financing components. When concombinations’ for further details regarding step acquisitions. tracts include property sales, development rights and construction When the Group loses controlling influence of a subsidiary, a revaluacontracting to the buyer of the planned building, an assessment is tion of the remaining share is conducted at fair value. Any gain or loss made regarding whether the property and/or development rights associated with the loss of control is recognized in the income statetransactions and the construction contract are separate performance ment on a separate line. undertakings. Depending on the design and terms of the agreement, the sale can be seen as one or several performance undertakings. Sales revRevenue enues are recognized at the point in time at which control is transferred Construction income to the buyer. Control is transferred over time if the seller has no alternaIncome from construction contracts is reported in accordance with IFRS tive use for the property sold and the seller is entitled to payment from 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, either by fulfilling the perthe customer for the work performed. In such cases, income is reported formance undertaking over time (that is, gradually) or at one specific applying percentage of completion. If any of the above criteria are not time. Construction contracts mean that the construction is performed met, the revenue is recognized at a time when it is completed and on the customer’s land, where an asset is created over which the custurned over to the customer and that there is no alternative use and tomer gains control in pace with the completion of the asset. This entails Serneke has the right to payment. income being recognized gradually (over time), applying percentVariable compensation in the form of additional purchase prices may age-of-completion based on the construction contract. When applying occur in the sale of properties and development rights. Sales of properpercentage-of-completion, the input method applies whereby income ties and development rights can be dependent upon decisions regardis reported based on the degree of completion, which is calculated as ing future detailed development plans. An assessment is then made as the ratio between the expenses incurred for work performed at the end to the probability of the respective detailed development plan. The sales of reporting period and the estimated total expenses for the assignrevenue and earnings are recognized when the probability is deemed to ment. Revaluations of the project’s final forecasts entail corrections of be very high and a receivable for the assessed additional purchase price previously accumulated earnings. If it is probable that the total contract is booked until payment is received. Property projects are also on occaexpenses will exceed the total contract income, the anticipated loss sion sold with guarantees for a certain degree of leasing and, at the time should be immediately recognized as a cost in its entirety. An amendof sale, any lease guarantees are reported as a reserve in the project, ment to an agreement entails a change in scope or price (or both) to an which then has a positive effect on the percentage of completion as agreement approved by the parties to the agreement. An amendment to leases are signed. 87 NOTES cont. Note 2 Rental income intended use or sale. Interest income from temporary investment of Income also includes rental income, which is to be considered as operborrowed funds for the asset described above is deducted from the ating leases under IAS 17. Rental income is invoiced in advance and recborrowing expenses that may be included in the asset’s acquisition cost. ognized on a straight-line basis in the income statement based on the Other borrowing expenses are recognized in earnings in the period in terms of the lease agreements. Advance rent is reported as prepaid which they arise. rental income. In cases where the rental contract allows a reduced rent for a certain period of time, which is compensated for by higher rent Taxes during another period, this is allocated across the term of the contract. The tax expense consists of the sum of current tax and deferred tax. Other income Current tax Other income refers to income not classified as construction income, Current tax is calculated on taxable income for the period. Taxable sales of properties and development rights or rental income, including, income differs from the recognized profit or loss in the income statefor example, hotel income or income from central companies. ment, as it has been adjusted for non-taxable income and non-deductible expenses, as well as for income and expenses that are taxable or Dividend income deductible in other periods. The Group’s current tax liability is calculated Dividend income is recognized once the shareholder’s right to receive in accordance with the tax rates that have been adopted or announced payment has been established. at the balance sheet date. Interest income Deferred tax Interest income is recognized over the term using the effective interest Deferred tax is recognized on temporary differences between the carmethod. rying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and The effective interest rate is the rate that means the present value of the tax value of assets and liabilities used to calculate taxable income. all future receipts and disbursements during the fixed-interest term is Deferred tax is recognized according to the balance sheet method. equal to the carrying amount of the receivable. Deferred tax liabilities are recognized in principal for all taxable temporary differences, and deferred tax assets are recognized in principle for Leases – the Group as lessee all deductible temporary differences, to the extent that it is likely the A financial lease is a lease according to which the financial risks and amounts can be offset against future taxable profits. Deferred tax liabilbenefits associated with ownership of an object are essentially transities and tax assets are not recognized if the temporary difference is ferred from the lessor to the lessee. Other leases are classified as operattributable to goodwill, or if it arises as a result of a transaction that ating leases. comprises initial recognition of an asset or liability (that is not a busiAssets held in accordance with financial leases are recognized as ness combination), and that, on the transaction date, affects neither fixed assets in the consolidated balance sheet at fair value at the beginrecognized nor taxable income. ning of the term, or at the present value of the minimum lease payments A deferred tax liability is recognized for taxable temporary differif this is lower. The corresponding liability to the lessor is recognized in ences attributable to investments in subsidiaries, except in cases where the balance sheet as a finance lease liability. the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary Lease payments are apportioned between interest and reduction of differences and it is likely that such a reversal will not happen in the the liability. The interest is allocated to periods during the lease term so foreseeable future. The deferred tax liabilities that are attributable to as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining baldeductible temporary differences with regard to such investments ance of the liability for each period. The interest expense is recognized should only be recognized to the extent that it is likely the amounts can directly in the income statement. be offset against future taxable profits and it is likely that such offsetThe fixed assets are depreciated during the shorter period of the ting will happen in the foreseeable future. asset’s useful life and term. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed every yearFor operating leases, lease payments are expensed on a straight-line end and reduced to the extent that it is no longer likely that sufficient basis over the lease term, unless another systematic way better reflects taxable profit will be available to offset, entirely or in part, against the the user’s economic use over time. deferred tax asset. Deferred tax is calculated in accordance with the tax rates that are Employee benefits expected to apply for the period in which the asset is recovered or the Employee benefits in the form of salaries, bonus payments, paid holiday, liability settled, based on the tax rates (and tax laws) that have been paid sick leave, etc., as well as pensions, are recognized as they are adopted or announced at the balance sheet date. earned. With regard to pensions and other post-employment benefits, Deferred tax assets and tax liabilities are offset when they relate to these are classified as defined-contribution or defined-benefit pension income tax charged by the same authority, and when the Group intends plans. The Group has no pension plans that are recognized as to settle the tax at a net amount. defined-benefit plans. Current and deferred tax for the period Defined contribution plans Current and deferred tax is recognized as an expense or income in the For defined-contribution plans, the Company pays fixed fees to a sepaincome statement, except when the tax is attributable to transactions rate, independent legal entity and is under no obligation to pay addirecognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In such tional fees. Expenses are charged to the Group’s earnings as the benecases, the tax should also be recognized in other comprehensive income fits are earned, which normally coincides with the point at which or directly in equity. For current and deferred tax arising on recognition premiums are paid. of a business combination, the tax effect should be recognized in the acquisition calculation. Borrowing expenses Borrowing expenses directly attributable to the purchase, construction Tangible fixed assets or production of an asset that necessarily takes considerable time to Tangible fixed assets are reported at cost less deductions for amortizacomplete for the intended use or sale are included in the acquisition tion and any impairment. cost of the asset until the date of completion of the asset for its 88 NOTES Acquisition cost comprises the purchase consideration, expenses Operating properties directly attributable to the asset in order to put it in place and prepare Properties that are used continually within the Group’s construction and it for its intended use, and estimated expenses for dismantling and civil engineering operations are reported within the Property Manageremoving the asset and restoring the site at which it was located. Addiment business area and classified as operating properties when the tional expenses are only included in the asset or recognized as a sepaGroup’s intention is for the holding to be a long-term holding. These rate asset when it is likely that future economic benefits that may be operating properties are measured at historical acquisition cost, less attributable to the item will flow to the Group, and that the acquisition accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses. A provision is cost of the item can be reliably calculated. All other expenses for repairs made for the full amount for any impairment requirement when it is and maintenance and additional expenses are recognized in the income deemed likely. statement in the period in which they arise. Acquisitions of operating properties are normally recognized as Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is expensed so that the asset’s assets once binding acquisition agreements have been entered into. value less estimated residual value at the end of its useful life is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, which is estiImpairment of tangible fixed assets mated to be: On every balance sheet date, the Group analyzes the carrying amounts Buildings and land of tangible fixed assets to establish whether there is any indication that – Land improvement 25 years the value of these assets has declined. If such is the case, the asset’s – Frames 50 years recoverable amount is calculated in order to establish the value of any – Roofs 30 years impairment. Where it is not possible to calculate the recoverable – Interior finishes 10 years amount for an individual asset, the Group calculates the recoverable – Fixtures and fittings 10 years amount for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. Machinery and other technical facilities 5–10 years The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less selling Equipment, tools and installations 5 years costs and its value-in-use. When calculating value in use, the estimated Cars 3 years future cash flow is discounted to present value at a discount rate before tax that reflects the current market assessment of the time value of Estimated useful life, residual values and depreciation methods are money and the risks associated with the asset. reviewed at least at the end of each accounting period, and the effect If the recoverable amount for an asset (or cash-generating unit) is of any changes to estimates is recognized prospectively. established at a lower value than the carrying amount, the carrying The recognized value of a tangible fixed asset is derecognized from amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is impaired to the recovthe balance sheet on scrapping or sale, or when no future economic erable amount. An impairment should be immediately expensed in the benefits are expected from its use or the scrapping/sale of the asset. income statement. The gain or loss arising on retirement or disposal of the asset comprises When an impairment is later reversed, the asset’s (cash-generating the difference between any net income on disposal and its carrying unit’s) carrying amount increases to the remeasured recoverable amount, recognized in the period when the asset is derecognized from amount, but the higher carrying amount may not exceed the carrying the statement of financial position. amount that would have been established if no impairment of the asset (cash-generating unit) had been carried out in previous years. A reversal Managed properties of an impairment is recognized directly in the income statement. Properties acquired for more long-term strategic development within the Property business area are classified as investment properties when Financial instruments IFRS 9 the Group’s intention with the holding is to manage it for the purpose of Financial assets generating rental income and earnings from property management, or Financial assets are classified within the following valuation categories: an increase in value, or a combination of the two. These properties are • Those to be valued at fair value (either through other comprehensive initially recognized at acquisition cost for each acquisition, but the income or profit or loss), and properties are subsequently measured at market value in accordance • those to be valued at amortized cost. with IAS 40. Any impairment needs are fully reserved when identified. See Note 16 for further information. The classification depends on the company’s business model for the Acquisition of investment properties is normally recognized as an handling of financial assets and the nature of the contractual cash flows asset in connection with the point at which access to the properties that the asset gives rise to. A financial asset is valued at amortized cost occurred. if the asset is held within the framework of a business model whose purThe fair value of properties is based on internal valuations. Fair value pose is to hold financial assets for the purpose of collecting contractual is the estimated amount that could be collected in a transaction at the cash flows and where the cash flow at specific points in time consists point of valuation between well-informed parties that are independent solely of payments of capital amounts and interest on the outstanding of each other and who have an interest in completing the transaction. capital amount. A financial asset is valued at fair value through other This is carried out taking account of value-driven changes that have comprehensive income if the asset is held according to a business occurred during the period of time and risk factors to consider. The model whose objectives can be achieved both by collecting contractual assessments made affect the carrying amount in the balance sheet cash flows and selling financial assets and where cash flows consist under ‘Investment properties’, and in the income statement the item solely of payments of capital amounts and interest on the outstanding ‘Change in value of investment properties’ is recognized. Furthermore, capital amount. A financial asset is valued at fair value through profit or external valuations of the properties are conducted annually to corrobloss if it is not valued at amortized cost or at fair value through other orate the internal valuation. comprehensive income. Additional expenses are only included in the carrying amount when Investments in equity instruments are valued at fair value in the it is likely that future economic benefits that may be attributable to the statement of financial position and changes in value are recognized item will flow to the Group, and that the acquisition cost of the item can directly in the income statement. Exceptions may be applied in the form be reliably calculated. All other expenses for repairs and maintenance of an irrevocable option to report value changes under other compreand other additional expenses are recognized in the period in which hensive income instead. This means that all changes in value are subsethey arise. quently reported in other comprehensive income, except for dividend income, which is recognized in the income statement. 89 NOTES cont. Note 2 Financial liabilities financial liability is removed from the balance sheet when the commitAll financial liabilities are valued at amortized cost, with the exception of: ment in the contract has been fulfilled or is otherwise extinguished. • financial liabilities valued at fair value through profit or loss (such At every balance sheet date, the Company conducts an assessment ­liabilities, including derivatives that are liabilities, are subsequently as to whether there are objective indications that a financial asset or valued at fair value) group of financial assets is impaired due to past events. Examples of • financial liabilities that arise when the transfer of a financial asset such events include a significant deterioration in the financial position does not meet the conditions for being removed from the statement of the counterparty, or non-payment of overdue amounts. of financial position or when a continued commitment applies Financial assets and financial liabilities that on subsequent recogni• financial guarantee agreements tion are not measured at fair value via profit or loss are recognized on • a loan commitment at an interest rate below market interest rates initial recognition at fair value plus/less transaction expenses. Financial • a conditional additional purchase consideration recognized by a purassets and financial liabilities that on subsequent recognition are meachaser in connection with a business combination covered by IFRS 3 sured at fair value via the income statement are recognized on initial (any such conditional additional purchase consideration is subserecognition at fair value. On subsequent recognition, financial instruquently valued at fair value with changes being recognized in the ments are measured at amortized cost or at fair value, depending on income statement) their initial categorization. On initial recognition, a financial asset and a financial liability are Only when a company changes its business model for the management placed into one of the following categories: of financial assets, may it reclassify all relevant financial assets. Financial liabilities may not be reclassified. On initial recognition, financial Financial assets assets and liabilities shall be valued at fair value plus or minus transac• Fair value via the income statement tion costs when acquiring a financial asset or financial liability not valued • Loans and receivables at amortized cost at fair value through profit or loss. Accounts receivable without a signifi• Other financial receivables measured at amortized cost cant financing component are valued on initial recognition at the trans• Financial assets available for sale action price. Following initial recognition, financial assets and liabilities shall be valued according to the valuation categories stated above. The classification is based on the nature of the asset’s cash flow and the Financial instruments reported in Serneke’s financial statements business model the asset is covered by. are cash and cash equivalents, loan receivables, accounts receivable, accounts payable and loan liabilities. All financial instruments within Financial liabilities Serneke are valued at amortized cost, except other non-current receiv• Fair value via the income statement ables available for sale and other current and non-current liabilities and • The valuation category, financial liabilities, is valued at the accrued additional purchase considerations that are classified and valued at fair cost value through profit or loss. The new rules regarding valuation do not affect Serneke. Fair values of financial instruments A financial asset is removed from the statement of financial position The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined when the contractual rights to cash flows from the financial asset cease as follows: or when the company transfers the contractual rights to receive cash The fair value of financial assets and liabilities with standard terms flows from the financial asset or retains the contractual rights to receive that are traded on an active market is determined taking account of cash flows but undertakes a contractual obligation to pay cash flows to quoted market prices. one or more recipients. A financial liability is removed from the stateThe fair value of other financial assets and liabilities is determined in ment of financial position only when the obligation in the agreement is accordance with generally accepted valuation models based on inforfulfilled, canceled or terminated. mation retrieved from observable, relevant market transactions. For all financial assets and liabilities, the carrying amount is deemed Impairment losses to be a good approximation of their fair value, unless otherwise stated in An estimate is made of anticipated credit losses on financial assets and the notes that follow. a reserve is reported as a deduction against the asset. For receivables except for cash and cash equivalents, the simplified model is applied, Amortized cost which means that the loss reserve shall always be valued at an amount Amortized cost refers to the amount at which the asset or liability was corresponding to the remaining maturity. The valuation of anticipated initially recognized, less amortization, additions or deductions for accucredit losses should reflect an objective and probability-weighted mulated allocation in accordance with the effective interest method of amount, the time value of money, reasonable and verifiable data on past the initial difference between received/paid amounts and amounts due events, current conditions and forecasts for future economic condito be paid/received on the maturity date, and less impairment. tions. Historical data in the form of experience from past credit losses The effective interest rate is the rate that, on discounting of all future and current and prospective factors are used as a basis for forecasting anticipated cash flows over the expected term, results in the initially anticipated credit losses. Serneke defines default as receivables that recognized value of the financial asset or the financial liability. are overdue by more than 90 days and in those cases, an individual assessment and reservation are made. For cash and cash equivalents, Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities the reserve is based on the banks’ probability of default and prospective Financial assets and liabilities are offset and recognized in the balance factors. The new impairment rules do not affect Serneke’s credit losses sheet at a net amount when a legal right exists to offset and when there to any material extent, meaning that opening impairment for 2018 is is an intention to settle the items at a net amount, or to realize the asset equal to closing impairment for 2017. and settle the liability at the same time. Financial instruments – IAS 39 Liquid assets A financial asset or financial liability is posted to the balance sheet when Cash and cash equivalents includes cash funds and bank balances, as the company becomes a party to the contractual terms of the instruwell as other current liquid investments that can be easily converted ment. A financial asset or part of a financial asset is removed from the into cash and are subject to a negligible risk in terms of changes in value. balance sheet when the rights in the contract are realized, expire or In order to be classified as cash and cash equivalents, the term may not when the Company loses control of it. A financial liability or part of a exceed three months from the acquisition date. Cash funds and bank 90 NOTES balances are categorized as ‘Loans and receivables’, which means Inventories ­measurement at amortized cost. Since bank deposits are payable on Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net sales value. The demand, amortized cost corresponds to a nominal amount. Current acquisition cost is determined through the application of the First In investments are categorized as ‘Held-for-trading’ and are measured at First Out method, (FIFO). Net realizable value is the estimated sales fair value, with changes in value recognized in the income statement. price less estimated expenses for completion and estimated expenses required in order to achieve a sale. Accounts receivable Accounts receivable are categorized as ‘Loans and receivables’, which Appropriations means measurement at amortized cost. However, the anticipated matuA provision is recognized in the balance sheet when the Group has a rity of the accounts receivable is short, which is why they are recognized legal or informal obligation owing to an event that has occurred and it is at a nominal amount without discounting. Deductions are made for likely that an outflow of economic resources will be required to settle receivables that are deemed to be bad debts. Impairment losses on the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made. trade receivables are recognized in operating expenses. The amount that is set aside constitutes the best estimate of the amount required to settle the existing commitment on the balance Accounts payable sheet date, taking account of risks and uncertainties associated with Accounts payable are categorized as ‘Other financial liabilities’, which the commitment. When a provision is calculated by estimating the dismeans measurement at amortized cost. However, the anticipated matubursements expected to be required to settle the obligation, the carryrity of the accounts payable is short, which is why the liability is recoging amount should correspond to the present value of such disbursenized at a nominal amount without discounting. ments. Where part or all of the amount required to settle a provision is Liabilities to credit institutions and other borrowings expected to be replaced by a third party, the compensation shall be Interest-bearing bank loans, bank overdrafts and other loans are categoreported separately as an asset in the statement of financial position rized as ‘Other financial liabilities’ and measured at amortized cost, accordwhen it is virtually certain that it will be obtained if the company reguing to the effective interest method. Any differences between the loan lates the obligation and the amount can be calculated reliably. amount received (net of transaction expenses) and repayment or amortization of loans is recognized over the term of the loan, in accordance with Shareholders’ equity the Group’s accounting policy for borrowing expenses (see above). Repurchased shares Upon the buyback of shares, shareholders’ equity is reduced by the paid Convertible debentures purchase price including any transaction expenses. The Group has issued a convertible bond (compound financial instrument), which the owner can convert into a certain number of ordinary Dividends shares in the issuing company. The convertible debenture includes both Dividends are recognized as a reduction of shareholders’ equity after a liability and an equity component. The Group recognizes the liability the Annual General Meeting has passed a resolution. component and the equity component separately in the statement of financial position. The issuer of a convertible debenture initially estabRelated-party transactions lishes the carrying amount of the liability component by calculating the Related parties can be both companies and natural persons. Related fair value of a similar liability that has no conversion right. The carrying companies are defined as all companies within the Group and compaamount of the equity component, which corresponds to the right to nies in which related entities have a controlling or significant interest. convert the instrument into ordinary shares, is subsequently obtained Related natural persons are defined as members of the Board, senior by the fair value of the compound financial instrument in its entirety executives and close family of the aforementioned. being reduced by the fair value of the financial liability. For purchases and sales between affiliates and from and to related In the subsequent recognition, the liability component is measured at natural persons, the same pricing principles are applied as for transacamortized cost in accordance with the effective interest method. The tions with external parties. equity component is only revalued on conversion or redemption. Accounting policies for the Parent Company Project and development properties The Parent Company applies the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Serneke regularly acquires various project and development properties. Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 2 AccountThe properties that are acquired for development within the Project ing for Legal Entities. Application of RFR 2 entails the Parent Company, Development business area are classified as current assets. The Group’s as much as possible, apply all EU-approved IFRS within the framework of intention is for the properties to be sold within the near future following the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Pension Obligations Vesting development, and they are therefore measured in accordance with IAS Act, and observe the relationship between accounting and taxation. The 2 Inventories. This includes direct production expenses and a reasondifferences between the Parent Company and the Group are described able proportion of indirect expenses. below: These project and development properties are measured at the lower of acquisition cost and net realizable value. Net realizable value is the Classification and presentation estimated sales price less estimated expenses for completion and estiThe Parent Company’s earnings and balance sheet has been prepared in mated expenses required in order to achieve a sale. accordance with the schedule set by the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. Acquisitions of project and development properties are normally recThe difference to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements, which is ognized as assets once binding acquisition agreements have been applied for the consolidated financial statements, mainly concerns entered into, and where future conditional changes to detailed developreporting of financial income and expenses, fixed assets, equity and the ment plans are deemed highly likely. use of provisions in the balance sheet. Additional expenses are only included in the carrying amount when it is likely that future economic benefits that may be attributable to the Subsidiary item will flow to the Group, and that the acquisition cost of the item can Shares in subsidiaries are carried at cost in the Parent Company’s finanbe reliably calculated. All other expenses for repairs and maintenance cial statements. Acquisition-related costs for subsidiaries, which are and other additional expenses are recognized in the period in which expensed in the consolidated financial statements, are included as part they arise. of the acquisition cost for shares in subsidiaries. 91 NOTES cont. Note 2 Group contributions • V aluation of Group-owned investment properties and investment Group contributions are recognized according to the alternative rule properties owned through associates and joint ventures could have which means that both Group contributions received and Group contria significant impact on the Group’s earnings and financial position. butions paid are recognized in the year-end appropriation. Assessments concerning Group-owned investment properties affect the ‘Investment property’ item in the balance sheet and in the income Pensions statement, the item ‘Change in value of investment properties’ is recThe Parent Company’s pension commitments are determined and ognized. Assessments concerning investment properties owned reported based the Pension Obligations Vesting Act. Application of the through associates and joint ventures affect the ‘Participations in Pension Obligations Vesting Act is a prerequisite for tax deductibility. associates and joint ventures’ item in the balance sheet and in the income statement, the effect is recognized in the line ‘Share of profit Changes in accounting policies of associates and joint ventures’. The amendments to RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities that have • T he Group’s project and development properties are not measured entered into force for the financial year 2018 have not affected the at market value in the consolidated balance sheet. Nevertheless, ­Parent Company’s financial reports. The new standard IFRS 9 Financial assessments and estimates have a significant impact on the Group’s Instruments address classification, measurement and recognition of market value. Valuation of these properties requires a number of diffinancial assets and liabilities. ferent assessments – see above. Serneke has conducted an analysis of the effects of IFRS 9, which • T he reported earnings of ongoing construction projects are detershows that the new rules provide such immaterial effects that they have mined under the percentage-of-completion method based on the not been booked and the new rules thereby have not led to any material project’s completion. A fundamental condition in order to assess the conversion effects. This means that the application of IFRS 9 does not percentage-of-completion method is for project income and project affect the opening balance of shareholders’ equity for 2018 in the Parexpenses to be reliably determined. The assessment of project ent Company, but is equal to the closing balance of shareholders’ equity income and project expenses is based on a number of estimates and for 2017: SEK 679 million. assumptions that rely on project managers’ experience and knowlSerneke applies IFRS 9 retroactively using the practical relief rules edge of project management. There is a risk that the final outcome specified in the standard, meaning that comparative figures are not of a project may differ from the gradually accumulated results. recalculated, and that Serneke has chosen to apply the simplified • W ithin the framework of Serneke’s ordinary operations, Serneke is method in calculating anticipated credit losses. from time to time involved in various legal disputes. In these cases, an assessment of the commitments and responsibilities as well as the probability of the outcome is determined. The assessment is based NOTE 3 Key estimates and assessments on information and knowledge that exists in the current situation. The assessment is in any case difficult, and the final outcome may be Significant sources of uncertainty in estimates different than predicted, which may have significant impact on the Detailed below are the key assumptions regarding the future, and other reporting and monitoring. important sources of uncertainty in estimates as at the balance sheet • Deferred tax on losses is booked in cases where they are established date that involve a significant risk of material adjustments to carrying and expected to be used against future profits. Assessment exists amounts for assets and liabilities during coming financial years. whether or not future earnings can be utilized. To prepare the financial statements in accordance with IFRS and gen• Provisions for future expenses due to guarantee undertakings are recerally accepted accounting practices, management is required to make ognized at the estimated amount required to settle the obligation at various assumptions. Assessments and estimates that affect the assets the balance sheet date. The estimate is based on calculations, manand liabilities, income and expenses, contingent assets and contingent agement’s assessment and experience from previous transactions. liabilities recognized in the year-end report, and other information. • An environmental provision has been made for future expenses due These assessments and estimates are based on historical experience to the guarantee commitments being provided in connection with the and expectations regarding future events considered to be reasonable sale of Säve Airport attributable to environmental damages to the under prevailing circumstances. Naturally the actual outcome may differ properties. The provision is based on a prepared environmental study considerably from these assessments and estimates if other assumpwhere environmentally damaged areas were located and quantified. tions are made, or if other conditions exist or arise. An assessed price for decontaminating the properties was identified • On the disposal of properties and development rights, different through inquiries and collection of price lists. assessments and estimates may be made regarding the likelihood of • G oodwill is valued to the lowest of acquisition costs and recovery various factors, such as changes to detailed development plans and value. Several assumptions on estimates of future conditions are outstanding commitments, which could have a highly significant taken into account when calculating the discounted cash flow as the impact on the Group’s performance and financial position. Outstandbasis for the estimated recoverable amount. Impairment testing of ing commitments may also be difficult to identify by their nature and goodwill in accordance with IAS 36 is presented under Note 17. extent. A sale may be conditional on a future detailed development • IFRS lacks rules for how contingent considerations are to be recogplan being accepted. In the event that the detailed development plan nized upon the acquisition of assets. For recognition of contingent is not accepted, the occurrence of which had been assessed by the considerations, Serneke has used a method that is based on similar Group as highly probable, there could be significant impact on perrules for contingent considerations in accordance with IFRS 3 Busiformance and financial position. ness Combinations. • In valuing the managed properties, estimates and assumptions may This entails that the contingent considerations are initially measured be made that have a significant impact on the Group’s earnings and at fair value and included as part of the acquisition value of the asset. financial position. Valuation of investment properties requires a numThe equivalent amount is reported as a liability. Adjustments in a liaber of different assessments, such as yield requirements, etc. bility’s carrying amount in subsequent accounting instances are recognized as a corresponding adjustment of an asset’s acquisition cost. For further information on conditional purchase terms, see Note 4. 92 NOTES NOTE 4 Financial risk management and financial instruments The Group is exposed through its operations to various types of financial Long-term liquidity planning is updated every month for 12 months risks. The Company’s Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility for forward, and short-term liquidity planning occurs weekly for the coming exposure, management and monitoring of the Group’s financial risks. month. At year-end, there was available liquidity as detailed below. See The framework that applies for exposure, management and monitoring also Note 30. of financial risks is established by the Board of Directors in a finance polFinancing risk refers to the risk of the Group being unable to obtain icy that is revised annually. The Board of Directors has the opportunity sufficient financing at a reasonable cost. The Group’s target is to have to deviate temporarily from the established finance policy. The Board of an average remaining maturity of 18–36 months. Directors receives regular monitoring reports. The bank overdraft with Nordea of SEK 400 million carries a covenant, which means that the Group shall have an equity/assets ratio of 25 Liquidity and financing risk percent. In the most recent report on December 31, 2018, the equity/ Liquidity risk refers to the risk that Serneke experiences difficulty in assets ratio was 40.9 percent (41.3). meeting its payment obligations as a result of inadequate liquidity. The Available liquidity Group’s objective is to have a liquidity reserve of 5 percent of sales for GROUP Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 the rolling twelve months, which is also a covenant requirement for the Cash and bank balances 389 431 bond. The Group works continually to improve its liquidity situation. Unused bank overdraft 400 200 Work on streamlining collection of accounts receivable is underway Total 789 631 and has a high priority in the Group. Maturity analysis of financial liabilities, undiscounted cash flows, including interest Average interest rate on Nominal Amount SEK, GROUP 2018 the balance amount original including Maturing Maturing 2022 SEK M Currency sheet date, % currency interest Maturing 2019 2020-2021 and later Bank loans, long term SEK 1.89% 81 85 2 74 10 Bank loans, short term SEK 2.48% 127 136 136 Liabilities regarding financial leasing SEK 1.25% 71 73 24 49 Convertible debentures SEK 1.92% 22 25 16 8 Debenture SEK 5.25% 700 810 37 773 Total interest-bearing financial liabilities 1,001 1,129 215 904 10 Accounts payable SEK 991 991 991 Other liabilities SEK 260 260 Total non-interest-bearing financial liabilities 1,251 1,251 1,251 Total financial liabilities 2,252 2,380 1,466 904 10 Average interest rate on Nominal Amount SEK, GROUP 2017 the balance amount original including Maturing Maturing 2021 SEK M Currency sheet date, % currency interest Maturing 2018 2019-2020 or later Bank loans SEK 1.74% 315 331 38 274 19 Liabilities regarding financial leasing SEK 1.25% 61 64 22 42 Convertible debentures SEK 2.09% 23 24 0 24 Debenture SEK 6.25% 300 356 19 337 Total interest-bearing financial liabilities 699 775 79 677 19 Accounts payable SEK 799 799 799 Other liabilities SEK 162 162 162 Total non-interest-bearing financial liabilities 961 961 961 Total financial liabilities 1,660 1,736 1,040 677 19 Further information is provided under Note 30. Interest rate risk Currency risk Interest risk refers to the risk of fair values or future cash flows fluctuatForeign exchange risk comprises the risk of fair values and cash flows ing as a result of changes to market interest rates. The Group’s target is regarding financial instruments changing as the value of foreign currento have a weighted average fixed-interest term of 24 months, with a cies fluctuates. The Group currently has limited inand outflows in fordeviation mandate of +/–6 months. The Group is primarily exposed to eign currencies. interest risk through its loan financing. Loans carry variable interest, which means that the Group’s future financial expenses are affected Credit and counterparty risk when market interest rates change. Credit risk refers to the risk that income may be lost due to counterparA sensitivity analysis for interest risks can be found under Note 30. ties failing to meet their payments or commitments. 93 NOTES cont. Note 4 Credit risk in accounts receivable of total accounts receivable. Nor are accounts receivable concentrated Serneke’s exposure to credit risk is primarily attributable to accounts to a specific geographical area. The Group therefore deems the concenreceivable. A credit assessment is conducted on every new customer in tration risks to be limited. See Note 25 for an aging analysis of outstandorder to limit the Group’s credit risk. The financial situation of existing ing accounts receivable and provisions for anticipated credit losses. customers is also monitored continually in order to identify warning The credit standing of receivables not yet due is deemed to be good. signs at an early stage. The Group and Parent Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk is The credit risk for housing projects with housing cooperatives is deemed deemed to correspond to the carrying amounts of all financial assets to be limited, as financing of housing cooperative production occurs via and is detailed in the consolidated balance sheet and notes. bank loans, which are approved prior to the start of construction. Credit risk also arises when the Company’s excess liquidity is invested Categorization of financial instruments in various types of financial instruments. According to the financial polIn accordance with IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, financial instruments icy, excess liquidity may be invested in interest-bearing bank accounts are measured at amortized cost or at fair value, depending on their cator in interest-bearing securities. According to the financial policy, the egory. The items that have been subject to measurement at fair value credit risk when investing excess liquidity should be reduced by only are financial assets available for sale and additional considerations. investing in counterparties with an extremely good rating. Furthermore, For fair value estimation of interest-bearing receivables and liabilities, the financial policy states that investments should normally be spread future cash flows have been discounted at quoted market interest rates across several counterparties or issuers. for remaining maturities. For non-interest-bearing assets and liabilities, The accounts receivable are spread among a large number of cussuch as accounts receivable and accounts payable, with a remaining tomers and no customer accounts for a significant part of the total maturity of less than six months, the carrying amount is deemed to accounts receivable as no customer accounts for more than 6.2 percent reflect fair value. Categorization of financial instruments Financial assets and liaFinancial assets valued bilities valued at fair value at fair value through Total carrying GROUP 2018 through profit or loss profit or loss Amortized cost amount Fair value Financial assets Other long-term receivables 2 612 614 614 Accounts receivable 972 972 972 Other current receivables 556 556 556 Cash and bank balances 389 389 389 Total financial assets 2 2,529 2,531 2,531 Financial liabilities Convertible debentures 22 22 22 Liabilities to credit institutions 208 208 208 Debenture 692 692 700 Lease liability 71 71 71 Other shortand long-term liabilities 260 260 260 Accounts payable 991 991 991 Total financial liabilities 2,244 2,244 2,252 Financial assets and liabilities valued at fair value Financial assets Changes in loans and Other financial Total carrying GROUP 2017 through profit or loss available for sale accounts receivable liabilities amount Fair value Financial assets Other long-term receivables 2 221 223 223 Accounts receivable 845 845 845 Other current receivables 1,105 1,105 1,105 Cash and bank balances 431 431 431 Total financial assets 2 2,602 2,604 2,604 Financial liabilities Convertible debentures 23 23 23 Liabilities to credit institutions 315 315 315 Debenture 296 296 305 Lease liability 61 61 61 Other shortand long-term liabilities 162 162 162 Accounts payable 799 799 799 Total financial liabilities 1,656 1,656 1,665 94 NOTES Calculation of fair value LEVEL 2 – Financial instruments for which the fair value is established Financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value in the balbased on valuation models that are based on other observable data ance sheet are classified according to one of three levels based on the for the asset or liability than quoted prices included in Level 1, either information used to establish the fair value. The tables below give directly (i.e. as price quotations) or indirectly (i.e. derived from price details of the Group and Parent Company’s classification of financial quotations). assets and liabilities measured at fair value. No significant transfers have been made between the levels during the periods. See Note 18 Examples of observable data within Level 2 are: Investment properties for information about buildings and land valued • Quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities. at fair value that are attributable to Level 3. • Data that may form the basis of assessments of price, e.g. market interest rates and yield curves. LEVEL 1 – Financial instruments for which the fair value is established based on observable (unadjusted) quoted prices in an active market for LEVEL 3 – Financial instruments for which fair value is established based identical assets and liabilities. A market is considered to be active if quoted on valuation models where significant inputs are based on non-observprices from an exchange, broker, industry group, pricing service or regulatable data. ing authority are easily and regularly available, and these prices represent actual and regular market transactions on an arm’s length basis. Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total GROUP 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Financial assets Financial assets available for sale 2 2 2 2 Total financial assets 2 2 2 2 Financial liabilities Other shortand long-term liabilities 58 84 58 84 Of which, additional purchase considerations 58 84 58 84 Total financial liabilities 58 84 58 84 The most important items are described below: Capital structure Serneke’s objective for the management of capital is to secure the In 2015, an asset acquisition took place that comprises an additional Group’s ability to continue its operations with financial stability in order consideration in the event of future detailed development plan changes to generate a reasonable return for shareholders and benefit to crediand contracts. The fair value of the additional purchase consideration tors and other stakeholders. amounts to SEK 34 million, which is an increase by SEK 3 million from Capital is defined as shareholders’ equity and concerns equity attribthe previous year. utable to shares in the Parent Company. In May 2016, Säve Airport was acquired from Swedavia. In addition One of Serneke’s financial targets is for the equity/assets ratio (equity to the purchase consideration, Serneke will pay the seller an additional divided by total assets) to exceed 25 percent. The Board believes that purchase consideration of up to SEK 200 million if a number of condithis level is adapted to Serneke’s business and the objective is part of tions specified in the share purchase agreement are met. Serneke setthe Group’s strategic planning. If the equity/assets ratio permanently tled the additional purchase consideration with Swedavia in 2018. exceeds the target, capital will be transferred to the shareholders in an In 2018, an asset acquisition was done of an investment property at appropriate form. At the end of 2018, the Group’s equity/assets ratio an underlying property value of SEK 26 million from Ola Serneke Invest amounted to 40.9 percent (41.3). The Group is subject to externally AB. The acquisition was conducted as a company acquisition and also imposed capital requirements, which are detailed under Note 30. includes an additional purchase consideration of SEK 10 million, subject to a new detailed development plan for the area gaining legal force. The fair value of the additional consideration amounts to SEK 10 million. 95 NOTES NOTE 5 Segment information Group The information reported to the highest executive decision-maker as Property: The operations entail management and development of a basis for allocating resources and assessing segment earnings com­properties for long-term appreciation. Management is conducted of prises the Group’s business areas: Construction, Civil Engineering, commercial properties. ­P roject Development and Property Management. These business Segment reporting is conducted based on reported income and areas constitute the Group’s reportable operating segments. earnings in accordance with the consolidated financial statements. Operating segment Group-wide: Other operations are reported under Group-wide and priConstruction: Construction conducts all of the Group’s construction-­ marily comprise central companies and Group functions. related operations. The business area carries out construction projects for both external clients as well as the internal units within the Serneke Income and operating profit by operating segment Group. Operations comprise new construction of housing and commerEach business area is operationally responsible for its income statecial properties. ment, down to and including operating profit and operating margin. For the Project Development business area, management also follows the Civil Engineering: All of the Group’s civil engineering and infrastructure-­ development of capital employed. related operations are conducted within Civil Engineering. The business Internal prices between the Group’s business areas are set based on area carries out construction contracts for both external ­clients as well the arm’s length principle. Internal revenue between business areas is as the internal units within the Serneke Group. The operations consist eliminated at the Group level. mainly of construction and concrete work in infrastructure projects and maintenance services. Assets and liabilities by operating segment Assets and liabilities for the business areas comprise capital employed. Project development: The business area develops residential and comCapital employed comprises the business areas’ respective total assets mercial properties and generates contracts for the Construction and reduced by deferred tax assets, less non-interest-bearing liabilities and Civil Engineering business areas. deferred income tax liabilities. Consolidated goodwill is attributed to each of the business areas responsible. Consolidated income and profit GROUP 2018 ProjectProperty Amounts in SEK million Construction Civil Engineering development Management Group-wide Elimination Group External sales 5,368 744 291 103 10 6,516 Internal sales 162 122 13 4 143 –444 Total income 5,530 866 304 107 153 –444 6,516 Operating result 90 10 230 257 8 595 Financial income 1 0 37 0 1 –1 38 Financial expenses –1 0 –14 –6 –55 1 –75 Net financial items 0 0 23 -6 –54 0 –37 Taxes 0 0 4 62 –20 0 46 Profit/loss for the year 90 10 257 313 –66 0 604 ProjectProperty Amounts in SEK million Construction Civil Engineering development Management Group-wide Elimination Total segment ASSETS Goodwill 23 23 Deferred tax assets 0 0 6 7 -13 0 Managed properties 213 213 Participations in associated companies and joint ventures 9 118 -5 122 Other fixed assets 119 16 129 455 16 721 Project and development properties 2,512 -5 2,507 Accrued but not invoiced 374 99 0 0 -1 472 Other current assets 1,463 223 743 253 1,280 – 2,479 1,483 Total assets 1,979 338 3,399 1,046 1 272 –2,479 5,555 OTHER SEGMENT INFORMATION ProjectProperty ManAmounts in SEK million Construction Civil Engineering development agement Group-wide Elimination Total segment Depreciation –11 –4 –1 –4 –4 –24 Impairment losses 0 0 0 0 Share of earnings associates and joint ventures 214 9 –18 205 Change in value of investment properties 281 281 96 NOTES GROUP 2017 ProjectProperty Amounts in SEK million Construction Civil Engineering development Management Group-wide Elimination Group External sales 4,806 557 201 49 12 –20 5,605 Internal sales 113 66 11 2 115 –307 Total income 4,919 623 212 51 127 –327 5,605 Operating result 183 1 65 213 –43 419 Financial income 0 0 16 1 1 18 Financial expenses –1 –1 –8 –3 –23 –36 Net financial items –1 –1 8 –2 –22 –18 Taxes 0 0 –1 –49 –28 –78 Profit/loss for the year 182 0 72 162 –93 323 ProjectProperty Amounts in SEK million Construction Civil Engineering development Management Group-wide Elimination Total segment ASSETS Goodwill 23 23 Deferred tax assets 1 0 1 0 25 –27 0 Managed properties 895 895 Participations in associated companies and joint ventures 356 90 446 Other fixed assets 104 14 158 34 8 318 Project and development properties 280 3 283 Accrued but not invoiced 278 58 0 2 –19 319 Other current assets 735 109 834 34 408 2,120 Total assets 1,141 181 1,629 1,055 444 –46 4,404 OTHER SEGMENT INFORMATION ProjectProperty SEK million Construction Civil Engineering development Management Group-wide Elimination Total segment Depreciation –10 –4 –1 –2 –3 –20 Impairment losses 0 0 0 Share of earnings associates and joint ventures 38 –7 –4 27 Change in value of investment properties 228 10 238 Information regarding geographical areas The Group conducts operations within Sweden, with three main geographical areas – West, South and East. 97 NOTES NOTE 6 Breakdown of income Parent Group Company Eliminations Civil Project Property and GroupJan–Dec 2018, SEK million Construction Engineering Development Management wide Total Construction income 5,519 866 274 –291 6,368 Sale of properties and development rights Rental income 0 56 56 10 Other income 11 0 30 51 92 133 Total income 5,530 866 304 107 –291 6,516 143 Date of income recognition: At a specific time 11 0 30 51 92 143 Over time 5,519 866 274 56 –291 6,424 Total income 5,530 866 304 107 –291 6,516 143 Parent Group Company Eliminations Civil EngineerProject Property and GroupJan–Dec 2017, SEK million Construction ing Development Management wide Total Construction income 4,914 622 192 -180 5,548 Sale of properties and development rights 20 -20 Rental income 0 38 38 6 Other income 5 1 13 19 111 Total income 4,919 623 212 51 -200 5,605 117 Date of income recognition: At a specific time 5 1 20 13 -20 19 117 Over time 4,914 622 192 38 -180 5,586 Total income 4,919 623 212 51 -200 5,605 117 NOTE 7 Contract assets and liabilities The following income-related contract assets and contract liabilities are recognized: Dec 31, 2018 CONTRACT ASSETS Dec 31, 2018 Contract assets attributable to construction contracts 398 Opening balance 319 Contract assets attributable to property sales 405 Earned income during the year, not yet invoiced 682 Total contract assets 803 Earned income during the year, invoiced during the year 2,204 Invoicing –2,401 Contract liabilities – construction contracts 532 Carrying amount at year-end 803 Contract liabilities – property sales Total contract liabilities 532 Assets that arise from expenses to obtain or fulfill a contract with a customer are included in Contract assets and amount to SEK 0 million. Depreciation amounts to SEK 0 million and impairment losses, which are charged to the project, amount to SEK 0 million CONTRACT LIABILITIES Dec 31, 2018 Opening balance 297 Invoicing 3,671 Earned income during the year, invoiced during the year –3,148 Earned income during the year, invoiced previous years –288 Carrying amount at year-end 532 98 NOTES NOTE 8 Operating expenses by type of expense The operating leases relate particularly to the rental of premises, including the Group’s head office in Gothenburg and local offices in Stockholm, Group Parent Company as well as various pieces of office equipment. The amount relating to 2018 2017 2018 2017 expensed leasing also includes non-recurring rents which include production-related equipment and tools. Material –832 –804 The lease term for the Group and Parent Company’s rented premises Subcontractors –3,979 –3,281 amounts to 1-6 years. The lease may be extended at the end of the term Staff –843 –683 –62 –41 at what the Group considers to be a fee consistent with market rates. Carrying amount sold property held for resale Rental payments increase annually according to an index, based on the Other production expenses –614 –525 index figure for the month of October. The lease term for other premises Depreciation –24 –20 –2 –2 varies between 3 and 6 years. Impairment losses 0 0 The lease term for various pieces of office equipment varies between Other –115 –137 –50 –93 3 and 4 years. Total 6,407 –5,450 –114 –136 In 2015, the Group and Parent Company signed a new lease for its current headquarters in Gothenburg. This lease is for 10 years and the rent will be settled in accordance with index clauses. In 2016, the Group NOTE 9 The auditor’s fee and cost compensation and Parent Company signed a new lease for office premises in Stockholm. The lease is for three years with three-months’ notice, after which Group Parent Company the lease can be extended for six months at a time, and the rent is regu2018 2017 2018 2017 lated in accordance with index clauses. Deloitte auditing assignments 2 2 3 2 auditing-related services 1 0 0 0 NOTE 11 Number of employees, salaries, other remuneration tax consultancy 0 0 0 0 and social security contributions Consultation 0 0 0 0 Total Deloitte 3 2 3 2 2018 2017 Of which Of which Number of number Number of number Deloitte was appointed as the primary auditing firm in 2013. AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES employees of men employees of men Parent Company Group Sweden 62 24 48 15 2018 2017 Total in the Parent Company 62 24 48 15 EY auditing assignments 0 Subsidiary auditing-related services 0 Sweden 1,008 887 893 810 tax consultancy 0 Total for subsidiaries 1,008 887 893 810 Consultation 0 Total EY 0 Total in Group 1,070 911 942 825 EY is the auditor in Karlastaden Holding AB, which Serneke acquired on December 28, 2018. 2018 2017 Social security Social security Salaries and contributions Salaries and contributions other (of which other (of which TOTAL SALARIES, remunerapension remunerapension NOTE 10 Leasing REMUNERATION ETC. tions costs) tions costs) Parent Company 38 16 26 11 Operating leases – lessee (4) (3) Operating lease expense for the year: Subsidiary 518 213 411 174 Group Parent Company (51) (41) 2018 2017 2018 2017 Total group 556 229 437 185 (55) (44) Minimum lease payments 135 91 16 14 Variable payments 2 2 2 2 Total 137 93 18 16 Parent Subsidiary DISTRIBUTION AMONG SENIOR On the balance sheet date, the Parent Company and Group had outEXECUTIVES AT BALANCE SHEET DATE Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 standing commitments in the form of minimum lease payments under Women: non-cancellable operating leases, with maturity dates as follows: Board including CEO 2 2 0 0 Other senior executives 0 0 0 0 Group Parent Company Dec 31,2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31,2018 Dec 31, 2017 Men: Within one year 19 19 15 13 Board including CEO 3 4 9 9 1–5 years 58 58 52 49 Later than 5 years 11 25 10 19 Other senior executives 9 9 0 0 Total 88 102 77 81 Total 14 15 9 9 99 NOTES cont. Note 11 REMUNERATION TO SENIOR EXECUTIVES NOTE 13 Financial expenses Details in SEK thousand Basic salary/ Other Pension Group PARENT COMPANY 2018 Fee benefits costs Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 Chairman of the Board Kent Sander 750 750 Interest expenses –75 –35 –48 –23 Board Member Mari Broman 350 350 Interest expense attributable Member of the Board to convertible debentures 0 –1 0 –1 Ludwig Mattsson 325 325 Exchange rate losses 0 0 0 0 Board Member Anna-Karin Celsing 275 275 Total financial expenses –75 –36 –48 –24 Board Member Susanne Lithander** 116 116 All interest expenses are attributable to financial liabilities measured at Member of the Board & CEO Ola Serneke 3,583 367 3,950 amortized cost. Other senior executives* 13,189 1,042 3,420 17,651 Total 18,588 1,409 3,420 23,417 Of which remuneration from NOTE 14 Appropriations Parent Company 10,420 889 1,617 12,926 Parent Company Basic 2018 2017 salary/ Other Pension 2017 Fee benefits costs Total Group contributions received 239 274 Chairman of the Board Kent Sander 750 750 Group contributions paid –217 –241 Board Member Anders Wennergren 200 200 Total appropriations 22 33 Member of the Board Ludwig Mattsson 200 200 Board Member Kristina Willgård 275 275 NOTE 15 Tax on profit for the year Board Member Mari Broman 200 200 Member of the Board & CEO Ola Serneke 2,658 2,658 Group Parent Company Other senior executives* 11,668 895 3,015 15,578 CURRENT TAX 2018 2017 2018 2017 Total 15,951 895 3,015 19,861 Current tax on profit for the Of which remuneration from year 0 0 Parent Company 7,660 362 1,241 9,263 Adjustments recognized in current year regarding prior * 4)‘Other senior executives’ refers to the individuals in addition to the CEO years’ current tax 0 2 who are members of Serneke’s Group Management. At the end of 2018, Total 0 2 Group Management comprised 10 people (10), including the CEO. ** Susanne Lithander left the Board of Directors in 2018. In the table above, Group Parent Company remuneration for this individual has only been included for the period in which she was a member of the Board of Directors and in her capacity as a member DEFERRED TAX 2018 2017 2018 2017 of the Board. Deferred tax on losses –20 –28 –15 –29 Deferred tax attributable to Variable remuneration temporary differences 66 –52 –4 5 There is no variable remuneration or other bonus system in the Group. Total 46 –80 –19 –24 Other benefits Total tax 46 –78 –19 –24 Other benefits largely comprise the assessed benefit value of company cars and housing. Income tax in Sweden is calculated at 22 percent (22) of the year’s taxable income. Tax in other jurisdictions is calculated at the tax rate that Pensions applies for the respective jurisdiction. A reconciliation is presented below The Group only has defined-contribution pension plans. between recognized profit for the year and tax expense for the year: Severance pay agreements and termination Group Parent Company RECONCILIATION TAX EXPENSE There are no agreements between the Company and the CEO regarding FOR THE YEAR 2018 2017 2018 2017 severance pay. The same applies to other senior executives. The period Profit/loss before tax 558 401 2 –9 of notice shall normally be six months if the executive resigns. On termiRecognized tax for the year 46 –78 –19 –24 nation by the Company, the period of notice shall not exceed 12 months Theoretical tax expense –123 –88 0 2 altogether. Difference 169 10 –19 –26 The difference is explained by NOTE 12 Financial income Non-deductible tax effect of impaired assets 0 0 0 0 Group Parent Company Tax effect of non-deductible expenses –15 –4 –1 –1 2018 2017 2018 2017 Tax effect of non-taxable Interest income 38 18 2 1 income 82 6 0 0 Exchange gains 0 0 0 0 Tax effect of non-taxable Group contributions from Other 0 0 0 0 subsidiaries 13 12 Total financial income 38 18 2 1 Tax effect of non-deductible Group contributions to subsidAll interest income is attributable to financial assets measured at amoriaries –31 –37 tized cost. Tax effect of non-taxable income from divested properties 57 100 NOTES RECONCILIATION TAX EXPENSE Group Parent Company NOTE 17 Goodwill FOR THE YEAR 2018 2017 2018 2017 Tax effect of share in profit of Group associates –5 6 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Tax effect of revaluation of associates on acquisition 50 Acquisition cost, opening balance 23 23 Taxes attributable to previous Purchasing years 0 2 Impairments for the year Total 169 10 –19 –26 Closing acc. cost of acquisition 23 23 Recognized goodwill relates to Serneke Bygg Öst, SEK 23 million (23). NOTE 16 Business combinations For the goodwill value, the recoverable amount has been generated by calculating the value in use of the cash-generating unit. The calculation On December 28, Serneke acquired all of NREP’s shares in Karlastaden model is based on discounting of future forecast cash flows, which have Holding AB, which constituted 50 percent of the total number of shares. been set against the unit’s carrying amount. Future cash flows are The purchase consideration amounted to SEK 600 million and was paid based on five-year forecasts produced by management. No impairment in connection with possession. As Serneke owns 100 percent of the requirement has been identified in accordance with IAS 36 for the shares, Karlastaden Holding AB with associated subsidiaries have been cash-generating unit. consolidated as of the date of possession. The acquisition is a step by step business combination, which means Significant assumptions that have been used when calculating the that Serneke needs to value the previously held 50-percent interest at value in use fair value. This entailed a revaluation effect of SEK 229 million that positively impacts operating profit to a corresponding amount. The revaluaNet sales and operating margin tion matches the difference between fair value of earlier holdings of SEK Assumptions used are based on the business plan and budget estab600 million and the previous carrying amount of SEK 371 million as of lished by management. possession on 28 December. As a result of the step by step business combination, a negative goodwill item of SEK 2 million arose, which has Working capital requirements and investment needs been realized over the income statement. The requirement has been assumed to be the same as that for the Karlastaden is a project that will accommodate approximately 2,000 ­current fiscal year in relation to net sales. homes and 70,000 square meters of commercial space. The area will also be the site of the Nordic region’s tallest residential building, KarlaLong-term growth rate tornet. The estimated project value is approximately SEK 13 billion. Long-term sustainable growth beyond the forecast period of 2 (2) ­percent has been used to reflect the market’s long-term growth. Purchase consideration Liquid assets 600 Discount rate Total purchase consideration 600 Forecast cash flows and residual values are discounted to present value with a weighted cost of capital according to WACC. In calculations that have been made of value in use, a weighted discount rate before tax has The assets and liabilities recognized as a result of the acquisition are the been used. The unit’s pre-tax discount rate was 8 percent (10) and after following: tax amounted to 6 percent (8). Fair value Sensitivity analysis Liquid assets 13 In the event of reasonable fluctuations in key assumptions, impairment Project and development properties 2,162 testing continued to show no impairment requirement. Other current receivables 28 Deferred tax liability –175 Other non-current liabilities –82 Current interest-bearing liabilities –590 NOTE 18 Investment properties Accounts payable –8 Group Other current liabilities –146 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Acquired identifiable net assets 1,202 Negative goodwill –2 Opening carrying amount 895 329 Acquired net assets 1,200 Acquisitions for the year 36 248 Capital expenditures 76 80 Reclassification 3 PURCHASE CONSIDERATION – CASH OUTFLOW 2018 2017 Unrealized changes in value –21 238 Sales –776 Cash purchase consideration 600 Closing carrying amount 213 895 Less: Acquired balances Liquid assets 13 Group Net outflow of cash and cash equivalents – investing activities 587 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Rental income from investment properties 47 20 Acquisition-related costs Property expenses from investment properties –63 –19 Acquisition-related costs of SEK 1 million are included in other expenses Earnings from Property –16 1 in the income statement and in operating activities in the cash flow statement. Investment properties are recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position at fair value and changes in value are recognized in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. The acquisitions for the year were acquired in June 2018. 101 NOTES cont. Note 18 Unrealized value changes on the properties amounted to a negative NOTE 19 Other tangible fixed assets SEK 21 million (positive: 238), which is based on external valuations of all investment properties. Realized changes in value during the year Group PARENT COMPANY amounted to SEK 302 million (of which SEK 42 million was recognized Dec 31, Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 2018 Dec 31, 2017 as unrealized earlier in the year) and are attributable to the sale of Säve Airport. Buildings and land 30 15 Sales for the year are comprised of the divestment of Säve Airport to Plant and machinery 6 3 Castellum in December 2018. Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 86 77 12 5 Investment properties are properties that are managed with the purClosing carrying amount 122 95 12 5 pose of generating rental income, capital appreciation or a combination of both. The Group also owns investment properties through associates, Group where changes in value resulting from fair value estimations are recogDec 31, nized in the associate’s share. The Group’s share of the investment BUILDINGS AND LAND 2018 Dec 31, 2017 properties in associated companies amounted to SEK 316 million (320). Acquisition cost, opening balance 38 35 See Note 21 Participations in associates and joint ventures. Purchasing 17 3 Closing accumulated cost 55 38 Valuation model The properties’ fair value is based on internal appraisals, which are Opening depreciation –23 –22 ensured annually through external appraisals. Fair value is the estimated Depreciation for the year –2 –1 amount that could be collected in a transaction at the point of valuation Closing accumulated depreciation –25 –23 between well-informed parties that are independent of each other and who have an interest in completing the transaction. Closing carrying amount 30 15 At December 31, 2018, Serneke carried out an external appraisal of all properties. This is to ascertain the reliability of the internal valuation. Group Dec 31, Significant assumptions that have been used in the cash flow model: PLANT AND MACHINERY 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Revenue Acquisition cost, opening balance 11 16 Future income is based on existing leases with inflation of two percent, Purchasing 12 2 as well as forecast changes in occupancy rates. Sales/scrapping –2 –7 Reclassification 3 Operation and maintenance expenses Closing acc. cost of acquisition 24 11 When assessing properties’ future property expenses, estimated normalized expenses have been used. Opening depreciation –8 –15 Sales/scrapping 0 7 Required Yield Depreciation for the year –1 0 The required yield used is between 5.75 and 8.0 percent (5.8 to 8.7). Reclassification –3 Closing acc. depreciation/amortization –12 –8 External valuation To ascertain the Company’s assessment of the value, all significant Impairment for the year –6 investment properties are also valued by an external, independent Closing acc. impairment –6 appraiser, which ensures the property’s anticipated future value against a consideration of prevailing market conditions. Closing carrying amount 6 3 Sensitivity analysis* Group Parent Company EQUIPMENT, TOOLS, The assumption that has the greatest impact on the valuations is the FIXTURES AND FITTINGS Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 yield requirement. At +/–1 percentage unit's change in the yield and Acquisition cost, opening +/–3 percent of income and operating and maintenance expenses, balance 118 101 8 8 the consolidated results are affected by (SEK millions): Purchasing 50 42 8 2 +/–1 percentage unit yield: –139/+197 (–192/+266) Reclassification –3 +/–3 percent income: +38/–38 (+53/–53) Disposal/retirement –39 –25 0 –2 +/–3 percent operation and maintenance expenses: –9/+9 (–10/+10) Closing accumulated cost 126 118 16 8 * T he sensitivity analysis includes effects of investment properties in associates. Opening depreciation –41 –40 –3 –2 Reclassification 3 Disposal/retirement 19 18 0 1 Depreciation for the year –21 –19 –1 –2 Closing accumulated depreciation –40 –41 –4 –3 Closing carrying amount 86 77 12 5 Of which financially leased assets 70 60 4 3 102 NOTES NOTE 20 Participations in Group companies PARENT COMPANY Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Acquisition cost, opening balance 127 75 Acquisition of participations in Group companies 0 Shareholder contributions paid 39 52 Impairment on participations in Group companies –4 Closing cost of acquisition 162 127 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 COMPANY, CORPORATE IDENTITY NUMBER Domicile Share of equity %* Share of equity %* Carrying amount Carrying amount Serneke Construction AB, 556621-6908 Gothenburg 100% 100% 15 15 Serneke Anläggning AB, 556782-0591 Gothenburg 100% 100% 37 37 Serneke Industri AB, 556630-8184 Gothenburg 100% 100% 1 1 Serneke Project AB, 556688-6601 Gothenburg 100% 100% 0 0 Serneke Fastighet AB, 556982-4914 Gothenburg 100% 100% 108 74 Serneke International AB, 559161-0273 Gothenburg 100% 0 IFK GBG Transferintressenter AB, 559149-1625 Gothenburg 54% 1 162 127 *Also the share of votes The Parent Company Serneke Group AB owns 100 percent of the shares ducted in Serneke Industri AB. Directly-owned subsidiaries are in six of its subsidiaries and 54 percent of the shares in one of the subreported in the table above. Other companies in the Group specified sidiaries. The subsidiaries are engaged in the core business, while the in the respective subsidiary’s annual report. Parent Company provides Group-wide services. No operations are conNOTE 21 Participations in associates and joint ventures Group Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Opening amount 446 424 Acquisition of participations in associates 21 0 Shareholder contributions 49 34 Dividend 0 0 Joint venture converted to Group company during the year –400 –38 Share in profit, after tax 6 26 Closing value 122 446 * W hen a Parent Company loses control of a subsidiary, the residual holding is revalued at fair value. See Note 2 Significant accounting policies. On December 28, the remaining 50 percent of the participations in Karacquired assets and assumed liabilities constitute a business, which lastaden Holding AB was acquired, and Serneke thereby has the conmeans that Serneke has valued its participations at fair value. This trolling influence. The purchase consideration amounted to SEK 600 entailed a revaluation effect of SEK 229 million, including realization million and was paid in connection with possession. The acquisition of historical internal profit eliminations that positively impacts profit constitutes a so-called business combination according to IFRS 3 as to a corresponding amount. Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Associated companies/ COMPANY, ORGANIZATION Domicile Ownership share * Ownership share * Joint ventures Valuation method Karlastaden Holding AB, 559057-5816 Gothenburg 50.0% Joint venture The equity method Associated Änglagården Holding AB, 556911-1015 Gothenburg 40.0% 40.0% companies The equity method Associated 7H Bil AB, 556629-2362 Gothenburg 30.0% 30.0% companies The equity method Associated Fastighetskompaniet i Väst AB, 556735-7271 Gothenburg 50.0% 50.0% companies The equity method Associated Herrestads Etablering AB, 556966-0086 Trollhättan 20.0% 20.0% companies The equity method Esstate Serneke Älvsjö Holding AB, 559157-0519 Gothenburg 50.0% Joint venture The equity method Serneke Midroc Holding AB, 559157-8876 Gothenburg 50.0% Joint venture The equity method Fastighets AB Oceanateljén, 559034-3769 Malmö 50.0% Joint venture The equity method Fastighets AB Österskans, 559165-6953 Gothenburg 50.0% Joint venture The equity method SerSund AB, 559117-6754 Gothenburg 50.0% Joint venture The equity method Associated Fjätervålen AB, 556223-3527 Gothenburg 40.0 % – companies The equity method Associated Consortium Builders Pty Ltd Perth 33.0% – companies The equity method *Also the share of votes 103 NOTES cont. Note 21 Description of operations • Serneke Midroc Holding AB – The company will own and manage • Änglagården Holding AB – The company will own, manage and shares in companies that conduct project development. develop Prioritet Serneke Arena. • Fastighets AB Oceanateljén – The company will own and manage • 7H Bil AB The company’s operations are sales of cars etc. shares in companies that conduct project development. • Fastighetskompaniet i Väst AB – The company will own, manage and • Fastighets AB Österskans – The company will own and manage shares develop properties. in companies that conduct project development. • Herrestads Etablering AB – The company conducts property • SerSund AB – The company conducts project development. development. • Fjätervålen AB – The company conducts ski facility operations. • Esstate Serneke Älvsjö Holding AB – The company will own and • Consortium Builders Pty Ltd – The company conducts construction manage shares in companies that conduct project development. operations in Australia. SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION Karlastaden Holding AB Änglagården Holding AB Other SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Total assets 783 954 1,006 316 89 Total liabilities and provisions 677 645 696 270 64 Total net assets 106 309 310 46 25 Preferential dividend right to other co-owners * –32 –55 The Group’s share of net assets 356 92 83 30 7 Karlastaden Holding AB Änglagården Holding AB Other SUMMARY PROFIT/LOSS STATEMENT Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Revenue 2 64 81 31 13 Profit/loss for the year –2 23 –20 –4 4 The Group’s share of profit ** –1 9 –8 –3 1 *A n agreement between the co-owners of Änglagården Holding AB: Lommen ** Unrealized changes in value of the associated company’s investment property Holding, Prioritet Finans and Serneke have signed in 2015, which means a preferwere negative in an amount of SEK 10 million (89), of which the Group’s share ential dividend of SEK 90 million for the benefit of the other co-owners before after tax amounted to SEK 3 million (28). Serneke Group AB (publ) has also Serneke can partake of free distributable funds. In 2016 (SEK 13 million), 2017 entered into a guarantee undertaking, which means that the co-owners in (SEK 22 million) and 2018 (SEK 23 million), a dividend was made to the other Änglagården Holding AB are jointly responsible for the correct fulfillment of shareholders whereby preferential rights amounted to SEK 32 million at year-end interest and repayment of the associate’s liabilities to credit institutions in the 2018. Serneke also has a commitment in the form of an operation warranty in event that the associate is unable to pay. As at December 31, 2018, the associrelation to the other co-owners in Änglagården Holding AB. The operation guarate’s liability to credit institutions amounted to SEK 442 million (460). antee entails that Serneke must compensate the other co-owners for all operating earnings that fall short of SEK 51.6 million on an annual basis up until December 31, 2020. The operation guarantee has negatively affected profit for the year by SEK 5 million (11) and the closing provision for continuing commitment amounts to SEK 12 million. NOTE 22 Other non-current receivables NOTE 23 Project and development properties Group Parent Company Group Parent Company Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Opening amount 223 261 2 1 Opening cost* 283 242 3 3 Incoming from property sales 406 Purchasing 38 74 Incoming other 122 27 Reclassification –3 –10 Reclassification –65 1 Incoming via business combinations 2,162 Settlement –137 Capital expenditures 50 34 Closing value* 614 223 2 2 Impairment losses * of which interest-bearing 51 10 Sales –23 –6 * including receivables from associated companies and Other –51 joint ventures 80 62 Closing accumulated cost* 2507 283 3 3 * of which for properties that the Group has taken over for which it is not the legally registered owner SEK 5 million (5). Capitalized interest Loan interest of SEK 0 million (0) has been capitalized during the year. NOTE 24 Inventories Group Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Materials and supplies, advances paid 1 1 Total 1 1 104 NOTES NOTE 25 Accounts receivable Group Parent Company Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Gross trade receivables 973 850 0 0 Credit loss provision –1 –5 Total accounts receivable, net of provision for anticipated credit losses 972 845 0 0 The credit loss provision recognized in the projects amounts to SEK 29 million as of December 31, 2018. Group Parent Company Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Credit loss provision at beginning of year –5 –6 Reservation for the year for anticipated credit losses –2 –1 Settled anticipated credit losses 6 2 Total credit loss provision –1 –5 GROUP 2018 2017 Reserve, doubtful Credit loss Customer accounts Customer AGE ANALYSIS, ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE Gross provision Receivables Gross receivable Receivables Not yet due 797 0 797 644 0 644 Due within 30 days 73 0 73 95 0 95 Due 31–60 days 6 0 6 11 0 11 Due 61-90 days 0 0 0 3 0 3 Due > 90 days 97 –1 96 97 –5 92 Total 973 –1 972 850 –5 845 NOTE 26 Construction contracts NOTE 29 Shareholders’ equity Group Share capital Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 At the beginning of 2017, share capital amounted to SEK 2,271,486 and the number of shares was 22,714,852 at a quotient value of SEK 0.10, Contract expenses and recognized profit 6,532 4,662 comprising 5,360,000 Class A shares and 17,354,852 Class B shares. Less invoiced amounts –6,134 –4,343 The Annual General Meeting of June 29, 2016, resolved to issue conAccrued but not invoiced income 398 319 vertibles with a nominal value of approximately SEK 15.9 million. The convertible debentures are valid up to and including August 26, 2019, Invoiced amounts 8,396 5,462 carry 1.6 percent annual interest and have a conversion price of SEK Less contract expenses and recognized profit –7,864 –5,165 120. Upon conversion, a maximum of 132,350 Class B shares may be Invoiced but not accrued income 532 297 added and share capital may increase by a maximum of SEK 13,235. The holders have the right at certain times during the term to request conversion into new Class B shares. At December 31, 2018, a total of 850 NOTE 27 Prepaid expenses and accrued income convertibles had been converted to Class B shares and 131,500 convertibles remained. Group Parent Company At the Annual General Meeting on May 3, 2017, a long-term incentive Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 program was adopted in the form of employee convertibles for employPre-paid rent 10 8 4 3 ees in the Group. The program entails that the Company take a convertPrepaid leasing 2 2 0 0 ible loan of a maximum nominal value of SEK 20 million through the Prepaid insurance 4 1 0 0 issue of convertibles. The subscribed amount was approximately SEK Accrued income 2 16 0 7.6 million, entailing that a maximum of 48,503 Class B shares can Other prepaid expenses 18 30 12 6 increase share capital by no more than SEK 4,850.3 at full conversion. Total 36 57 16 9 The conversion rate was fixed at SEK 157.70. The convertibles fall due September 8, 2020, provided conversion has not taken place before this date. The convertibles will carry an annual interest rate of 2.60 NOTE 28 Other current debt ­percent. As of December 31, 2018, no convertibles were converted to B shares and 48,503 convertibles remained. Group Parent Company In 2017, convertibles were converted to a nominal amount of around Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 SEK 27 million and the issue costs were SEK 2 million lower than expected, Receivables from sales of which was recognized against shareholders’ equity. In 2018, no conproject properties 78 516 vertibles were converted. Receivable from joint ventures 12 192 At the beginning of 2018, share capital amounted to SEK 2,324,846 Other current receivables 68 78 1 6 and the number of shares was 23,248,452, comprising 5,360,000 158 786 1 6 Class A shares and 17,888,452 Class B shares. At the end of 2018, the share capital totaled SEK 2,324,846. Total number of shares as of December 31, 2018 amounted to 23,248,452, of which 5,210,000 were Class A shares and 18,038,452 Class B shares. Other capital contributions – Group Other capital contributions comprise the share premium reserve. 105 Notes NOTE 30 Borrowing Group Parent Company Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Group Parent Company < 12 months 138 32 LONG-TERM Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 12–36 months 74 264 Bank loans 81 282 > 36 months 10 19 Convertible debentures 7 23 7 23 Total 222 315 Liabilities regarding financial leasing 47 40 4 2 Convertible debentures Bond loan 691 296 691 296 In August 2016, a new convertible debenture loan was issued aimed at Other 83 152 employees . The amount issued totals SEK 15,882,000 and the loan Total 909 793 702 321 carries an interest rate of 4 percent. Interest payments occur annually in August. The loan matures on 26 August 2019. Conversion may take Group Parent Company place at fixed times over a period of 10 business days after the Interim SHORT-TERM Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Report is published in 2017, 2018 and 2019 as well as 1–12 August Bank loans 127 33 2019. The conversion rate is SEK 120. Market rate of interest for similar Liabilities regarding financial loans without collateral is deemed to have an interest rate of 4 percent, leasing 24 21 1 1 and if the convertible’s interest rate is lower than the estimated market Convertible debentures 15 15 interest rate, SEK 1 million of the issued convertible has been recogTotal 166 54 16 1 nized into equity. In August 2017, a convertible debenture loan was issued aimed at Total borrowing * 1,075 847 718 322 employees . The amount issued totals SEK 7,648,923 and the loan car* All borrowings in the Group are in SEK. ries an interest rate of 2.6 percent. Interest payments are made on December 31 every year and on the loan’s due date. The loan runs until Collateral for borrowings September 8, 2020 insofar as conversion has not occurred beforehand. Total borrowing includes bank loans and other borrowings collateralized The conversion rate is SEK 157.70. The market interest rate for an equivwith SEK 226 million (186). Collateral for borrowings comprises the alent bond without right of conversion has a rate in line with the rate on Group’s properties, floating charges and pledged shares in subsidiaries. the convertible loan, which is why no portion of the issued convertible is For further information regarding collateral, see Note 34. recognized in equity. In April 2017, convertible loans of SEK 26,473,125 were converted. Sensitivity analysis interest risk The decision to offer all employees convertibles was made on market The Group’s future financial expenses are affected as detailed below in terms whereby each employee was given the right to subscribe to conthe event of a change in the borrowing rate, given the same borrowings vertibles. The purpose of the offers has been to boost long-term finanas at the end of the period. cial commitment among Serneke’s employees. The employees have paid Group the market price for the convertibles received and the programs are not Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 associated with any condition of continued employment or performance of the employee. Effect on future financial expenses +/–1% –10/+10 –7/+7 Serneke has assessed that the issue has been carried out on market Effect on future financial expenses +/–3% –30/+30 –21/+21 terms and that the terms of the convertibles program are designed in Available credit such a way that no benefit exists for employees. Thus, no cost, in addiGroup tion to interest, is recognized in relation to the convertibles. Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Convertible debentures are recognized in the balance sheet in accordance with the following: Bank overdraft facility 200 200 Utilized amount Group Parent Company Available credit 200 200 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 As of December 31, 2018, criteria for a covenant were fulfilled regarding Nominal amount 22 23 22 23 a bank overdraft facility the Group has signed with Nordea. Serneke has Liability component at issue date –22 –23 –22 –23 committed to an equity/assets ratio of 25 percent. At December 31, Equity component 0 0 0 0 2018, Serneke presented an equity/assets ratio of 40.9 percent (41.3). Serneke Group AB (publ) has a credit facility of another SEK 300 milLiability component at issue date –22 –23 –22 –23 lion from the bank in addition to the above bank overdraft facilities of Effective rate 0 0 0 0 SEK 200 million that are not utilized as of December 31, 2018. The Discount rate as of December 31 –22 –23 –22 –23 credit facility can be used to increase the bank overdraft facilities, guarantees or bank loans. Liabilities regarding financial leasing The Serneke Group as lessee has mostly finance leases relating to cars. Bank loans The conditions for them are: The bank loans mature until 2025 and, as of December 31, 2018 have an average interest rate of 1.70 percent (1.70). T he lease payments are variable and reflect interest rate plus surcharge. Exposure with regard to bank loans to changes in interest rates and The payment frequency is monthly in advance. The leasing fee is based contractual dates for interest rate negotiations are at the end of the on the reference rate (STIBOR 90 days with 90 days of interest period) reporting period as follows: and the margin on the straight line depreciation method. The lease period is normally 36 months. Serneke has the right to redeem the leasing contract after 12 months. In the event of advance redemption, Serneke shall pay on the settlement date the recorded residual value as well as the overdue lease payments and accrued interest. The carrying amounts of the leased assets are detailed under Note 19. 106 Notes Liabilities finance leases: NOTE 32 Other provisions Group Parent Company Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Group Parent Company Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Maturity date: Within one year 24 21 1 1 Additional consideration 53 84 1–5 years 47 40 4 2 Provisions relating to access Total 71 61 5 3 to property 5 5 Provision for commitments attributable to property sales 58 6 Bond loan Provision for guarantee In June 2018, new senior non-covered bonds totaling SEK 700 million undertakings 47 63 0 20 were issued within a framework of SEK 1 billion and maturing in 2021. Provision for other undertakings 60 The net proceeds were used to prematurely redeem all outstanding Total 223 158 0 20 bonds under its existing SEK 300 million bond loan maturing in 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 (ISIN: SE0008992184). The cost of early redemption of existing bonds impacted earnings negatively by SEK 12 million in 2018, which is recogProvisions consist of; nized in net financial items. Long-term portion 223 158 0 20 The new bond loan carries a variable interest rate of three-month Short-term portion STIBOR +5.25 percent and expires in June 2021. Serneke listed the new Total 223 158 0 20 bond loan on Nasdaq Stockholm and the first trading day was July 5. Additional Provision for Provision Provision The loan has financial covenants regarding solvency and liquidity. The purchase Provisions commitments for guaranfor other considerrelating to attributable to tee underunder­ equity/assets ratio shall amount to 25.0 percent for the period until ation property property sales takings takings Total June 30, 2021. Cash and cash equivalents corresponding to 5 percent At January 1, 2018 84 5 6 63 158 of sales shall always be available. The covenant requirements also stipuAdditional provisions 4 52 9 60 125 late that all properties must be appraised by an external party. Serneke Provisions for fulfilled the requirements as of December 31, 2018. acquisitions 10 10 Reversed unused amounts 0 NOTE 31 Deferred tax Utilized during the year –45 –25 –70 As of December 31, 2018 53 5 58 47 60 223 Temporary differences arise when the carrying amounts and tax values of assets or liabilities differ. The Group’s and Parent Company’s tempoAdditional consideration rary differences have resulted in deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax Concerns estimated future outflows attributable to the acquisition of assets with regard to the following items: businesses or project and development properties. Group Parent Company Provisions relating to access to property Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Acquisitions of project and development properties are normally recognized Deferred tax assets as assets once binding acquisition agreements have been entered into, and Buildings and land 4 1 where future conditional changes to detailed development plans are deemed Managed properties 10 highly likely. The probability of the detailed development plan being impleLoss carryforwards 13 26 10 25 mented is considered to be very high, which is why the property is recognized Other deferred tax assets 9 10 4 as accessed and allocation has been made in the corresponding amount. Total deferred tax assets 26 47 10 29 Sales commitment Deferred tax liabilities Concerns commitments conditional upon sales of properties or developBuildings and land –3 ment rights. Managed properties –8 –72 Project and development Guarantee undertakings properties –175 – Relates to expenses individually calculated for projects in order to rectify Other deferred tax liabilities 0 –1 faults and deficiencies that may arise during the guarantee period, which Total deferred tax liabilities –183 –76 is normally five years. The fair value of other provisions corresponds to their carrying Total deferred tax assets amounts, since discounting effects are minimal. and liabilities, net –157 –29 10 29 The Group and Parent Company recognize deferred tax assets to the Other commitments extent that it is likely that deductions can be offset against future taxPertain to provisions for undertakings that do not fall under the other able profits. categories and for disputes. The Group has recognized deferred tax on losses in companies that have accumulated losses. Losses are expected to be able to be used within the Group against future profits. Loss carry-forwards have no NOTE 33 Accrued expenses and prepaid income fixed maturity dates. The increase for the year in the deferred tax liability is primarily attribGroup Parent Company utable to the business acquisition of Karlastaden Holding AB, which Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 entailed a deferred tax liability of SEK 175 million at December 31, 2018. Accrued interest expenses 3 0 3 0 Accrued personnel expenses 86 70 6 3 Prepaid rental income 2 8 0 0 Deferred income 0 157 2 – Other accrued expenses 21 25 4 4 Total 112 260 15 7 107 Notes NOTE 34 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities Pledged assets Contingent liabilities Group Parent Company Group Parent Company CONCERNING LONG-TERM BORROWINGS Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Property mortgages 85 305 Guarantee obligations of benefit for Group companies 572 541 Frozen funds 30 Guarantees and contracting Liens on assets 500 48 500 guarantees for Group Total 615 353 500 companies 184 106 Guarantees in connection Group Parent Company with property sales 226 186 225 184 CONCERNING SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Guarantee obligations for credit in tenant-owner’s Property mortgages 124 32 association 61 91 61 91 Pledged shares in subsidiaries 1,202 Guarantee obligations for advance payment and Frozen funds 0 120 120 contribution guarantees in Liens on assets 200 200 tenant-owner’s association 143 125 143 125 Total 1,326 352 320 Guarantee obligations for the benefit of associated companies * 20 145 20 145 Group Parent Company Total 450 547 1,205 1,192 CONCERNING PROPERTY SALES Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 * S erneke Group AB (publ) has, in addition to the amount given above, entered into Property mortgages 19 a guarantee undertaking, which entails that the co-owners in Änglagården Holding Total 19 AB are jointly responsible for the correct fulfillment of interest and repayment of the associate’s liabilities to credit institutions in the event that the associate is unable to pay. At December 31, 2018, the associate’s liability to credit institutions amounts to SEK 460 million (460). NOTE 35 Cash flow statement Reconciliation of net debt Group Parent Company Group Parent Company ADJUSTMENTS ITEMS NOT AFFECTING CASH FLOW Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Net debt Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Share in profit of associates and Liquid assets 389 431 310 392 joint ventures 24 –26 Non-current interest-bearing Revaluation on acquisition of receivables 51 10 0 0 controlling interest –229 Loan liabilities – fall due within Unrealized changes in value 21 –238 one year –166 –54 –16 –1 Capital gains, properties –302 Loan liabilities – fall due after one year –826 –641 –702 –321 Capital gains –1 Net debt –552 –254 –408 70 Appropriations 27 37 Amortization and depreciation 24 20 2 2 Liquid assets 389 431 310 392 Other non-cash items –134 12 –20 20 Non-current interest-bearing Total –570 –195 –18 22 receivables 51 10 0 0 Gross debt – fixed interest –22 –23 –22 –23 Gross debt – variable interest –970 –672 –696 –299 Net debt –552 –254 –408 70 Other assets Liabilities attributable to financing activities Non-current Finance leases Finance Loan liabilities Loan liabilities interest-bearing maturing within leases maturing maturing within maturing after GROUP Liquid assets receivables one year after one year one year one year Total Net debt at January 1, 2018 431 10 –24 –40 –30 –601 –254 Cash flow –42 –26 –353 –421 Exchange-rate differences 0 0 Other non-cash items 41 0 –7 –86 175 123 Net debt at December 31, 2018 389 51 –24 –47 –142 –779 –552 Other assets Liabilities attributable to financing activities Non-current Finance leases Finance Loan liabilities Loan liabilities interest-bearing maturing within leases maturing maturing within maturing after PARENT COMPANY Liquid assets receivables one year after one year one year one year Total Net debt at January 1, 2018 392 –1 –2 0 –319 70 Cash flow –82 0 –391 –473 Exchange-rate differences 0 0 Other non-cash items 0 –1 –15 11 –5 Net debt at December 31, 2018 310 –1 –3 –15 –699 –408 108 Notes NOTE 36 Related parties GROUP 2018 2017 Close associations Transactions with associates and joint ventures The Group is under significant influence from Ola Serneke whom, via the Sales* 356 198 company holds 57 percent (55) of the voting rights of the Parent ComPurchasing 16 3 pany Serneke Group AB (publ). The Parent Company of the largest Group Receivable 92 262 in which Serneke Group AB (publ) is included is Ola Serneke Invest AB. Liability 6 29 Ludwig Mattsson, family and company have a significant influence over Serneke Group AB (publ) through its holding of 13 percent (13) of * K arlastaden was acquired on December 28, 2018 and transactions up to that date are included as related party transactions. Thereafter, there are no related the votes. party transactions as Karlastaden is wholly owned by Serneke. Transactions with Michael Berglin are considered to constitute related party transactions as Michael Berglin is a member of Group Remuneration to senior executives Management for Serneke Group AB. Information on remuneration to senior executives is presented in Note 11. Ola Serneke Invest Ola Serneke’s CEO, board member and owner of Ola Serneke Invest. NOTE 37 Events after balance sheet date Lommen Holding There are no material events to note after the balance sheet date. Ludwig Mattsson is a Board Member of Lommen Holding and, together with the family, owners of the company. NOTE 38 Appropriation of the Parent Company’s profit Adapta Adapta is under significant influence of Ludwig Mattsson, family and The Annual General Meeting has at its disposal the following amounts, SEK company. Ludwig Mattsson Chairman of the Board of Adapta. Profit/loss brought forward –283,591,759 Michael Berglin Share premium reserve 802,570,581 Michael Berglin is a member of Group Management for Serneke Group AB. Profit/loss for the year –17,475,067 Total 501,503,755 Associated companies In addition to the above related party relationships, the Group has a The Board proposes that the unappropriated earnings be distributed as close relationship with its associates. See Note 21. follows, SEK: Subsidiary Dividend 0 In addition to the related party relationships stated for the Group, the Carried forward: 501,503,755 Parent Company has a close relationship with its subsidiaries. See Note 20. Summary, related party transactions GROUP 2018 2017 Transactions with Ola Serneke Invest Sales to Ola Serneke Invest 1 2 Purchases from Ola Serneke Invest 44 0 Receivable Serneke Invest Liability to Ola Serneke Invest 10 Transactions with Lommen Holding Sales to Lommen Holding Purchases from Lommen Holding Receivable Lommen Holding Debt to Lommen Holding Transactions with Adapta Sales to Adapta 540 372 Purchases from Adapta 12 12 Receivable Adapta 57 50 Debt to Adapta 4 4 Transactions with Michael Berglin Sales to Michael Berglin 3 Purchases from Michael Berglin Receivable from Michael Berglin 4 Liability to Michael Berglin 109 Notes Approval of the financial statements The Annual Report was approved by the Board and approved for The Board of Directors and the CEO certify that the consolidated publication April 4, 2019. financial statements have been prepared in accordance with InterThe Board of Directors and the CEO certify that the financial national Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, statements have been prepared in accordance with the Swedish and give a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position and Annual Accounts Act and RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities and performance and the Board of Directors’ Report gives a true and give a true and fair view of the Company’s financial position and fair view of the Group’s operations, financial position and perforperformance and that the Board of Directors’ Report gives a true mance and describes significant risks and uncertainties facing the and fair view of the Company’s operations, financial position and Companies included in the Group. performance and describes significant risks and uncertainties ­facing the Company. Gothenburg, April 4, 2019 Kent Sander Mari Broman Ludwig Mattsson Chairman Board Member Board Member Ola Serneke Anna-Karin Celsing Board Member Board Member CEO Our auditor’s report regarding this annual report and consolidated financial statements was issued 4 April 2019. Deloitte AB Harald Jagner Authorized Public Accountant 110 Auditor’s report Auditor’s report This auditor’s report is a translation for the Swedish language origimatters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in formnal. In the events of any differences between this translation and ing our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated the Swedish original the latter shall prevail. accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on To the general meeting of the shareholders of SERENEKE Group these matters. AB (publ), corporate identity number 556669-4153. Revenue from construction contracts Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Description of risk Opinions Revenue from construction contracts is recognized over time. We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts When the financial outcome of a project can reasonably be meaof SERNEKE Group AB (publ) for the fiscal year 2018-01-01– sured, the project income and project expenses attributable to the 2018-12–31, except for the corporate governance statement on project are recognized as income and expenses in reference to the pages 56–67. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of project’s percentage of completion at the end of the reporting the company are included on pages 50–110 in this document. period. The percentage of completion is primarily measured on the In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accorbasis of the relationship between project expenses incurred for dance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all matework completed at the end of the reporting period, and estimated rial respects, the financial position of parent company as of 31 total project expenses. December 2018 and its financial performance and cash flow for the This requires that project income and expenses can be assessed year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The in a reliable way, which in turn requires efficient and coordinated consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the processes and systems for managing and following up on contract Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the assignments in a reliable manner, which in turn requires good profinancial position of the group as of 31 December 2018 and their cedures for governance and follow-up of construction contracts. financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in Changes in project forecasts could have a significant impact on the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), Group’s result and financial position. as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. Our opinions do The Group discloses information about risks and risk managenot cover the corporate governance statement on pages 56–67. ment regarding construction contracts in the Board of Directors’ The Borad of Director’s Report is consistent with the other parts of Report on page 55. Accounting principles and critical judgment the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. areas regarding percentage of completion related to construction We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholdcontracts are described in note 2 – Significant accounting princiers adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent ples, in note 3 – Significant judgments and estimates and in note 26 company and the group. – Construction contracts in the annual report. Our opinions in this report on the the annual accounts and consolidated accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report Our audit procedures that has been submitted to the parent company’s audit committee in Our audit included, but was not limited to, the following procedures: accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. • Evaluation of the Group’s principles for revenue recognition and compliance with IFRS, Basis for Opinions • review and evaluation of internal controls regarding the appliance We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards of revenue recognition over time, and on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in • review of a number of construction contracts by interviews with ­S weden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further management and managers, analysis of risks and uncertainty in described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are indeforecasts for a selection of projects, verification of information in pendent of the parent company and the group in accordance forecasts against contracts together with calculation of degree with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have of completion and revenue. otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. This includes that, based on the best of our Acquisition of participations in Karlastaden Holding AB knowledge and belief, no prohibited services referred to in the Audit Description of risk Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to the In 2018, Serneke acquired the remaining 50 percent of the particiaudited company or, where applicable, its parent company or its pations in Karlastaden Holding AB (“Karlastaden”). In connection controlled companies within the EU. with the transaction, Serneke obtained control over Karlastaden, We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient which was previously reported as a joint venture. and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The acquisition shall be classified as either an asset acquisition or business combination. How the acquisition is classified affects, Key Audit Matters among other things, the formulation of the purchase price allocaKey audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our profestion and recognition of deferred taxes. In light of the fact that sional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual Serneke has deemed that the acquisition constitutes a business accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. These combination according to IFRS 3, acquired assets and liabilities shall 111 Auditor’s report be valued at fair value at the acquisition date. This requires manmine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts and agement to make a number of assessments regarding e.g. future consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, cash flows and determination of yield requirements for example the whether due to fraud or error. properties included in the acquisition. Relatively small changes in In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The assessments and assumptions can have a significant impact on the Board of Directors and the CEO are responsible for the assessment Group’s result and financial position. of the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going conThe Group disclosure information about accounting principles cern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going concern and significant judgment areas regarding the business combination and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern in note 2 – Significant accounting principles, in note 3 – Significant basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of Directors judgments and estimates and in note 16 – business combinations in and the CEO intends to liquidate the company, to cease operations, the annual report. or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Our audit procedures Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things Our audit included, but was not limited to, the following procedures: oversee the company’s financial reporting process. • review of the underlying agreement, time of reporting, • deferred consideration and potential special conditions, Auditor’s responsibility • review of the Group’s assumptions regarding the classification Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether of the acquisition as business combinations, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free • review of the Group’s calculations and assessments regarding from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to revaluation of earlier participations in Karlastaden, issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable • review of the purchase price allocation through acquisition assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an ­analysis through interviews with management, collection of docaudit conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted umentation such as implemented external valuations to assess auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a material misthe Group’s assumptions made in the purchase price allocation, statement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or • review of that relevant notes in compliance with IFRS have been error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, disclosed in the financial reports. they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these annual accounts and conAccounting and tax specialists participated in the implementation solidated accounts. of audit procedures. As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout Other Information than the annual accounts the audit. We also: and consolidated accounts • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the This document also contains other information than the annual annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1–49 fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive and 115. The Board of Directors and the CEO are responsible for this to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and other information. appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher does not cover this other information and we do not express any than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, form of assurance conclusion regarding this other information. forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the overIn connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consoliride of internal control. dated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identi• Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control relefied above and consider whether the information is materially vant to our audit in order to design audit procedures that are inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of In this procedure we also take into account our knowledge otherexpressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s wise obtained in the audit and assess whether the information internal control. ­otherwise appears to be materially misstated. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other informade by the Board of Directors and the CEO. mation, we) are required to report that fact. We have nothing to • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and report in this regard. the CEO’s use of the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We also Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the CEO draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, as to The Board of Directors and the CEO are responsible for the prepawhether any material uncertainty exists related to events or conration of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and that ditions that may cast significant doubt on the company’s and the they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accora material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in dance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the annual the CEO are also responsible for such internal control as they deteraccounts and consolidated accounts or, if such disclosures are 112 Auditor’s report inadequate, to modify our opinion about the annual accounts and Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the CEO consolidated accounts. Our conclusions are based on the audit The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriaevidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. Howtions of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, ever, future events or conditions may cause a company and a this includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable group to cease to continue as a going concern. considering the requirements which the company’s and the group’s • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the type of operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the discompany’s and the group’s equity, consolidation requirements, closures, and whether the annual accounts and consolidated liquidity and position in general. accounts represent the underlying transactions and events in a The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organimanner that achieves fair presentation. zation and the administration of the company’s affairs. This • Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the includes among other things continuous assessment of the compafinancial information of the entities or business activities within ny’s and the group’s financial situation and ensuring that the comthe group to express an opinion on the consolidated accounts. pany’s organization is designed so that the accounting, manageWe are responsible for the direction, supervision and performent of assets and the company’s financial affairs otherwise are mance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our controlled in a reassuring manner. The CEO shall manage the ongoopinions. ing administration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among other matters take measures that are We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, the necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of siglaw and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. nificant audit findings during our audit, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identified. Auditor’s responsibility We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our indeany member of the Board of Directors or the CEO in any material pendence, and where applicable, related safeguards. respect: From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit can give rise to liability to the company, or of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies most important assessed risks for material misstatement, and are Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes disclosure about Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations the matter. of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proReport on other legal and regulatory requirements posal is in accordance with the Companies Act. Opinions Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or Directors and the CEO of SERNEKE Group AB (publ) for the fiscal omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the year 2018-01-01–2018-12-31 and the proposed appropriations proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in of the company’s profit or loss. accordance with the Companies Act. We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditprofit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the Board ing standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and of Director’s Report and that the members of the Board of Directors maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. The examand the CEO be discharged from liability for the financial year. ination of the administration and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss is based primarily on the audit of the Basis for Opinions accounts. Additional audit procedures performed are based on our We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted professional judgment with starting point in risk and materiality. auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those This means that we focus the examination on such actions, areas standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities and relationships that are material for the operations and where section. We are independent of the parent company and the group deviations and violations would have particular importance for the in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden company’s situation. we examine and test decisions undertaken, and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accorsupport for decisions, actions taken and other circumstances that dance with these requirements. are relevant to our opinion concerning discharge from liability. As a We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriand appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. ations of the company’s profit or loss we examined whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. 113 Auditor’s report The auditor’s examination of the corporate A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclogovernance statement sures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate goverpoints 2–6 of the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the nance statement on pages 56–57 has been prepared in accordance second paragraph the same law are consistent with the other parts with the Annual Accounts Act. of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and are in accorOur examination of the corporate governance statement is condance with the Annual Accounts Act/ the Annual Accounts Act for ducted in accordance with FAR´s auditing standard RevU 16 The Credit Institutions and Securities Companies/ the Annual Accounts auditor´s examination of the corporate governance statement. This Act for Insurance Companies. means that our examination of the corporate governance statement Deloitte AB was appointed auditor of SERNEKE Group AB by the is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted general meeting of the shareholders on May 3, 2018 and has been in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generthe company’s auditor since May 14 2013. ally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. Gothenburg, 4 April 2019 Deloitte AB Signature on the original document Harald Jagner Authorized Public Accountant 114 Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting 2019 The Annual General Meeting of Serneke Group AB (publ) will be held on Shareholders represented by proxy shall issue a written and May 8, 2019 at 4:00 p.m. Location: Kvarnbergsgatan 2, Gothenburg. dated power of attorney. If the proxy is issued by a legal person, a Shareholders wishing to take part in annual general meeting must certified copy of the registration certificate or similar papers of be registered in the shareholders’ register maintained by Euroclear authorization are also required. Power of attorney, registration cerSweden AB as of Tuesday, April 30, 2017, and have notified the tificates and other authorization documents must be available for Company of their attendance, no later than Thursday, May 2, 2019, the Meeting and, in order to facilitate entry to the Meeting, sent to preferably before 4:00 p.m. (CET). Registration is done by mail to the Company at the above address, no later than May 2, 2019. The Serneke Group AB, Attention: Inger Svanholm, Kvarnbergsgatan 2, power of attorney may not be older than one year unless indicated 411 05 Gothenburg, by telephone: 031-712 97 00 or by e-mail: that it is valid for a longer period, not exceeding five years. Proxy agm@serneke.se. Upon notification, shareholders must state their forms for shareholders wishing to attend the Meeting by proxy will name, Swedish personal identity number/corporate identity number, be made available on the Company's website www.serneke.group. address, telephone number, shareholding and the names of any The complete convening notice will be made available on accompanying assistant/s (maximum of two). www.serneke.group. In order to attend the Meeting, shareholders with nominee-registered shares must temporarily re-register their shares in their own name with Euroclear Sweden AB. Accordingly, shareholders must inform the trustee of this request in ample time prior to April 30, 2019. Solberg • Printing: Göteborgstryckeriet • Photo: Felix Gerlach 115 Serneke is an innovative construction group with a strong endeavor to belong and to add something new. For the customers, the community and the next generation. Serneke Kvarnbergsgatan 2 411 05 Gothenburg +46 (0)31-712 97 00 www.serneke.group info@serneke.se Gamlestads torg, finished in 2018
