We are a specialist international development consultancy, with technical expertise in monitoring, evaluation, research and learning. We have more than 100 staff members structured around 11 internal theme groups. We work with a wide network of in-country consultants and experts. Our client base is broad and diverse and we strive to strengthen existing relationships and to forge new ones. We have a long history of working with the UK Department for International Development (DFID), European Commission, World Bank, African Development Bank, UN agencies, and European bilateral donors including Danida, Sida, Norad, Irish Aid, GIZ and the Netherlands and Finnish foreign affairs ministries. We have worked for philanthropic foundations including The Rockefeller Foundation, The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, The William and Flora Hewlett Foundation and MacArthur Foundation, as well as a wide range of UK and international NGOs, and developing country governments directly. I am pleased to confirm that Itad Ltd. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Itad Ltd is committed to making those principles part of our strategy, culture and day to day operations. We are also committed to engaging more widely through our work in advancing progress against the Sustainable Development Goals. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. This year’s annual statement highlights the significant achievements of our internal Green Team who have made great strides in pushing forwards our progress against the Environmental principles. We commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders on our website. Yours Sincerely, Tim Ruffer, Managing Partner Supported by our Executive Committee: Sarah Ockenden, Chief Operating Officer Rob Lloyd, Partner Itad’s core values shape the culture of the organisation, its identity, the brand and the way we work. We expect all staff to uphold these values throughout their work. Our framework of policies called ‘Working with Itad’ explains how our values translate into policy and sets expectations of staff and those we work with. To enable clear communication and dissemination of our policies and the way we work, Itad has created a framework called ‘Working with Itad’; • Included in the framework is a statement regarding our commitment to the 10 UN Global Compact Principles which helps to reinforce and underpin our ways of working. In the framework, we state the actions that we have taken against each principle which is included in this COP. • The Framework provides guidance and support to individuals for making decisions and carrying out their work in ways that are ethical and compatible with Itad’s Values. It applies to all employees, board members, externally subcontracted staff and suppliers. This is Itad’s second report on our progress against the UNGC principles since joining in December 2017. Throughout this year, we have continued to strengthen and develop our corporate policies and ways of working. A significant company wide achievement is our progress and the actions that we have taken in line with the Environmental principles. At the end of 2018, we decided to form a Green Team who have taken this issue forward. The team have researched options and ways to mainstream climate-friendly solutions into Itad’s ways of working. This report includes details of the action we have taken, why and how we plan to take this forwards. Other achievements this year include enhanced risk management throughout our project delivery which helps us to monitor and mitigate risks concerning safeguarding, human rights, data protection, ethical conduct, and environment as well other project delivery risks. We have also made investments in developing an online training tool through which we are able to share training and guidance on our ways of working. Particular areas of development have included training against our Ethical Framework and continued development of our safeguarding training. Further developments of our safeguarding policy and processes includes the introduction of the Safeguarding Focal Point (SFP) role. Our SFPs are members of staff from across the business who are trained to help ensure that safeguarding policy and procedures are widely understood, implemented and followed. They also provide a safe space to talk through concerns or issues, and are able to raise issues to our Senior Safeguarding Officer. As well as providing an update against the UNGC principles, this report also provides details of how we continue to engage with our clients and the sector in advancing progress against the Sustainable Development Goals. We are a socially-conscious organisation which is committed to the ten UNGC principles – our primary purpose is to provide insights and drive better use of resources in international development. Unfortunately, it is the poor and marginalised communities that we aim to help who will be most affected by the effects of global warming. Facts such as these have encouraged us to look inwardly and think about what we can do as a company to be part of the solution, and not the pollution – especially considering our carbon Itad’s climate strikers footprint due to frequent international travel to deliver our work. Our position as leaders on evidence-based reflection and strategy put us in a great position to push for climate smart ways of working and living. A group of over 20 staff from across Itad came together at the end of 2018 to review what Itad is doing to address climate change. It was agreed that Itad needed a dedicated committee to take the issue forward; researching options and ways to mainstream climate friendly solutions into Itad’s ways of working. “Environmental sustainability is “The Green Team will support Itad integral to who we are and what leadership and staff to integrate we do – as individuals, as a environmental sustainability into all company, and in our work with our work and the decisions we make the wider world” every day – as employees, consumers and citizens” The Green Team is working to promote change across three spheres: • My world. What can we all do to reduce our individual carbon footprints? • Our world. Itad, our office and our operations. How can Itad become greener? • The world. How can we integrate sustainability concerns into all of our projects, and collaborate with partners to drive greener ways of working? Within the My World sphere, we have rolled out weekly green updates in the Itad newsletter, sharing articles, videos, books, tips and even eco-friendly recipes, have screened films and talks which aim to raise awareness about the impacts of Climate Change, and hosted a swap shop to cast a spotlight on the devastating effects of the fast-fashion industry and encourage staff to reduce, reuse and recycle their clothing. Investigating Itad through a green-tinted lens has helped us to identify changes we can make within the Our World sphere – we have conducted an energy audit with the help of a local community organisation in order to address gaps in our efficiency in the office. Alongside this audit, we have also researched several simple tech solutions which can lead to more effective energy usage and greatly reduced waste, such as work island killswitches, light sensors and PINs on printers. We have also made the switch to vegetarian options for workshop lunches by default, in recognition that plant-based diets create a much lower carbon footprint. Tackling how our practices, projects and partners impact The World is arguably the biggest challenge faced by the Green Team, with Itad’s flights being the main contributor to our carbon footprint. We are developing a blueprint to combat these emissions using the ‘4 R Framework’ from Brett Favaro’s book The Carbon Code, which involves reducing the number of flights we take, replacing higher carbon transport with lower carbon transport (e.g. trains instead of planes within Europe), refining our travel to get the maximum value out of every trip, and rehabilitating the environment to compensate for unavoidable emissions. We have also looked into various carbon offsetting schemes, and the evidence base behind each of them. Itad has an increasing profile as a thought leader in its field and continues to work on projects that achieve its strategic aim of making a difference. Through our work, we are able to engage with our clients and the wider sector in advancing progress against the Sustainable Development Goals. Examples are included below: ‘Synergies in SDGs: How holistic monitoring can support global goals’ Blog from Eve Mackinnon exploring synergies in SDG’s following the attendance of a workshop at the Vitol Foundation presenting initial results of a multi-disciplinary research team from UCL mapping synergies and trade-off between SDG 6 and the other SDGs. The research highlighted how the SDG 6 call to action and associated targets is linked to every single SDG by multiple synergistic impacts and interlinkages of targets. Read more here. 60 seconds with…Itad’s Inclusive and Sustainable Business theme – ‘Businesses are becoming increasingly sophisticated in their responses to global challenges – often collaborating across sectors to accelerate change across key value chains, sectors and systems. At the same time, the SDGs articulate a much greater role for business in supporting and accelerating sustainable development globally. This all creates new challenges for effective learning, cross-sector dialogue and impact measurement. We think we can help!’ Read more here. Principal Consultant and Climate Change theme lead co-hosts a session at Building a Resilient Future this weekend in New York – Held on Sunday 22nd September, Dave Wilson shared Itad’s work with the Global Resilience Partnership, as their learning partner at the venue, The New School in NYC. As lead author, Dave reflected on the key messages from Resilience Insights: Lessons from the Global Resilience Partnership report. Participants engaged in each others experience in emending resilience into actions and to achieving the SDGs. Read more here. Our Code of Conduct sets a professional standard that all staff and suppliers are expected to uphold. We expect all staff and suppliers to uphold ethical integrity, treat each other with mutual respect, listen to each other and be open to different views and opinions. An extract of our Code of Conduct is included below: Ethical Integrity ▪ Be independent and impartial. Any conflicts of interest or partiality will be made explicit. ▪ Safeguard confidential, sensitive and personal data acquired through the project and not use it for personal advantage or for the benefit of, or detriment of third parties. ▪ Be aware of the issues when interacting with vulnerable people and be sensitive to their needs. ▪ Be aware of differences in culture, customs, religious beliefs and practices, and any implications these may have in terms of interacting with people in the course of work ▪ Be sensitive to gender roles, and issues of disability, age and ethnicity, and be mindful of the potential implications of these differences when planning, carrying out and reporting on work. ▪ Neither offer nor accept gifts, hospitality or services which could create, or imply, an improper obligation. Leadership and team working ▪ Respect and listen to different views/opinions within a team. ▪ Communicate clearly and concisely in the most appropriate medium. ▪ Be proactive in building rapport with colleagues, key associates, partners and clients. ▪ Raise difficult issues with a view to positive resolution. ▪ Be proactive in working with and sharing lessons with colleagues. ▪ Manage own emotions and behaviour in difficult situations, ensuring own anxiety and/or frustration does not impact on others. ▪ Always act in a way which supports and upholds the reputation and values of Itad. 1. Businesses The Company is committed to promoting the human No reportable instances ▪ Gender should support rights and equality of opportunity for all staff and job of any adverse human diversity to be and respect the applicants. We aim to achieve a work environment free rights incidents have reported more protection of from discrimination or harassment, and in which all been identified by Itad widely across internationally decisions are based on merit. All employees, whether Ltd. the business. proclaimed part-time, full-time or temporary, will be treated fairly ▪ All external human rights. and with respect. Selection for employment, promotion, ▪ No. of reportable sub-contracted training or any other benefit will be on the basis of aptitude and capability. All employees will be helped and H&S issues. consultants to encouraged to develop their full potential and the talents ▪ No. of reportable have signed and resources of the workforce will be fully utilised to Safeguarding Code of maximise the efficiency of the organisation. issues. Conduct and ▪ Levels of sickness online ▪ Itad is compliant with all UK employment legislation and absenteeism Safeguarding including the Employment Rights Act 1996, the monitored by HR training to be Employment Act 2002, the Equality Act 2010, and and reported to rolled out. Health & Safety in Employment Act 1992. senior ▪ All staff to ▪ Itad has an anti-bullying and harassment policy and procedure in place. management. have ▪ All Itad employees receive equal pay for equal work ▪ Gender diversity completed regardless of race, caste, national origin, religion, monitored and Itad’s Ethical age, disability, gender, marital status, sexual reported to senior Framework orientation, union membership or political management. training affiliation. We have an equality opportunities policy course. in place. ▪ All Itad employees are paid at least the minimum wage, and receive pay slips; all employees receive all the benefits to which they are entitled under UK law. ▪ Itad has a Health & Safety Policy that complies with UK law. ▪ Itad employees receive safety training relevant to their job which includes safety & security training for members of staff required to travel overseas. ▪ We provide access to an employee wellbeing helpline for all staff. ▪ We have an arrangement in place with ISOS who can provide 24/7 medical and security advice to staff and consultants travelling overseas. ▪ By end of Jan 19’, all staff received safeguarding training and new staff are being enrolled onto training. The aim of the training is to help all staff understand what safeguarding is, responsibilities through our work and actions that we take and how to respond to issues. ▪ All staff have signed Safeguarding Code of Conduct. ▪ Introduction of Safeguarding Working Group and Safeguarding Focal Points. ▪ Data protection – All staff are trained on GDPR. Data protection risks are analysed on each project to ensure appropriate mitigations are put in place. ▪ Ethical training developed and in progress of being rolled out to all staff. Includes; Equality policy, antibribery, fraud prevention, modern slavery, environmental awareness, UNGC principles. 2. Businesses See above. Itad also carries out due diligence of its supply ▪ Registration forms for ▪ All subshould ensure chain ensuring they have equivalent policies and all suppliers and contracted that their own processes in place. subcontractors are consultants will operations are completed which have completed not complicit in includes equality Itad’s Ethical human rights legislation. Framework abuses. ▪ Sub-contracted training by end consultants are in of 2020. progress of being enrolled in Itad’s Ethical Framework training. 3. Businesses should ▪ Itad employees are permitted to join a uphold the freedom of trade union and are protected under UK association and the employment law. effective recognition of ▪ Itad pays above minimum and living wage. the right to collective bargaining. 4. Businesses should ▪ All Itad employees have full contract ▪ Employee contracts ▪ Supplier uphold the elimination of documents including notice periods and are audited annually registration forced or compulsory are free to leave our employment at any for ISO to ensure forms to be labour. time, upon agreed reasonable notice. correct templates further ▪ All Itad sub-contracts include anti-slavery are used. developed to and human trafficking clauses. align with the ▪ Itad complies with minimum wage UN Global standards. Compact Principles. 5. Businesses should ▪ Itad does not employ any children under As above. As above. uphold the effective the age of 18; date of birth is confirmed abolition of child labour. at the start of employment with passport verification and reference checks. 6. Businesses should ▪ Itad has an Equality Policy in place and ▪ Itad has formed a ▪ Continued uphold the elimination of adheres to all UK Equality Act 2010 Gender and development discrimination in respect legislation in recruitment and Diversity working and review of of employment and employment procedures. group to review related policies. occupation. ▪ Itad strengths framework developed to Gender reporting ensure consistent performance reviews and equal are carried out across the business. opportunity policies. 7. Businesses should Itad has formed a Green Team whose Flights – we aim to replace ▪ Environmental support a mission statement is: The Green Team will every 1 in 5 flights with an policy to be precautionary approach support Itad leadership and staff to alternative option using ‘The reviewed to environmental integrate environmental sustainability into Carbon Code’ principles. This incorporating challenges. all our work and the decisions we make means we will look to revised policies every day – as employees, consumers and Reduce or Replace flights and processes in 8. Businesses should citizens. As mentioned earlier in this report and where this isn’t possible relation to our undertake initiatives to these activities have been split into 3 areas: Refine (get the most benefit carbon reduction promote greater for each unit of carbon) or targets. environmental My World we have rolled out weekly green Rehabilitate. ▪ Improve responsibility. updates in the Itad newsletter, sharing recycling articles, videos, books, tips and even ecoPrinting – we aim to reduce provided in the 9. Businesses should friendly recipes, have screened films and printing by 15% by end of office to cover encourage the talks which aim to raise awareness about 2020. We have introduced our largest areas development and the impacts of Climate Change, and hosted technology which requires of waste. diffusion of a swap shop to cast a spotlight on the users to release their ▪ Continue work environmentally devastating effects of the fast-fashion printing from the printer. with managing friendly technologies. industry and encourage staff to reduce, agent of Itad’s reuse and recycle their clothing. office for the installation of individual energy meters. Our World we have conducted an energy ▪ Continued external audit with the help of a local community communication organisation in order to address gaps in our and advocacy of efficiency in the office. Alongside this audit, we these issues with have also researched several simple tech our clients and solutions which can lead to more effective within the wider energy usage and greatly reduced waste, such sector. as work island kill-switches, light sensors and ▪ Continued PINs on printers. We have also made the switch investment in to vegetarian options for workshop lunches by technology default, in recognition that plant-based diets solutions to create a much lower carbon footprint. improve video conference The World We are developing a blueprint to facilities in the combat these emissions using the ‘4 R office. Framework’ from Brett Favaro’s book The Carbon Code, which involves reducing the number of flights we take, replacing higher carbon transport with lower carbon transport (e.g. trains instead of planes within Europe), refining our travel to get the maximum value out of every trip, and rehabilitating the environment to compensate for unavoidable emissions. We have also looked into various carbon offsetting schemes, and the evidence base behind each of them. 10. Businesses should ▪ Itad has in place an anti-bribery Subcontractors sign up to All staff and subwork against all forms of policy and procedure compliant our anti-bribery statement contracted external corruption, including with the UK 2010 Anti-Bribery Act. or provide their own. consultants to have extortion and bribery. ▪ Itad has a whistle blowing policy completed Itad’s and procedures in place compliant Ethical Framework with the Public Interest Disclosure training by the end Act 1998. of 2020. ▪ The risks of corruption are considered in the design of our work.
