UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2019 March 2018 to February 2019 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2019 STATEMENT OF SUPPORT South Pole became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in July 2015. This communication on progress presents an update on our ongoing activities in support of the Principles of the UN Global Compact. I am pleased to reaffirm South Pole’s support of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. In this, our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. South Pole acts today ‘for a better tomorrow’. This is our purpose. We are here to protect Antarctica – the last continent untouched by man – its unspoilt nature and pristine habitats. Through our work, we also help empower the Global South via the positive impacts that our emission reductions and renewable energy projects add on the ground to local biodiversity, communities and the economy. We recognise the complexity of the challenge – that the social, economic and environmental aspects of sustainable development have to go hand in hand – and we are determined to help preserve our planet and its ecosystems for future generations. Yours sincerely, Renat Heuberger, CEO South Pole March 2019 2 | South Pole UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2019 South Pole | 3 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2019 ABOUT SOUTH POLE South Pole is a leading provider of global sustainability financing solutions and services, with more than 300 experts over 18 offices worldwide. For more than a decade, South Pole has worked with a wide range of public, private and civil sector organisations to accelerate the transition to a climate-smart society. South Pole has mobilised climate finance to over 700 projects in emission reduction, renewable energy, energy efficiency and sustainable land use, acting today ‘for a better tomorrow’. South Pole’s expertise covers project and technology finance, data and advisory on sustainability risks and opportunities, as well as the development of environmental commodities such as carbon and renewable energy credits. For more information, visit southpole.com or follow the company @southpoleglobal. Our Purpose: We act today for a better tomorrow Financing the goals of the Paris Agreement calls for a fundamental shift in the global economy. Our success hinges on re-allocating capital at scale, unlocking substantial investments, being nimble and seizing opportunities. Our Vision: Climate action for all The moral case for climate action is clear — failing to meet the climate and sustainable development challenge would push hundreds of millions of people into poverty, with devastating social and economic consequences globally. Moreover, millions of new green jobs are already being created through climate actions across sectors. Climate and human development are two sides of the same coin. South Pole strives for a world where businesses, governments and communities make climate action the new normal. Our Mission: We accelerate the transition to a climate-smart society Our team of over 250 social entrepreneurs globally are developing innovative solutions tailored to the needs of specific organisations and entire sectors. We strive to keep at the forefront of the rapidly changing climate policy and regulatory environment. Understanding the big picture is important to us and to our clients, and so is identifying and implementing actions on the ground with lasting positive impacts on the environment, communities and thereby business. 4 | South Pole UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2019 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT The United Nations Global Compact is a sustainability initiative that aligns corporations around the world with universal principles on human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption (United Nations Global Compact, 2019). South Pole has been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact since 2015 and supports its ten principles as described below. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. Labour Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. South Pole is committed to submitting the Communication on Progress annually as a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact. South Pole | 5 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2019 6 | South Pole UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2019 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals with the Third Party Code of Conduct and will take corrective measures against any supplier found violating the code, including South Pole Ethics Policy the termination of a contract. The code defines high ethical The South Pole Ethics Policy states clearly that we refrain from standards including, but not limited to, the standards described working with companies that have documented violations of above. human rights. Teams at South Pole who will be responsible for the relationships with clients will do at least a basic level of due Procurement Policy diligence about the company we are proposing to work with. Any kind of procurement activity conducted on behalf of South This also applies to South Pole’s suppliers and contractors. Pole must comply with all relevant laws and regulations. All third parties working with South Pole are expected to comply with the South Pole Code of Conduct standards set out regarding occupational health and safety, and The South Pole Code of Conduct demonstrates our commitment abuse of labour. to comply with high ethical standards that include, but are not limited to the below • Health, safety, security and the environment Implementation South Pole is committed to the protection of the natural environment, to the safety of the communities in which we South Pole OpenTalk line (whistle-blowing) operate, and to the health, safety and security of our people. OpenTalk is an additional resource for employees who want to raise compliance or ethical issues. Emails sent to the OpenTalk • Respectful, harassment-free workplace line will be treated as highly confidential. Retaliation will not be Everyone is entitled to fair treatment, courtesy and respect. tolerated. South Pole will not tolerate any form of abuse or harassment in any company workplace, towards employees, contractors, Diversity Survey suppliers, customers or others. South Pole supports a diverse and inclusive culture and continue to strive to be better. This is shown by conducting a Diversity • Privacy and employee confidentiality Survey to measure employees’ satisfaction on the diversity within South Pole respects the confidentiality of employees’ South Pole. Using the survey, employees are able to give feedback personal information. South Pole acquires and retains only and suggestions on how to improve diversity within South Pole. the employee personal data that is required for the effective An action plan based on that feedback will also be developed. operation of South Pole, or that is required by law in the places where we operate. Employees Satisfaction Survey South Pole ensures that all employees’ opinions and insights are Third Party Code of Conduct valued and heard. This is achieved through an annual survey to South Pole chooses suppliers based on merit, avoiding conflicts measure employees’ satisfaction of current business processes of interest, inappropriate gifts and entertainment or any other (e.g. Consultancy Team Survey and Marketing Team Survey). kind of favouritism that might compromise selection. South Pole South Pole also use the results of the surveys to further improve will not use a third party that performs any act which conflicts our business processes. South Pole | 7 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2019 Sustainability Action Plan 2025 Target Goal 6 Employee wellbeing and diversity Maintain reporting the employee’s diversity by nationality disclosed 6.2 Embracing diversity 90% of employees satisfied with South Pole’s diversity in the workplace Sustainability Action Plan As of January 2019, South Pole has a sustainability strategy and corresponding action plan. The strategy and action plan include goals, targets and key performance indicators (KPIs) covering various aspects, including diversity. The action plan will start implementation during 2019 and will be reviewed annually to evaluate and communicate the progress towards our 2025 targets and to ensure that it is continually improved. Actions to Undertake • South Pole is currently developing a Gender Policy. • Code of Conduct Training – the HR team introduces the South Pole Code of Conduct to all new employees and requires them to read the document thoroughly. This year, South Pole would like to take this further by conducting training for all employees to test their understanding of the Code of Conduct. Measurement of Outcomes South Pole has always complied with the laws and regulations related to human rights and has never been involved in legal cases of human rights violation. There has not been any report of breaches against the human rights standards set out in South Pole Code of Conduct and policies. There have been no official complaints sent since the implementation of the ethics policy. 8 | South Pole UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2019 South Pole | 9 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2019 10 | South Pole UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2019 LABOUR Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals Safeguarding and Child Protection Policy South Pole Ethics Policy In the rare cases where South Pole does come into contact with The South Pole Ethics Policy states clearly that we refrain from children (persons under the age of 18), South Pole is committed working with companies that have documented violations of to prioritising the safety and wellbeing of all children who come human rights, including forced labour, slavery and trafficking, as into contact with South Pole representatives. Any concerns or well as child labour and exploitation. disclosure about a child protection issue can be reported to HR and the whistle-blower will be protected. South Pole Code of Conduct The South Pole Code of Conduct shows our commitment to Procurement Policy comply with high ethical standards, including, but not limited to: Any kind of procurement activity conducted on behalf of South • Freedom of association Pole must comply with all relevant laws and regulations. All third South Pole will not hinder the development and movements parties working with South Pole are expected to comply with the in the promotion of freedom of association and will apply standards set out regarding freedom of association, child and the highest standards in line with this principle allowed by forced labour, and discrimination. laws and regulations. South Pole respects our employees’ right to join, form, or not to join a trade union and does not require employees to obtain permission to join or form Implementation a trade union. Employment Contract and HR Policies Prior to starting to work at South Pole, all employees are given • Slavery and trafficking an employment contract which clearly defines their job title, job South Pole is against any forms of slavery and human description, salary, as well as terms and conditions regarding their trafficking, and does not want to be associated with employment. Upon starting work at South Pole, they will be trained companies that do participate in this practice. about South Pole’s HR policies, company benefits and rules. • Child and forced labour Career Development at South Pole South Pole is committed to the elimination of all forms of South Pole has a global job-levelling structure as well as clear child, forced and compulsory labour. procedures on promotions and salary increases. This is to ensure fairness, consistency and equity in terms of career opportunities • Fair treatment and equal employment opportunity and career pathways for all employees wherever South Pole South Pole respects the rights and dignity of all employees operates. and commits to creating a work environment of mutual trust and respect, in which diversity and inclusion are Performance Review valued. Moreover, the process of recruitment, selection, South Pole ensures that all employees’ opinions and insights are development and advancement of employees in South Pole valued and heard. This is achieved through an annual survey to is based only on merit – qualifications, demonstrated skills measure employees’ satisfaction of current business processes and achievements. (e.g. Consultancy Team Survey and Marketing Team Survey). South Pole | 11 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2019 Sustainability Action Plan 2025 Target Goal 6 Employee wellbeing and diversity 50% of South Pole employees are actively using and benefiting from the well6.1 Invest in employee well-being being programme (e.g. flexible working arrangements, access to healthy food, fitness programs, 80% of South Pole offices have a weekly or bi-weekly sports day mindfulness training, etc.) 80% of South Pole offices provide nutritious eating options South Pole also use the results of the surveys to further improve our business processes. South Pole OpenTalk line (whistleblowing) OpenTalk is an additional resource for employees who want to raise compliance or ethical issue. Emails sent to OpenTalk line will be treated as highly confidential. Retaliation will not be tolerated. Sustainability Action Plan As of January 2019, South Pole has a sustainability strategy and corresponding action plan. The strategy and action plan include goals, targets and KPIs covering various aspects, including employee wellbeing. The action plan will start implementation during 2019 and will be reviewed annually to evaluate and communicate the progress towards our 2025 targets and to ensure that it is continually improved. Actions to Undertake • Code of Conduct Training – the HR team introduces South Pole Code of Conduct to all new employees and requires them to read the document thoroughly. This year, South Pole would like to take this further by conducting training for all employees to test their understanding of the Code of Conduct. Measurement of Outcomes South Pole has always complied with the laws and regulations related to human rights and never been involved in legal cases of human-rights violation. Moreover, there has not been any report of breaches against the labour standards set out in the South Pole Code of Conduct and our related policies. 12 | South Pole UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2019 South Pole | 13 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2019 14 | South Pole UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2019 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals Draft Sustainability Policy South Pole is currently working on a Sustainability Policy that establishes a set of principles guiding day-to-day operations and services, to ensure that South Pole’s environmental and social impacts are consistently managed and optimised. South Pole complies with all relevant international and national laws and regulations regarding environmental and social impacts, and encourages its employees to always consider the environmental and social impacts before making any business decisions. This is in order to promote sustainability awareness by engaging all our stakeholders and to challenge any activities that are not deemed sustainable. Sustainability Action Plan As of January 2019, South Pole has a sustainability strategy and this end, we have been conducting a GHG Assessment each year corresponding action plan that elaborates on the environmental since 2014 that helps us to track the progress made in reducing and social impacts of South Pole’s business activities, the goals GHG emissions and to gather valuable information to inform and targets to minimise these impacts, and the initiatives to plans to further minimise our carbon footprint, and to offset our achieve them. unavoidable emissions. The strategy and action plan include goals, targets and KPIs In our 2017 GHG Assessment Report, published in 2018, we covering aspects such as carbon emissions, water use, waste introduced new emissions categories, i.e. employee commuting, and recycling, sustainable procurement, deforestation, employee waste, water use and other energy-related activities, in order well-being, diversity and community outreach. The action plan to get a more complete overview of our emissions. Despite the will be implemented during 2019 and reviewed annually to increase in emissions categories measured, South Pole managed evaluate, and communicate the progress towards our 2025 to reduce its emissions by 10% from 795 tonnes of CO2 equivalent targets and to ensure that it is continually improved. (tCO2e) in 2016 to 718 tCO2e in 2017. Similarly, emissions per employee decreased from 5.1 to 4.2 tCO2e over the same period. Implementation UN Climate Neutral Now Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Assessment and Climate Neutral Now is an initiative launched by the United Offsetting Nation Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) in 2015, aiming Sustainability and inclusive action on climate change are at at encouraging and supporting all levels of society to take climate the heart of everything we do at South Pole. The first step in action to achieve a climate neutral world by mid-century, an aim improving our sustainability is measuring our GHG emissions. To enshrined in the Paris Agreement adopted the same year. South Pole | 15 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2019 South Pole has taken the Climate Neutral Now pledge to work towards climate neutrality by reducing their climate footprint following the initiative’s three-step method: • measure greenhouse gas emissions; • reduce them as much as possible; and • compensate those which cannot be avoided by using UN Certified Emission Reductions (CERs). In 2018, South Pole measured its 2017 GHG emissions which added up to 718 tCO2e. All emissions were offset using CER and VCU carbon credits. During this period, South Pole undertook the following emissions reduction actions: • power our operations with renewable energy wherever possible • promote green practices directed at recycling and minimising waste • purchase environmentally friendly, recycled and recyclable Measurement of Outcomes supplies where possible In 2018, South Pole has made great advances towards taking • minimise unnecessary travels between our offices to reduce environmental responsibility for its operations through the GHG emissions caused by our professional trips development of its Sustainability Policy and Action Plan. • promote the use of public transport, as well as bicycle use Continously measuring its climate impact and encouraging and walking the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly • encourage and train staff to be the best sustainability technologies. advocates and practitioners As of January 2019, the following Sustainability Targets and goals Certified Carbon Neutral Operations in Australia have been set for the year 2025. The progress made against South Pole Australia Pty Ltd is the Australian subsidiary of these targets will be measured, reported and communicated on South Pole Holding Ltd (South Pole). As a business focusing a yearly basis. on green solutions, South Pole Australia recognised the need to demonstrate its own commitment to sustainability and has Environmental Awards achieved certification as a carbon neutral organisation against • Environmental Finance Voluntary Carbon Market Rankings the Australian National Carbon Offset Standard for its 2017 South Pole has again been recognised in the Environmental operations. Finance Voluntary Carbon Market Rankings 2018, winning a total of four categories: Best Project Developer – Overall To meet the requirements of certification, South Pole identified (for the seventh time in eight years); Best Trading Company sources of emissions and implemented reduction activities, (for the eighth year running); Best Project Developer – focusing on encouraging behaviour change amongst employees Renewable Energy (for the fifth year running); and Best and using renewable energy where possible. South Pole offset Project Developer – Forestry and Land-use (for the second the organisation’s remaining emissions through one of its time). carbon offset projects; Kariba REDD+, a community-based forest conservation project in Zimbabwe. • Environmental Finance Annual Market Rankings South Pole has been ranked Best Trading Company and Best South Pole’s Partnerships and Memberships Advisor in Renewable Energy Certificates in both Europe and • Alliance for Water Stewardship Australia by the 19th Environmental Finance Annual Market • Coalition for Private Investment in Conservation Rankings, making 2018 the second consecutive year where • EU Climate-KIC (Core Partner) the company’s leadership in bringing robust renewable • International Emissions Trading Association energy solutions to the market has been recognised. • International Insetting Platform • Swiss Cleantech To date, South Pole has advised 200 global corporates on their • Swiss Platform for Sustainable Cocoa international energy procurement strategies, supporting them • Tropical Forest Alliance 2020 in implementing a range of renewable energy solutions. The • World Bank Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition company currently has a portfolio of over 700 projects and offers • World Economic Forum renewable energy solutions in over 40 countries. 16 | South Pole UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2019 Sustainability Action Plan 2025 Target Goal 1: Reduce, compensate, and report our carbon emissions 100% of electricity purchased is procured from renewable 1.1 Power operations with renewable electricity sources, in offices where we have control 1.2 Reduce GHG footprint of heat consumption 50% of purchased heat is procured from renewable sources 1.3 Reduce South Pole office energy consumption through 20% reduction in MWh/ employee energy efficiency measures 10% reduction in km/employee from business travel by all transport modes 1.4 Reduce carbon emission from business travel 15% reduction in km/employee from business travel by air 1.5 Report and publish South Pole’s GHG emission and offset Continue publishing verified GHG emission and offset report report that is verified by a third-party organisation 1.6 Climate-neutral and climate-positive company Achieve climate-positive status Goal 2: Water consumption 20% reduction in m3/employee in offices where we have 2.1 Reduce water consumption in South Pole operations control Goal 3: Waste & recycling 3.1 Reduce waste generation within South Pole offices 15% reduction in kg waste/employee 3.2 Recycle all possible materials produced within South Pole 20% of waste recycled; operations 3.3 E-waste produced within South Pole is recycled responsibly 90% e-waste recycled in countries where certified e-waste by a certified e-waste recycler recycling is available Goal 4: Sustainable sourcing/procurement 4.1 Purchase sustainable office supplies and equipment, 25% supplies and equipment purchased is sustainable including IT equipment Goal 5: Zero deforestation 5.1 Paperless offices 50% reduction in paper sheets/employee 5.2 Purchase of only recycled and certified paper 75% certified recycled paper purchased Goal 7: Community outreach and advocacy Each office adopts a year-long sustainability-related community7.1 Annual local community days for all South Pole teams outreach programme with numerous coordinated activities Goal 8: Employee engagement 90% of South Pole employees commuting via public transport, 8.1 Promote sustainable commuting practices rideshare, bicycle, or walking 80% of new employees completed the training; 8.2 Implement onboarding training on sustainable practices at South Pole 80% of new employees completed feedback form 8.3 Encourage green office spaces Every office has at least 1 office plant per 10m2 of area South Pole | 17 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2019 18 | South Pole UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2019 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals Code of Conduct Anti-money-laundering Policy The Code of Conduct demonstrates our commitment to comply This policy outlines South Pole’s commitment to do business with with the high ethical standards, including, but not limited to: full integrity and to conduct our business operations legally and • Bribery and corruption free from any kind of activities that are associated with money Any forms of bribery and corruption are against South Pole’s laundering. own standards of business conduct. Such actions can result in fines for companies and imprisonment for individuals. Implementation • Money laundering South Pole OpenTalk line (whistleblowing) South Pole will not condone, facilitate or support money OpenTalk is an additional resource for employees who want to laundering. raise compliance or ethical issue. Emails sent to OpenTalk line will be treated as highly confidential. Retaliation will not be tolerated. • Receiving and giving gifts and entertainment The South Pole Code of Conduct defines the expectations Actions to Undertake towards employees regarding gifts which can be seen as • Code of Conduct Training bribes that tarnish South Pole’s reputation for fair dealing The HR team introduces the South Pole Code of Conduct to or break the law. all new employees and requires them to read the document thoroughly. This year, South Pole would like to take this Third Party Code of Conduct further by conducting training for all employees to test their South Pole chooses suppliers based on merit, avoiding conflicts understanding of the Code of Conduct. of interest, inappropriate gifts and entertainment or other kinds of favouritism that might compromise selection. Measurement of Outcomes South Pole will not use a third party that performs any act which South Pole has never been involved or associated with corruption conflicts with the Third Party Code of Conduct and will take or bribery legal cases. There has not been any report of breaches corrective measures against any supplier found violating the against our Code of Conduct, Anti-bribery and -corruption, as code, including the termination of a contract. The code defines well as Anti-money-laundering policy. high ethical standards including, but not limited to, the standards described above. Anti-bribery and -corruption Policy This policy outlines South Pole’s commitment to do business with full integrity and to not be involved in any forms of bribery and corruption. South Pole | 19 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2019 Technoparkstrasse 1 · 8005 Zurich · Switzerland +41 43 501 35 50 · info@southpole.com · southpole.com 20 | South Pole
