COP 2019 GLOBAL COMPACT BIG—BJARKE INGELS GROUP OUR INTRODUCTION Historically the field of architecture has been dominated by two opposing extremes. On one side an avant-garde of wild ideas, often so detached from We offer our own reality that they fail to become something other than eccentric curiosities. On the other side there are well-organized corporate consultants that build in-house lecture predictable and boring boxes of high standard. Architecture seems entrenched between two equally unfertile fronts: either naively utopian or petrifyingly series ‘BIG Picture’ pragmatic. and continuing Rather than choosing one over the other, BIG operates in the fertile overlap between the two opposites. A pragmatic utopian architecture that takes on education the creation of socially, economically and environmentally perfect places as a practical objective. In the big picture, architecture is the art and science of programs ‘BIG ensuring that our cities and buildings fit with the way we want to live our lives. Architecture is not about building monuments, but about creating possibilities School’ to ensure for human life. we continuously At BIG we have always incorporated sustainable initiatives into our projects. In almost every instance these initiatives are not discretionary or additive in improve. nature, but constitute the formative acts around which subsequent design solutions are conceived. Interior and exterior finishes are often comprised entirely of self-finishing materials which require little or no maintenance. Our buildings are usually sited to optimize solar orientation and many integrate inventive day-lighting measures through the use of atria, light wells, light monitors or skylights. BIG NYC OFFICE, NEW YORK OUR COMMITMENT At BIG, architecture is the art and science of continually refurbishing the surface of our planet so it better fits the way we want to live. We are pleased to reaffirm our unwavering support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti–Corruption. In this our Communication on Progress, we describe our continued actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture, and daily operations. We hold ourselves to the high standards set by the Global Compact and remain committed to sharing this information with our stakeholders. In 2019, we, the Partners of BIG, sign this document to assure the United Nations that we are committed to the continuous respect for the human race and to the integrity of its environment. Bjarke Ingels Sheela Maini Søgaard Thomas Christoffersen Jakob Lange Founding Partner CEO, Partner Partner Partner David Zahle Andreas Klok Pedersen Finn Nørkjær Kai–Uwe Bergmann Partner Partner Partner Partner Daniel Sundlin Beat Schenk Brian Yang Jakob Sand Partner Partner Partner Partner Agustin PerezLeon Rost Martin Voelkle Catherine Ole Elkjær-Larsen Torres Huang SUPERKILEN MASTERPLAN, COPENHAGEN, DK INTRODUCTION It’s a joy to see how BIG—Bjarke Ingels Group is a group of architects, designers and thinkers operating within the fields of architecture, landscape, urbanism, interior design, product design, Superkilen cherishes research and development with offices in Copenhagen, New York City, Barcelona and London. We take a pragmatic utopian approach to architecture that promotes socially, diversity and succeeds economically and environmentally perfect places as a practical objective. Buildings are never stand–alone entities. Instead, they are part of a larger network, a campus in inviting not tied together by rich public spaces and the complex urban context. The majority of only people from BIG’s projects have a large public space component, which has meant that they play a transformative role in the cities where they are located. In the big picture, architecture the neighborhood is the art and science of ensuring that our cities and buildings fit with the way we want to live our lives. BIG is currently designing ten contiguous miles of resiliency and social but citizens of all infrastructure called The Big ‘U’ in New York City, the Google campus in Mountain View, CA, a Master Plan for the Smithsonian Campus in Washington, DC and numerous other neighborhoods in residential, sports, education, commercial, urbanism and cultural projects around the world. Copenhagen and by that tie people together. Through the success of our projects and research in Copenhagen we are now being commissioned by forward-looking developers and municipalities across Europe, North America, Middle East, and Asia. In these projects, we apply our research-based approach and study to local conditions and concerns in an effort to realize their global Ayfer Baykal, aspirations. We have active projects in over 30 countries which allows us to collect the Vice Mayor of Copenhagen best practices in each and bring this collective knowledge to any of our projects we are currently working upon. We strive to understand the nuances of the cultures within which we work, translating it into our own fresh approach to the given task. BIG NYC OFFICE, NEW YORK, YORK US OUR HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY BIG firmly believes that human rights are indisputable universal truths. We are unwavering in our determination to, as far as we are able, provide all humans the rights and freedoms they wish to enjoy. BIG will never knowingly be complicit in human rights abuses, and instead always seek to uphold the rights and freedoms of all, contributing where we are able. Our ongoing goal has not changed from previous years—we continue to ensure that human rights are developed and supported in the designs of our projects and the way we run our business. As part of our global–diversity, BIG employs aspiring students from countries around the world to enable people from various cultures, backgrounds and experiences to work together, learn from each other, and respect the universal rights we strive to uphold. As we select our clients, our projects, and the regions in which we do work, we carefully consider the positions prospective clients take relative to human rights. BIG CPH OFFICE, COPENHAGEN, DK OUR LABOR RIGHTS POLICY The Global Compact’s principles relating to labor rights are interpreted literally and so followed. BIG opposes any form of forced and compulsory labor, condemns child labor practices, effectively recognizes the right to collective bargaining, and does not practice discrimination. BIG upholds labor rights principals and respects the rights of employees in the many countries where we work. BIG’s greatest asset is its employees. At BIG, we take employee well–being, development, and engagement as seriously as we do architectural design. The larger we grow as a company, the more we strive to create a workplace that encourages input, dialogue, interaction, and collaboration across the network of relations of BIG’s flat hierarchy. We believe it is a prerequisite for both our creative processes as well as our project delivery methodology that everybody knows that they can speak their mind and that their opinion counts. All BIG employees, regardless of position held or field of expertise, are given a voice—a voice that will be heard and valued. Employees are more aware of their importance to the company by being encouraged to communicate with the management regarding all areas of the growing company. As a company headquartered in Copenhagen, BIG follows Danish labor laws, which are known for their labor–friendly employment terms on salary, working hours, overtime pay, holidays, pension, notice periods, and maternity/paternity leave (e.g. every full– time employee is entitled to 30 days’ annual leave on the basis of 2.5 days for each month worked the previous year). A pregnant employee is entitled to absence from work from 4 weeks before the expected birth, and each childbirth gives the parents a legal right to 52 weeks maternity pay from the government. The unions which exist in the Danish architecture industry are extremely strong, and, should employees choose to join any of these, this choice is respected. However, it is not actually necessary for employees to become members of any such unions to benefit from collective bargaining. BIGSTERS ACROSS ALL LEVELS HAVE LUNCH TOGETHER IN THE CANTEEN, BIG NYC OFFICE OUR LABOR RIGHTS POLICY (CONTINUED) BIG is a member of Danske Arkitekt Virksomheder, the Union of Danish Architect Companies and is therefore bound to implement the benefits negotiated by the architects’ unions for architects. There are union representatives for the two biggest employee groups (architects and construction architects) at the office in Copenhagen, and meetings between these and management representatives happen on a regular basis and at least four times a year. BIG also has employee representatives in the well– established Health and Safety Committee and in a Training Committee that reviews the need for continued education for our employees. In addition, there are numerous groups and formalized networks at the office that meet during working hours—with or without management participation. Our ongoing goal is to ensure the health, well–being, and development of our employees, and we also continue to encourage feedback from and to all employees and aim to better integrate employees into the countries in which they are working as we branch out from our home base in Copenhagen into the rest of the world. There are several feedback mechanisms installed to ensure we capture feedback from employees on their engagement and well–being—ranging from quantitative surveys, onboarding evaluation conversations with each individual two and a half months after startup, and exit interviews. They allow us to constantly evaluate if there are any employee engagement issues we need to address. Also, we have an additional, voluntary opportunity for employees to have focused input on how to strengthen skills. An important part of the workforce at BIG are students (interns), as it is common practice to spend six to eighteen months during the training to become an architect or construction architect. We ensure a fair pay for all, and they are considered an integrated part of the workplace during their stay. This group has a formalized forum where it can meet during working hours. We have also established an intern evaluation system, which allows interns to discover their strengths and weaknesses following the completion of projects as part of their architectural education. BIG NYC OFFICE, NEW YORK OUR LABOR RIGHTS POLICY (CONTINUED) NO FORCED LABOR There is neither forced nor compulsory labor at BIG, and we do not condone or tolerate this within our own office or in the offices of our collaborators. Should any managing partner be informed that employees are forced to work, the situation will be swiftly resolved. We do not accept policies of companies, clients, colleagues, or collaborators that employ forced labor. In countries where this could be an issue, and where we are able to influence the construction process, forced labor of any kind will not be tolerated whether the collaborators are from the private or public sector. ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOR BIG is not involved in any projects that make use of child labor, nor will we ever be. The epitome of BIG’s philosophy of hedonistic sustainability is the opposite of children forced into a situation of labor. Hedonistic sustainability is about creating tolerable situations in which all peoples may live happily; BIG will never tolerate child labor and will always support all efforts to abolish this practice. WORKPLACE SAFETY As an architecture studio, BIG maintains workshops fully equipped with the most advanced laser cutters, wood cutters, and tools and materials necessary to produce architectural models, in addition to the facilities of an average office. Thus, we have strict guidelines for use of the model workshops and take extreme precautions to ensure the safety of anyone handling said tools and machinery. All employees are given a workshop orientation with the workshop manager, covering basic safety guidelines and proper workshop protocol to ensure the workshop is a safe place to work for all. Proper ventilation is provided for the spray painting and foam cutting areas. The office first aid supplies are kept on an easily accessible and clearly visible shelf, and are regularly checked and restocked. BIGSTERS SHARE THEIR UNIQUE SKILLS IN BIG SCHOOL OUR LABOR RIGHTS POLICY (CONTINUED) EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT As mentioned above, BIG has a well–established Health and Safety Committee that oversees the safety and health of all employees. BIG also conducts work place assessments regularly and since 2017 the focus on the psycho–social and engagement–related matters has been expanded. In addition, BIG has instituted a number of activities to support the health of our employees, such as a healthy company–subsidized lunch, discount deals for employees at gyms and fitness–centers, and company subsidized participation in sporting events. We offer our own in-house lecture series ‘BIG Picture’ and continuing education programs ‘BIG School’ to ensure we continuously improve. In addition, BIG employees are invited to share their own expertise in a number of fields by having monthly presentations and training sessions that are welcome to anyone in the office to join. BIG participates in the Global Goals World Cup, a sports and advocacy game geared towards forwarding the UN Sustainable Development Goals by 2030. With past games having been conducted in Copenhagen & Nairobi, representatives of BIG NYC were excited to take part in the finals in New York in 2017. The game was opened by her Royal Highness the Crown princess Mary of Denmark and was refereed by UNDP Goodwill ambassador Nikolaj Coster–Waldau & Nobel Peace Prize nominee Victor Ochen. Finally, BIG has always offered profit sharing as a means to ensure that when the company is doing well, all employees—from kitchen and reception to executive’s office—are recognized for their contribution and receive their share. There is no discriminatory risk in the program as employees in the same job family receive the same percentage of their salary. BIG NYC OFFICE, NEW YORK OUR LABOR RIGHTS POLICY (CONTINUED) ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION BIG upholds this principle by choosing to not practice discrimination of any kind. All employees are chosen on their talents and skills alone, as well as the requirements for the project. Diversity has been part of our DNA since BIG’s foundation. A multitude BIGsters come of cultures and backgrounds creates a new point of reference which leads to amazing insights. At BIG, we celebrate and support diversity because it makes our team, work, from 30 home and the built environment better. We are proud to be an equal opportunity workplace and take affirmative action to employ equally regardless of race, color, ancestry, countries to help religion, sex, national origin, sexual orientation, age, citizenship, marital status, disability, gender identity, or Veteran status. forge a truly BIG has a zero–tolerance policy with regard to discrimination in or outside of the workplace. BIG is committed to providing a work environment that is free of international discrimination. In furtherance of this commitment, BIG strictly prohibits all forms of unlawful discrimination, including on the basis of race, religion, or any other category office that applies protected by applicable state or federal law. Beyond discrimination, we do not take bullying and harassment of colleagues lightly. The BIG personnel handbook states that lessons from our bullying and harassment are not tolerated in or outside of the workplace. work around the As BIG employs nearly 30 nationalities, we have a particular focus on ensuring that all feel treated with respect and are included at the work place. This comes naturally due world to each to the diversity of the workforce. English is installed at the official language at work, ensuring all work on equal terms. The above–mentioned employee representatives project. come from all parts of the world (India, Hawaii, Denmark, Sweden, etc.). We have national diversity in all managerial levels and report on this internally on an annual basis. We treat gender equality with the same focus. As a company led by a female CEO and where a third of the Group Management (C–suite) are female, BIG strives to have a gender distribution at all managerial levels that mirror the organization. In 2019, 44% of the total workforce at BIG were women: 38% of architects/designers; 32% of Associates, and 77% of all in a managerial position are women. While this is a satisfactory reflection, we continue to strive for a better balance and in particular to see more women in the Partner group. DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISES Our goal is BIG’s philosphy of an inclusive and proactive design process extends to how we assemble our project teams; BIG regularly works with consultants from various fields, such as civil engineering, landscape, and historic preservation, who are registered unwavering: BIG as disadvantaged business enterprises. These include Minorityor Woman-Owned Business Enterprises (M/WBE), Local Disadvantaged Business Enterprises (LDBE), neither subscribes Veteran-Owned Small Businesses (VSOB), and other such classifications. BIG supports the goals of Requests for Qualifications/Proposals offerors to include disadvantaged to nor encourages enterprises, and, as a respondent to these RFQ/P’s, BIG composes teams to meet and even exceed these goals. Most recently, when pursuing an academic project in Virginia, any form of we put together a team comprising 50% Small, Women-owned, and Minority-owned Business (SWaM) certified consultants. corruption. ANTI–CORRUPTION BIG values transparency and does not tolerate any form of corruption. We are determined to maintain the highest standards of integrity and work ethics among our staff and across all areas of activity. We therefore maintain a zero–tolerance policy towards corruption in all its forms. Externally, when submitting to Requests for Qualifications (RFQs) or Requests for Proposals (RFPs), we always inform the client if there is any potential conflict of interest and make sure that the collaborators on our team do so as well. When choosing projects to pursue, BIG also makes sure that our collaborators and clients are not involved in any activities that suggest corruption. We will not give or accept bribery in any form, and we will not use deception, trickery or breach of confidence to gain an unfair or dishonest advantage. BIG will not participate in corruption; BIG will not contribute to corruption; BIG will not support corruption. AMAGER RESOURCE CENTER IN COPENHAGEN DENMARK ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS FOR OUR PROJECTS We see our We have always incorporated sustainable initiatives into our projects by thinking outside the box. The general perception of sustainability is an idea of a moral code: How much of our existing quality of life are we prepared to sacrifice to afford being projects as sustainable? It is the perception that it has to hurt to be good and that a sustainable life means doing less than a normal life. But we are looking at how sustainable cities, opportunities or sustainable buildings, can increase the quality of life; we look for ways of designing cities and buildings as double ecosystems that are both ecologically and economically to increase the profitable, and where the outcome doesn’t force people to alter their lifestyles to have a better conscience. People can live exactly the way they want, or even better, because quality of life, the world and the city are designed in such a way. We continue to strive for what we call “hedonistic sustainability,” which is sustainability that improves quality of life for and we approach everyone while minimizing the impact on the surrounding environment. the question of BIG’s approach to sustainability is rooted in the Danish tradition of energy conservation which goes back decades as the country had to provide for many with only limited resources. We currently are building projects seeking certification in LEED, Green Mark, sustainability Minergie, German Sustainable Building Council (DGNB), and Passive House Standards. Current projects that are seeking LEED certification include the Telus Sky Tower in not as a moral Calgary (Platinum), the Vancouver House tower in Vancouver (Platinum), and an office building in Philadelphia (Gold). Our designs have received sustainability awards dilemma but as a including the Scandinavian Green Roof Award for our 8 House residential development in Copenhagen. At the urban–scale, we are working on a post–Hurricane Sandy resiliency design challenge. strategy for Lower Manhattan, a 10–mile protective ribbon that will provide social infrastructure for residents of adjacent neighborhoods. In October 2019, the celebrated BIG–designed Amager Bakke Waste to Energy Plant in Copenhagen was open to the public. The plant is the first of its kind—economically, environmentally, and socially profitable. Since its completion, the recycling plant features a “green” rooftop ski slope and climbing wall, emitting rings of steam to symbolize the conversion of waste to clean energy. AMAGER RESOURCE CENTER IN COPENHAGEN DENMARK BIG Planet BIG is taking steps to help earth and are making strides to generate a healthier company where we can be proud to say that we are doing our part for the environment. A truck load of plastic is dumped into the ocean every minute. For every square mile of ocean, there are 46,000 pieces of plastic floating on the surface. Therefore, we are switching to all green and reusable supplies, and we need your help in discarding of your trash in the proper containers. Please be mindful and discard your waste responsibly. BIG NYC OFFICE, NEW YORK OUR OFFICE ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Buildings move On the smallest of scales and on a daily basis, BIG follows the “reduce, reuse and recycle” principles in the office. When making architecture models, we save material by optimizing the space on a block of foam or wood and reuse leftover material slowly, cities whenever possible. Leftover material that cannot be reused is systematically recycled according to type—wood, paper, foam, plexi, and other plastics. This year, we have move slower, and started using Polyactic Acid (PLA) as a primary material for all our 3D printing. PLA is a renewable corn sugar-based biodegradable plastic. We are always finding greener the world is even alternatives for all products and materials that we use in our office, and educating our staff on best practices to ensure that materials are recycled and reused to our best slower; but every abilities office wide. step counts. Since moving to DUMBO in 2018, BIG has encouraged its NYC staff to spend more time outdoors, taking advantage of our office’s rooftop overlooking the Manhattan bridge and Eastern waterfront, to make phone calls, take a break, or enjoy lunch with colleagues. This year, we implemented 2 meatless days per week for our catered lunch program in an effort to reduce our carbon footprint as a company. Furthermore, we have switched to purchasing only organic produce and prioritizing local, farm fresh vendors for all office meals and snacks. Our office staff makes a concerted effort to cut down food waste and compost whenever possible. Finally, we work diligently on smart, sustainable waste management and try to donate food or materials rather than throwing them out whenever possible. Due to the global nature of the company, having projects in every part of the world, we are conscious of the environmental impact of travels. We have set up web–conference facilities in all offices and laptops, allowing for on–line meetings to replace flights when possible. As of 2017, hotels are booked via a social–impact hotel platform, Goodwings, that ensures that approx. 5% of the hotel spend is allocated to NGOs whose work supports one or more of UN's Sustainable Development Goals. DORTHEAVEJ 2, COPENHAGEN, DK REDUCE INEQUALITY WITHIN AND AMONG COUNTRIES As life evolves, so “Yes is More” is our optimistic motto for inclusivity—an architecture that is driven by saying yes to all the demands and concerns of the surrounding society. Buildings should our cities are never stand-alone entities. Instead, they are part of a larger network, a campus tied together by rich public spaces and the complex urban context. As such, we involve and engage our clients, the community, future users, and any other experts and buildings. If and stakeholders early in the design process, to broaden our own understanding of a project through their input, which directly impacts our examination and analysis. they don’t fit with Similarly, we seek opportunities to work in all parts of the world—from hot to cold, the way we want and even, in outer space—to promote a more inclusive and equitable society through our design of the built environment. By working internationally, BIG has a unique to live our lives, it opportunity and responsibility to try to affect change throughout the world and break down socio-economic barriers across borders. While some companies refuse to work is our responsibility in certain countries for political reasons, we believe our work in the Middle East, for example, which builds on our extensive cultural experience, can have a positive impact to make sure we in helping establish a new social infrastructure for the local community by translating our beliefs and principles into the architecture that ultimately shapes society. Across all of our projects, we challenge clients, subvert programs, and shift typologies in an change the city and effort to create a more equitable environment for all. make our physical world a bit more like our dreams, or our fantasies. CCF INSTITUTE FOR GIRLS, CAMBODIA REDUCE INEQUALITY WITHIN AND AMONG COUNTRIES We are committed to finding unique ways in which our projects can benefit underserved communities. In Cambodia, we are working on the CCF Institute, a pro-bono project to provide educational, healthcare and community development opportunities for 250 girls living in extreme poverty. The CCF Institute for Girls will ensure that these girls, and future generations of Cambodian girls, are given the resources to be successful in Cambodia’s economic developments. The quality and breadth of education provided will mean CCF’s girls can enter society as competent, confident leaders who will not only have the opportunity to engage in, but also have the capacity to positively influence, their country’s development and that of the region. BIG is also committed to creating equitable housing throughout the globe. Since 2014, we have been collaborating with World Housing to build a new home in Phnom Penh for every unit of housing of the Vancouver House. This partnership with Wesbank and World House—a one–for–one commitment—is the first of its kind to World Housing by a developer. To date, we have helped build 320 homes out of a total of 375, forming 24 communities and housing 1,500 people, and a projected 375 additional people by completion. With 100 new units of affordable housing built each year, to date we have developed over 200 affordable housing units in New York City alone. In projects including VIA 57 West in New York City and The Smile in Harlem, 20% of units are designated for affordable housing. In Copenhagen, we fulfilled our “Homes for All” mission for non–profit social housing association Lejerbo. The building offers 66 new homes to low–income citizens featuring unprecedented 3.5m ceilings, generous floor– to–ceiling windows and outdoor terraces, realized on a strict budget. Lastly, we are currently undertaking a pro-bono effort to design 3D printed community center for a 500 affordable home community in Tabasco, the third-poorest state in Mexico. THE BIG U, NEW YORK, NY BUILD RESILIENT INFRASTRUCTURE, PROMOTE INCLUSIVE AND SUSTAINABLE INDUSTRIALIZATION AND FOSTER The Big U INNOVATION approaches the We believe we are at a turning point where the needs of our cities and communities take on increasing importance in waterfront planning. As urban centers around the country turn away from highly trafficked ports and degraded shorelines back towards mandate to the kind of harbor life that founded them, these projects represent a new vision of a balanced habitat for a wide range of human, plant, and animal communities. New York create largeCity took an unprecedented step in being the first major city to tie its sustainability and resilience plan reporting to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and we are scale protective very proud to have taken on a significant role in this series of initiatives. infrastructure with The Big U is a protective system that encircles Manhattan, responding to the needs and concerns of the island’s diverse communities. Stretching from West 57th Street a commitment south to The Battery and up to East 42nd Street, the Big U protects 10 continuous miles of low–lying geography that comprises an incredibly dense, vibrant, and vulnerable urban area. The proposed system not only shields the city against floods to meaningful and stormwater; it provides social and environmental benefits to the community, and fosters an improved public realm. For Phase 3 of Rebuild by Design, the Big U team community created coordinated plans for three contiguous but separate regions of the waterfront dubbed “compartments.” Each presents unique opportunities for integrated social engagement and and community planning. The compartments work in concert to protect and enhance the city, but can also stand on their own. Proposed solutions for the components fine-grained urban were designed in close consultation with the associated communities and many local, municipal, State and Federal stakeholders; each proposal has a benefit–cost experiences. ratio greater than one; and each is flexible, easily phased, and able to integrate with existing projects in progress. Projects of this character demand a will to deal with the futures of unknown possibilities. This includes technological breakthroughs, developments of new materials, climate changes, economical variations, human mobility, and social experiments. With this in mind, our urban resiliency projects always include a research phase where relevant problems and potentials are explored. Based on the research we then formulate and develop visionary concepts and thoroughly discussed urban interventions. BIG TEAM AND THE LOCAL COMMUNITY COMMUNITY SUSTAINABLE FLOATING CITIES, GLOBAL CONSERVE AND SUSTAINABLY USE THE OCEANS, SEAS AND MARINE RESOURCES FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT “It is our goal By 2050, 90% of the world’s largest cities will be exposed to rising seas. The vast majority of coastal cities will be impacted by coastal erosion and flooding, displacing to make sure millions of people, while destroying homes and infrastructure. As part of UN–Habitat’s New Urban Agenda, we proposed a vision for the world’s first resilient and sustainable sustainable floating community for 10,000 residents. Designed as a man–made ecosystem, Oceanix City is anchored in the UN Sustainable Development Goals, channeling floating cities are flows of energy, water, food and waste to create a blueprint for a modular maritime metropolis. affordable and Oceanix City is designed to grow, transform and adapt organically over time, evolving available to all from neighborhoods to cities with the possibility of scaling indefinitely. Modular neighborhoods of 2 hectares create thriving self-sustaining communities of up to 300 coastal areas in residents with mixed-use space for living, working and gathering during day and night time. All built structures in the neighborhood are kept below 7 stories to create a low center of gravity and resist wind. Every building fans out to self-shade internal spaces need.” and public realm, providing comfort and lower cooling costs while maximizing roof area for solar capture. Communal farming is the heart of every platform, allowing residents —Marc Collins, Co-Founder to embrace sharing culture and zero waste systems. Below sea level, beneath the and CEO of OCEANIX platforms, biorock floating reefs, seaweed, oysters, mussel, scallop and clam farming clean the water and accelerate ecosystem regeneration. Floating cities can be prefabricated on shore and towed to their final site, reducing construction costs. This paired with the low cost of leasing space on the ocean creates an affordable model of living. These factors mean that affordable housing can be rapidly deployed to coastal megacities in dire need. The first Oceanix Cities are calibrated for the most vulnerable tropical and sub-tropical regions around the globe. OUR INTRODUCTION Historically the field of architecture has been dominated by two opposing extremes. On one side an avant-garde of wild ideas, often so detached from We offer our own reality that they fail to become something other than eccentric curiosities. On the other side there are well-organized corporate consultants that build in-house lecture predictable and boring boxes of high standard. Architecture seems entrenched between two equally unfertile fronts: either naively utopian or petrifyingly series ‘BIG Picture’ pragmatic. and continuing Rather than choosing one over the other, BIG operates in the fertile overlap between the two opposites. A pragmatic utopian architecture that takes on education the creation of socially, economically and environmentally perfect places as a practical objective. In the big picture, architecture is the art and science of programs ‘BIG ensuring that our cities and buildings fit with the way we want to live our lives. Architecture is not about building monuments, but about creating possibilities School’ to ensure for human life. we continuously At BIG we have always incorporated sustainable initiatives into our projects. In almost every instance these initiatives are not discretionary or additive in improve. nature, but constitute the formative acts around which subsequent design solutions are conceived. Interior and exterior finishes are often comprised entirely of self-finishing materials which require little or no maintenance. Our buildings are usually sited to optimize solar orientation and many integrate inventive day-lighting measures through the use of atria, light wells, light monitors or skylights. big cph big nyc big LON big bcn Kløverbladsgade 56 45 Main Street Bigger Room Carrer del Pintor 2500 Valby Suite 900 16–21 Stable Street Fortuny, 27 Danmark New York, NY London N1C 4AB 08001 Barcelona T: +45 7221 7227 11201 USA United Kingdom Spain F: +45 3512 7227 T: +1 347 549 4141 T: +44 203 735 4996
