Corporate Social Responsibility Report FY19 Global force Thriving communities ABN 57 002 594 872 The year at a glance 2.8 Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate 15.1 Aboriginal employment rate across Pilbara operations 25.5 Female employment in senior management roles 13.1 A$ billion Total global economic contribution 2.3 A$ billion Contracts to Aboriginal businesses and joint ventures FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 1 About this report Fortescue Metals Group Ltd (Fortescue) values its relationships with its stakeholders and is committed to maintaining open and transparent communication. This report outlines the performance A summary of Fortescue’s operations Other than stated, no additional of the Company against key material and financial statements for 1 July 2018 external assurance has been sought corporate social responsibility to 30 June 2019 is reported separately regarding the content of this report. commitments and targets during in the FY19 Annual Report available at All data was subject to internal the financial year 1 July 2018 to www.fmgl.com.au reviews and assessments. 30 June 2019 (FY19). The report has been prepared for the Company’s This report captures Fortescue’s This report was approved for stakeholders including employees, operations including those under publication by Fortescue’s Board shareholders, community groups, exploration and development and of Directors on 26 August 2019. governments, customers and those operated through subsidiaries non-government organisations. and joint ventures where Fortescue Feedback has management control. All Fortescue values feedback from Fortescue is a signatory to the United references to Fortescue, the Group, the its stakeholders. Please forward any Nations Global Compact (UNGC), and Company, refer to Fortescue Metals comments on this report or requests this report represents the Company’s Group Ltd (ABN 57 002 594 872) and its for additional information to ongoing commitment to report subsidiaries. All references to a year are CSR@fmgl.com.au progress towards the principles of the the financial year ended 30 June 2019, UNGC. The report has been prepared in unless otherwise stated. accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards Core option. Assurance A copy of the GRI Content Index is KPMG has provided independent provided on pages 110 to 116. assurance of greenhouse gas This report also considers issues emissions, total energy consumption identified through Fortescue’s and total energy production in Risk Management Framework and accordance with the National guidance provided by key bodies Greenhouse and Energy Reporting including the International Council (Audit) Determination 2009 and on Mining and Metals (ICMM). ASAE 3410: Assurance Engagement on Greenhouse Gas Statement, and the Australian Standard on Assurance Engagement. Inside 01 Overview 3 06 Setting high standards 37 02 Operating and Financial Overview 18 07 Safeguarding the environment 64 03 Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility 24 08 Creating positive social change 89 04 Corporate Governance 32 09 Corporate Directory 109 05 Engaging with stakeholders 35 2 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 01 OVERVIEW 01 Overview FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 3 Our Vision The safest, lowest cost, most profitable mining company Fortescue’s Values Safety Family Empowerment Frugality Stretch targets Courage and Integrity Enthusiasm determination Generating ideas Humility 4 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 OVERVIEW 01 Values Fortescue's unique Values drive the Company's performance in a way that sets it apart from others. Culture Fortescue is a values-based business with a strong, differentiated culture. The Company believes that by leveraging the unique culture of its greatest asset, its people, it will achieve its stretch targets. FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 5 Fortescue is a proud West Australian company built on a foundation of a unique culture and values with a commitment to ensuring communities benefit from the growth and development of our business. At the heart of our culture is trust and respect and a focus on our entire Fortescue family. Safety of our people Our business started as an exploration Chief The health, safety and wellbeing of the Fortescue family is our number company and today we are building on our world class exploration capability Executive to drive future growth through product one priority and our focus remains on diversification and asset development, ensuring our people go home safely reflected by our US$96 million Officer's after every single shift. investment in exploration in the past We are committed to providing strong 12 months. message leadership and empowering all our The long-term sustainability of our core team members to take the action iron ore business in the Pilbara remains required to ensure the safety of their a key priority for Fortescue and in workmates and themselves. the past 18 months we announced Fortescue is using technology and two significant new investments: the Elizabeth Gaines innovation wherever possible to create Eliwana Mine and Rail development a safer workplace. A great example of and the Iron Bridge Magnetite Project. this is our autonomy program our The Eliwana and Iron Bridge projects investment in autonomous haulage are important to Fortescue and the has significant safety benefits, while state of Western Australia (WA) with a driving productivity improvements total investment of US$3.875 billion. across the operations. Iron Bridge will underpin the future Fundamentally though, safety is significant contribution of magnetite about people. We empower our people processing to the Australian economy, to pause the job and take control of while together Iron Bridge and Eliwana their work environment to ensure they will create up to 5,000 new jobs during stay safe. construction and 1,400 full-time site positions once operational. Over the past five years, our TRIFR has reduced by 53 per cent and this year we achieved our TRIFR stretch target Economic contribution of 2.8, which is a record annual low. Since Fortescue began, our We are proud of the result and remain achievements in business have focussed on achieving our goal of underpinned our ongoing contribution becoming global leaders in safety. to WA and the country’s economic strength. In FY19, Fortescue made a total global economic contribution Building a strong of A$13.1 billion including over business A$2.8 billion in government tax Our Chairman Andrew Forrest AO and royalty payments. founded Fortescue with the goal We currently directly employ to meet the iron ore supply gap in more than 6,700 people. Of these China. In just over 11 years, Fortescue 524 are based in the Pilbara. has delivered more than 1.3 billion tonnes of iron ore to our customers and we have been widely recognised as the world’s lowest cost producer of seaborne iron ore to China. 6 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 OVERVIEW Fortescue Founder and Chairman, Andrew Forrest AO and CEO, Elizabeth Gaines celebrate Fortescue's tug fleet and the opening of Judith Street Harbour. 01 Creating opportunities Advocacy Diversity for Aboriginal people In November 2018, we welcomed the To be the best Company we can be, Fortescue is proud to be one of passing of Australia’s Modern Slavery we need the very best ideas and Australia’s largest employers of Act 2018 as an important step in the best ideas come from a diverse Aboriginal people. We believe the harnessing the power of Australian workforce: teams with a broad range biggest impact we can have is through business to eradicate modern slavery of backgrounds, skills, experience our focus on practical initiatives that in global supply chains. We are an and personalities. create opportunities and empower active participant in the United Nations This year, our female employment Aboriginal people. Global Compact for Business’ campaign rate reached 19 per cent with to eradicate the scourge of modern For over a decade, we have provided 26 per cent of senior management slavery in business supply chains. Aboriginal people a pathway to positions held by women as at employment through training for a Fortescue remains a signatory and 30 June 2019. We want our female guaranteed job. This combines their is committed to the initiatives and employment rate to continue to will to succeed with a collaborative principles of the United Nations Global grow and we remain focussed on approach to breaking down barriers Compact. We are also committed implementing initiatives such as to success, through our pioneering to contributing to the achievement child care and flexible work Vocational Training and Employment of the United Nations Sustainable arrangements that help families Centre program (VTEC). Development Goals and use this report balance work and family to demonstrate our contribution. responsibilities, while fostering We are providing unprecedented a workplace culture that truly business development opportunities embraces diversity. through our Billion Opportunities Climate change procurement initiative, which this Fortescue accepts the scientific year reached A$2.3 billion in consensus as assessed by the Our people contracts awarded to Aboriginal Intergovernmental Panel on Fortescue is a values-based business businesses and joint ventures. Climate Change and is committed with a unique and strong culture to contributing to global efforts to that is maintained and strengthened At 30 June 2019, Fortescue directly address climate change. by our people. We would not be employed 779 Aboriginal people, where we are today without the hard representing 12.1 per cent of the total We support Australia’s Paris Agreement work and dedication of the entire Australian based workforce. 15.1 per commitment to reduce emissions by Fortescue team. cent of employees at our Pilbara sites 26 to 28 per cent from 2005 levels are Aboriginal. by 2030 and the UN Framework These values drive our behaviours, Convention on Climate Change which leadership, teams, results, and We commend those in the business mandates that individual nations take our approach to working with our community who, like us, are committed responsibility for emissions within their stakeholders and communities. to closing the gap and ending own borders. disparity. We believe our resources as Through courage and determination, a business will have the most impact As industry, government and the we continue to challenge the status if they remain squarely directed at community work together to mitigate quo and by empowering our people building our successful practical this issue, it is critical that Australia’s we have ensured Fortescue remains initiatives that generate economic climate change goals are managed relevant and transformational, so we empowerment for Aboriginal people. through a nationally consistent can continue to contribute positively approach that incentivises economic to our community. development and job creation. FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 7 About Fortescue Fortescue Metals Group Ltd (Fortescue) is a global leader in the iron ore industry, recognised for its culture, innovation and industry-leading development of world class infrastructure and mining assets in the Pilbara, Western Australia. Since it was founded in 2003, Fortescue Innovation in exploration, ore has discovered and developed major processing and plant design is a key iron ore deposits and constructed component of Fortescue’s strategy some of the most significant mines in to efficiently and effectively deliver the world. The Company has grown to products from mine to market. be one of the largest global iron ore The Company continues to assess producers and is focussed on its vision exploration and development of being the safest, lowest cost, most opportunities throughout Australia profitable mining company. and South America including Ecuador, Now consistently shipping around Colombia and Argentina. 170 million tonnes of iron ore per Fortescue’s longstanding relationships annum (mtpa), Fortescue is the lowest with customers in China have grown cost provider of seaborne iron ore from the first commercial shipment of to China. iron ore in 2008, to now being a core Fortescue owns and operates a fully supplier of seaborne iron ore to China integrated infrastructure and supply and expanding into markets including chain spanning two mine hubs, with Japan, South Korea and India. a third under development, in the Fortescue is committed to its Pilbara, the five berth Herb Elliott Port strategic goals of ensuring balance in Port Hedland, the Judith Street sheet strength and flexibility, investing Harbour towage infrastructure and in the core long term sustainability the fastest, heavy haul railway in the of the business while pursuing world. Fortescue’s innovative tug fleet growth and development options and and the eight purpose built Fortescue delivering returns to shareholders. Ore Carriers have been designed to complement the industry best practice As a proud West Australian company, efficiency of Fortescue’s port and Fortescue values its relationship with maximise the safety and productivity key stakeholders by working together of its operation. to positively manage and create opportunities for Aboriginal people, The Company is developing the contribute to the success of local Eliwana Mine and Rail Project and the communities, protect the Iron Bridge Magnetite Project. Together, environment and strengthen the the Iron Bridge and Eliwana projects broader Australian economy. will increase the average iron content of Fortescue’s ores and provide the ability to deliver on its strategy of the majority of products at greater than 60% Fe. Consistent with Fortescue’s track record of introducing cutting edge technology across the business, the Eliwana Mine and Rail Project will build on the Company’s development and construction capability by utilising the latest technology, autonomous trucks and design efficiency. 8 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 Value Value ChainChain Innovation in process and design has been a key component of Fortescue’s strategy in challenging industry standards to more efficiently and effectively deliver its product suite from mine to market. OVERVIEW 01 Exploration and discovery 01 Challenging geological thinking to identify valuable deposits 02 Extraction and recovery Innovative use of technology suitable to Fortescue’s deposits 03 Processing Ore processing facility design and wet processing optimise output 04 Mine to port Heavy haul rail at 42t axle load 05 Blending and stockpiling Port design facilitates blending and stockpiling of product suite 06 Ship loading 3 shiploaders and 5 berths maximise outload capacity and utilisation 07 Integrated operations and marketing Helping customers achieve best value in use 08 Shipping and towage Delivery to Fortescue’s international customers’ specifications 8 Fortescue Ore Carriers Towage fleet provides safe 09 and reliable towage services Decommissioning Mine closure and rehabilitation FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 9 Andrew Forrest AO Mark Barnaba AM Chairman Lead Independent Director/ Deputy Chair The Board overview Elizabeth Gaines Chief Executive Officer/ Managing Director Sharon Warburton Deputy Chair Fortescue has a talented and diverse Board committed to enhancing and protecting the Lord Sebastian Coe CH, KBE Jennifer Morris OAM interests of Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director shareholders and other stakeholders, and fulfilling a strong governance role over the Company’s affairs. Dr Jean Baderschneider Penny Bingham-Hall Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Dr Cao Zhiqiang Non-Executive Director 10 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 The appointment and reappointment Directors are expected to act Nicola Forrest AO, which has supported of directors is intended to maintain and independently, ethically and comply over 280 initiatives across Australia and enhance the overall quality with all relevant requirements of the internationally in pursuit of a range of the Board through a composition Corporations Act 2001, ASX Listing Rules of causes. In May 2017, the Forrests which reflects a diversity of skills, and the Company’s constitution. announced one of Australia’s largest ethnicity, experience, gender and age. private philanthropic donations of The Company actively promotes ethical A$400 million, and have continued The primary driver for the Board in and responsible decision making OVERVIEW giving, with their total philanthropic seeking new directors is skills and through its Values and Code of Conduct donations exceeding A$1.5 billion in experience which are relevant to the and Integrity that embodies these May 2019. needs of the Board in discharging its Values. There is a formal process and responsibilities to shareholders. All policy to identify, disclose and manage Mr Forrest was awarded an honorary 01 new Board members benefit from a potential conflicts of interest, should doctorate by The University of Western comprehensive induction process they arise. Australia, is an Adjunct Professor of the that supports their understanding of Central South University in China, a The Board and each of its four primary Fortescue’s business. lifetime Fellow of the Australian Institute Committees have established a process of Mining and Metallurgy and was Fortescue’s policy is to assess all to evaluate their performance annually. awarded the Global Entrepreneur of the potential Board candidates without The process is based on a formal Year by EY for Impact. regard to race, gender, age, physical questionnaire and interview conducted ability, sexuality, nationality, religious every second year by an independent He is Co-Chairman of the Senior beliefs, or any other factor not relevant consultant and every other year by the Business Leaders' Forum, the to their competence and performance. Company Secretary under the direction leading formal dialogue for China and of the Chair of the Remuneration and Australia's most senior business leaders. There is also a range of support given to People Committee. The most recent Board members which enables In 2017, Mr Forrest was appointed review was undertaken in June 2019 by them to stay strongly connected to an Officer of the Order of Australia EY. The results and recommendations the Company, its culture and Values. (AO) for distinguished service to the are reported to the full Board for mining sector, to the development These include: further consideration and agreement of of employment and business • Opportunities for significant improvement actions, where required. opportunities, as a supporter of contribution to the annual strategy At the date of this report, the Board sustainable foreign investment, and to setting process conducted with has eight non-executive directors and philanthropy. executive and senior management one executive director, being Chief He is Global Patron of the Centre for • Regular briefings from executive Executive Officer, Elizabeth Gaines. Humanitarian Dialogue, recipient of and senior management regarding The Board believes that an appropriate the Australian Sports Medal and the all major business areas, tailored site mix of non-executive and executive Australian Centenary Medal, and Vicevisits and annual site tours directors is beneficial to its role and Patron of the SAS Resources Fund. to operations provides strong operational and • Visits to meet with key customers financial insights to support He is also a Councillor of the that strengthen their understanding the business. Global Citizen Commission, which of the Company’s key markets made a series of human rights Andrew Forrest AO recommendations to update the • Regular formal and informal Chairman Universal Declaration of Human Rights opportunities for the directors to Appointed Chairman in July 2003; presented to the United Nations meet with management and staff. Assumed role of Chief Executive Officer Secretary General in April 2016. The Board has established Committees in 2005; Resumed non-executive responsibilities in July 2011. Mr Forrest was appointed in 2013 to assist in the execution of its duties by the Prime Minister and Cabinet and to ensure that important and Mr Forrest is Australia’s most active of Australia, to Chair the Review of complex issues are given appropriate philanthropist and one of the most Indigenous Training and Employment consideration. The primary Committees effective business leaders of his Programmes, to end Indigenous of the Board are the Remuneration generation. disparity through employment. and People Committee, the Audit and Risk Management Committee, As Fortescue’s Founder and Chairman, He was Western Australia’s 2017 the Nomination Committee and the he has led the Company from inception Australian of the Year for his Finance Committee. to its Top 20 status in the Australian outstanding contribution to the economy, during which time Fortescue community and in 2018, Mr Forrest Each Committee has a non-executive invested more than US$20 billion in the was inducted into the Australian Chair and operates under its own resources sector. Prospectors & Miners' Hall of Fame. Charter which has been approved by the Board. In 2001, Mr Forrest co-founded the Committee memberships: Minderoo Foundation with his wife Finance Committee (Chair) FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 11 Mark Barnaba AM Elizabeth Gaines Sharon Warburton Lead Independent Director/ Chief Executive Officer/ Deputy Chair Deputy Chair Managing Director Deputy Chair since July 2017; NonDeputy Chair since November 2017; Chief Executive Officer since February Executive Director since November 2013. Lead Independent Director since 2018 and Executive Director since February Ms Warburton has extensive experience November 2014; Non-Executive Director 2017; Former Non-Executive Director from in the mining, infrastructure and since February 2010. February 2013 to February 2017. construction sectors. She gained Mr Barnaba is a career investment Ms Gaines commenced as Chief substantial operational, commercial banker, having focussed predominately Executive Officer of Fortescue Metals and risk management experience in in the natural resources sector. Group in February 2018. the global resources sector through her time as an executive at Rio Tinto. She Mr Barnaba has spent most of his career A highly experienced business has also previously held senior executive with McKinsey & Company (both in leader with extensive international positions at Brookfield Multiplex, ALDAR Australia and overseas), companies experience as a Chief Executive Officer Properties PJSC, Multiplex and Citigroup. he founded, led and then sold GEM and group executive, Ms Gaines has Consulting and Azure Capital (both a proven track record in financial and In recognition of her experience, independent corporate advisory firms operational leadership across a number she was awarded Western Australian which provide financial, corporate of industries, including resources, Telstra Business Woman of the Year in and strategic advice to companies, construction and infrastructure, financial 2014 and was a finalist in 2015 for governments and institutions in the services and travel and hospitality. The Financial Review’s Westpac 100 Asia Pacific region), and in several senior Women of Influence. She is a Director After joining Fortescue as a Nonexecutive roles at Macquarie Group (one of the Perth Children’s Hospital Executive Director in February 2013, being the Chairman and Global Head Foundation and formerly the Chairman Ms Gaines was appointed Chief of the Natural Resources Group). He has of the Northern Australia Infrastructure Financial Officer and Executive Director previously chaired the State Theatre Facility and Director of Western Power. in February 2017. She is a former Company of Western Australia, the Chief Executive Officer of Helloworld Ms Warburton is regarded as a financial, West Coast Eagles (an Australian Rules Limited and Heytesbury Pty Limited governance and remuneration expert Football League Team) and several large and has also held the position of Chief and is a Fellow of the Institute of publicly listed (ASX) companies within Financial Officer at Stella Group and Chartered Accountants Australia and the mining and infrastructure sectors. Entertainment Rights Plc. New Zealand and Australian Institute He also is a member of the Board (and A member of Chartered Accountants of Building. She is a Graduate of the Chairman of the Audit Committee) of Australia and New Zealand, the Australian Institute of Company the Reserve Bank of Australia. Australian Institute of Company Directors Directors, a member of Chief Executive and Chief Executive Women, she holds Women and a part-time member of the He also chairs the Board of the a Bachelor of Commerce degree and Australian Takeovers Panel. University of Western Australia Business School, chairs the Hospital Benefit Master of Applied Finance degree. She holds a Bachelor of Business Fund (HBF) Investment Committee, is a Ms Gaines is a member of the Curtin (Accounting and Business Law) from member of the Senior Advisory Board of University Faculty of Business and Law Curtin University and is an Adjunct Appian Capital (a London based pureAdvisory Council. Professor of Curtin University’s Faculty play mining private-equity fund), and is of Business and Law. a senior adviser to EY (Oceania). Former directorships in the last three years (ASX Listed Entities): NEXTDC Other current directorships (ASX listed Mr Barnaba holds a Bachelor of Limited (Non-Executive Director); Nine entities): Gold Road Resources Limited (NonCommerce (First Class Honours and Entertainment Co. Holdings Limited Executive Director); NEXTDC Limited (NonUniversity Medal) from the University of (Non-Executive Director); ImpediMed Executive Director); Worley Parsons Limited Western Australia, an MBA from Harvard Limited (Non-Executive Director). (Non-Executive Director); Wesfarmers Business School (Baker Scholar) and an Limited (Non-Executive Director). Honorary Doctor of Commerce from Former directorships in the last three years the University of Western Australia. (ASX Listed Entities): Wellard Limited. Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Audit and Risk Management Remuneration and People Committee (Chair), Nomination Committee (Chair), Nomination Committee (Chair), Remuneration Committee (Member), Audit and Risk and People Committee (Member) Management Committee (Member), Finance Committee (Member) Cameron Wilson Company Secretary Mr Wilson was appointed Company Secretary in February 2018, bringing over 20 years' mining industry experience across the gold, nickel, coal and mineral sands sectors. Mr Wilson holds a Bachelor of Laws from the University of Western Australia and is a Graduate of the Australian Institute of Company Directors. 12 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 Lord Sebastian Coe CH, KBE A former member of the Australian Penny Bingham-Hall Non-Executive Director Women’s Hockey Team, Ms Morris won Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director since February 2018. Olympic gold medals at the Atlanta Non-Executive Director since 1996 and Sydney 2000 Olympic Games. November 2016. Lord Coe is currently a senior advisor In 1997, she was awarded a Medal of the with Morgan Stanley & Co International Order of Australia (OAM). Ms Bingham-Hall has over 30 years’ plc and a Non-Executive Director of experience in senior executive and the Vitality Group of health and life Ms Morris' various roles in elite sport and non-executive roles in large ASX listed OVERVIEW insurance companies. In 2017, he the corporate world allow her to provide companies. She is a Non-Executive became Chancellor of Loughborough significant demonstrated experience in the Director of Macquarie Specialised Asset University having previously served as areas of leadership and high performance. Management, the Port Authority of Pro Chancellor of the University. Ms Morris is a Member of the Australian NSW, Taronga Conservation Society 01 Institute of Company Directors, a Fellow Australia and the Crescent Foundation. Based in the United Kingdom, Lord Coe is the Executive Chairman of CSM of Leadership WA and a member of the Ms Bingham-Hall has worked in the Sport and Entertainment, within the Vice Chancellor’s List, Curtin University. construction, infrastructure, mining and Chime Communications group. He was She holds a Bachelor of Arts (Psychology property industries across Australia and the elected President of the International and Journalism) received with Asian region. She has a particular interest Association of Athletics Federations Distinction and has completed Finance in environmental sustainability, workplace (IAAF) in 2015 where he is driving for Executives at INSEAD. safety and indigenous employment. significant governance reforms through Committee memberships: Prior to becoming a company director, the organisation and its 214 Member Remuneration and People Committee Ms Bingham-Hall was Executive Federations around the world. General Manager, Strategy at Leighton (Member), Audit and Risk Management Lord Coe previously served as Chairman Committee (Member) Holdings (now CIMIC) Australia’s of the British Olympic Association and was largest construction, mining services Chairman of the Organising Committee Dr Jean Baderschneider and property group. As part of the for the London 2012 Olympic Games and Non-Executive Director leadership team at Leighton she had Paralympic Games. He was a member of Non-Executive Director since responsibilities across the group’s the British athletics team at the 1980 January 2015. Australian and Asian operations. and 1984 Olympic Games where he won Ms Bingham-Hall has a Bachelor of Arts A highly regarded leader in both business two gold and two silver medals, as well as degree in Industrial Design, is a Fellow and civil society, Dr Baderschneider breaking twelve world records. of the Australian Institute of Company brings 35 years of extensive international In 1992, Lord Coe became a Member of experience in procurement, strategic Directors, a Senior Fellow of the Financial Parliament and during his political career sourcing and supply chain management Services Institute of Australasia and a served as a Government Whip along with a deep understanding of member of Chief Executive Women and and then Private Secretary to William high-risk operations and locations and Corporate Women Directors. Hague, Leader of the Opposition and complex partnerships. Other current directorships (ASX listed Leader of the Conservative Party. He was entities): BlueScope Steel Limited (NonDr Baderschneider retired from appointed to The House of Lords in 2000. Executive Director); DEXUS Property ExxonMobil in 2013 where she was Vice-President of Global Procurement. Group (Non-Executive Director). Jennifer Morris OAM During her 30-year career, she was Committee memberships: Non-Executive Director responsible for operations all over the Audit and Risk Management Committee Non-Executive Director since world, including Africa, South America (Member), Finance Committee (Member) November 2016. the Middle East and Asia. Ms Morris is a former Partner in the Dr Cao Zhiqiang A past member of the Board of Directors Consulting Division of Deloitte, where she Non-Executive Director of the Institute for Supply Management specialised in complex large-scale business Non-Executive Director since January 2018 and the Executive Board of the National transformation programs and strategy (nominated director from Hunan Valin Iron Minority Supplier Development development. She currently holds a senior and Steel Group Company Ltd). Council, Dr Baderschneider also position at the Minderoo Foundation as served on the boards of The Center Dr Cao is currently the Chairman of Chief Executive Officer of Walk Free. of Advanced Purchasing Studies and Hunan Valin Iron and Steel Group She has senior corporate governance the Procurement Council of both The Company Ltd and brings extensive experience and is currently a Conference Board and the Corporate experience in technology and steel Commissioner of the Board of Australian Executive Board. mill management, along with a deep Sports Commission. background in international co-operation. In February 2011, she was the A former Director of the Fremantle Presidential appointee to the US Dr Cao joined Valin Xiangtan Steel in 1997 Football Club and Western Australian Department of Commerce’s National and has worked in a variety of roles including Institute of Sport, Ms Morris also Advisory Council of Minority Business Director of the Research and Development served as Chairperson of the Board of Enterprises. She holds a Masters Degree centre, before being appointed Chief Healthway – the WA Government’s peak from the University of Michigan and a Executive Officer. He holds a PhD in Science health promotion body. PhD from Cornell University. and is a senior engineer research fellow. FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 13 Elizabeth Gaines Julie Shuttleworth Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chief Executive Officer Ms Gaines commenced as Chief Ms Shuttleworth commenced as Deputy Core Executive Officer in February 2018. A highly experienced business Chief Executive Officer in February 2018. Having joined Fortescue in 2013, Leadership leader with extensive international Ms Shuttleworth has held General experience as a Chief Executive Manager roles at both Fortescue’s Team Officer and group executive, Ms Cloudbreak and Solomon mines. Gaines has a proven track record in Ms Shuttleworth holds a double major financial and operational leadership in Extractive Metallurgy and Chemistry across a number of industries from Murdoch University and has 25 including resources, construction and years’ experience in the mining industry infrastructure, financial services and Fortescue’s Core travel and hospitality. in Australia, China and Tanzania, including 19 years in gold/copper Leadership Team After joining Fortescue as a Nonworking for Newcrest Mining, Sino (CLT) was announced Executive Director in February 2013, Ms Gaines was appointed Chief Mining and Barrick Gold, and six years' iron ore experience with Fortescue. in November 2017 Financial Officer and Executive Director Ms Shuttleworth is a Fellow and and is focussed on in February 2017. She is a former Chief Executive Officer of Helloworld Chartered Professional of the the core Values Limited and Heytesbury Pty Limited Australian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy (AusIMM), is a Graduate and culture of the and has also held the position of Chief Financial Officer at Stella Group and Member of the Australian Institute Company and Entertainment Rights Plc. of Company Directors, on the International Committee of the Society empowering the A member of Chartered Accountants of Mining Metallurgy and Exploration, workforce to make Australia and New Zealand, the Australian Institute of Company and a Member of the Mining and Metallurgical Society of America. She decisions that Directors and Chief Executive also serves on the AusIMM Council drive success for Women, Ms Gaines holds a Bachelor of Commerce degree and Master of for Diversity and Inclusion and has attended Harvard Business School the Company. Applied Finance degree. and INSEAD Business School, holds Diplomas in Financial Markets and Ms Gaines is a member of the Curtin Management, and sponsors the University Faculty of Business and Julie Shuttleworth Prize in Mineral Law Advisory Council. Processing at Murdoch University. 14 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 OVERVIEW 01 Ian Wells Greg Lilleyman Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer Mr Wells joined Fortescue in 2010 Mr Lilleyman commenced as Chief and has held multiple senior executive Operating Officer in February 2018, roles in the Finance team, including after joining Fortescue as Director funding, treasury, planning and Operations in January 2017. analysis as well as Company Secretary. With nearly three decades of extensive He commenced as Chief Financial international experience in the mining Officer in February 2018. sector, including over 20 years' in Mr Wells' prior experience includes the iron ore sector across multiple financing Fortescue’s US$10 billion commodities in large scope project major iron ore project development development and construction, to 155 million tonnes per annum, and operational and business leadership, successfully undertaking multi-billion joint venture management and dollar capital raising and refinancing technology deployment, Mr Lilleyman transactions in domestic and brings significant business credentials international capital markets. and iron ore market knowledge to Fortescue’s Core Leadership Team. Most recently, he has held the position of Group Manager Corporate Mr Lilleyman holds a degree in Finance, leading Fortescue's capital Construction Engineering from management strategy with group Curtin University and has completed responsibility for Treasury and Funding. the Vincent Fairfax Fellowship in Ethical Leadership at the University With more than 25 years’ experience of Melbourne as well as the prestigious as a senior executive in leading Wharton Business School’s Advanced ASX listed and private companies in Management Program. the mining, energy infrastructure and healthcare industries, Mr Wells’ prior He is a member of the Australian positions include Chief Financial Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, Officer of Singapore Power subsidiary the Australian Institute of Company Jemena Limited and Acting Chief Directors and a Fellow of the Australian Financial Officer of Alinta Limited. Institute of Management. Mr Wells holds a Bachelor of Business in Accounting, is a Fellow of CPA Australia, a Certified Finance and Treasury Professional and a Graduate of the Australian Institute of Company Directors. Mr Wells is Chairman of The Salvation Army Business Committee. FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 15 Danny Goeman Peter Huston Director Sales and Marketing Chief General Counsel and Director Corporate Services Executive Team Anthony Kirke General Manager Iron Ore Projects Tim Langmead Director Community, Environment and Government Fortescue’s Executive Team is accountable for the safety of its people, upholding the Company’s Values, David Liu Linda O’Farrell acting with integrity Senior Advisor to the CEO and COO Group Manager Fortescue People and honesty, and leading the business to achieve its vision of becoming the safest, lowest cost, most profitable mining company. Fernando Pereira Alison Terry Director Pilbara Operations Group Manager Corporate Affairs and Joint Company Secretary Rob Watson Group Manager Health and Safety 16 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 Danny Goeman has worked across the full supply Fernando Pereira Director Sales and Marketing chain with roles encompassing port Director Pilbara Operations operations, ore processing, mining Mr Pereira was appointed Director Mr Goeman was appointed Director and maintenance. Pilbara Operations in June 2019. Sales and Marketing in August 2018. Having started his career at Fortescue Mr Goeman has more than 25 years of Tim Langmead in 2010, Mr Pereira has led the experience in management, sales and Director Community, Environment Company’s Port and Rail Operations marketing, strategy development and OVERVIEW and Government and Asset Management teams. high level commercial negotiations including more than 20 years with the Mr Langmead was appointed Director Mr Pereira has more than 19 years’ Rio Tinto group of Companies. External Relations in January 2014, experience in the mining industry, after joining Fortescue as Group spanning various commodities and Mr Goeman has a wealth of experience 01 Manager Corporate Affairs in January operations in Australia and South in leading commercial transactions 2013 and was subsequently appointed America. He has expertise in senior in different geographies including Director Community, Environment management, mining and mineral Australia, Asia and Europe, and has and Government. engineering, supply chain optimisation experience in a range of commodities Previously, Mr Langmead held senior and overseeing mechanical, structural including diamonds, iron ore, coal corporate affairs roles in the Australian and expansion projects. and potash. Mr Goeman has a Masters degree in Business Administration. business units of global oil and gas Mr Pereira holds a Bachelor in companies. Mr Langmead served in Mining and Mineral Processing senior staff roles for Ministers in the Peter Huston Engineering and Specialisation in Howard-Anderson and Howard-Vaile Business Management. Chief General Counsel and governments and commenced his Director Corporate Services career as an agribusiness journalist. Mr Huston joined Fortescue in 2005 and Alison Terry has over 20 years’ experience in legal and Group Manager Corporate Affairs advisory roles. Prior to joining Fortescue, David Liu and Joint Company Secretary Senior Advisor to the CEO and COO Mr Huston spent 12 years as a Partner Ms Terry joined Fortescue in 2014 as of the law firm now known as Norton Mr Liu was appointed Director Sales Group Manager Corporate Affairs and Rose Fulbright. He then spent over and Marketing in 2011. He has almost serves as Joint Company Secretary, a decade in “Activism Private Equity” 30 years’ experience in trade and having been appointed to the role in as an Executive Director at Troika investment projects between February 2017. Securities Limited. Mr Huston is a wellAustralia and China and a strong understanding of Chinese culture With significant experience in regarded corporate lawyer in Australia. and business practices. corporate affairs, legal, company Mr Huston is admitted as a Solicitor secretarial and general management, and Barrister of the Supreme Court Mr Liu moved from Director Sales and Ms Terry has previously held senior of Western Australia, the Federal and Marketing into the role of Senior Advisor executive and Board roles across High Court of Australia and has a to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief a number of sectors including Bachelor of Jurisprudence, Bachelor Operating Officer in August 2018. automotive, telecommunications of Laws (with Honours), Bachelor of and superannuation. Commerce and a Master of Laws. Linda O’Farrell Ms Terry holds a Bachelor of Economics Group Manager Fortescue People and Bachelor of Laws (Honours) and Anthony Kirke Ms O’Farrell joined Fortescue in a Graduate Diploma of Business General Manager Iron Ore Projects October 2013 as Group Manager (Accounting). She is a member of Chief Mr Kirke was appointed General Fortescue People, joining the Executive Executive Women and a Graduate of the Manager Iron Ore Projects in February team in December 2014. Australian Institute of Company Directors. 2018. After joining Fortescue in 2010, Having held a number of executive he has had a number of roles including Rob Watson human resources roles in major General Manager Solomon and Group Group Manager Health and Safety Australian resource companies, Manager Operations Planning. Ms O’Farrell brings deep experience Mr Watson was appointed Group Mr Kirke is responsible for Fortescue’s in strategic people management, Manager Health and Safety in 2014 major Iron Ore development projects diversity and Aboriginal employment. after joining Fortescue in 2011. Prior including the Eliwana Mine and Rail to this, Mr Watson spent 15 years in a Ms O’Farrell holds a Bachelor of and the Iron Bridge Magnetite Project. number of senior corporate health and Economics (Honours in Industrial Relations) from the University of safety roles in large mining companies. He is also responsible for the feasibility studies for all future iron ore projects, Western Australia and is a Director Mr Watson’s career in health and ensuring the long term sustainability at the Australian Institute of safety spans over 25 years in a number of Fortescue’s iron ore operations. Management Western Australia and of industries and commodities. AMMA, the Australian Resources and Mr Watson holds a Masters in Commencing with Mt Newman Mining Energy Group. Occupational Health and Safety. in 1985 in Port Hedland, Mr Kirke FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 17 02 Operating and Financial Overview 18 18 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 167.7 mt OPERATING AND FINANCIAL OVERVIEW Shipped 13.11 US$ C1 costs /wmt 02 1.9 US$ Cash on hand billion 10.0 US$ Revenue billion 4.0 US$ Gross debt billion 2.1 US$ Net debt billion FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 19 Overview of operations As one of the world’s largest iron ore producers, Fortescue owns and operates integrated operations spanning two iron ore mine hubs, the five berth Herb Elliott Port and Judith Street Harbour towage facility in Port Hedland and the fastest, heavy haul railway in the world. 20 20 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 Chichester Hub The Chichester Hub in the Chichester Operating on Yindjibarndi, Eastern Ranges, comprising Cloudbreak Guruma, Ngarluma/ Yindjibarndi and OPERATING AND and Christmas Creek mines, has an Kariyarra land, Solomon is proud to annual production capacity of provide training and employment 100 million tonnes per annum (mtpa) opportunities for Aboriginal people. from three Ore Processing FINANCIAL OVERVIEW In FY19, 16 VTEC graduates from Facilities (OPFs). Fortescue’s VTEC training centre in Fortescue’s innovative Papa Waringka Roebourne started full-time work at (Nyiyaparli language for water the Solomon Hub. in the ground) Managed Aquifer Recharge Program at the Chichester Hub represents one of the largest Hedland Operations Fortescue wholly owns and operates 02 dewatering schemes in the world and is fundamental to the Company’s its purpose designed rail and port commitment to protecting the facilities, constructed to deliver iron adjacent Fortescue Marsh. ore from its mines to Port Hedland and onto its customers. Covering 620km of The Christmas Creek and Cloudbreak track, the railway is the fastest, heavy teams are proud of their strong haul line in the world. relationships with the local Aboriginal people as Fortescue’s Chichester The efficient design and layout, optimal operations covers Nyiyaparli, Palyku, berthing configuration and ongoing Njamal and Martu Idja Banjima Native innovation to increase productivity Title groups. makes Fortescue’s port the most efficient bulk port operation in Australia. The As part of the Company’s Rapid Trades port has five operating berths and Upskilling program, 82 Defence Force is capable of safely and efficiently veterans began work at Fortescue’s exporting more than 170mtpa. Chichester Hub in FY19. The Program was introduced to deliver training Fortescue’s eight Ore Carriers were and employment pathways for former innovatively designed to complement Defence Force personnel. the Company's port infrastructure. The fleet delivers approximately 14 per cent Throughout the year, having of Fortescue’s shipping requirements, successfully completed training at and has improved load rates, efficiencies Fortescue’s Vocational Training and and reduced operating costs. Employment Centre program (VTEC), 20 VTEC trainees began full-time In FY19, the Company celebrated employment at the Chichester Hub. the completion of its fleet of tugs and towage infrastructure to provide safe and reliable towage services that will Solomon Hub maximise the efficiencies of its operations The Solomon Hub in the Hamersley and provide additional towage capacity Ranges is located 60km north of for all Port Hedland users. Tom Price and 120km to the west Fortescue is committed to building of Fortescue’s Chichester Hub. It and retaining its residential workforce comprises the Firetail and Kings in Port Hedland, launching the In Valley mines which together have a Home Child Care program to help production capacity of 70 to 75mtpa. families balance work and caring Fortescue is committed to maximising responsibilities. the Pilbara’s rich endowment of natural The Company’s School Leaver Rail gas to its advantage. The Fortescue Shunting Program provides Port River Gas Pipeline connecting to the Hedland based school leavers with gas fired Solomon Power Station, an entry level pathway into the mining reduces the mine’s diesel consumption industry. In FY19, three trainees and drives sustainable improvements completed the program. Participants in greenhouse gas emissions and are encouraged to apply for full time energy intensity. roles at Fortescue. FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 21 Eliwana Mine and Rail Project Iron Bridge In April 2019, the development of the Fortescue’s US$1.275bn Eliwana Mine and Rail US$2.6 billion Iron Bridge Magnetite Project development in the Western Hub includes 143km of rail was approved by the Board. The project and a 30mtpa dry OPF. will deliver 22mtpa of high grade 67% Fe The project underpins the introduction and growth of magnetite concentrate product, with first ore the 60.1% iron grade product, West Pilbara Fines, and on ship scheduled for mid-2022. will maintain Fortescue’s low cost status, providing Iron Bridge, located 145km by road south of greater flexibility to capitalise on market dynamics while Port Hedland and incorporating the world maintaining Fortescue’s overall production rate of a class North Star and Glacier Valley magnetite minimum 170mtpa over 20 years. ore bodies, is an unincorporated joint The Eliwana project continues Fortescue’s significant venture between Fortescue Metals Group contribution to the State with the generation of up subsidiary FMG Iron Bridge and Formosa to 1,900 jobs during construction and 500 full time Steel IB. Baosteel also has an interest in the positions once operational. Approximately 80 per cent Project, with a 12 per cent shareholding of of contracts already awarded for the project are with FMG Iron Bridge. Western Australian owned businesses. The Iron Bridge project holds Australia’s largest Joint Ore Reserves Committee (JORC) compliant magnetite resource supporting a long mine life. The innovative process design, including the use of a dry crushing and grinding circuit, will deliver an industry leading energy efficient operation. Exploration in Australia Fortescue holds the largest tenement portfolio in the Pilbara region of Western Australia. The Company’s iron ore tenements are key to maintaining mine life and sustaining product quality in Fortescue’s core iron ore business. The Western Hub Resources include significant amounts of high iron content bedded iron ore, adding high iron content, dry, low cost tonnes to Fortescue’s product suite. Recent Australian exploration activity has been primarily focussed on early stage target generation for copper-gold in the North Paterson and Rudall region in Western Australia, with additional exploration activity undertaken in New South Wales and South Australia. Details of the Company’s Reserves and Resources are summarised in the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Report on pages 39 to 46 of the FY19 Annual Report. 22 22 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 Port Hedland HERB ELLIOTT PORT OPERATING AND Karratha Roebourne OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Marble Bar IRON BRIDGE Pilbara FINANCIAL OVERVIEW SOLOMON HUB Nullagine Western Australia CHICHESTER HUB Eliwana Firetail Cloudbreak Current operations Kings Christmas Creek Under development WESTERN HUB Tom Price NYIDINGHU Newman 02 International footprint Fortescue is building on its world-class exploration expertise, operational Fortescue is committed to providing on the job training and employment Fortescue is reputation and capability of its people to diversify its portfolio opportunities for local communities. Fortescue Ecuador partnered with building on through early stage exploration in highly prospective areas to deliver the local Plateado community to help build a roof for the primary school, its world-class future shareholder value. Simon Rodriguez Bilingual Education exploration expertise, Centre, which will allow the children The Company is assessing exploration to stay dry during the wet season. and development opportunities throughout South America including Ecuador, Colombia and Argentina. The Company worked in partnership with the Ecuadorian Ministry of operational Drilling on targets prospective for copper commenced in April 2019 Education to also improve other areas of the school through painting, building reputation and at Fortescue’s Santa Ana concessions fences and donating computers. capability of its people to in Ecuador. Fortescue has also applied for tenements In November 2018, Fortescue prospective for lithium in Portugal. acquired an exploration company in Argentina which provided access to diversify its a large greenfield landholding of approximately 2,930km² in the portfolio Argentinian Province of San Juan, which is prospective for copper-gold. Initial field work commenced in January 2019 in a project area approximately 180km from San Juan. FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 23 03 Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility 24 24 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 APPROACH TO CORPORATE Empowerment of employees SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY and communities is at the heart of Fortescue’s approach to CSR 03 Targets Opportunities and objectives Fortescue’s policies Voluntary commitments and principles Code of Conduct and Integrity Vision and Values FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 25 Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility Fortescue is committed to playing its role as the world strives to meet the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Fortescue strives to ensure that • Improve the business’ bottom line United Nations Sustainable communities benefit from its growth while delivering positive change. Development Goals and development and recognises that On 25 September 2015, the United Compliance with all relevant in order to achieve its vision of being Nations adopted the Sustainable legislation and obligations including the safest, lowest cost, most profitable Development Goals (SDGs) setting those that govern health, safety mining company, a strong focus on the 2030 global agenda for and environment is the absolute corporate social responsibility (CSR) sustainable development. The SDGs minimum standard to which the must be integrated into all aspects of are a call for global action through Company adheres. its business. national governments to end poverty, Fortescue’s Board approved Code of Fortescue’s Values form the foundation protect the planet and ensure that Conduct and Integrity establishes the of the Company’s approach to CSR; all people are able to enjoy peace essential standards of personal and setting the ethical and moral compass and prosperity. corporate conduct and behaviour of by which the business operates. Fortescue is committed to working employees, suppliers and contractors. The Value of empowerment of with its host governments as they This strong base supports the employees and communities is at the strive to meet these goals. Fortescue’s Company’s commitments and principles heart of Fortescue’s approach to CSR. approach to CSR aligns with the SDGs. which leads to the development Empowerment encourages people to: and implementation of policies, The table on pages 28 and 29 opportunities and objectives. These demonstrates how the Company’s • Strive to be the best inform the application of specific CSR targets, set against identified • Find innovative solutions to business business unit targets, processes material issues, are contributing and societal challenges and plans. towards the achievement of SDGs. 26 26 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 APPROACH TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 03 Fortescue works with its stakeholders to create sustainable communities FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 27 Material issues, related targets and link to SDGs Target Result SDGs Annually, achieve zero fatalities at 0 Employee health, safety Fortescue’s operations Workplace fatalities By 2020, reduce injuries to lowest TRIFR and severity quartile of resources industry 2.8 TRIFR and wellbeing Annually achieve top quartile Safety Excellence and Culture Survey results 93% survey participation rate Annual decrease in positive alcohol 0.78% positive alcohol and illicit and illicit drug test results drug test results By 2020, achieve a female employment rate of 25% 19.4% female employment 22.4% Workforce diversity female employment in By 2020, achieve an employment rate of manager and above roles 30% women in manager and above roles 25.5% female employment in senior management roles Annually, support community led White Ribbon Accreditation process programs empowering women Port Hedland and Roebourne and ending discrimination Women's refuge support Protecting Annually, ensure Fortescue has no impact on Aboriginal heritage without 0 Aboriginal heritage consultation with Aboriginal people reportable heritage incidents Ethical conduct and Annually, ensure ethical conduct is Leadership programs, training, performance maintained by targeting leadership assessment targets anti-bribery and corruption programs, training, performance implemented assessments and remuneration to ensure ethical conduct By FY20, achieve a 25% decrease in 17% Climate change and emissions intensity in electricity generation from FY15 levels reduction emissions reduction By FY20, achieve a 5% decrease in emissions intensity in energy consumption 8.1% in the production process from FY17 levels reduction Target met Target in progress Target not met 28 28 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 Material issues, related targets and link to SDGs APPROACH TO CORPORATE Target Result SDGs Achieve a net positive impact Ongoing program on biodiversity SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Annually, achieve zero significant environmental incidents 0 significant environmental incidents Initiate, host and coordinate a series of Mine Safeguarding the environment Water Management Forums about the Pilbara To commence FY20 Region of WA to encourage the sharing of learnings for practitioners and regulators Ensure at least 75% of dewatered water at the 03 Cloudbreak and Christmas Creek mine sites is More than 75% of dewatered water used for beneficial used for beneficial purposes or reinjected via the purposes or reinjected Managed Aquifer Recharge Program Annually, ensure the Company is adequately provisioned to comply with Appropriate financial provisions included all relevant legal obligations and in financial statements commitments once mining is complete By the end of FY20, identify a sustainable disposal method for off-the-road tyres and Investigations underway conveyor belt By the end of FY20, investigate composting Investigations underway opportunities for food related mine wastes Building local Annually, achieve at least 5% of actual 5.5% communities spend with local Pilbara suppliers of actual spend with local Pilbara suppliers By 2021, achieve a spend of 10% of total 5.5% Creating opportunities for Aboriginal people procurement with Aboriginal businesses, with 50% of the number of spend of total procurement contracts awarded to businesses with more with Aboriginal businesses than 50% Aboriginal ownership By 2020, achieve an employment rate of 20% for Aboriginal people across Fortescue 12.1% employment rate By 2020, achieve an employment rate of 10% for Aboriginal people in leadership roles 4% of leadership roles held by Aboriginal people By 2022, achieve an employment rate of 17.6% of skilled 20% for Aboriginal people in skilled trades trade positions held by Aboriginal people Annual involvement in the policy debate Ongoing contribution to address Aboriginal disparity to policy debate Annually, deliver at least two major Big hART community projects with Aboriginal Jawun Five secondees stakeholder partners participated in the program Respecting Active engagement on human rights Ongoing active engagement including on modern slavery human rights issues in business in the supply chain FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 29 Material issues This report covers the material issues associated with Fortescue’s operations. Material issues are those that may have a material bearing on Fortescue's ability to achieve its goals. These issues are identified via an annual assessment process that considers risks and opportunities and internal and external stakeholder views. The assessment is undertaken through a cycle of research, identification, prioritisation, validation and review. During FY19, the assessment Based on this assessment, the following considered the following: were determined to be Fortescue’s most material issues: Research • Company CSR initiatives • Corporate risk assessments • Employee health and safety 1 • Company policies, standards • Economic contribution and guidelines (including taxes) • Creating employment • Outcomes of internal and external engagement with stakeholders and business opportunities Identification for Aboriginal people • Media and investor interest 2 and feedback • Workforce diversity • Government/regulator interest • Business conduct and feedback • Climate change action • Material issues identified by peers and disclosure Prioritisation and sustainability leaders • Building sustainable communities • Benchmarking and environmental, • Protecting biodiversity 3 social and governance assessments. and water resources Priorities were informed by formal • Protecting Aboriginal heritage internal and external engagement • Tailings management which included focussed workshops • Human Rights including the Validation with Fortescue employees and a eradication of modern slavery. wide range of external stakeholders. 4 Materiality was validated by subject leaders and the Executive team. Review 5 30 30 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 APPROACH TO CORPORATE Fortescue’s commitments, targets and performance against each material issue SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY are reported against three core pillars • E mployee health and safety 03 Setting • E conomic contribution (including taxes) high • W  orkforce diversity standards • P  rotecting Aboriginal heritage • B  usiness conduct. Safeguarding • Climate change action and disclosure the • Protecting biodiversity and water resources environment • Tailings management. • Creating employment and business Creating opportunities for Aboriginal people positive • Building sustainable communities social change • Human rights including the eradication of modern slavery. FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 31 04 Corporate Governance 32 32 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 Good corporate governance is critical to the long term, CORPORATE GOVERNANCE sustainable success of Fortescue. Good governance is embedded The cornerstone principles of corporate are undertaken in a manner consistent throughout Fortescue and is the governance at Fortescue are: with corporate expectations and collective responsibility of the Board standards. Transparency: Being clear and and all levels of management. unambiguous about the Company’s Corporate accountability: Ensuring Fortescue seeks to adopt leading structure, operations and performance, that there is clarity of decision making practice, contemporary governance both externally and internally, and within the Company, with processes standards and apply these in a manner maintaining a genuine dialogue with, in place to authorise the right people consistent with its culture and Values. and providing insight to, stakeholders to make effective and efficient Fortescue supports the intent of the 4th Edition of the ASX Corporate and the market generally. Integrity: Developing and maintaining decisions, with appropriate consequences delivered for failures 04 Governance Council Principles and to follow those processes. a corporate culture committed to Recommendations (Principles and ethical behaviour and compliance Stewardship: Developing and Recommendations). Unless otherwise with the law. maintaining a company-wide disclosed, Fortescue has adopted the recognition that Fortescue is managed revised requirements of the Principles Empowerment: Everyone at Fortescue for the benefit of its shareholders, and Recommendations. is empowered to make decisions that taking into account the interests of support the Company's objectives and other stakeholders. are in the best interests of stakeholders. Management and employees are A full copy of the Corporate encouraged to be innovative and strategic Governance Statement is available in making decisions that align with on the Company's website at Fortescue’s culture and risk appetite and www.fmgl.com.au STAKEHOLDERS GOVERNMENT BUSINESS AND PARTNERS AND SHAREHOLDERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY REGULATORS INVESTORS BOARD MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY Audit and Risk Remuneration and People Committee Finance Committee Nomination Committee Management Committee BUSINESS PROCESS INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE ACTIVITY DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY POLICIES AND PROCEDURES CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CORE LEADERSHIP TEAM EXECUTIVE AND LINE MANAGEMENT INTEGRATED RISK MANAGEMENT CORPORATE CULTURE AND VALUES FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 33 05 Engaging with stakeholders 34 34 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 ENGAGING WITH STAKEHOLDERS Fortescue's Recruitment Trailer visits Yandeyarra, an Aboriginal community in the Pilbara region. 05 Meaningful The Company’s Stakeholder The Company works to ensure Engagement Framework is the resolution of grievances in a stakeholder underpinned by Fortescue’s transparent and accountable manner engagement is commitment to 'do what we say we’re and implements feedback, monitoring going to do’ and promotes open, and evaluation processes to ensure at the heart of transparent, continuous and inclusive continual improvement. Fortescue’s Fortescue’s approach communication. The Company aims key stakeholders include: to ensure that it is able to gain and to building trust maintain its social and regulatory • Employees and respect and licences to operate. • Customers • Shareholders and investors maintaining Fortescue engages with a large number of stakeholders. The Company • Suppliers and contractors constructive identifies stakeholders according to the • Native Title partners relationships with level of interest, potential impacts and opportunities of operations, prioritising • Traditional Custodians the communities those who may be directly impacted. • Government and regulators • Pastoralists in which it The form and frequency of engagement • General community operates. depends on the stakeholders and the issue and includes: • Non-government organisations • Educational institutions • C  ommunication with all stakeholders through annual reports, company • Local communities. publications, the Company’s website and the Company’s Annual General Meeting • D  irect engagement through meetings, forums, workshops, consultation groups and community programs • Consultation with employees through internal communications such as newsletters, corporate Key meetings, team meetings, intranet stakeholders notifications and feedback surveys. Employees Native General Title Partners community Customers Traditional Non-government Custodians organisations Shareholders Government Educational and investors and regulators institutions Suppliers Pastoralists Local and contractors communities FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 35 Benchmarking Commitments to external and memberships initiatives/standards Fortescue participates in • Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index benchmarking assessments including • Dow Jones Sustainability Index indices such as the Dow Jones • International Council on Mining Sustainability Index assessment and Metals (ICMM) Sustainable and memberships with key bodies. Development Principles Together with our commitments, partnerships and stakeholder • ISO Standards feedback, these assessments and 14001 – Environmental Management memberships allow the Company to 3100 – Risk Management. track performance against relevant • Sustainable Development Goals standards and peers to ensure • Task Force on Climate-related continual improvement. Financial Disclosures (TCFD) • Tax Transparency Code of Australia Memberships 2016 • Association of Mining and • UN Guiding Principles on Business Exploration Companies (AMEC) and Human Rights • Australia-China Business Council • Workplace Gender Equality Agency • Australian Resources and Energy (WGEA). Group (AMMA) • Business Council of Australia • Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Western Australia • Chamber of Minerals and Energy WA • Committee for Perth • Corporate Tax Association • DomGas Alliance • Global Reporting Initiative • Green Ammonia Consortium • Hydrogen Mobility Australia • Port Hedland Industries Council • Supply Nation founding member • United Nations Global Compact • United Nations Global Compact Network Australia. Fortescue tracks performance to ensure continual improvement 36 36 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 ENGAGING WITH STAKEHOLDERS 06 05 Setting high standards Championing safety, embracing diversity and demonstrating integrity FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 37 Employee health, safety and wellbeing Objective To be global leaders in safety across all operations. Target • Annually, achieve zero fatalities at Fortescue’s operations • R educe Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) year on year to the lowest quartile of the global resources industry. 38 38 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 A Company wide focus on improving SETTING HIGH STANDARDS safety has seen Fortescue’s TRIFR reduce by 53 per cent over the past five years to 2.8, including a reduction of 24 per cent over the last year. Fortescue acknowledges that its severity rate per million hours worked activities have the potential to expose has reduced by 14 per cent over the its employees, contractors and last year. communities to health and safety risks 06 Fortescue was fined $A64,000 during and works diligently to identify these the reporting period for failing to risks and ensure adequate controls are provide and maintain a working in place to mitigate them. environment where employees were Safety is both a Value and Fortescue’s not exposed to hazards. The incident number one priority. The Company related to a contractor injury in 2015. reports there were no workplace Fortescue’s reporting is aligned fatalities at any of its sites during FY19. with the United States of America’s Fortescue leaders are focussed on Government Occupational Safety creating a culture that empowers and Health Administration (OSHA) each person to look out for their guidelines for the recording and mates and themselves. Every team reporting of occupational injuries and member working on Fortescue’s sites is illnesses. The rates provided include all empowered to take the time to assess employees and contractors working on each task to ensure it is safe before a Fortescue site and are based on one proceeding and to pause and reassess million hours. The severity rates include whenever something changes. days lost and days restricted from work and are also based on one million hours. The Company has established a program of education, coaching, training, monitoring and reporting to encourage Total Recordable Injury continuous improvement and is actively Frequency Rate (TRIFR) engaged with industry and regulators at both a local and global level. FY19 2.8 The prevention of high-risk events is FY18 3.7 managed through the implementation of a risk profile reduction program FY17 2.9 and critical control monitoring. Critical control audits are conducted FY16 4.3 by leadership teams to ensure these controls are in place and effective according to risk profiles. Significant Incident Fortescue’s Board is responsible for Frequency Rate (SIFR) overseeing the management of safety per million hours and occupational health, while the FY19 3.7 CLT has overall responsibility to ensure health and safety in the workplace. FY18 3.3 During FY19, the Significant Incident Frequency Rate (SIFR) per million hours increased from 3.3 in FY18 to Injury Severity Rate 3.7 due to increased identification and improved reporting. A Company wide FY19 113 focus on improving safety has seen Fortescue’s TRIFR reduce by 53 per cent FY18 131 over the past five years to 2.8, including 94 FY17 FY16 a reduction of 24 per cent over the last year. 155 By having a focussed effort on proactive injury management, Fortescue’s injury FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 39 CASE STUDY Fortescue stops for safety At 12 noon on Wednesday, 8 August 2019 and midnight on • T he importance of implementing improvement Thursday, 9 August 2019, everyone across Fortescue’s sites, ideas immediately including contracting partners, paused work for an hour to • T he importance of education around interactions with come together with their supervisors for a discussion on autonomous and non-autonomous machinery. reducing safety exposures and looking out for their mates. Since the Safety Stop, a number of improvements have The Safety Stop was the first of its kind in Fortescue’s history been introduced including: and demonstrates the Company’s commitment to prioritising safety above anything else. Key themes included: • Controlling energy training for all new starters in Mobile Maintenance • Living the Value of safety • A soft tissue injury review to identify possible • Being empowered to make a safe decision engineering controls • Looking out for mates • Combining team pre starts to better communicate • Education on safety procedures, fire and relevant hazards. lockdown processes • Responding to hazards immediately CASE STUDY Risk reduction program During FY19, Fortescue implemented a semi-qualitative Risk reduction activities included: risk reduction program aimed at reducing fatal exposures • Installation of shedder barricades under conveyors by 15 per cent across all of its operations. to guard against potential falling product Commencing in July 2018, each operational area • A drive through go line for service and flatbed trucks, reassessed safety risks and recalculated fatality risk profiles separating them from the active mine area using the potential loss of life (PLL) measure. Operations • A secondary dropped rod safety system on drill rigs engaged their teams to identify sustainable risk reduction to prevent rods from falling during the activities and reduce the risk profile by at least 15 per cent. changing process The focus was on elimination and engineering controls. • Automatic hook releases to reduce line of fire exposure Feedback from the program was positive due to the from ship mooring lines number of risk reduction activities completed across • T he design and fabrication of a tray dolly to improve all areas. The combined risk reduction achieved in FY19 movability of the trays, eliminating the need for cranes was 16.2 per cent. and working at heights exposures. 40 40 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 SETTING HIGH STANDARDS Safety culture 06 Objective To continuously improve and develop a leading safety culture that works towards an organisation wide value for safety, led by leadership teams, and to create an organisation that actively cares for all employees and contractors. Target • Annually, achieve top quartile Safety Excellence and Culture Survey results. Safety Excellence and Culture Survey results FY17 to FY19 100 Top quartile FY17 FY18 FY19 90 80 70 Percentiles 60 50 40 30 20 10 Procedural Leader member Management Perceived Teamwork Work group Organisational Upward Approaching Injury justice relations reporting credibility others exchange value for safety communication organisational support Each year, Fortescue conducts an The survey also allows the Company to The improvement in culture across independent Safety Excellence and identify opportunities to improve its all ten categories from FY17 to FY19 Culture Survey of its employees and unique safety culture. is illustrated in the graph above with contractors. The survey is undertaken nine categories in the top quartile This year, 93 per cent of employees and between May and June and is a compared to six in FY18. contractors participated in the survey. valuable tool to measure engagement with employees and contractors. FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 41 Wellbeing Fortescue engages with employees and contractors to promote a healthy, balanced lifestyle. The Company recognises the growing importance of mental health and the significant impact mental health illnesses can have on the wider community. Fortescue has a Mental Health and Wellbeing Blueprint which outlines a comprehensive approach to effectively manage the health and wellbeing of employees. All operational sites have health and wellness coordinators, gyms, pools and other recreational facilities, as well as a medical centre with onsite medical staff. Reliable internet and communications are provided to ensure all employees and contractors can easily communicate with family and friends. Fortescue also provides mental health awareness training across all operations. To support employees on their journey to better health, the Company introduced Health inSite in 2018. Health inSite is an online health and wellbeing resource that provides tailored information and advice to Fortescue is a valuesemployees. The program is actively used by over 29 per cent of Fortescue based business with a employees and more than 70 per cent of Perth employees. unique, strong culture Fortescue’s Chaplaincy, a dedicated pastoral care service offering support that is maintained and for all employees, contractors and their families is available across all sites and strengthened through in Perth. its employees The Company also provides access to the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) which provides 24/7 support via professional counselling services to employees, contractors and their families. 42 42 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 SETTING HIGH STANDARDS Fortescue's Chaplains offer a dedicated pastoral care service for the Fortescue family. Alcohol and other drugs 06 Objective To address the prevention of substance abuse, including the harmful use of alcohol and illicit drugs. Target • Annual decrease in positive alcohol and illicit drug tests. Fortescue’s alcohol and other drugs through random, blanket or ‘for cause’ Fortescue implements a range of (AOD) program reinforces the programs. During FY19, alcohol and initiatives including online awareness importance of maintaining a zero drug testing was also introduced at and education training, the ‘Speak Up’ tolerance of alcohol and illicit drug inductions at the Fortescue Centre, program and the continued support use while working. Perth, in addition to pre-employment provided to employees by leadership In FY19, Fortescue conducted over testing, to ensure people starting in teams, the Fortescue Chaplains and 21,800 drug tests across its sites the business are safe to work on site. the Employee Assistance Program, to prevent substance abuse. CASE STUDY Four days, 4,000 kilometres, 24 workshops and one message your mental health matters During Mental Health Week in October 2018, Sharon The group shared personal stories and advice and Warburton, Deputy Chair, David Bradbury, Company presented workshops to team members. Employees Chaplain, Todd Beaton, Fixed Plant Manager Christmas were taught how to recognise the signs of mental health Creek and Nick Balzarelli, Fabricator Hedland Operations, concerns, in their mates and in themselves, and were embarked on a four day tour of Fortescue’s sites in the encouraged to seek help as soon as possible. They were Pilbara to spread the word about the importance of looking also provided with tips on how to stay mentally healthy. after our mental health. FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 43 The Fortescue is committed to providing a safe and inclusive workplace Employee engagement and development Fortescue that provides the incentives and opportunities to attract, develop and Employee engagement is a key retain the best people. priority for Fortescue and the family Company is committed to ensuring It is only with the best people that its employees are provided with Fortescue will be able to meet and opportunities to help shape the exceed business goals and stakeholder way it conducts business. expectations. The Company encourages and As at 30 June 2019, Fortescue has measures engagement with 6,750 employees. Of these, 454 were employees through a number permanent part-time employees of mechanisms including forums, and 1,244 people worked under surveys, social media and workshops. labour hire contracts. 47.5 per cent Fortescue holds bi-annual Values of Fortescue’s employees are covered Forums at each of its sites where the by enterprise agreements and the CLT provide business updates and annualised voluntary turnover in FY19 lead discussions on the Company’s was 9.2 per cent. Values. Fortescue also conducts Fortescue respects freedom of an annual independent Safety association, the right to a fair wage Excellence and Culture Survey of and ensures all employees are treated its employees and contractors. This fairly and without discrimination survey is a valuable tool to engage including against age, race, gender, with employees and contractors and political or religious belief, culture, identify opportunities to improve the family commitments, physical or Company’s unique culture. Refer to mental ability, marital status or page 41 of this Report for details. sexual orientation. 6,750 employees Fortescue is committed to providing a safe, inclusive workplace that provides the incentives and opportunities to attract, develop and retain the best people. 44 44 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 SETTING HIGH STANDARDS CASE STUDY 06 Forums drive valuable discussions In March, the CLT hit the road to visit Fortescue's sites The Company's refreshed Values video, developed and hear from team members at the first Values Forums with Founder and Chairman, Andrew Forrest AO for the calendar year. provided the basis for discussion and participants formed small groups to talk about which Values are More than 400 team members attended the forums most important to them and how they can keep the where the CLT provided a business update and offered Values front of mind everyday. the opportunity for attendees to ask questions. CASE STUDY Fortescue recruits Defence Force veterans In August 2018, Fortescue launched a program to train and employment pathways and we are always looking and recruit former Defence Force personnel for trades to attract individuals with diverse backgrounds and roles at its mine sites in the Pilbara. experiences who share our Values of family, integrity, Since the launch, 82 veterans have commenced work courage and determination. at Fortescue’s operations. The retention rate for these Our veterans’ recruitment program has been extremely roles is at 99 per cent. successful and we look forward to welcoming more Fortescue worked with a third party to identify current members of the defence community to the and former members of the Defence Force who were Fortescue family,” Ms Gaines said. looking to take the next step in their career. Fortescue’s In March 2019, Fortescue's Training and Development Rapid Trades Upskilling program was established to Manager, Chris Mayfield was awarded the Outstanding expand the qualifications of veterans to meet mining Contribution of an Individual to Veterans' Employment industry standards. award at Australia's Prime Minister's Veterans' Employment CEO, Elizabeth Gaines said “Fortescue has a proud Awards for his instrumental role in establishing this program. history of delivering opportunities through training FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 45 Recognising individuals Supporting leaders Fortescue’s employee recognition program, Northern Spirits, Fortescue values its leaders and celebrates and rewards employees who demonstrate and strengthen works to ensure they are provided the Company’s culture. with support and development opportunities that allow them to excel. The awards recognise the contribution of team members across six categories and are awarded quarterly. This year, Fortescue continued the implementation of its Leadership Excellence Pathway Program. The in-house program, designed specifically to align with the Company’s Values and culture, includes four core components; a two-day Emerging Leaders Program, four-day Leadership Fundamentals Program, two-day Advanced Leadership Program and short and targeted Leadership Development Northern Spirits categories Programs on sites, focussing on specific leadership aspects. KEEEPING In FY19, 492 current and emerging leaders completed formal leadership OURSELVES AND training in 31 courses. Since its OUR MATES SAFE inception in 2015, 1,933 leaders have completed this development program. In FY19, Fortescue also commenced the Empower Program. Designed to support high performing employees and develop their career path, at least HAVE A CRACK 50 per cent of those nominated for participation are female. BUILDING GREAT TEAM CULTURE CLOSING THE GAP ON ABORIGINAL DEVELOPMENT INSPIRING FEMALE EMPLOYEES TO THRIVE GOING THE EXTRA MILE FOR OUR COMMUNITY 46 46 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 SETTING HIGH STANDARDS 06 “Diversity is not just the right thing to do, it is the smart thing to do.” CEO, Elizabeth Gaines Workplace diversity Objective Fortescue is committed to building and maintaining a workplace that is Increase the number of female employees diverse and inclusive of all people. and leaders, to build a more inclusive culture. Increasing female and Aboriginal employment rates across the Company is a key priority. Target Fortescue’s female employment rate • By 2020, achieve a female employment rate continued to increase in FY19 with of 25 per cent females holding 19.4 per cent of positions across the company. • By 2020, achieve a female employment rate In the Fortescue Centre, Perth, of 30 per cent in manager and above roles. 38.9 per cent of employees are female. This year, an additional 396 women joined Fortescue, representing 23.9 per cent of new starters. The female employment rate has also increased at each of the operational sites. Objective Support the empowerment of women and end discrimination in local communities. 19.4 Target • Annually, support community led programs empowering women and ending discrimination. Female employment rate FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 47 Supporting female employees Target Result • T he number of female employees reached 1,312, an increase from 17.3% in FY17 to 19.4% in FY19 • 25.5% of Fortescue’s senior management team are female, Promote female employment an increase from 20% in FY17 Company-wide target: • Fortescue will continue to enhance its programs and initiatives By 2020, achieve female to meet its 2020 targets employment rate of 25% The target of 25% participation rate was exceeded in the following programs: 60% 37% 35% Graduate program VTEC Vacation Student Program Recruitment team and • Females made up 20.2% of the job applicants, with females appointed external providers target: to 23.9% of roles Achieve 25% female • 24.5% females onboarded via contracted labour hire providers recruitment Update Flexible • Flexible Working Guidelines updated September 2018 Working Guidelines • Senior leaders promoted Fortescue’s diversity goals and performance Promote Fortescue at various functions and events as an employer of choice • Fortescue’s regular Business Update in March 2019 for parents considering for women Build talent pools returning to work was well attended Attract parents to return to work following career breaks 87.9% Primary carers parental leave retention rate • In FY17, Fortescue’s Trade Up Program was opened to all women. 11 females form part of Fortescue’s Trade Up which is close to 42% of the overall Encourage and support participants female employees to obtain • Fortescue encourages female employees to obtain qualifications and further professional qualifications their career opportunities through its bi-annual performance review program, Success Factors and via its Rookies and Coaches mentoring program Celebrate success in diversity 6 Northern Spirits recipients through the Company’s were recognised for their role in encouraging female employees to thrive recognition programs Create a workplace in FY19 Encourage all eligible • T he number of both males and females accessing primary carer’s paid employees to access paid parental leave increased from previous years parental leave and to 463 direct employees utilised flexible working arrangements, which supports diversity return to work following parental leave an increase from 347 in FY18. Conduct bi-annual contractor gender diversity forums to • A  forum was held in December 2018, with a follow up in July 2019. share learnings across Suppliers are committed to improving diversity in their businesses partners and WA industry and a Committee was recently formed to ensure actions are implemented more generally 48 48 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 Supporting female employees SETTING HIGH STANDARDS Target Result Continue to operate F ortescue’s Family Room operates 24 hours per day, seven days a week and has Provide childcare options Fortescue Family Room at the cared for Fortescue Centre in Perth 1,549 children over 4,165 stays since August 2017 Support employees with family responsibilities Family and friends hosted at each site during FY19: through family site visits and community based 184 329 233 209 Hedland Operations Cloudbreak Christmas Creek Solomon Hub 06 family support Establish In-Home In-Home Child Care program established for Port Hedland employees in June 2019 Child Care for Port Hedland By 2020, achieve a female 22.4% females in manager and above roles in FY19 Promote opportunities for women employment rate of 30% in manager and above roles 25.5% female employment in senior manager roles in FY19 Identify females with leadership potential, with • D  uring FY19, 30 females identified as having leadership potential participated a focus on operational roles, in the Empower Program, where at least 50% of the participants are women. through talent reviews and The program is designed to empower and support high performing to move into leadership positions ensure participation employees in developing their career path in Leadership Development Programs • T wo females of a total of four participated in the CEO for a Day Program Continue the CEO for in FY19 a Day initiative and • Fortescue continues to encourage and support its mentoring program, mentoring programs Rookies and Coaches, which is available to all employees “Offering flexible work arrangements empowers us all to work in a way that suits us, our team and our business.” Group Manager Fortescue People, Linda O’Farrell CASE STUDY Fortescue’s flexibility allows for balance This year, Fortescue updated its Flexible Working assisting in retention, reducing absenteeism and Guidelines as part of its commitment to retaining and turnover, increasing employee morale and attracting attracting highly talented people. the best people. The Guidelines introduced a wider range of options Heavy Duty Mechanic at Cloudbreak, Brayden Spencer including job share, staggered start and finish times, started working flexibly in 2017 to allow him to spend part time work, school holiday hours, change in work more time with his family. location and the option for occasional working from “A flexible working arrangement has allowed me to home arrangements. spend more time with my mother and sister while still All employees can request a flexible working arrangement continuing to work on site which I love. I would encourage regardless of length of service. anyone thinking about a flexible working arrangement to give it a go and see if it works for them,” Mr Spencer said. GM Fortescue People, Linda O’Farrell said Flexible working is proven to offer many benefits including FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 49 CASE STUDY Family and Domestic Violence Leave Policy Fortescue recognises that employees are sometimes their safety, or the safety of an immediate family member, affected by situations of violence or abuse in their to attend court hearings or access police services. personal life that may impact their health, safety, Leave may also be made available for those employees attendance or performance at work. The Company is to access formal counselling sessions and/or behavioural committed to providing a supportive environment and improvement programs. prioritising the safety of any employee affected by family and domestic violence. Fortescue’s Family and Domestic Violence Leave Policy, together with other support services, such as flexible As part of its journey to become a White Ribbon Australia work arrangements and access to the Employee Accredited Workplace, the Company introduced a Family Assistance Program, are practical ways in which the and Domestic Violence Leave Policy in November 2018. The Company supports its team members and their Policy allows full time, part time and casual employees to families who may be impacted by violence in their home. take up to ten days paid leave to make arrangements for Pay equity Looking forward Fortescue undertakes an annual Ensuring Fortescue’s commitment • Continuing support for families remuneration benchmarking to diversity is embedded in the through the Fortescue Family Room assessment to ensure that remuneration Company’s culture, the following and Port Hedland In Home Child is comparative with those within diversity initiatives will be Care and consideration of options for the Australian mining industry and implemented in FY20: site based employees that equitable remuneration exists • Career progression for females • Continuing to build talent pools to for like-for-like roles, independent of moving towards senior roles meet the Company’s growth needs gender, race, age or culture. If necessary, by providing training opportunities, • Further consultation with employees remuneration is adjusted according to work experience and secondments concerning diversity initiatives the results of these reviews. • Retraining and redeployment and retention strategies for female of employees impacted by employment innovation projects • W  orking with our key suppliers to increase diversity in their businesses. 463 employees with flexible working arrangements 24/7 Fortescue Family Room 50 50 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 SETTING HIGH STANDARDS CASE STUDY In Home Child Care program in Port Hedland As part of Fortescue’s broader commitment to diversity and inclusion, the Company has launched an In Home Child Care program in Port Hedland to help 06 families balance work and caring responsibilities. The child care program, facilitated by YMCA, consists of a pool of self-employed early childhood educators who provided the In Home Child care for up to five children living in the same home. Fortescue has committed to support the recruitment, training and start up costs for twenty early childhood educators over two years. Many of Fortescue’s residential families in Port Hedland have difficultly accessing traditional child care due to limited vacancies or standard operating hours not aligning with rosters. Not only does this impact an individual’s ability to work as much as they choose, it can limit the opportunity to attract and retain talent and diversity across our business, especially women. CEO, Elizabeth Gaines said “By increasing the availability and flexibility of In Home Child Care to our Hedland Operations team, we are providing a practical solution that supports parents balancing work and family responsibilities and helps them reach their full potential.” Bryni Kelly, a Trades Assistant based in Port Hedland, is excited about the child care program and what it means for her family. “I am lucky to be able to work a flexible roster so I can take my daughter to school every morning. I would like to progress to full time work but trying to find someone to care for her has been hard, Ms Kelly said. “As a single mother trying to do the best I can for my child, in home care would help a lot and enable me to move forward in my career.” Bryni Kelly, Trades Assistant, Hedland Operations FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 51 Preserving Aboriginal heritage Objective Work together with Aboriginal people to manage Aboriginal heritage responsibly and sustainably. Target • Annually, ensure Fortescue has no impact to Aboriginal heritage without consultation with Aboriginal people. 52 52 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 The identification This commitment is built on SETTING HIGH STANDARDS Fortescue’s Values, and is measured and preservation of against four pillars: Aboriginal heritage Meaningful consultation with is fundamental to Aboriginal people and their representatives Fortescue’s approach to operating sustainably Implementation of effective business systems and processes and the Company’s ongoing commitment 06 Contributions to researching to preserve and Aboriginal cultural heritage sites promote Aboriginal history and culture. Ongoing education and engagement with Fortescue’s workforce Fortescue considers these pillars critical to ensuring compliance with legislation 0 and agreements, fostering and protecting stakeholder relationships and sustainably managing the Aboriginal cultural landscape. reportable heritage The Company consults closely with incidents its Native Title Partners (NTPs) and governments to responsibly manage Aboriginal heritage, ensure the protection of Aboriginal culture and heritage and comply with all 2.4 applicable legislation. Fortescue has no impact on Aboriginal heritage without 'free, prior and m informed' consultation, and wherever possible, sites of significance are hectares of land protected from impact. Conducting ethonographically heritage surveys early in the planning surveyed phase, together with open, transparent and inclusive consultation, enhances Fortescue’s capacity to avoid and preserve Aboriginal heritage wherever possible. 5,902 During FY19, Fortescue coordinated multiple heritage surveys in the Pilbara region. These surveys were associated with the expansion of existing mining active heritage sites areas and the development of the managed Company’s Eliwana and Iron Bridge projects. The outcomes of these surveys are shared with stakeholders through various mechanisms including via NTP subcommittee heritage meetings which also provide an opportunity to discuss learnings and opportunities for improvement. For the fourth consecutive year, Fortescue is proud to report there were no reportable heritage incidents on Aboriginal heritage sites in FY19. FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 53 Program support Native Title Partners Promoting During FY19, Fortescue supported a Fortescue continues to build on its Aboriginal culture number of heritage-related projects longstanding relationships with A critical component of Fortescue’s including The Keeping Place project, with NTPs and has comprehensive ongoing commitment to preserving which has developed innovative, user agreements in place with seven Native Aboriginal heritage and promoting friendly software to collect, protect Title groups in the Pilbara. Aboriginal culture is ensuring all and appropriately share cultural Fortescue employees undertake In 2018, Fortescue completed the knowledge. The project is designed, Cross Cultural Awareness training. process of converting its three earliest owned and managed by Aboriginal This year, the training was refreshed Land Access Agreements (LAAs) with people. The software enables in consultation with NTPs and was the Kariyarra, Palyku and Nyiyaparli co-founding partners Nyiyaparli and delivered to 462 employees and Native Title groups into Indigenous Yinhawangka People to regain data contractors. Heritage inductions Land Use Agreements (ILUAs). LAAs sovereignty, apply cultural protocols, are also provided to employees or remain in place with each of the Martu improve governance and unlock contractors who may come into Idja Banjima, Eastern Guruma, Puuti social and economic opportunities for contact with heritage sites through Kunti Kuruma and Pinikura Native Title current and future generations. their work on site. Since inductions holders, and a Project Area Agreement Fortescue also continued to with the Njamal People Native Title commenced in 2006, 8,988 heritage support the Gamburlarna Project claim group. inductions have been delivered. and Foundation, with the vision The ILUA process offers Fortescue’s NTPs 7 of developing opportunities the opportunity to work more closely for Yindjibarndi engagement, with the Company to deliver greater employment, education and enterprise opportunities to their communities. around Yindjibarndi knowledge. Fortescue looks forward to continuing the conversion process with other NTPs. Agreements with Native Title Groups CASE STUDY Understanding the cultural landscape around the Solomon Hub mine In partnership with Wirlu-murra Yindjibarndi Aboriginal While this project is ongoing, it has already delivered 3D Corporation (WMYAC) and Terra Rosa Consulting, scans of three significant rock shelters. These scans have Fortescue commissioned a research project to better been used to create a video which will be used by WMYAC understand the cultural landscape around the Solomon for community education. The video will also be played at Hub mine area. As part of previous surveys, Fortescue Fortescue's Solomon Village to raise awareness of the local conducted excavation on Yindjibarndi Country. area's heritage. Previously, many of the excavation results had only been The project is planned for completion in December 2019 and considered in isolation. This project will collate data from will assist in promoting cultural awareness and contribute to these excavations to improve an understanding the archaeological and cultural records of Australia. of occupation and habitation of the area. 54 54 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 SETTING HIGH STANDARDS Business 06 conduct Objective To ensure Fortescue’s Values reflect ethical conduct and respect and are embedded in the business. Target • Annually, ensure ethical conduct is maintained by a targeted program including leadership development, training, performance assessments and remuneration. Fortescue’s commitment to doing business with integrity and honesty is built on the Company’s Values, the professionalism of its employees and a collective responsibility to act with accountability and transparency. FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 55 Ethical conduct Reporting and Fortescue operates under a Code investigation of Conduct and Integrity (the Code) Fortescue provides a number of which reflects the Company’s Values mechanisms to report suspected and represents its commitment breaches of the Code. Employees are to uphold the highest ethical encouraged to raise issues with their business practices. manager or a member of the Fortescue The Code provides guidance on the People team. Community members standards of behaviour expected from are encouraged to report via the those that work for and with Fortescue Company's community or site offices. including directors, employees, Fortescue also provides a contractors, suppliers and business Whistleblower system which provides partners of Fortescue, its subsidiaries an independent, anonymous and and related companies over which it confidential mechanism for anyone has control. The document is regularly to raise concerns regarding potential reviewed to ensure it clearly reflects illegal activity or breaches of the Code. business and community expectations The system can be accessed via an and was last updated in 2018. online portal, phone or email and has The Code does not stand alone, multilingual capabilities. rather it incorporates key elements of During FY19, 35 Whistleblower Fortescue’s extensive framework of disclosures were reported. Each policies and standards including: incident was investigated by • Health and Safety Policy Fortescue’s Corporate Governance Manager, with the assistance, where • Procurement Policy required, from Fortescue’s Employee • Diversity Policy Relations Manager. A number of • Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy these investigations have resulted in • Human Rights Policy corrective actions, including warnings and in some cases, termination. • Equal Opportunity, Harassment and Bullying Policy • Securities Trading and Continuous Disclosure and Market Communications Policies • Appropriate Use of Information Technology Policy. Each employee and contractor must ensure they are familiar with the Code, which is accessible both in printed and electronic formats on Fortescue’s website and intranet. Training provided across the business reinforces the requirements of the Code. Fortescue employees are subject to Performance Assessments every six months where adherence to the Code is assessed and reported. Remuneration is linked to these assessments. 56 56 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 Bribery and corruption SETTING HIGH STANDARDS Bribery and corruption undermines legitimate business activities, distorts competition and exposes Fortescue and its people to significant risks. Fortescue has a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and is committed to working with governments and others to prevent corruption in our society. The Company’s Corporate Governance Manager oversees compliance with relevant laws and implements an 06 Anti-Bribery and Corruption Standard. Employees who are found to have breached anti-bribery and corruption laws or the standard are subject to disciplinary action which may include termination. The Audit and Risk Management Committee is responsible for overseeing all matters related to anti-bribery and corruption as well as Whistleblower reporting and investigation. Fortescue’s Anti-Bribery and Corruption Compliance Program is designed to meet the requirements of the Australian Criminal Code and applicable legislation in the countries in which the Company operates. The program includes: • Participation in voluntary anticorruption initiatives, including the Corporate Business Integrity Council • Fraud and corruption risk assessments that consider the potential fraud, bribery and corruption risks associated with the business, third-party partners and geographic locations in which the Company operates • A commitment to sourcing from suppliers that adhere to Company standards, including the Human Rights Policy, Code of Conduct and Integrity and Procurement Policy • Prohibition of the giving and receiving of gifts in connection with the Company’s operations which go beyond common courtesies associated with general commercial practice • A number of channels for employees and third parties to anonymously report suspected or actual misconduct or violations of Company policy, including the Whistleblower reporting system. FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 57 Total A$ 13.1 Total global economic contribution bn global 952 Gross salaries, A$ superannuation, economic incentive payments (bonuses) and training m contribution 3,534 Shareholders and investors A$ including interest payments m 2,814 Taxes, royalties, A$ other government payments and Native Title payments m 3.0 Community programs, A$ partnerships and grants m 5,821 All operational A$ payments including payments made to suppliers m 58 58 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 Approach to tax • Managing tax risks through Governance SETTING HIGH STANDARDS constructing appropriate Fortescue makes sustainable Fortescue’s Board is ultimately mechanisms to assess both short investments by using the strength responsible for ensuring a robust and long term tax impacts when of its business to ensure communities system of internal controls is in making major commercial decisions benefit from its growth and place for tax governance purposes. development. Payment of tax is an • Developing mutually transparent, Fortescue’s comprehensive Tax important element of this as the cooperative and respectful Governance Framework is the key tax Fortescue pays contributes to relationships with tax authorities policy that governs the management the economic development of the in the countries which it operates, of tax related risks in Australia and in countries in which it operates. and communicating with those all relevant overseas jurisdictions. authorities on tax matters where The Company strives for full and appropriate The Board of Directors, through timely compliance with the letter and intent of the prevailing tax laws of • Ensuring public disclosures are transparent, timely, accurate and the Audit and Risk Management Committee, receives regular updates 06 all jurisdictions in which it operates. from senior management as to meet stakeholder expectations Fortescue seeks good working, the operation and effectiveness collaborative relationships with all • Operating in good faith through of Fortescue’s Tax Governance relevant revenue authorities. appropriate transfer pricing and not Framework. undertaking ‘profit shifting’ activities Fortescue works to achieve these • Entering into transactions on the commitments by: basis of commercial merit, not for the • Ensuring implementation of purpose of avoiding tax the Company’s Tax Governance • Maintaining a well-resourced, Framework in-house tax function to mitigate tax • Complying with all applicable tax risk with the capacity to audit tax laws and regulations of each country systems if and when necessary. in which it operates including reporting and paying all necessary taxes in a timely manner TAX GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK BOARD OF DIRECTORS Audit and Risk Management Committee Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Fortescue business operations Fortescue tax team Revenue authorities Fortescue’s tax team is proactively involved in business operations and seeks external tax advice when necessary Corporate objectives 1 Manage risk 2 Timely and accurate disclosures 3 Preventative and detective controls Tax strategy Transparency Operates in good faith Low risk Compliance Collaboration VISION AND VALUES FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 59 Fortescue’s attitude to Fortescue has been a signatory to the Fortescue also collects and pays a Australian Board of Taxation (BoT) number of additional taxes beyond tax risk voluntary Tax Transparency Code (TTC) those directly attributable to the Fortescue accepts a low level of risk since 2017. The TTC sets out a number Company. These include Pay As You Go in relation to major transactions and of principles and minimum standards (PAYG) withholding tax from salary and tax compliance activities, undertaking to guide additional disclosures of wages paid to employees. to file only verified tax positions. Where tax information by multinational the application of the tax legislation is In addition, given the current structure businesses. The TTC is divided into two unclear, Fortescue seeks external tax of Fortescue’s international operations, parts, with the BoT recommending that advice and consults with the relevant some companies are subject to Part A and Part B be adopted by large taxation authorities to achieve an Australia’s Controlled Foreign Company businesses such as Fortescue. appropriate level of certainty. (CFC) rules. Under these rules, profits To comply with Part A of the TTC, generated by relevant overseas entities In the last five years, no material Fortescue has extended the scope of are attributable and taxable in Australia adjustments have been made to its income tax disclosures contained at the 30 per cent Australian corporate Fortescue’s tax payments following within its annual financial report since tax rate. income tax reviews by relevant authorities. FY17. The Part B disclosures contained There is a direct correlation between herein detail Fortescue’s approach to Fortescue’s Earnings before Interest, Tax Transparency Code tax strategy and governance, as well Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation Fortescue is committed to as providing additional information on (EBITDA) margin and the total taxes transparency across all aspects of overseas operations and international paid. Therefore, Fortescue’s taxation its business including in relation related party transactions. payments will vary in proportion to to its tax obligations. By providing earnings which are driven primarily the Company’s investors and other Total tax contributions by the iron ore price and the cost of external stakeholders with relevant Fortescue’s primary revenue production. A summary of Fortescue’s tax information, Fortescue is able to generating operations are located in FY19 tax obligations and tax payment build a deeper understanding of its Australia, which means the majority of history is detailed below. tax profile. the Company’s tax liabilities are paid Fortescue’s continuous review in Australia. The Company pays taxes of internal tax policies, industry according to the prevailing laws in best practice, feedback from each jurisdiction. Taxes applicable to key stakeholders and legislative Fortescue’s business include: developments further underpins the • Corporate taxes Company’s commitment to • State government royalties tax transparency. • Comprehensive employment taxes such as fringe benefits taxes, payroll taxes and various employee insurances. Correlation between taxes paid and iron ore price A$m A$/dmt 3,000 100 2,500 80 2,000 60 1,500 40 1,000 500 20 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 State Government Royalty EBITDA Margin A$/dmt Corporate Tax (incl. employment taxes) Realised Price Fortescue Revenue A$/dmt Note: While Fortescue’s functional (and reporting) currency is US$, the above chart provides the A$ tax obligations, realised iron ore price and EBITDA margin, converted using an exchange rate prescribed by the Australian Tax Office. 60 60 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 SETTING HIGH STANDARDS Total income A$ 7,354,316,739 Taxable income 06 A$ 1,366,722,682 Income tax payable A$ 392,912,629 Australian Tax • T otal income represents gross As part of Fortescue’s tax strategy, all Office Report revenue from all operating international related party dealings are activities and not Fortescue’s profit. conducted in accordance with arm’s Each December, the Australian Tax Fortescue’s Australian accounting length principles, methodologies as Office (ATO) issues a Report of Entity profit for the year ended 30 June prescribed by the Australian transfer Tax Information, which provides high 2018 was A$1.461bn pricing laws, and in accordance level details of Fortescue’s income • T he income tax payable of A$393m with the Organisation of Economic tax return. The above details are is determined by multiplying Cooperation and Development expected to be published by the ATO in Fortescue’s taxable income of guidelines. December 2019 for Fortescue’s income tax return lodged for the prior financial A$1.37bn by the 30 per cent Fortescue discloses all material year ended 30 June 2018. All figures corporate tax rate and then international related party transactions are disclosed in Australian Dollars. deducting eligible tax offsets, through the lodgement of tax returns such as the research and and other statutory disclosures The following additional information development (R&D) incentive and to revenue authorities, including provides important context for the foreign income tax offset (FITO) Fortescue’s detailed International data anticipated to be published by credits, totalling A$17m for the Dealings Schedules and the ATO: year ended 30 June 2018. Country-by-Country reports. • T he information provided by the The Fortescue Group includes a ATO only reflects Fortescue’s Australian tax consolidated group, International related number of active subsidiary companies which is comprised of Fortescue party transactions that are incorporated in jurisdictions Fortescue is a proud Australian outside of Australia. These are and its wholly-owned subsidiaries company and has a relatively small summarised in the table on page in Australia proportion of international related 62 and 63. party dealings. Income tax payable FY18 = (Fortescue’s taxable income x corporate tax rate of 30 per cent) – eligible tax offsets ( 1.37bn x 30%) – 17m = 393m A$ A$ A$ FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 61 Active subsidiary companies Nature of activities • FMG International Pte Ltd (FMGI) is a Singaporean resident entity, which is 100 per cent directly owned by Fortescue • Since 2012, FMGI has managed the majority of Fortescue’s shipping services including chartering activities, voyage operations, technical and crew management, as well as the commercial management of the ore carriers • Under the Transportation Operations Agreement, FMGI provides ship Shipping services management services to FMG Hong Kong Shipping Ltd (FMGHKS) • FMGI lodges an income tax return in Singapore and consequently pays income tax at the prevailing corporate income tax rate of 17 per cent on its Singapore* total taxable income for the financial year. In Australia, the majority of the taxable income in Singapore is attributed back to Fortescue under the CFC provisions and taxed at 30 per cent. • In FY19, Fortescue reallocated its captive insurance company from Guernsey to Singapore. Fortescue Insurance Singapore Pte Ltd (Fortescue Insurance) will provide insurance services to Fortescue and its subsidiaries • T he Company is taxed at the standard rate of tax in Singapore of 17 per cent. However, the total taxable income of Fortescue Insurance is attributed back Other services to Fortescue in Australia and taxed at 30 per cent • Fortescue has a number of holding companies incorporated and domiciled in Singapore. The primary purpose of these entities is to hold Fortescue’s investments in South America and Europe. These entities have not generated any income for the year ended 30 June 2019. • D  uring the year ended 30 June 2019, Fortescue incorporated a wholly-owned subsidiary, FMG Trading Shanghai Co.,Ltd (FMG China), domiciled in China China • T he key purpose of the entity is to expand Fortescue’s client networks and Sales and Marketing enable selling in local currency and through local channels • F MG China will pay corporate income tax of 30 per cent across China and Australia. • G  MF Insurance Limited (GMF) was Fortescue’s captive insurance company and Guernsey* provided insurance services to Fortescue and its subsidiaries Insurance • G  MF was liquidated during the year ended 30 June 2019. Any current year income earned by GMF will be attributed to Fortescue in Australia and taxed at 30 per cent • Fortescue does not have any active operations in Guernsey. • In 2013, Fortescue and Formosa Plastics Group (Formosa) announced a joint venture to develop and operate the Iron Bridge project. FMG Iron Bridge Ltd (FMG IB) is a Hong Kong resident company which is jointly owned by Fortescue (88 per cent) and Baosteel Resources International Co. Ltd., Magnetite investment a subsidiary of China’s Baowu Group (12 per cent) Hong Kong • FMG IB was incorporated as a result of a restructure of Baosteel Resources' interest in the magnetite tenements. This entity has not generated any income for the year ended 30 June 2019. • Fortescue’s fully owned subsidiary FMG Hong Kong Shipping (FMGHKS) provides iron ore transportation services to wholly owned subsidiary Shipping services FMG Pilbara Pty Ltd (FMG Pilbara) under a Transportation Services Agreement utilising ore carriers • FMGHKS is taxed in Australia under the Australian Shipping Regime. 62 62 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 SETTING HIGH STANDARDS Active subsidiary companies 06 Nature of activities United States • FMG America Finance Inc has been Fortescue’s registered holder of certain US dollar debt facilities Finance of America • Fortescue has not generated any income in USA for the year ended 30 June 2019. • During the year ended 30 June 2019, Fortescue incorporated a whollyPortugal* owned subsidiary, Portugal Fortescue Unipessoal Lda, domiciled in Portugal. Exploration The entity is involved in exploration activities in Portugal • Fortescue has not generated any income in Portugal for the year ended 30 June 2019. • Fortescue formerly undertook minor exploration activities in New Zealand New through its subsidiary FMG Pacific Ltd, incorporated in New Zealand Zealand • Fortescue has not generated any income in New Zealand for the year ended 30 June 2019. • Fortescue operates offices and has hired personnel to support exploration activities and future company operations in Ecuador, Colombia and Argentina • Fortescue engages a number of local vendors and employees, which further reflects Fortescue’s commitment to contributing to the local economy • Fortescue has not generated any income in South America for the year ended 30 June 2019, however Fortescue has laid the foundations to expand South America* its operation in the region. • Ecuador Fortescue S.A. is Fortescue’s wholly owned subsidiary in Ecuador • T he company maintains possession of 32 mining conservation patents, all Ecuador of which are in exploration phase. No income was earned in Ecuador in FY19. • C  olombia Fortescue S.A.S. is Fortescue’s wholly owned subsidiary in Colombia Colombia • T he entity’s corporate purpose is to assess, acquire and develop mining properties in Colombia. No income was earned in Colombia in FY19. • F ortescue has two wholly-owned subsidiaries in Argentina, being Argentina Argentina Fortescue S.A.U. and Argentina Minera SA. * Companies subject to the Australian CFC rules. Under these rules, profits generated by these subsidiaries from trading with Fortescue are taxable at the Australian Corporate Tax rate FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 63 07 Safeguarding the environment Protecting biodiversity, addressing climate change and managing water resources 64 64 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 SAFEGUARDING THE ENVIRONMENT 07 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 65 Approach Fortescue’s commitment Fortescue is committed to contributing TCFD recommendations Fortescue supports the to climate to global efforts to combat climate change. The Company accepts the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), recognising that change scientific consensus as assessed by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate TCFD-aligned climate risk disclosures Change (IPCC) and supports the Paris provide the transparency, consistency Agreement goal of limiting global and detail required by the Company’s temperature rise to well below 2oC stakeholders to assess performance in above pre-industrial levels. this area. Fortescue strives Fortescue also supports Australia's The Company’s climate related commitment to reduce emissions by reporting aligns with the TCFD to create value 26-28 per cent from 2005 levels by 2030 recommendations which focus on for its shareholders and the UN Framework Convention on the four key elements below. This Climate Change which mandates that report also presents case studies and communities individual nations take responsibility for which highlight some of the practical and is committed emissions within their own borders. solutions Fortescue is implementing to support its strategy. to contributing Climate change is a complex and challenging issue and successful to global efforts mitigation will require a coordinated Strategy to combat approach between government, The Company’s climate change strategy business and the community. climate change. Collaboration will be critical in ensuring focuses on implementing innovative and practical initiatives to reduce that policy frameworks are able to deliver emissions and manage climate-related mitigation outcomes that support risks. The strategy also ensures the the Paris Agreement objectives while Company manages its growth in an incentivising innovation and supporting environmentally sustainable manner economic stability and growth. and is able to create and maximise opportunities. The strategy comprises four key elements: • Building resilience • Reducing emissions • Maximising opportunities • Stakeholder engagement. The implementation of this strategy is supported by the Board and driven by the management team with input from all areas of the business. Strategy Governance Metrics and targets Risk management Disclose the actual and Disclose the organisation’s Disclose the metrics and Disclose how the potential impacts of governance around targets used to assess organisation identifies, climate-related risks and climate-related risks and and manage relevant assesses and manages, opportunities on the opportunities. climate-related risks and climate-related risks. organisation’s business opportunities where such strategy, and financial information is material. planning where such information is material. 66 66 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 SAFEGUARDING THE ENVIRONMENT Building resilience emissions and to ensure operations • Reduce the number of haul trucks are supplied with a cost effective, in operation through the expanded Fortescue’s operational and financial secure and reliable power supply, the use of relocatable conveyor systems planning processes support the Company has developed an Energy which reduce fleet emissions Company’s overall business strategy Strategy that includes investment and an understanding of the risks and • Continue the rollout of Autonomous in low emissions energy sources, opportunities associated with that Haulage System (AHS) at the including renewables. The Energy strategy. Such planning considers Christmas Creek and Cloudbreak Strategy is supported by the following a range of physical, environmental, mine sites which increases short-term targets related to the market, and regulatory scenarios productivity by approximately 30 per energy mix that underpins Fortescue’s related to climate change and models cent and therefore reduces diesel business strategy: consumption 07 these to evaluate potential operational and financial impacts to ensure the • By FY20, achieve a 25 per cent • Substitute large diesel engines with resilience of the business. decrease in emissions intensity in gas technology electricity generation from FY15 In FY19, Fortescue commenced more • Improve ore recovery from wet levels detailed climate change scenario plant operations modelling to analyse the potential • By FY20, achieve a five per cent impacts of climate change on its decrease in emissions intensity • Continue research with CSIRO business strategy. This modelling will in energy consumption in the on hydrogen metal membrane continue in FY20 and evolve over the production process from FY17 levels. technology. coming years. Fortescue also models various carbon Fortescue will also continue to investigate To protect assets and operations from price scenarios when assessing new mechanisms to offset emissions. the physical risks of climate change, projects including power supply options and applies an internal price including the predicted increase in Maximising opportunities severity of extreme weather events on carbon as part of project evaluation. Fortescue will continue to assess in the Pilbara, the Company factors In FY19, Fortescue developed policy opportunities to diversify and grow its identified risks into major project scenario models which include both portfolio as the world transitions to a designs and annual business forecasts. explicit and implicit carbon price net-zero emissions global economy. Fortescue is focussed on incorporating ranges. Outcomes of this modelling This includes increasing exposure the potential impacts of climate will be integrated into investment to base metals where demand is change into the design phase of major decisions to ensure consideration of expected to increase. The Company is projects and upgrades to existing carbon price impacts over time. currently undertaking low cost, early operational sites to more efficiently As policy and regulation in this area stage, exploration and evaluation work and effectively mitigate these risks. It evolves, Fortescue will review the for a range of commodities including is clear from industry experience that appropriateness of its carbon price copper and lithium. post-event, remedial action is less ranges and update its investment Fortescue has also entered into an effective and more costly than building models appropriately. agreement with the CSIRO to fund enhanced asset resilience into the and support select technologies in In 2018, Fortescue installed its first design phase. the hydrogen space (refer to case relocatable conveyor at Cloudbreak In response to recent extreme weather to address the increases in haulage study on page 73). Fortescue believes associated with Cyclone Veronica (see distances and this has seen a the potential establishment of bulk case study on page 68), Fortescue displacement of haul trucks and export markets through CSRIO’s metal undertook surface water investigations associated diesel fuel usage and related membrane technology provides around the Company’s assets. The work emissions (refer to the case study on additional opportunities for the included a trend analysis of historical page 69). The Company is exploring Company. rainfall data from weather stations near opportunities to implement similar the Iron Bridge site. This trend analysis technology across its operations, Stakeholder engagement will inform an infrastructure stress including at its currently under Fortescue will continue to work with testing exercise in FY20. construction Eliwana site. its customers to ensure its iron ore Fortescue will focus on the following products meet their requirements Reducing emissions initiatives over the next 12 months, and will adjust its product strategy to Fortescue is working to implement to directly drive greenhouse gas and maximise value in use. As emission practical solutions to reduce the energy intensity reductions: reduction frameworks evolve, emissions intensity of its operations. Fortescue will work to ensure the • Improve the efficiency of the emissions profile of its products align Mine site power requirements account Cloudbreak and Christmas Creek mine with market expectations. for approximately 25 per cent of site power generation Fortescue’s emissions. To reduce these FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 67 CASE STUDY Cyclone Veronica Fortescue’s Climate Change Strategy includes a focus on The investigations determined the impacts and surface building resilience into its operations by protecting assets water flows were consistent with previous flood studies and and minimising operational downtime that may result from modelling. While areas of Fortescue’s rail near Port Hedland extreme weather events. were flooded, flood waters receeded within 24 hours and In March 2019, Cyclone Veronica crossed the Pilbara coast the flooding led to no operational delays as the port and near Port Hedland. Over a four day period, 370mm of rain rail operations had already been closed for a period in fell in Port Hedland, with a burst of 131mm in just under five preparation for the cyclone. hours on the fourth day. The Iron Bridge site experienced The heavier rainfall near the Iron Bridge site led to some 550mm of rainfall over a two day period. access road damage and erosion. There were no mining Fortescue’s Hydrology team undertook investigations operations at the site during FY19. around the Company’s facilities during and immediately Outcomes of these investigations will be fed into the after the event to assess surface water flows, determine how Company’s modelling and risk assessment processes these flows compared with modelled flows and to assess the including those that consider the potential for increased impact on the Company’s infrastructure. severity of extreme weather events that may eventuate as a result of climate change. Stakeholder engagement Fortescue will also continue to engage and opportunities, operates within (continued) with other stakeholders including the Company’s overall governance Fortescue’s medium-term strategy the State and Commonwealth framework. Fortescue’s Board has of producing ore with an average Governments as policy frameworks ultimate responsibility for the oversight iron content above 60% Fe is aimed evolve to ensure any changes still and approval of all risk management and at creating a product range to meet incentivise innovation and allow for financial investment decisions, including customer expectations. economic growth. those related to climate change. The Board’s Audit and Risk Management Fortescue acknowledges that the Governance Committee (ARMC) has specific steel making process generates GHG Good corporate governance is critical responsibility to consider climate change emissions and that the Company has to the long-term, sustainable success related risks and the Company’s related a role in engaging with customers and of Fortescue. It contributes to value risk management strategies. suppliers to facilitate the reduction creation and positive outcomes for of emissions and to share learnings The Board regularly considers how all stakeholders. Good governance is climate change may impact the market that will assist in achieving this goal. embedded throughout the Company Fortescue acknowledges the recent and industry and drive changes to and is the collective responsibility Fortescue’s physical, regulatory and public debate regarding disclosure of the Board and all levels of of Scope 3 emissions and its current commercial and operating environments management. to inform the development of the disclosure is in line with regulatory requirements and is consistent with Fortescue seeks to adopt leading Company’s medium-to-longer-term the principles outlined in the UN practice and contemporary goals and strategies. Framework Convention on Climate governance standards and apply these Fortescue has a dedicated Climate Change. Fortescue also believes that in a manner consistent with its Culture Change Committee (CCC) chaired current systems, data and market and Values. Fortescue’s approach to by COO, Greg Lilleyman with senior reporting frameworks are not corporate governance is explained executive representation from sufficiently robust to enable it to reliably more fully in the FY19 Corporate across the Company including from and accurately report Scope 3 emissions Governance Statement, available at Environment, Investor Relations, from downstream steel production and www.fmgl.com.au Operations, Finance, Legal and Risk that reporting such data would add The governance of climate change Management teams. little benefit to investors. related matters, including risks 68 68 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 SAFEGUARDING THE ENVIRONMENT CASE STUDY Fortescue’s innovative relocatable conveyor begins operation In 2018, Fortescue commenced the operation of its first Company in meeting its commitments to reduce its GHG 07 relocatable conveyor at the Cloudbreak mine site. A key emission at Cloudbreak mine and other existing operations. productivity initiative, the five kilometre conveyor includes CEO, Elizabeth Gaines said Fortescue has a proud history of semi-mobile primary crushing stations and feeds directly embracing technology and innovation. into the Cloudbreak ore processing facility. “The long and shallow nature of the ore body at the The relocatable conveyor and semi-mobile crushing facilities Chichester Hub presents unique challenges and can be positioned close to mine pits and relocated once opportunities. Since Fortescue first began operation with mining in that pit is complete. By providing greater flexibility surface miners, the team has consistently brought new ideas and increased accessibility to mine pits, the relocatable and solutions to deliver the most from our ore bodies.” conveyor reduces haulage distances which deliver “Together with the rollout of autonomous haulage Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions reductions and sustained technology across the Chichester Hub, this innovative efficiency improvements across the business. Over a 12 conveyor system will contribute to further productivity month period the conveyor is expected to reduce emissions and efficiency improvements including the reduction of on site by up to 17,600 tonnes -CO2e. GHG emissions,” Ms Gaines said. Fortescue will continue to review the introduction of additional relocatable conveyors to further assist the Governance (continued) align with its longer term goal of risks. This group has identified that net-zero operational GHG emissions water usage and renewable energy The role of the CCC is to monitor and by the second half of the century. consumption targets would support coordinate Fortescue’s overall response Management is further developing proactive management of both to climate change and to ensure risks its predictive emissions modelling physical and transition risks. Specific and opportunities are considered capability to support the generation targets in these areas are proposed to from a whole of business perspective. of reliable, medium-term emissions be set in the coming financial year. Specifically, the CCC has responsibility reductions targets (Scope 1 and 2) which for coordinating the assessment of climate change and critically evaluating are aligned with Fortescue's business Risk management strategy and longer term goals. risk management strategies. The CCC The evaluation of climate provides regular updates to the CLT, The modelling considers business as change risks and opportunities is ARMC and the Board. usual (BAU) emissions and quantified integrated into Fortescue’s companynotional financial exposure under wide risk management process. Metrics and targets various government policy scenarios. Fortescue’s Risk Management Framework In combination with the Company’s (FRMF) ensures a consistent approach This year, Fortescue set itself the policy scenario analysis, this modelling to the recognition, measurement and long-term goal to achieve net-zero is supporting the evaluation of low evaluation of all risks and opportunities, operational GHG emissions in the emissions investment options and including climate change. second half of the century. This goal will be used to develop medium-term is intended to support the Company’s Fortescue has a well developed absolute emissions reduction targets. alignment to the Paris Agreement process for the identification, objectives. Fortescue also continues to The modelling and scenario analysis will assessment, and management of risk. report performance against its shortalso be used to define environmental Primary responsibility for this process term targets established in FY17 (refer performance metrics that will support lies with management, with oversight to FY19 emissions on page 72). the management of relevant climateprovided by the ARMC and the Board. related risk and opportunities. Regular reporting is provided to the Fortescue recognises the challenge ARMC on management’s progress. of transitioning its reported metrics Fortescue has established a dedicated and targets from a short-term working group to set environmental emissions intensity focus (refer to performance metrics to support FY19 performance on page 72) to the management of climate-related FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 69 Material climate related risks and opportunities Transitional risks Risk detail Mitigation and opportunities Policy and regulatory • Fortescue will continue to work with industry bodies, its peers, the changes, including those that government and the community to ensure an effective regulatory framework. Any cap emissions, may increase regulatory framework must enable the transition to lower emission outcomes by operational costs. It is incentivising innovation and supporting economic stability and growth Policy and regulatory changes expected that these • The Company is focussed on continuing to reduce its GHG emissions and has set frameworks and associated a voluntary short-term target and a long-term emission goal for its operations market mechanisms will • Fortescue’s Energy Strategy ensures that the use of gas and renewable continue to evolve in the energy sources are considered during the development and replacement of coming years power stations and applies a price on carbon when assessing new projects including power supply options, and potential energy infrastructure projects. Specifically, Fortescue’s policy scenario models, developed during FY19, include both explicit and implicit carbon price ranges with these tools being integrated into investment decision-making processes to ensure consideration of carbon price impacts over time • The Energy Strategy specifically focuses on opportunities to gain commercial advantage from investment in renewable sources. Investment in renewables and alternative fuel technology may also improve energy security, reduce energy costs and GHG emissions which would reduce the Company's exposure to policy and regulatory changes that cap absolute emissions. Demand for Fortescue’s • Fortescue will continue to engage with customers and pursue opportunities products may change if to reduce emissions from steel mills market demand shifts, for • As emission reduction frameworks evolve, Fortescue will work to ensure the Reduced product demand example, as a result of the emissions profile of its products align with market expectations introduction of climate • Fortescue’s long-term strategy of producing the majority of ore with an change regulations directly average iron content above 60% Fe will create a product range that continues impacting the steel to be valued by the market, through all market cycles manufacturing sector in China • The Company is also assessing diversification options to increase business exposure to base metals where demand is expected to increase in a global economy transitioning towards net-zero emissions, and is undertaking low cost, early stage, exploration and evaluation work of commodities such as copper and lithium. Fortescue may experience • Fortescue supports the Paris Agreement, works to maintain open Reputational damage reputational damage if relationships with its stakeholders, and has voluntarily aligned its climate stakeholders view the change reporting with TCFD recommendations. The Company has set Company’s action on climate voluntary short-term emissions intensity targets and a voluntary long-term change as inadequate. This goal to achieve net-zero operational GHG emissions in the second half of may impact the Company’s the century. social licence to operate and its financing and investment opportunities 70 70 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 SAFEGUARDING THE ENVIRONMENT Material climate related risks and opportunities Physical risks Risk detail Mitigation and opportunities Acute • Fortescue’s Climate Change Strategy focuses on building resilience into Changes in Increased severity Increased severity of extreme its operations to protect assets and minimise operational downtime from weather events including extreme weather events cyclones, flooding and • The Company has constructed its port, rail and mine infrastructure to bushfires may cause material meet the highest specifications accounting for the risk of extreme weather damage to assets leading events. All new projects assess and develop management and mitigation to operational disruptions, mechanisms to address the potential physical impacts of climate change 07 impacts to production rates • Fortescue will continue to work with the Pilbara Ports Authority and other and increased costs operators to minimise impacts to ship movements during extreme weather associated with asset repair precipitation patterns of extreme weather events events. Chronic • Fortescue’s Water Strategy is focussed on reducing water usage requirements The potential for prolonged of operations. This includes adopting technological solutions and using drought events in the metrics and internal performance standards to proactively manage water Pilbara region may place scarcity risks increasing stress on the • Fortescue will continue to work with regulators to reduce the risk of availability of water resources approval delays. to the business. This may delay approvals and lead to more stringent controls Chronic • Fortescue’s Climate Change Strategy focuses on building resilience into its Sea level rise has the operations to protect assets and minimise operational downtime Rising sea potential to cause material • The Company has constructed its port infrastructure to meet the highest damage to port infrastructure levels specifications accounting for the risk of extreme weather events and rising sea levels. All new projects assess and develop management and mitigation mechanisms to address the potential physical impacts of climate change. CASE STUDY Renewables Fortescue is working to reduce its CO2 emissions and has A reliable, secure and cost effective power source is essential set voluntary short-term targets for its operations and the to Fortescue’s operations and the Company is currently voluntary long-term goal to achieve net-zero operational investigating the large-scale use of renewables including GHG emissions in the second half of the century. To achieve solar energy at its sites as well as increasing the connectivity this goal, Fortescue must continue to explore opportunities of the Pilbara to drive efficient power use. Fortescue’s energy to use low emission fuels and renewables as a power source strategy ensures renewable energy sources are considered at all its sites. during the development of new power stations and the replacement of existing ones. FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 71 In FY19, Fortescue emitted 1.85 million tonnes of CO2e. Since FY15, GHG emissions intensity across operations has reduced by 10.9 per cent and the emissions intensity in electricity generation has reduced by 17 per cent. Emissions intensity in energy consumption during FY19 was 319.6 t CO2e/mt.km, a reduction of 8.1 per cent since FY17. Total emissions generated in FY19 are approximately 10 per cent higher than FY18. This increase is mainly as a result of expanding operations, including the commencement of early works at the Eliwana mine development, and additional diesel use associated with increased haulage distances due to the long and shallow nature of Fortescue’s ore body at the Chichester and Solomon Hubs. FY19 The haul distance metric of tonne.km for the Solomon and Christmas Creek mining operations increased by performance 26 per cent compared to FY18 and has directly impacted the total emissions from these operations and contributed significantly to Fortescue's increase in absolute emissions. As Fortescue continues to expand its operations, absolute emissions are Objective expected to increase in the short term. Reduce carbon emissions across The Company is committed to mitigating the business. any such increases by implementing programs to reduce its overall emission intensity and by pursuing innovative energy strategies that could significantly Short-term targets change its fuel mix away from fossil fuels. Fortescue is committed to its long• By FY20, achieve a 25 per cent term goal to reach net-zero emissions decrease in emissions intensity in in the second half of the century. This electricity generation from FY15 levels will require stabilisation of emissions in the medium-term and a reduction of • By FY20, achieve a five per cent absolute emissions into the medium to decrease in emissions intensity longer term. in energy consumption in the Fortescue supports the UN Framework production process from FY17 levels. Convention on Climate Change which mandates that individual nations take responsibility for emissions within their own borders. In line with this, Fortescue does not report the Scope 3 downstream emissions associated with the manufacture of steel from its iron ore. Fortescue’s approach to GHG emissions reporting is compliant with the Australian Commonwealth Government’s National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act 2007, and associated regulations. 72 72 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 SAFEGUARDING THE ENVIRONMENT Fortescue has set a long term goal to achieve net-zero operational GHG emissions in the second half of the century. Total GHG emissions 07 Scope 1 Scope 2 2,000,000 1,500,000 Tonnes of CO2e 1,000,000 CASE STUDY 500,000 Hydrogen partnership FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 with CSIRO In November 2018, Fortescue announced a landmark partnership with CSIRO which includes a fiveyear agreement to fund and support select CSIRO GHG Emissions Intensity Scope 1 technologies in the hydrogen space. The first of the Scope 2 Tonnes of CO2e / million tonnes of material mined, agreements will focus on CSIRO’s metal membrane technology (MMT), which has the potential to make 2,000 the transportation of hydrogen economically viable. Chairman and Founder, Andrew Forrest AO said 1,500 “We are at the beginning of an energy revolution and Fortescue intends to be at the forefront of this once in processed, railed and shipped a generation opportunity.” 1,000 “As a proud Australian company, we are excited to partner with CSIRO, our nation’s pre-eminent 500 science and research body, to unlock the potential of hydrogen, the low emission fuel of the future,” Mr Forrest said. FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 CEO, Elizabeth Gaines said “Working with CSIRO to capitalise on the benefits of a low emission fuel such as hydrogen demonstrates Fortescue’s commitment to reduce our carbon footprint by ensuring security of supply of cost-effective energy for our operations.” Emissions intensity in electricity generation A significant proportion of Fortescue’s diesel Tonnes of CO2e/ million tonnes of material consumption can be attributed to its operational mining fleet including light vehicles, buses and 4.5 3.87 heavy earth moving equipment. The potential to use 3.55 3.78 3.6 renewable hydrogen as a replacement fuel for diesel 3.5 provides a great opportunity to reduce emissions mined, processed, railed and shipped from our operations. 2.5 Fortescue sees potential for CSIRO’s MMT to establish bulk 1.5 export market opportunities with further research required to determine if the technology can be developed to commercial scale. FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 73 Fortescue is committed to safeguarding the environment and takes a precautionary approach to environmental management. The Company acknowledges that its activities have the potential to adversely impact on the environment and is committed to mitigating impacts by integrating environmental considerations into all stages of its activities and contributing to research and conservation programs. Compliance with all relevant environmental laws and obligations is the absolute minimum standard to which Fortescue operates and the Company respects legally designated protected areas1 and conservation listed species2. To effectively manage biodiversity risks and achieve targeted outcomes, Fortescue implements the mitigation hierarchy of avoid, minimise, rehabilitate and offset impacts Protecting associated with activities. Fortescue also works closely with its stakeholders biodiversity including government agencies, Traditional Custodians and the general community to ensure appropriate mitigation practices are in place. Fortescue’s Environmental Policy and Environmental Management System (EMS) reflects the Company’s Objective commitment to continually improve environmental performance and To take responsibility for provide a robust and comprehensive Fortescue’s disturbance by protecting framework for the identification and biodiversity in the regions where the management of environmental impacts. The EMS aligns with ICMM, UNGC Company operates. principles and the requirements of ISO14001:2016 International Standard for Environmental Management Systems. The EMS is internally assured. Target Fortescue employs internal and external • Achieve a net positive impact biodiversity experts to survey exploration, on biodiversity development and operational areas. These surveys also identify the • Annually, achieve zero significant biodiversity value of the regions where environmental incidents. Fortescue operates and help provide advice on biodiversity protection measures consistent with the biodiversity mitigation hierarchy. Collected data is used to develop and inform project design, operational and closure activities and provide input into detailed environmental impact assessments. 1 ICMM 2003, Mining and protected areas position statement. 2 Species listed as significant within the legal instruments pertaining to our areas of operation, including local, state, national and international instruments including the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. 74 74 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 SAFEGUARDING THE ENVIRONMENT 07 CASE STUDY Drones enhance environmental management at the Chichester Hub The drive to embrace technology and adopt more innovative drones also reduces the safety risk associated with environmental ways to undertake environmental management led the work required within higher risk work areas such as the Chichester Environment team to purchase an unmanned Autonomous Operating Zone. As drone technology improves, aerial vehicle, or drone. Fortescue will work to identify other areas of their management During FY19, the team used the drone to conduct stream program that may benefit from the technology and result in assessments, complete work area inspections and audit further efficiencies and productivity improvements. ground disturbance activities. The drone also enabled the Drone technology is also used by other departments across team to capture high resolution aerial imagery for use in the Fortescue including the Survey and Drill and Blast teams, development and delivery of targeted environmental impact who complete post blast inspections, stockpile pickups and assessments. In support of Fortescue’s safety Value, the use of post incident inspections using drones. Collaboration and and fire mapping and controlled fuel are consistent with the WA State partnership reduction burn programs that minimise Government Fortescue Marsh the frequency and likelihood of habitat Management Strategy (2018-24) to As part of a long-term strategic destructive high intensity wildfires. protect the Marsh. collaboration with the Department Fortescue has also continued to invest of Biodiversity, Conservation and Attractions (DBCA), Fortescue has in research regarding the Greater Research and provided over A$5.5 million to fund Bilby’s distribution, abundance and conservation programs ecology in the Pilbara. The Company is biodiversity protection programs at Fortescue invests in initiatives and also researching the benefits of the Fortescue Marsh. This includes the technologies to contribute to the broad-scale feral cat baiting to the implementation of feral cat baiting and collective body of environmental Northern Quoll. feral herbivore control programs and knowledge for the areas in which the funding of a dedicated Fortescue it operates and continues to Marsh Conservation Officer, employed Protection of the support ongoing relationships with through the DBCA. Fortescue Marsh government, universities and other Fortescue’s Cloudbreak and Christmas researchers. During FY19, the Company Over the past five years, Fortescue Creek mine sites lie north of the contributed funds to a number of has provided over A$4 million to Fortescue Marsh in the Pilbara region monitoring programs to improve the conservation funds for on-ground of Western Australia. The Marsh is knowledge and management of rare research, land management and offset a wetland of national significance and threatened fauna species including programs. Specifically, investments listed on the Directory of Important sub-terranean fauna, the Pilbara support programs that improve the Wetlands of Australia and is culturally Leaf-nosed Bat, the Pilbara Olive knowledge and understanding of significant to the Banjima, Nyiyaparli Python, the Night Parrot and the species or ecosystems subject to an and Palyku Traditional Custodians. Northern Quoll. elevated risk as the result of Fortescue’s Fortescue implements mitigation operations. These programs include and management measures that weed extension control programs Fortescue has provided over A$5.5 million to fund biodiversity programs at the Fortescue Marsh FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 75 CASE STUDY Chichester operations take part in a Curtin University topsoil health study Staff from the Australia Research Council (ARC) Centre Topsoil is a valuable resource in post-mining rehabilitation as for Mine Site Restoration (CMSR) at Curtin University it is high in organic matter and nutrients and contains plant visited Christmas Creek and Cloudbreak mines during spores and soil microbes. A variety of factors, including the size the year to collect soil samples for a study assessing the and depth of stockpiles, duration of storage, soil type, climate, microbial health of topsoil stockpiled at mine sites across and method of storage affect the quality and functionality of Western Australia. the topsoil when it is eventually used in rehabilitation. The study, led by Dr Haylee D’Agui, aims to determine the Outcomes of the study will contribute to the development changes that occur in microbial communities (fungi and of science-based topsoil management guidelines to bacteria) as topsoil is stockpiled. Fortescue’s Chichester optimise biodiversity recovery in mining soils for improved operations is one of seven mine sites taking part in the study rehabilitation outcomes. and is one of two participating iron ore mines. Significant fauna Incidents and The audits assessed compliance Fortescue implements a Fauna compliance monitoring against Ministerial Statements issued under the Environmental Protection Management Plan (FMP) across all Fortescue investigates all Act 1986 (WA), Mining Proposals sites to identify potential impacts environmental incidents. During under the Mining Act 1978 (WA) to conservation significant fauna FY19, there were no significant and Controlled Action approvals species and develop management and environmental incidents and no fines/ under the Environment Protection monitoring measures that maximise sanctions or environmental impact and Biodiversity Conservation their ongoing protection, and grievances filed against Fortescue. Act 1999 (Commonwealth). All long-term conservation within, and Internal compliance auditing against audits determined Fortescue adjacent to Fortescue’s controlled sites. environmental obligations occurs at has demonstrated a high level of Fauna managed in accordance with the all sites on a continuous basis. These compliance and that its operations FMP include the Pilbara Olive Python, internal audits are supplemented with are aligned with the expectations Night Parrot, Northern Quoll, Greater independent external audits. of regulators. Bilby, Ghost Bat, Pilbara Leaf-nosed Bat During FY19, numerous field and and various migratory birds. Monitoring desktop audits were undertaken by of these species to date has determined the Western Australian Department that, with the exception of the Night of Water and Environmental Parrot which has not been recorded Regulation, Department of Mines, at any Fortescue site, conservation Industry Regulation and Safety and significant fauna continue to reside the Commonwealth Department of in habitats surrounding Fortescue’s Environment and Energy. operations, and have not been significantly impacted by Fortescue’s mining or rail operations. During FY19, there were no significant environmental incidents 76 76 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 SAFEGUARDING THE ENVIRONMENT Managing water responsibly Objective 07 Lead a better understanding of regional hydrogeological systems where the Company operates. Target • Initiate, host and coordinate a series of Mine Water Management Forums about the Pilbara Region of Western Australia to encourage the sharing of learnings for practitioners and regulators. Objective Use water responsibly by improving water use efficiency and minimising water loss through surface water discharge and evaporation. Target • Annually ensure at least 75 per cent of dewatered water at the Cloudbreak and Christmas Creek mine sites is used for beneficial purposes or reinjected via the Managed Aquifer Recharge program. FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 77 Managing water responsibly Water is a critical resource and its Company implements Managed abstraction activities have not had a effective management is fundamental Aquifer Recharge (MAR) programs to significant impact on Pilbara to the sustainability of Fortescue’s ensure much of this water is returned natural water sources or water operations, the ecosystems and the through reinjection to the local dependant ecosystems. communities in which the groundwater system. Fortescue’s evaluation of water related business operates. Fortescue does not remove surface risks and opportunities, including The Company acknowledges water for use at its operations and those related to climate change, are the potential of its operations to does not discharge excess water to integrated into multi-disciplinary, impact water resources and takes a surface water bodies. company-wide risk management proactive approach to responsible processes and are considered as part Groundwater management activities water management, as a minimum of the Company’s overall business at each site are undertaken in complying with all regulatory strategy. Facility level risk assessments accordance with specific Groundwater requirements. are undertaken regularly as part Management Plans which are of mine planning processes which Fortescue withdraws groundwater based on the WA Department of include operational and environmental to enable the mining of ore bodies Water and Environment Regulations risks, constraints and challenges. that sit below the groundwater table. published options for the use and/ Known as dewatering, the water is or release of dewatering volumes Some of Fortescue’s mining operations then used for ore processing, dust (previously referred to as a hierarchy). are located near sensitive and ‘watercontrol and village needs including This guideline lists mitigation of related’ receptors including semifor drinking water. Wherever possible, environmental impacts, use for permanent, groundwater fed pools at recycled waste water is used to limit fit-for-purpose activities, transfer to the Solomon Hub and the Fortescue abstraction and the use of lower third parties, reinjection back into the Marsh near the Chichester Hub. quality water is prioritised over high aquifer and the controlled release of Fortescue is subject to a number of quality water. water to the environment as options environmental protection obligations, for surplus water disposal (Western as well as voluntary monitoring The Company assesses and manages Australia Water in Mining Guideline programs to minimise impacts to these water resources by applying adaptive 2013, Water licencing delivery series ecosystems. responses to water excess, scarcity, Report no.12). quality and wastewater treatment. Fortescue continues to investigate The Company does not have Fortescue monitors groundwater alternative water management operations located in areas defined and surface water conditions, and options to mitigate its impact on water as ‘water stressed’. local ecosystem and habitat health resources and the environment on an to ensure that its operations do not ongoing basis. Dewatering accounts for the majority significantly impact on the quantity or of water abstracted by Fortescue. To quality of natural water systems and minimise environmental impacts and natural environments. Monitoring has to maintain the water balance, the consistently shown that Fortescue’s CASE STUDY Sustainable groundwater management The Papa Waringka Scheme – ten years of the large scale Managed Aquifer Recharge (MAR) scheme Fortescue’s MAR scheme has been operating across the abstraction bores, 132 injection bores, over 500km of Cloudbreak and Christmas Creek mines for over ten years. pipeline and 12 transfer ponds. The scheme manages a The scheme currently returns over 90 GL per annum range of water quality from brackish through to hypersaline. of groundwater abstracted to facilitate open pit mining. Monitoring scheme performance has been used to The scheme includes the careful reinjection, storage develop and maintain models. Outputs from the model and redraw of water to form a hydraulic barrier between are used to assess and influence mine planning decisions dewatering operations and the internationally significant and optimise the ongoing management of groundwater Fortescue Marsh ecosystem. to minimise drawdown impacts on the surrounding The Scheme, named after the Traditional Nyiyaparli word ecohydrological systems. for water of the ground, has progressively expanded from conception in 2009 to its current scale comprising of 207 78 78 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 SAFEGUARDING THE ENVIRONMENT Closure and rehabilitation 07 Mine closure • I mplementation of a rehabilitation Sustainable trial studying the performance of Fortescue’s mine closure planning topsoil and native seed on waste rehabilitation focuses on returning the land to a Progressive rehabilitation activities are rock under irrigated and nonstate that will provide future use integrated into Fortescue’s standard irrigated conditions and value when mining is complete. operating procedures to ensure the Although none of the Company’s sites • D  evelopment of guidelines defining required environmental performance are expected to close within the next acceptable erosion rates for use objectives are met on closure. five to 10 years, the Company works in waste rock landform modelling with its stakeholders including local in the Pilbara, in conjunction In FY19, these activities included: communities, Traditional Custodians with other Pilbara-based mining • D  irect disposal (backfill) of more than and government agencies when companies 10 million tonnes of waste rock into considering post-closure land uses and • R  eviews of creek-related exhausted mine pits developing achievable objectives. geomorphic erosion and landform • O  ngoing geochemical and physical evolution processes associated with Studies and field trials are undertaken characterisation of the mineral waste rock mine closure designs to demonstrate that the closure • Regular review, including computer strategies described in the Company’s • D  evelopment and approval of the modelling, of proposed post-mining mine closure plans can be achieved. Eliwana mine and Solomon Hub landforms and water systems Financial provisions for closure are Queens deposit mine closure plans by the WA Department of Mines, • Monitoring of local water quality and developed and maintained for all Industry Regulation and Safety vegetation health indicators. sites. These provisions are detailed in Fortescue’s FY19 Annual Report which • C  ompletion of an independent To ensure responsible rehabilitation can be found at www.fmgl.com.au assessment of Solomon’s practices are implemented throughout infrastructure demolition each stage of the mining life cycle, Fortescue considers mine closure and disposal costs as part of Fortescue applies an integrated initially during the project feasibility ongoing cost validation and approach where rehabilitation phase, when objectives are developed improvement cycle. monitoring procedures are tailored with stakeholders and site strategies to local environmental issues, using created to minimise environmental impacts. To minimise the potential Sharing knowledge indices such as plant species diversity and composition, nutrient cycling, financial, social and environmental Fortescue has gained considerable infiltration and erosion. risks of mine closure, strategies expertise in investigating, monitoring are reviewed over the life of each and managing Pilbara groundwater Monitoring activities completed during operation which ensures maximum systems and is committed to working FY19 included over 100 rehabilitation effectiveness in rehabilitation activities with government, industry and the and associated control transects and and future uses. community to share these learnings over 55 photographic monitoring and to advance the understanding of points, as well as weed mapping During FY19, mine closure works the Pilbara hydrogeological systems. and monitoring programs, and included: management, where required, across • Completion of the first phase Fortescue will initiate, host and Fortescue’s operations. of a seed metering, delivery coordinate a series of Mine Water and establishment study which Management Forums in FY20. determined that certain types of waste rock and tailings materials can be used to improve seed emergence. The trial also confirmed that the depth at which different Pilbara native seeds are sown affects growth success FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 79 Tailings management 80 80 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 SAFEGUARDING THE ENVIRONMENT Tailings Fortescue’s tailings management storage Fortescue acknowledges that Fortescue currently operates three the effective management of the active TSFs and manages an additional storage of tailings includes rigorous six inactive facilities. All of these design practices, comprehensive facilities are located in the Pilbara monitoring and management region of Western Australia. programs, independent auditing Two of the inactive facilities have and a strict corporate governance been rehabilitated, one is in the regime. To this extent, Fortescue process of being rehabilitated and utilises internal expertise together another two are being dried for future 07 with external design consultants to rehabilitation. The final inactive TSF is ensure that the Company’s Tailings located at the Company’s Iron Bridge Storage Facilities (TSFs) are designed mine and is in care and maintenance to the highest standard to minimise pending development of the Iron any environmental and community Bridge project. The active TSFs are impacts and to maximise located at Fortescue’s operational mine operational efficiency. sites at Cloudbreak, Christmas Creek and Solomon Hub. Generation of tailings None of Fortescue’s TSFs are Fortescue’s iron ore processing facilities considered to be large or complex generate a fine-grained by-product, engineering structures, or operated referred to as tailings. This material in geotechnically, geologically, is pumped as a slurry via pipelines topographically or meteorologically to specifically designed TSFs. Over complex settings. time, the fine-grained material settles, allowing water to be recovered Fortescue does not use the upstream and recycled. raise construction method and does not use tailings as a structural element The tailings produced during the in any of its active or closed TSFs. beneficiation of Fortescue’s iron ore is geochemically benign and therefore All of Fortescue’s TSFs are located poses a negligible environmental and/ in remote areas and there are no or health contamination risk. communities situated near any facilities. As part of the TSF design phase, a number of aspects are considered including the location of mining Fortescue's infrastructure, employees and communities, areas of environmental tailings are significance, topography, geological and climatic conditions, surface and geochemically groundwater, future land use, tailings characteristics and seismic activity of benign and the area. pose a Fortescue’s TSF register which includes detailed information on each TSF, negligible can be found on the Environment page on the Company's website at contamination www.fmgl.com.au risk In FY19, 22.6 million tonnes of tailings were produced at Fortescue's sites. FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 81 Fortescue’s tailings management framework Fortescue carries out all tailings management activities including design, construction and monitoring in accordance with the requirements of risk-based TSF management set out in PERFORMANCE PLANNING, the Western Australian Government’s AND RISK CONTROL DESIGN AND Department of Mines, Industry IMPROVEMENTS CONSTRUCTION Regulations and Safety (DMIRS) tailings guidelines and the Australian 06 01 National Committee on Large Dams (ANCOLD) guidelines. The risk-based process ensures risks are identified and reviewed, and that implementation INDEPENDENT Tailings and control effectiveness are DAM SAFETY 05 REVIEWS Management 02 OPERATION monitored and audited. This process also assists in mitigating the impacts Framework MANAGEMENT of failure through targeted response plans. Fortescue implements a life-cycle 04 03 TSF risk management framework DAM SAFETY PERFORMANCE (see figure 1). The objective of this INSPECTION RECONCILIATION AND framework is to define, understand, prioritise, control, mitigate and DESIGN VALIDATION effectively eliminate TSF failure. Fortescue’s TSF risk management framework is underpinned by three preventative critical control groups. • Critical Control Group #1 Risk and consequence based planning, investigation, design and Tailings facilities are construction supervision and quality assurance and quality control audited annually by • C ritical Control Group #2 independent experts Operation, surveillance, monitoring and maintenance through an observational approach • Critical Control Group #3 Technical, condition, performance and dam safety review process. Each active TSF has a comprehensive operations, surveillance and monitoring plan and a Dam Safety Emergency Plan that act in parallel with the site emergency response plan. 82 82 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 SAFEGUARDING THE ENVIRONMENT Inspections and audits Fortescue implements internal TSF monitoring programs that include daily, weekly and monthly visual inspections and instrumentation surveillance monitoring and alarm systems. All tailings related personnel are trained and must be assessed as competent prior to operating a TSF. The Company also has each tailings facility audited annually by independent experts to ensure the ongoing integrity and safety of each 07 facility. The most recent external audits were completed in late 2018. In addition, during 2019, Fortescue undertook an internal tailings management risk and control review. Findings of this review were reported to the Board. Fortescue is committed to maintaining tailings risk management in accordance with industry leading practice and stakeholder expectations. The Company will continue to engage with tailings storage management experts and regulators to ensure risks are mitigated and managed effectively. FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 83 Waste management Objective To reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse. Target • B y the end of FY20, identify a sustainable disposal method for off-the-road tyres (OTRs) and conveyor belts • B y the end of FY20, investigate composting opportunities for food related mine wastes. Reducing waste through the These facilities are managed in generated or disposed of by Fortescue prevention, reduction, recycling accordance with the Company’s Waste during FY19. and reuse of waste produced during Management Plan and Hazardous During FY19, Fortescue recycled operations is a priority for Fortescue Materials Management Procedure. 91 per cent of non-mineral waste and the Company continues to The Waste Management Plan aims volumes across all sites, excluding investigate options to minimise the to ensure that the disposal and tyres, concrete and waste from the volumes of non-mineral general waste management of waste does not North Star mine site. being sent to landfill. adversely impact environmental During FY19, in excess of 100 reels of used Non-mineral wastes generated at the values or the health, welfare and conveyor belt was removed from the Company’s sites include food and food amenity of people and land uses, and Cloudbreak landfill facility to be recycled packaging wastes, used oil and office details the key management actions and repurposed into other products. wastes. Where waste is not able to be to achieve this goal. recycled or reused it is disposed of at Most mine processing waste rock and No hazardous waste, as classified landfill facilities on site. overburden is disposed of in mined under the Basel Convention, was out pits. CASE STUDY Fortescue saves used linen from landfill In partnership with the Rotary Club of Mill Point, Fortescue CEO, Elizabeth Gaines said “Following our donation to donated over 18,000 items of used linen from its operational Rotary in 2016, we received great feedback on the positive sites across the Pilbara to a variety of charitable organisations. impact our donations had on the lives of some of the most 47 pallets, with an estimated replacement value of more than vulnerable members of our community, both at home $200,000, were shipped to the Rotary Club, and redistributed and abroad.” to 20 charities in Perth, East Timor, Cambodia and Thailand. “When we had a surplus of linen following an upgrade The recycled linen will be used at hospitals, an orphanage, across our sites, we reached out to Rotary again. We’re proud a women’s refuge and a number of support facilities for the to work with Rotary to provide some comfort to those less elderly, homeless, at-risk youth and those affected by drugs fortunate in our community,” Ms Gaines said. and alcohol. 84 84 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 CREATING POSITIVE SOCIAL CHANGE 08 08 Creating positive social change Building sustainable communities, empowering Aboriginal people and eradicating modern slavery FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 85 Building business capabilities Objective Create economic opportunities for Aboriginal businesses through local procurement, business development, mentoring and capacity-building opportunities. Target • By 2021, achieve a spend of 10 per cent of total procurement with Aboriginal businesses, with at least 50 per cent of the number of contracts awarded to businesses which have more than 50 per cent Aboriginal ownership. 86 86 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 CREATING POSITIVE SOCIAL CHANGE Billion Opportunities Fortescue is committed to The Billion Opportunities program is Fortescue is also committed to championing generational change complemented by a range of additional spending a portion of its procurement within Aboriginal communities by practical measures introduced to budget with Aboriginal businesses. In creating opportunities through provide Aboriginal businesses with the FY19, Fortescue spent approximately training, employment and business tools to build value and sustainability A$236 million with 54 Aboriginal development. which in turn creates employment and businesses, representing 5.5 per cent development opportunities. of the Company’s total contestable Fortescue’s Billion Opportunities procurement spend with more than program is an initiative that promotes In 2017, Fortescue partnered with the 90 per cent of the spend awarded sustainable business opportunities ANZ Bank to initiate a A$50 million to businesses owned by Native Title for Aboriginal people by building the funding scheme to allow eligible groups and their members. capability and capacity of Aboriginal businesses. Since its commencement Aboriginal businesses to access finance at a competitive rate. Fortescue acts In FY19, Fortescue also awarded 08 in 2011, the program has awarded 284 as the guarantor which eliminates or extended 23 contracts and contracts and subcontracts worth more the need for the Aboriginal business subcontracts to Aboriginal businesses than A$2.3 billion to 117 Aboriginal to provide security. The Aboriginal with a value of A$240 million. Of these, businesses. This program forms a business will own these assets at the 65 per cent were with Aboriginal critical element of the Company’s expiry of the contract which gives businesses that have Aboriginal approach to ensuring economic them the ability to use these assets ownership greater than 50 per cent. opportunity and participation through as security in the future. This initiative Native Title agreements. has provided A$5 million in funding to three Aboriginal businesses. Cumulative value of contracts awarded A$2.3bn A$2.05bn A$1.91bn A$1.71bn A$1.65bn A$1.38bn A$0.95bn A$0.36bn FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Spend per year A$321m A$253m A$238m A$240m A$236m A$230m A$225m A$200m FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 87 Wirlu-murra Yindjibarndi Aboriginal Corporation Directors celebrate their contract award with Fortescue. CASE STUDY Billion Opportunities program awards contracts to Yindjibarndi businesses On 25 June 2019, Fortescue announced the award CEO, Elizabeth Gaines said “Fortescue is in the privileged of two contracts to the value of A$179 million to position of being able to empower these businesses with Yindjibarndi businesses through the Company’s the capability and capacity to effect positive change in Billion Opportunities program. This represents the Aboriginal communities across the Pilbara. largest contracts awarded to 100 per cent owned “We are delighted to see Aboriginal businesses we have Aboriginal businesses in Fortescue’s history. partnered with for some time grow and prosper. These The Billion Opportunities initiative has provided the contracts establish Wirlu-murra as one of the largest Company’s Native title groups and their members Aboriginal businesses in Australia and, significantly, with the chance to build sustainable futures for their empowers them to deliver further employment communities through the provision of genuine opportunities for Aboriginal people,” Ms Gaines said. economic opportunity. Wirlu-murra Yindjibarndi Aboriginal Corporation Chairperson The first of two separate contracts was awarded to Rodney Adams said, “Through these business contracts with Wirlu-murra Enterprises Pty Ltd (Wirlu-murra), a 100 per cent Fortescue, Wirlu-murra has been able to provide jobs to the Aboriginal owned business based in Roebourne, to support Yindjibarndi people and support many local community the non-process infrastructure operations at Fortescue’s organisations providing services to the Roebourne Solomon Hub. community. We look forward to continuing our close relationship with Fortescue to provide new opportunities to The second contract is with the unincorporated joint empower our people.” venture EG WME JV, consisting of Eastern Guruma Pty Ltd and Wirlu-murra, for road maintenance and resource “We are proud to see our Billion Opportunities program definition services at Solomon. The EG WME JV has been inspiring others to implement Aboriginal procurement performing these services since 2013 and the new strategies to provide opportunities to thousands of five-year term is as a result of their excellent safety and Aboriginal businesses across the country,” Ms Gaines said. operational performance. 88 88 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 CREATING POSITIVE SOCIAL CHANGE Creating employment Objective opportunities for Train, employ and develop Aboriginal people Aboriginal people within Fortescue and its contractor partners. Fortescue has a proud history of championing Aboriginal employment and strives to provide training, Target employment and development opportunities for Aboriginal people. • B  y 2020, achieve an Aboriginal employment rate of Fortescue is a major employer of 20 per cent across Fortescue's Australian operations Aboriginal people employing 779 • B  y 2020, achieve an Aboriginal employment rate of Aboriginal people, which represents 12.1 per cent of Fortescue’s Australian10 per cent in leadership roles • B  y 2022, achieve an Aboriginal employment rate of 08 based workforce. The total number of Aboriginal people 20 per cent in skilled trades. working on Fortescue sites at 30 June 2019 is 1,070 which includes 847 direct employees, labour hire and contractors. Aboriginal people have begun employment with Fortescue Fortescue implements a range of through VTEC since 2006 training, development and support 41 initiatives to assist Aboriginal people to gain employment and achieve their career goals with Fortescue. VTEC graduates in FY19 June 2019 Karratha/ Roebourne VTEC graduation. CASE STUDY Fortescue’s VTEC continues to provide more career opportunities Fortescue’s Vocational Training and Employment Centre Chief Financial Officer, Ian Wells who attended one of (VTEC) program is based on the simple, but compelling the graduations, said that VTEC continues to empower idea that after successfully completing training, you are generational change and sustainable development in guaranteed a job. VTEC, together with Fortescue’s Trade Up Aboriginal communities. and the Leadership Excellence in Aboriginal People (LEAP) “Fortescue is a leader in its commitment to creating initiative is crucial to Fortescue’s commitment to provide opportunities for Aboriginal people and the success of VTEC sustainable career pathways for Aboriginal people. can be measured by the 847 Aboriginal people who have During FY19, Fortescue celebrated the graduation of been offered employment since VTEC began in 2006. 41 VTEC students from South Hedland and Karratha/ “I am always humbled by the personal stories of our VTEC Roebourne. The graduates commenced full time graduates, including their courage and determination to employment at Fortescue in roles spanning mining, fixed take on new challenges and begin an exciting new career plant, drill and blast and water services. with Fortescue,” Mr Wells said. FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 89 All of Fortescue was created by Fortescue employees with Aboriginal artist, Jilaga Murray. Supporting Aboriginal employees Target Progress 779 12.1% Creating employment opportunities for Aboriginal people By 2020, achieve an Aboriginal people employed of the total Australian workforce Aboriginal employment rate of 20% across 1,070 Fortescue's Australian Aboriginal people working on Fortescue sites (including contractors) operations The Company will continue to enhance its programs and initiatives to meet its 2020 targets Build skills, capability 41 82 85% People completed Trade Up Program trainees of Trade Up Program and opportunities VTEC training in FY19 were employed during FY19 participants were Aboriginal Key programs: Fortescue’s Trade Up Program Cultural awareness training of all employees Create a workplace which Leadership and Excellence in Aboriginal People (LEAP) Program supports and promotes Regional FIFO Aboriginal employment CEO for a Day Program Aboriginal development team support Housing support Aboriginal health programs 90 90 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 CREATING POSITIVE SOCIAL CHANGE 08 Supporting Aboriginal employees Target Progress Family and friends hosted at each site during FY19: Creating employment opportunities for Aboriginal people 184 329 233 209 Hedland Operations Cloudbreak Christmas Creek Solomon Hub The following key Aboriginal community-based programs were supported Provide family support during FY19: options including family Big hART site visits and Hedland Trade Training Centre community based family Community Support Grants support programs Hedland Women’s Refuge Jawun Program Youth Indigenous Council Mingle Mob Pilbara Community Hockey Program Roebourne High School Working Bee Promote opportunities 38 Aboriginal employees participated in the LEAP Program in FY19 for Aboriginal employees to move into the LEAP 4 Program and participate in Aboriginal employees participated in the CEO for a Day Program CEO for a Day 1 Aboriginal employee acted as GM Solomon Hub mine for a week as a development opportunity FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 91 CASE STUDY Fortescue’s Recruitment Trailer on the road for the first time This year, Fortescue launched its Recruitment Trailer which “As Fortescue grows as a business, we remain committed aims to help close the gap in employment outcomes to ensuring the Traditional Custodians have access to the between Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal Australians by training and employment opportunities Fortescue offers. providing better access to job opportunities and training in The trailer is a practical way we are delivering on this promise,” remote communities. Mr Ardagh said. Packed full of career resources and job application forms, the The launch of the Recruitment Trailer also supports the Up4It trailer encourages young people to think about their future initiative which has been running for the past 12 years. Up4It and learn about various employment opportunities available is a school based program delivering healthy messages and at Fortescue and other organisations. school attendance incentives to remote schools in the Pilbara, designed specifically to improve the attendance rates of Fortescue’s Manager of Aboriginal Development Projects, Aboriginal students in remote Western Australian schools. Damien Ardagh led the Recruitment Trailer’s tour of the Pilbara. CASE STUDY Annual Pilbara hockey carnivals were a hit Fortescue is the naming rights partner of the Kookaburras and a supporting partner of the Hockeyroos, Australia’s national hockey teams. As part of these partnerships, Fortescue delivered the Pilbara Community Hockey Program (PCHP) which finished with a series of hockey carnivals held in Roebourne, Yandeyarra and Port Hedland. Throughout August 2018, around 150 students from across the Pilbara joined Olympians and members of the Kookaburras and Hockeyroos including Grant Schubert, Matthew Dawson, Aaron Kleinschmidt, Brooke Peris and Georgia Wilson at the interschool carnivals. Since 2011, Fortescue has partnered with Hockey Australia to deliver the PCHP, which sits under the umbrella of Hockey Australia’s National Indigenous Program. Through this program, members of the Kookaburras and Hockeyroos host workshops with 12 schools and two local hockey associations. The clinics, delivered over ten weeks, develop hockey skills and demonstrate the importance of teamwork and a healthy lifestyle to school children. Congratulations to Roebourne who were the overall winners of the carnival and a big thank you to all participants and volunteers who made the carnival a success. 92 92 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 CREATING POSITIVE SOCIAL CHANGE 07 08 Fortescue is committed to championing generational change and creating sustainable Aboriginal communities Fortescue's seventh annual Working Bee at Roebourne District High School. FORTESCUE FORTESCUE METALS METALS GROUP GROUP LTD CORPORATE LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 REPORT FY19 93 Youth education initiatives 94 94 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 CREATING POSITIVE SOCIAL CHANGE Fortescue implements five key education initiatives for Aboriginal people Up4It Fortescue has supported Role Models and Leaders Australia in the delivery of the Up4It program for almost a decade. The program is designed to attract students back to school and reward those with good attendance in remote Up4It 08 Pilbara communities. Aboriginal Cadetship Program Secondary school students are able to access this program which provides mentoring, training and professional Aboriginal development opportunities. Cadets are offered direct entry to the Graduate Cadetship Program or Certificate II courses or the Program opportunity to apply for permanent employment upon completion of their studies. Graduate Program Aboriginal secondary school or university graduates are employed for two years where they complete a structured program with exposure to a range of departments across Fortescue. Graduate Program Fortescue’s Vacation Student Program Aboriginal university students are supported in completing work Fortescue’s experience during their holidays. Vacation Three Aboriginal students were Student enrolled in this program during FY19. Program The Girls Academy This year, Fortescue announced a new partnership with Role Models and Leaders Australia to provide financial support for The Girls Academy. The Academy develops and empowers The Girls Aboriginal girls though leadership Academy training, mentoring, sport and extra-curricular programs to enable them to realise their full potential. FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 95 Career development Supporting there are currently 75 Aboriginal people undertaking a traineeship and support Aboriginal leaders or apprenticeship as a result of the Building a supportive culture Leadership and Excellence in program. The first group of Trade Up Fundamental to the provision of Aboriginal People (LEAP) students have almost completed meaningful employment is the Fortescue believes Aboriginal leaders their studies. ongoing development of Fortescue’s are essential to enabling a culture that Personal and family support Aboriginal workforce through training truly supports Aboriginal people. In Fortescue’s Aboriginal training and professional development, and a 2015, the Company established the and employment programs are workplace culture that understands, Leadership and Excellence in Aboriginal complemented by initiatives supports and champions Aboriginal People (LEAP) program to help designed to overcome the barriers participation. Aboriginal employees with leadership faced by Aboriginal people in aspirations realise their goals. securing and maintaining work. Fortescue has a range of programs which actively work to build a LEAP is a 12-month formal To provide specific health support, workplace that is openly supportive of training program that includes the Company employs a full-time Aboriginal employment. off-site education, practical on-site Aboriginal Health Coordinator and development, internal mentoring, implements the Aboriginal Health Key elements include: Program which works to proactively Aboriginal leadership education and • Compulsory cross-cultural awareness business leadership training. improve the health of Fortescue’s training for all employees Aboriginal workforce. Each year, the launch of the program • Rewarding and recognising those Fortescue is the only Pilbara-based coincides with the Company’s people within the Company who mining Company with flights in and Annual General Meeting, giving LEAP support Aboriginal development and out of all mine sites to the major participants an opportunity to spend employment communities of Karratha, Port time with Fortescue’s Board and to be • Providing Aboriginal Development inspired by the most senior leaders in Hedland, Broome, Kununurra and Superintendents and Coordinators Fitzroy Crossing. This allows Aboriginal the business. at each site to support Aboriginal people to remain on country with their employees To date, 42 Aboriginal people have families and access the employment • Ensuring leaders are provided with completed the LEAP program, with up opportunities. the skills and knowledge to support to 20 candidates selected each year. Of the 42 people, 50 per cent have In FY19, all Pilbara-based employees and manage Aboriginal employees were eligible to receive housing been promoted and 30 per cent have • Celebrating significant Aboriginal support and entitlements. Currently, become Supervisors. cultural events during the year, 199 Aboriginal employees are including NAIDOC Week. Trade Up accessing Fortescue owned and Fortescue’s Trade Up program is an leased properties. The Company spent award-winning initiative that provides approximately A$7.5 million in FY19 a pathway to an apprenticeship for on housing support for Aboriginal Aboriginal employees. Supported by employees who reside in the Pilbara Fortescue’s contracting partners Thiess, and its surrounds. Goodline and Eastern Guruma Wirlu-Murra Yindjibarndi Joint Venture, CASE STUDY Fortescue supports the Up4It program Henry Lockyer, Aboriginal Development Coordinator Cloudbreak, and Amy Scheepers, Training Administrator, Cloudbreak, helped to deliver the Up4It program at Nullagine Primary School. Fortescue has supported Up4It for the past nine years, with the program designed to improve school attendance rates of Aboriginal students in regional and remote communities. 96 96 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 CREATINGSETTING POSITIVE HIGH SOCIAL STANDARDS CHANGE CASE STUDY 08 CEO for the Day inspires team to reach their potential Rebecca Councillor joined CEO, Elizabeth Gaines and other and focussing on training and development, she can now members of the leadership team for the release of the confidently load a ship. Company’s March FY19 Quarterly Production Report. “I think a leader needs to be approachable and a ‘people Rebecca, a Bunjima woman born and raised in Port Hedland, person’ to effectively lead a team. I try to lead by example began her journey with Fortescue five years ago as an entry and ensure that my actions reflect my words,” Ms Councillor level Civil Operator. Since then, she has progressed through said. operational roles and now leads a team of 11 as a Production Ms Gaines said, “Rebecca’s drive to empower her team, Supervisor, Hedland Operations. several of whom are currently completing the LEAP Rebecca credits her involvement in Fortescue’s LEAP program, and other Aboriginal employees at Fortescue program as key to her career growth. “The program has makes her an inspiration to her colleagues and an excellent helped me grow both professionally and personally. As a role model for the community. Aboriginal leaders are leader I strive to help people reach their potential just as essential to ensuring a culture that truly supports Aboriginal my supervisor supported me to reach my potential. For people. We established the LEAP program, as well as the example, I had an operator in my team who didn’t have CEO for a Day initiative, to support Aboriginal employees faith in her own abilities but after working closely with her with leadership aspirations.” CASE STUDY Leadership and Excellence in Aboriginal People (LEAP) Aboriginal leaders are essential to ensuring a culture that • Internal mentoring truly supports Aboriginal people and is key to creating • Leadership education generational change in Aboriginal communities. • Business leadership training. Launched in late 2015, LEAP is a 12 month formal training Since LEAP’s inception in 2015, 42 participants program designed to help Aboriginal employees with have successfully completed the LEAP program. Of the leadership aspirations realise their goals. 42 people, 50 per cent have been promoted and 30 per cent The program includes: have become Supervisors. This is a true testament to the • Off-site education success of the program. • Practical on-site development FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 97 Fortescue’s operations provide a unique opportunity to empower Aboriginal people and help bring about generational change for Aboriginal people. To support this, Fortescue participates in a wide range of industry organisations and global bodies including: • M ember and active participant in Business Council of Australia’s (BCA) Indigenous Taskforce • Member and active participant in BCA’s Raising the Bar Project (implementation of Indigenous procurement targets) • Active participant in Supply Addressing Nation’s Leadership Round Table Aboriginal • M ember and active participant in Association of Mining and Exploration Companies disparity (AMEC) Aboriginal Heritage Affairs Committee • V ocational Training and Employment Centre advisor to Government and industry. Objective Increase engagement with communities, governments, corporate Australia, non-government organisations and industry peers to address Aboriginal disparity. Target • A  nnual involvement in the policy debate to address Aboriginal disparity. 98 98 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 CREATING POSITIVE SOCIAL CHANGE CASE STUDY 08 Proudly supporting Big hART Fortescue was proud to continue its support of Big hART in to build values amongst young people that de-normalise FY19 as part of the Company’s commitment to developing family violence. partnerships to address Aboriginal disadvantage. CEO, Elizabeth Gaines said the Company was committed Established 25 years ago, Big hART is a not-for-profit to working with local Pilbara communities to develop organisation that delivers social change programs through innovative partnerships and initiatives which contribute to the arts and media. vibrant and sustainable communities. The ongoing partnership has supported the delivery of “We value the community organisations that we work Aboriginal youth workshops for children living in Roebourne, with and are proud of the difference we can make together,” which are focussed on family violence prevention, increasing Ms Gaines said. digital inclusion, generational change, connection to culture and engagement in education. The workshops help establish a safe place to seek help and Objective Target Empower Aboriginal corporations and • A  nnually, deliver at least develop partnerships to address key two major community projects challenges facing communities, with a with Aboriginal stakeholder focus on education and young people. partners. Fortescue works Partnerships in Aboriginal communities with Aboriginal Jawun Program Youth workshops communities to In January 2017, Fortescue joined the Jawun Program and during The Wirlu-murra Yindijibarndi Aboriginal Corporation and address challenges FY19, five secondees travelled to the Fortescue partnered with BighART, they face. During East Kimberley region for six week placements. a not-for-profit, non-government organisation to deliver Aboriginal FY19, the Company Jawun is a program focussed on youth workshops program to children continued to building the capacity of Indigenous living in Roebourne. build on two key people by placing skilled individuals from Australia’s leading companies The program uses art and media to lead social change on issues partnerships. and government agencies into including the prevention of family Indigenous organisations. violence, connection to culture and engagement in education. These secondees share their expertise and support Indigenous leaders to achieve development goals for the community. FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 99 Students from across the Pilbara joined Olympians and members of the Kookaburras and Hockeyroos at a series of hockey carnivals. Building sustainable communities Objective Fortescue strives to create economic To create economic opportunities in the regions opportunities within the regions in which Fortescue operates through engagement in which it operates by employing with local businesses, local employment and the local people and purchasing local products and services. The Company residential workforce. recognises the need to create vibrant and flourishing communities that will attract and retain a mining workforce Target and their families. Fortescue supports a regional fly-in fly-out workforce • A  nnually, achieve at least five per cent of actual from Port Hedland, Broome, Fitzroy spend with local Pilbara suppliers. Crossing, Kununurra and Karratha, with 524 employees based in the Pilbara, 437 of whom receive housing support. Local procurement Fortescue seeks regular feedback Fortescue is committed to supporting Fortescue’s overseas spend in FY19 from its residential workforce and local businesses that in turn includes a spend of A$32.2 million other stakeholders, including local employ local people. In FY19, 2,402 with 29 have entities based in the governments to ensure its initiatives suppliers were engaged with a total United States of America and and programs support and address the contestable spend of A$4,298 million a A$24.6 million spend with challenges facing these communities. (GST inclusive). Over 97 per cent of 26 Chinese suppliers. The Company also works to ensure Fortescue’s total procurement spend its community investment strategy is Fortescue is also a member and was with Australian entities, aligned with community expectations. active contributor of the Pilbara 58 per cent within Western Australia based Chamber of Commerce and and 5 per cent directly in the Pilbara. Industry and the Port Hedland Industries Council. 100 100 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 CREATING POSITIVE SOCIAL CHANGE 07 08 CASE STUDY Fortescue keeps it local to benefit the community In April 2019, Fortescue awarded a Major Component engagement with regionally based businesses and Overhaul and Replacement Services (MCORS) contract to supporting local jobs.” three businesses in Port Hedland. The contract resulted in “Thriving businesses are fundamental to the economic 17 newly created full time, local jobs and positive outcomes prosperity of our communities and basing the maintenance for supply chain and infrastructure investment in the Pilbara. of our heavy mobile equipment in Port Hedland is a very Local service providers Force Equipment, WesTrac and practical, common sense approach that has significant Komatsu were jointly awarded a A$35 million service benefits for our community.” contract to conduct maintenance on Fortescue’s heavy “Last financial year, five per cent of our procurement spend mobile equipment in Port Hedland. Previously, the vehicles was with local Pilbara businesses and for more than 10 years and machinery were transported to Perth for repairs, a 3,200 we’ve proudly supported local organisations involved in kilometre return trip. initiatives, activities and events in the Pilbara through our CEO, Elizabeth Gaines said, “Fortescue is committed to community grants program,” Ms Gaines said. creating economic opportunities in the Pilbara through FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 101 Fortescue seeks to empower its communities by developing partnerships to deliver strategic and meaningful outcomes that generate value for communities. Fortescue’s biannual Community Grants Program has been operating for 11 years and continues to provide eligible organisations with up to A$5,000 in funding to support a variety of community initiatives that benefit the Pilbara. During FY19, Fortescue provided Community community grants totalling over A$150,000 to 64 community, sporting investment and non-profit organisations in the Pilbara, delivering a range of beneficial programs, activities and outcomes to the local community. Fortescue focuses on community projects that champion: • Education and training Objective • Aboriginal engagement Ensure Fortescue’s community • Health and wellness investment program is strategic • Community safety and involvement and delivers value to communities. • Economic development • Arts and culture • Environmental responsibility. Target • A  llocate grants according to Community partnership priorities set in the community investment strategy. Port Hedland community Fortescue has a longstanding partnership with the Town of Port Hedland to create a vibrant and flourishing place for people to live and work. Fortescue provides free access to employees and their families to movies, theatre performances, the aquatic centre and subsidised access to the Town's Wanangkura Stadium for gymnasium and fitness programs. Fortescue is also a sponsor of the North West Festival, a major music concert coordinated by the town. Fortescue Founder and Chairman, Andrew Forrest AO participates in the Central Park Plunge in support of Ronald McDonald House. 102 102 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 CREATING POSITIVE SOCIAL CHANGE Mingle Mob Program Roebourne District Ronald McDonald House Fortescue is proud of its ongoing High School Fortescue maintains its strong support of the Youth Involvement In August 2018, Fortescue held the partnership with Ronald McDonald Council’s (YIC) Mingle Mob program annual Working Bee at Roebourne House (RMH), which provides in South Hedland. District High School. Fortescue emergency accommodation to regional employees, friends and community families with children needing medical Aimed at reducing antisocial and criminal members volunteered their time to treatment in Perth. In FY19, Fortescue behaviour, Mingle Mob runs a bus that revitalise the school grounds with maintained its sponsorship of two picks up at-risk youth off the streets at painting, landscaping, repairs and rooms through the RMH Adopt-A-Room night and takes them to a safe shelter. maintenance, making the school a program, in addition to employees Hedland Women’s Refuge vibrant and welcoming environment. making significant contributions Fortescue believes it has a The eighth annual Working Bee will through a variety of fundraising responsibility to demonstrate leadership on the issue of domestic take place in August 2019. activities including participation in the annual Central Park Plunge and 08 Hedland Senior High School volunteer activities. and family violence in its workplace Fortescue remains an operational and in the wider community. In 2016, sponsor of the Hedland Senior High Pilbara Community Hockey the Company entered into a fiveSchool’s Trade Training Centre which Program year partnership with the Hedland provides students with a pathway to Fortescue is the naming rights partner Women’s Refuge which includes direct employment in the mining industry of the Kookaburras and a supporting operational funding and opportunities and other industries. partner of the Hockeyroos, Australia’s to assist through activities such as national hockey teams. the upgrade of the refuge’s outdoor In FY19, Fortescue offered work recreation area. placement opportunities at its Hedland In partnership with Hockey Australia, Operations and engaged six recently Fortescue delivers the Pilbara The refuge provides crisis graduated students in traineeship Community Hockey Program to schools accommodation and holistic programs positions. and local hockey associations. In to women and children escaping family May and June 2019, members of the and domestic violence. Young Australian Art Kookaburras and Hockeyroos delivered Fortescue stands together with the and Writer’s Awards: hockey workshops to 11 primary schools refuge and participates in annual Pilbara Region and one high school in the Pilbara. White Ribbon Day events, including In FY19, Fortescue continued its support of the Young Australian Art The workshops develop hockey skills the Port Hedland White Ribbon March, and Writers’ Awards: Pilbara Region and demonstrate the importance of in recognition of the need to eliminate program which was delivered to eight teamwork and a healthy lifestyle to family violence in communities. Chief Pilbara schools, several of which are school children. As well as the school Operating Officer, Greg Lilleyman, remote community schools. workshops, Fortescue and Hockey is a White Ribbon Australia Australia support two Pilbara hockey Ambassador and is committed to The program aims to develop associations, enabling children and building greater equality and respect literacy, teach creativity and increase adults to experience hockey for the between men and women, with school attendance levels with a view first time or develop a pathway into Fortescue working towards achieving to addressing the broader concern professional hockey. The partnership White Ribbon Australia Workplace of child suicide rates in remote also sees the Kookaburras and Accreditation in 2019. communities. Hockeyroos participate in community outreach events such as the Welcome to Hedland Expo, Roebourne Working Bee and Town of Port Hedland Sports Awards. Fortescue sponsors award winning short film Locally made, Fortescue sponsored short film, Yulubidyi – Until The End, was awarded Best Australian Short Film at Flickerfest in Sydney. Yulubidyi, which was filmed on location in the Pilbara, was screened alongside Birds of Passage as part of the 2019 Perth Festival in March. Congratulations to the film’s creators, Nathan Mewett CASE STUDY and Curtis Taylor. FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 103 CASE STUDY Supporting White Ribbon Day on our journey to becoming an Accredited Workplace Fortescue is a proud supporter of White Ribbon Day and “As a business with a majority of male employees, team members joined the Port Hedland community for the we believe that men have an important role to play annual White Ribbon Day march in November, 2018. alongside women in preventing domestic violence,” Having recognised White Ribbon Day since 2015, Mr Lilleyman said. Fortescue is striving to become a White Ribbon Australia “The Accreditation process helps facilitate open and Accredited Workplace. honest conversations about what constitutes domestic Chief Operating Officer and White Ribbon Ambassador, violence and provides a framework for engaging with Greg Lilleyman joined the Hedland Operations team for the our people through surveys, policy reviews and the community march and is leading our accreditation process. implementation of training programs.” CASE STUDY Fortescue family get busy at annual Roebourne Working Bee Over 100 volunteers came together for Fortescue’s annual Working Bee initiative together, making a positive change Roebourne Working Bee in August 2018 to revitalise in the community,” Ms Pringle said. Roebourne District High School’s grounds with painting, “It was inspiring to see how much can get accomplished landscape repairs and maintenance. in one day when you have a great group of motivated Now in its seventh year, the Roebourne Working Bee is a people willing to do lots of hard work and get their highlight of Fortescue’s community calendar and brings hands dirty! together Fortescue team members and their families, Local businesses involved in the annual working teachers, parents and children of the school and local bee include Blackwoods, Coates Hire Karratha, community members from Roebourne, Karratha and Diverse Group Wickham, Hanson Construction Materials, Port Hedland. Hertz Karratha, Home Hardware, Linfox, Northwest Tree General Manager Solomon, Jessica Pringle volunteered at Services, Morris, Monadelphous, and Toxfree Australia, the event and said it was inspiring to see the community as well as Mingullatharndo Community, The Ngarluma come together and make a difference. Yindjibarndi Foundation and Wirlu-murra Yindjibarndi “It was tremendously uplifting to see teachers, members Aboriginal Corporation. of the community, Fortescue team members and our contracting partners all supporting the Roebourne 104 104 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 CREATING POSITIVE SOCIAL CHANGE CASE STUDY Community grant supports mental health outcomes for youth in the Pilbara 08 In 2019, Fortescue supported the Youth Involvement journaling, affirmations and yoga – to help them stay calm, Council’s (YIC) Mindfulness and Meditation for Youth focussed and relaxed.” Program in the Pilbara. The program is designed to empower “Fortescue has been a great supporter of the program and five to 10 year old children with the skills to regulate their through the community grant, we’ve been able to get it off emotions and reduce stress and anxiety. the ground. This is the second year that the program has YIC was awarded a grant through Fortescue’s Community received funding and some of the kids have already made Support program to assist with the delivery of a weekly significant transformations,” Ms Dow said. workshop based in South Hedland during the first two Hedland Operations General Manager, Katie Day said school terms this year. from the outset it was Fortescue’s vision to empower the The program was developed by Roxanne Dow, a YIC communities in which it operates by supporting local Youth Worker who also owns her own meditation and organisations like YIC that deliver meaningful outcomes. mindfulness business. “At Fortescue, we are committed to building thriving “There weren’t any programs available like this when my communities and are proud to support a program that is kids were growing up in Karratha. My goal was to bring working to improve the mental health outcomes for this type of program to at risk kids in Pilbara communities. children living in the Pilbara,” Ms Day said. The program teaches kids the basics of mindfulness and meditation – including breathing exercises, visualisations, CASE STUDY Fortescue Ecuador provides shelter for local school Fortescue Ecuador partnered with the local Plateado “As a teacher at the school, it gives me a sense of community to help build a roof for the Simon Rodriguez wellbeing that Fortescue has supported the development Bilingual Education Centre, which will allow children to stay of the community from a social aspect, and placed dry during the wet season. importance on the children of the community of the The school is attended by 18 children from Plateado as well Plateado, “ Ms Sarango said. as the nearby area of Ankuash. It is also used for communal The Company worked in partnership with the meetings so the benefits of having a covered area will be Ecuadorian Ministry of Education to also improve other felt throughout the wider community. areas of the school through painting, building fences and School teacher, Maria Isabel Sarango said she was pleased donating computers. the welfare of the children had been prioritised. Fortescue's Board visited Ecuador in May 2019. FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 105 Human rights Objective Fortescue complies with global standards on business and human rights and takes a leading role in the Australian business community on human rights. Target • A nnual, active engagement on human rights issues in business. 106 106 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 CREATING POSITIVE SOCIAL CHANGE Protecting human rights Fortescue is committed to upholding These include the Whistleblower and respecting the human rights of reporting system which provides all people including its employees, an independent, anonymous and the communities in which it operates, confidential avenue for anyone to raise those who may be impacted by its concerns regarding potential illegal activities and those within its activity or breaches of Fortescue’s supply chains. Code, including human rights matters. Fortescue conducts business in a Potential human rights risks are manner consistent with the human identified and assessed within rights principles encompassed Fortescue’s corporate wide Risk 08 in the Universal Declaration on Management Framework. This Human Rights, the International framework supports proper Labour Organisation’s Declaration consideration of potential human on the Fundamental Principles and rights risks by senior management Rights at Work, the United Nations and the Board. Global Compact, the Forced Labor Appropriate risk management Convention and the United Nations strategies are implemented and Guiding Principles on Business and monitored on a regular basis. The Audit Human Rights. The Company also and Risk Management Committee works to ensure it is not complicit in (ARMC) is responsible for oversight of human rights abuses committed risk management (including human by others. rights risk) on behalf of the Board. The foundation documents for human Fortescue also undertakes in-country rights protection are the Company’s risk assessments before investing in a Code of Conduct and Integrity and particular country to ensure the level Human Rights Policy. Below these of human rights risk, including the risk documents sit specific policies and of modern slavery, is well understood. guidelines. A Human Rights assessment Fortescue recognises the significant undertaken in 2018 identified key risks role it has in ensuring that the rights of as protecting the health and safety of Indigenous people are protected in the employees and contractors, addressing communities in which it operates. The modern slavery in the supply Company acknowledges the United chain and protecting the rights of Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous people and communities Indigenous Peoples and the human near operations. rights principles it embodies including the principle of Free, Prior and Annually, Fortescue participates Informed Consent (FPIC). Consistent in engagement sessions related to with FPIC, Fortescue’s engagement human rights policy and regulatory processes seek to secure the consent development including through the of Traditional Custodians to conduct Global Compact Network Australia. mineral exploration and development In FY19, this included participating in on their traditional lands. a number of external workshops and sessions with business, government Fortescue works with its stakeholders and civil society regarding Australia’s to identify and understand the Modern Slavery legislation. impacts of its activities and to optimise benefits and minimise negative impacts. Due diligence is implemented to prevent and mitigate adverse Fortescue impacts and the Company provides access to remedy through grievance undertakes mechanisms. in-country risk assessments before investing in any country FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 107 Modern slavery One of the major human rights risks facing Fortescue is the existence of modern slavery practices in its supply chain. Fortescue has a global supply chain operations and its supply chain. The statement outlines the actions procuring a range of goods and The Company also recognises that it Fortescue is undertaking to ensure services from different countries has a role to influence its customers. modern slavery does not occur in its around the world. The Company operations and supply chains. This year, Fortescue published its acknowledges that modern slavery has second Modern Slavery Voluntary A copy of the Modern Slavery the potential to exist in its supply chain Statement. The statement is produced Voluntary Statement is available on through a variety of circumstances voluntarily as the Company is not the Company's website at including forced labour, child labour, currently required to produce a www.fmgl.com.au debt bondage and human trafficking. statement under any legislation Fortescue is working in collaboration until 2020. with its suppliers, industry, government and NGOs to identify and address the risk of modern slavery in its own CASE STUDY Fortescue commends passing of Australian Modern Slavery Act Fortescue welcomed the passing of Australia’s Modern CEO, Elizabeth Gaines said “Fortescue fully endorses the Slavery Act 2018 as an important step in harnessing the introduction of the Australian Modern Slavery Act 2018 and power of Australian business to eradicate modern slavery we commend the Liberal, National, Labor and cross bench in global supply chains. supporters for making this anti-slavery legislation a priority.” Fortescue has long been an advocate of the Walk Free “We oppose all forms of slavery and forced labour across Foundation, founded by Fortescue Founder and Chairman, our operations and the operations of our suppliers and will Andrew Forrest AO who has tirelessly campaigned for the continue to work closely with these businesses to eliminate introduction of legislation to address modern slavery risks. slavery from supply chains, Ms Gaines said. 108 108 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 CORPORATE DIRECTORY 09 09 Corporate Directory FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 109 Navigational Index Fortescue’s CSR report contains Standard Disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and the associated Mining and Metals Sector Supplement. Fortescue’s CSR report also serves FY19 Corporate Social Responsibility the 10 principles of the International as its Active Level Communication Annual Report and FY19 Corporate Council on Mining and Metals and the on Progress for the United Nations Governance Statement that align with UN Sustainable Development Goals. Global Compact. The Navigation Index the GRI Standards, the principles of the indicates the sections of Fortescue’s United Nations Global Compact, General Standard Disclosures ICMM UNGC GRI Standard Disclosure Location Principles Principles 102-1 Name of the organisation About this Report: page 2 About Fortescue: page 8 Activities, brands, 102-2 Operating and Financial Review: products and services pages 18-23 About Fortescue: page 8 102-3 Location of headquarters Full address: page 123 102-4 Location of operations About Fortescue: page 8 About Fortescue: page 8 102-5 Ownership and legal form Annual Report – Shareholder information: page 146 102-6 Markets served About Fortescue: page 8 About Fortescue: page 8 FY19 Annual Report – Operating and Financial Review – Overview 102-7 Scale of the organisation of Operations, Financial Results and position: pages 18-38 and pages 59-110 Information on employees Fortescue Family: pages 44-51 102-8 6 and other workers Data tables: pages: 117-120 Fortescue’s Supply Chain: page 108 102-9 Supply chain Modern Slavery Voluntary Statement 102-10 Significant changes to FY19 Annual Report – Financial the organisation and Report – Director’s Report: pages supply chain 60-62 110 110 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 Navigational Index CORPORATE DIRECTORY General Standard Disclosures ICMM UNGC GRI Standard Disclosure Location Principles Principles Precautionary Principle 102-11 Protecting biodiversity: pages 74-76 1,2,4 7 or approach Message from CEO: pages 6-7 Fortescue’s approach to CSR: page 24-26 102-12 External initiatives Memberships and Commitments to external initiatives relevant to CSR: 2 09 page 36 Message from CEO: pages 6-7 102-13 Memberships 2 Fortescue’s approach to CSR: pages 24-26 Statement from senior 102-14 Message from CEO: pages 6-7 2 1,4,5 decision-maker Key impacts, risks Material issues: page 30 102-15 and opportunities Throughout report Values, principles, standards Vision and Values: page 4 102-16 1,2 10 and norms of behaviours Throughout report 102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance: page 33 1 Corporate Governance: page 33 Highest governance Respecting human rights: pages 106-108 102-32 body’s role in 1 Fortescue’s response to climate change: sustainability reporting page 66-73 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Engaging with stakeholders: pages 35 4,10 Collective bargaining 102-41 Fortescue Family: pages 44-51 3 3 agreements Identifying and selecting 102-42 Engaging with stakeholders: pages 35 4,10 stakeholders Approach to stakeholder 102-43 Engaging with stakeholders: pages 35 4,10 engagement Entities included in the FY19 Annual Report – Notes to the 102-45 consolidated financial Consolidated Financial Statements: pages statements 74-110 Defining report content 102-46 Fortescue’s approach to CSR: pages 24-26 2 and its boundary Material Issues: page 30 102-47 List of material topics United Nations Sustainable development 2 Goals: pages 26-29 Restatements of information are noted in 102-48 Restatements of information the text 102-49 Changes in reporting Fortescue’s approach to CSR: pages 24-26 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 111 Navigational Index General Standard Disclosures ICMM UNGC GRI Standard Disclosure Location Principles Principles 102-50 Reporting period About this Report: page 2 10 102-51 Date of most recent report 2019 102-52 Reporting cycle About this Report: page 2 Contact point for questions 102-53 About this Report: page 2 regarding the report Claims reporting in 102-54 accordance with the About this Report: page 2 GRI standards 102-55 GRI Content index Corporate Directory: pages 110-116 102-56 External Assurance About this Report: page 2 10 Management Approach ICMM UNGC GRI Standard Disclosure Location Principles Principles Covered for each material issue Explanation of the material 103-1 throughout the report. Material Issues: 4,10 topic and its boundary page 30 Covered for each material issue The management approach 103-2 throughout the report. Material Issues: and its components page 30 Covered for each material issue Evaluation of the 103-3 throughout the report. Material Issues: management approach page 30 Economic performance Direct economic value Approach to Tax: pages 59-63 201-1 9 generated and distributed FY19 Annual Report – pages 59-110 Financial implications and 201-2 other risks and opportunities Approach to climate change: pages 66-71 6 7 due to climate change Specific Standard Disclosures ICMM UNGC GRI Standard Disclosure Location Principles Principles Material Topic: Employee health, safety and wellbeing Occupational Health and safety Disclosure on Employee health, safety and wellbeing: DMA Management Approach pages 38-43 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational Employee health, safety and wellbeing: 403-2 diseases, lost days, and pages 38-43 5 1 absenteeism, and number Data tables: page 117-120 of work-related fatalities 112 112 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 Navigational Index CORPORATE DIRECTORY Specific Standard Disclosures ICMM UNGC GRI Standard Disclosure Location Principles Principles Material Topic: Diversity Diversity and equal opportunity Disclosure on Management DMA Workplace diversity: pages 47-51 Approach 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Workplace diversity: pages 47-51 3 6 09 Employee training and education Average hours of training 404-1 Data tables: pages 117-120 5 6 per year per employee Programs for upgrading Fortescue Family: pages 44-51 404-2 employee skills and transition 3 6 assistance programs Percentage of employees receiving regular 404-3 Data tables: pages 117-120 3 6 performance and career development reviews Employment Total number and rates of 401-1 new employee hires and Data tables: pages 117-120 3 6 employee turnover Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Fortescue Family: pages 44-51 401-2 6 provided to temporary or Data tables: pages 117-120 part-time employees Operations with significant Engaging with our stakeholders: pages 35 actual and potential 413-2 Building sustainable communities: pages 3,9 1,2 negative impacts on local 100-105 communities Material Topic: Ethical conduct, anti-bribery and corruption Anti-corruption Disclosure on Management Ethical conduct, anti-bribery and DMA Approach corruption: pages 55-57 Confirmed incidents of Ethical conduct, anti-bribery and 205-3 1 10 corruption and actions taken corruption: pages 55-57 Material Topic: Protecting Aboriginal heritage Rights of Indigenous peoples Disclosure on Management Preserving Aboriginal heritage: DMA Approach pages 52-54 Total number of operations taking place in or adjacent to Indigenous peoples’ territories, and number and Preserving Aboriginal heritage: G4-MM5 3,9 1,2 percentage of operations or pages 52-54 sites where there are formal agreements with indigenous peoples’ communities FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 113 Navigational Index Specific Standard Disclosures ICMM UNGC GRI Standard Disclosure Location Principles Principles Material Topic: Building Local Communities Indirect Economic Impacts Disclosure on Building sustainable communities: DMA management approach pages 100-105 Significant indirect Building sustainable communities: 203-2 economic impacts pages 100-105 Procurement practices Proportion of spending Building sustainable communities: 204-1 2,9 6 on local suppliers page 100 Material Topic: Respecting human rights Human Rights assessment Disclosure on DMA Respecting human rights: pages 106-108 Management Approach Operations that have been subject to human 412-1 Respecting human rights: pages 106-108 3 1,2 rights reviews or impact assessments Employee training on human Respecting human rights: pages 106-108 412-2 3 1,2,3,4,5,6 rights policies or procedures Modern Slavery Voluntary Statement Significant investment agreements and contracts Respecting human rights: pages 106-108 412-3 that include human rights 2 1,2,3,4,5,6 Modern Slavery Voluntary Statement clauses or that underwent human rights screening Supplier environmental assessment Supplier environmental assessment New suppliers that 308-1 were screened using Modern Slavery Voluntary Statement 6 7,8,9 environmental criteria Child labour Operations and suppliers 408-1 at significant risk for Modern Slavery Voluntary Statement 3 1,2,5 incidents of child labour Forced or compulsory labour Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 409-1 Modern Slavery Voluntary Statement 3 1,2,4,5 incidents of forced or compulsory labour 114 114 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 Navigational Index CORPORATE DIRECTORY Specific Standard Disclosures ICMM UNGC GRI Standard Disclosure Location Principles Principles Material Issue: Protecting the environment Biodiversity Disclosure on management DMA Protecting biodiversity: pages 74-76 approach Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or 09 adjacent to, protected 304-1 Protecting biodiversity: pages 74-76 7 8 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Amount of land (owned or leased, and managed G4-MM1 for production activities Data tables: page 120 6 8 or extractive use) disturbed or rehabilitated The number and percentage of total sites identified as requiring biodiversity management G4-MM2 Protecting biodiversity: pages 74-76 7 8 plans according to stated criteria, and the number (percentage) of those sites with plans in place Significant impacts of 304-2 activities, products, and Protecting biodiversity: pages 74-76 7 8 services on biodiversity Habitats protected 304-3 Protecting biodiversity: pages 74-76 7 8 or restored IUCN Red List species and national conservation list 304-4 Protecting biodiversity: pages 74-76 7 8 species with habitats in areas affected by operations Closure planning Number and percentage G4-MM10 or operations with Mine closure: page 79 6,9 7 closure plans Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Data tables: page 120 6 7,8 303-3 Water recycled and reused Data tables: page 120 8 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 115 Navigational Index Specific Standard Disclosures ICMM UNGC GRI Standard Disclosure Location Principles Principles Material Issue: Safeguarding the environment Effluents and waste Waste by type and 306-2 Data tables: page 120 6 8 disposal method 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Waste management: page 84 8 Material Topic: Climate change Emissions Disclosure on Fortescue’s response to climate change: DMA management approach pages 66-71 Direct (Scope 1) 305-1 FY19 performance: pages 72-73 6 8 GHG emissions Energy indirect (Scope 2) 305-2 FY19 performance: pages 72-73 6 8 GHG emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity FY19 performance: pages 72-73 6 8 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions FY19 performance: pages 72-73 6 8 116 116 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 Data Tables CORPORATE DIRECTORY Health and safety data Fatalities Region FY19 FY18 FY17 Australia 0 0 0 China 0 0 0 Singapore 0 0 0 Ecuador 0 0 NA Total 0 0 0 Safety Excellence and Culture Survey participation (%) 93 94 92 Positive drugs test results (%) 0.78 0.55 0.51 09 TRIFR FY19 FY19 FY19 Region Total Contractor Employee FY18 FY17 Australia 2.8 3.5 2 3.7 2.9 China 0 0 0 0 0 Singapore 0 0 0 0 0 Ecuador 3.7 0 5.1 0 0 Total 2.8 3.5 2.0 3.7 2.9 Injury Severity Rate FY19 FY19 Region Employees Contractors Australia 83 132 China 0 0 Singapore 0 0 Ecuador 80 0 Total 79 132 Recordable occupational illness rate FY19 Region Employees Contractors Australia 0.2 0.1 China 0 0 Singapore 0 0 Ecuador 0 0 Total 0.2 0.1 Regional safety fines FY19 Region No. Value (A$) Australia 1 64,000 International 0 0 Total 1 64,000 Employment data Number of staff by gender (employees and labour hire) FY19 FY18 Male 5,438 4,749 Female 1,312 1,002 Total 6,750 5,751 Number of staff by employment type (employees and labour hire) Full-time 4,756 3,953 Part-time 454 347 Fixed term Full-time 148 174 Fixed term Part-time 2 5 Casual 146 46 Labour Hire 1,244 1,226 Total 6,750 5,751 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 117 Data Tables Employment data Flexible working arrangements FY19 FY18 No. of staff that utilised flexible working arrangements 463 360 Number of Staff by employment category (employees only) Female Male CEO 1 0 GM and above 11 35 Managers 31 114 Superintendent 49 191 Supervisor 32 373 Other (professionals, operators, trades, support staff ) 941 3,728 Total 1,065 4,441 Number of staff by region (employees and labour hire) Female Male Australia 1,204 5,244 China 8 10 Singapore 7 5 Ecuador/Columbia 79 154 Argentina 14 25 Total 1,312 5,438 FY19 FY18 Females working in Perth office (%) 38.9 24 Aboriginal people working on Pilbara sites (%) 15.1 22 Age distribution (employees and labour hire) FY19 FY18 < 30 Male 1,018 883 < 30 Female 390 273 31-50 Male 3,264 2,865 31-50 Female 747 587 51+ Male 1,156 1,001 51+ Female 175 142 Total 6,750 5,751 Females in management positions (%) FY19 FY18 Females in senior leadership 25.5 24 Females in management positions 22.4 22 Board membership FY19 FY18 Male 4 4 Female 5 5 Aboriginal employment data (employees and labour hire) FY19 FY18 Employees – Male 573 607 Employees – Female 206 203 Total 779 810 Aboriginal people working across all sites FY19 FY18 No. of Aboriginal people working across all sites (incl. contractors) 1,070 1,161 % of employees that are Aboriginal (direct employees and labour hire) 12.1 14.1 Employee turnover FY19 FY18 Voluntary turnover (%) 9.2 10.5 Involuntary turnover (%) 2.0 2 Total 12.5 Voluntary turnover by gender (direct employees only) FY19 FY18 Male (%) 9.9 10.2 Female (%) 11.2 11.7 118 118 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 Data Tables CORPORATE DIRECTORY Employment data Parental leave FY19 FY18 Employees who took primary carers parental leave 114 95 Primary carers parental leave retention rate (%) 87.9 Employees eligible for parental leave (%) 76 88 Female employees who took primary carers parental leave 91 82 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews FY19 FY18 09 Male 100 100 Female 100 100 Total hours of training by gender Male 325,235 146,222 Female 40,368 23,881 Total hours of training by employee type Permanent Full-time 164,190 154,437 Fixed term 4,511 4,222 Part-time 14,597 11,415 Health and safety training in hours by gender Male employees 24,703 19,303 Female employees 3,298 2,426 Male contractors 40,246 51,156 Female contractors 3,023 4,780 New employee hires by gender (Direct) Male 1,256 603 Female 396 155 Total 1,652 758 Native title and heritage FY19 FY18 No. of reportable heritage incidents 0 0 No. of heritage places managed 5,902 5,597 Land ethnographically surveyed (ha) 219,894 202,575 Land ethnographical surveyed (ha) 2,357,549 2,095,346 No. of Land Access Agreements in place 7 7 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 119 Data Tables Environment and water Land FY19 FY18 Total land disturbed (ha) 28,973 27,304 Total land rehabilitated (ha) 4,232 4,008 Greenhouse gas emissions Total Scope 1 emissions (million tonnes CO2e) 1.69 1.46 Total Scope 2 emmissions (million tonnes CO2e) 0.15 0.21 Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 reduction since FY15 (%) 3.7 12.8 Reduction in GHG emissions intensity since FY15 (%) 10.9 13.5 Emissions intensity in electricity generation (t CO2e/wmt (‘000)) 3.6 3.78 Reduction in emissions intensity in electricity generation from FY15 levels (%) 17 13 Emissions intensity in energy consumption (t CO2e/mt.km) 319.6 324.4 Water withdrawn by source (kL) Surface water withdrawal 0 0 Groundwater withdrawal 136,266,801 142,292,710 Sea water withdrawal 541,621 530,992 Rainwater collected/stored 0 0 Municipal water supplies, other public or private water utilities 21,875 17,658 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 0 0 Returns to the environment (kL) Managed aquifer recharge 95,826,877 91,679,678 Surface water discharge 0 0 Supplementation 2,417,352 2,907,454 Evaporation and seepage 1,076,840 988,258 No. of significant environmental incidents 0 0 Water use (kL) Ore processing facilities 33,470,287 31,820,491 Potable camp supply 817,728 1,124,400 Dust suppression 8,789,361 7,036,979 Waste FY19 FY18 Total waste (t) 25,259 13,513 Material recycled (%) 91 86 Material landfilled (%) 9 14 Tailings Total tailings (dmt) 22,566,064 21,375,094 Taxes paid FY19 FY18 Company taxes (A$ million) 1,669 381 Royalties (A$ million) 823 529 Foreign (A$ million) 13 12 Total (A$ million) 2,505 1,182 Salaries and benefits (A$million) FY18 FY19 FY18 Total salaries (A$ million) 767.6 693.7 Total superannuation (A$ million) 79.7 71.4 Amount of housing support (A$ million) 11 11 Total (A$ million) 940 776.1 120 120 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 Glossary CORPORATE DIRECTORY Aboriginal C1 Cost Direct employees Describes both Aboriginal and Torres Operating costs of mining, processing, Total number of employees including Strait Islander people. rail and port on a per tonne basis, permanent, fixed term and part-time. including allocation of direct Does not include contractors. Aboriginal owned businesses administration charges and production Contractors, joint ventures, overheads. dmt subcontractors or other legal entities Dry metric tonne. owned by Aboriginal people. CFR A delivery term that indicates that the dmtu Australian Accounting Standards Australian Accounting Standards are shipment price includes the cost of goods, freight costs and marine costs Dry metric tonne unit. EPA 09 developed, issued and maintained by associated with a particular delivery. the Australian Accounting Standards Environmental Protection Authority. Board, an Australian Government Chichester Hub Fe agency under the Australian Securities Fortescue’s mining hub with two The chemical symbol for iron. and Investments Commission Act 2001. operating iron ore mines, Cloudbreak and Christmas Creek, located in the FIFO AMMA Pilbara, approximately 250 kilometres Fly-in Fly-out is defined as Australian Resources and Energy south east of Fortescue’s Herb Elliott circumstances of work where the place Group. Port in Port Hedland. of work is sufficiently isolated from the ASX worker’s place of residence to make CID Australian Securities Exchange. daily commute impractical. Channel Iron Deposit. ASX 100 Resource Index Fortescue CLT A capitalisation-weighted index which Fortescue Metals Group Ltd Fortescue’s Core Leadership Team. measures the performance of the (ACN 002 594 872) and its subsidiaries. resources sector of the ASX 100. The CO2e Fortescue River Gas Pipeline index is calculated on an end of Carbon dioxide equivalent which is the A 270 kilometre gas pipeline which day basis. internationally recognised measure of deliversnatural gas from the Dampier greenhouse gas emissions. ASX Corporate Governance to Bunbury Pipeline to the main power Principles and Recommendations Contestable spend station in the Solomon Hub. (4th Edition) Spend that is subject to Fortescue’s FY Principles and recommendations procurement process, in accordance Refers to a Financial Year. developed and released by the ASX with Fortescue’s Procurement Policy. Corporate Governance Council on It excludes shipping, Government Gearing the corporate governance practices costs or charges, including royalties, Debt/(debt + equity). to be adopted by ASX listed entities donations, subscriptions and and which are designed to promote memberships, Native Title group GJ investor confidence and to assist payments (other than payments as Gigajoules. listed entities to meet shareholder consideration for the provision of GRI expectations. direct goods or services), property The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) leasing, related Fortescue entities and Beneficiation is an international independent legal fees. Beneficiation is a process whereby ore organisation which has developed a is pulverised into fine particles and Contractors standard for sustainability reporting the higher grade material is separated, Non-Fortescue employees, working and disclosure. often magnetically, from the gangue with the Company to support specific Ha (waste). business activities. Hectares. BID Corporations Act Hematite Bedded Iron Deposit. Corporations Act 2001 of the An iron ore compound with an average Commonwealth of Australia. bt iron content of between 57% and Billion tonnes. DID 63% Fe. Hematite deposits are typically Detrital Iron Deposit. large, close to the surface and mined via open pits. FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 121 Glossary HSES Magnetite ore can be palletised for Solomon Hub Health, safety, environment direct use as a high-grade raw material A mining hub with two operating and security. for steel production. iron ore mines, Firetail and Kings. The Hub is located approximately ICMM mt 60 kilometres north of the township The International Council on Mining Million tonnes. of Tom Price and 120 kilometres west and Metals, established in 2001 to of the railway that links the Chichester act as a catalyst for performance mtpa Hub to Port Hedland. improvement in the mining and Million tonnes per annum. metals industry. Super Special Fines Net gearing Fortescue’s iron ore product from the Indigenous Land Use Agreement (Debt cash)/(debt cash + equity). Chichester Hub, with an iron content (ILUA) of 56.4% Fe. NGER Statutory agreement between a native The National Greenhouse and Energy title group and others about the use of TRIFR Reporting (NGER) Scheme, introduced land and waters. Total Recordable Injury Frequency in 2007 to provide data and accounting Rate per million man hours worked, IUCN in relation to Greenhouse Gas comprising lost time injuries, restricted International Union for Conservation emissions and energy consumption work and medical treatments. of Nature. and production. The NGER Scheme operates under the National Underlying EBITDA Key Management Personnel Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act Underlying EBITDA is defined Key Management Personnel (KMP) are 2007 (NGER Act). as earnings before interest, tax, those persons having authority and depreciation and amortisation, responsibility for planning, directing NPAT exploration, development and and controlling the activities of the Net profit after tax. other expenses. entity, directly or indirectly, including OPF any director (whether executive or Underlying EBITDA margin Ore Processing Facility. otherwise) of that entity. Underlying EBITDA / Operating Pilbara sales revenue. Kings CID Fines The Pilbara region in the north west Fortescue’s stand-alone product UNGC of Western Australia. produced from Channel Iron United Nations Global Compact, Deposit Ore from its Kings mine in Probable Ore Reserve which provides a leadership platform the Solomon Hub, with an iron grade As defined in the JORC Code, the for businesses that are committed to of 57.3% Fe. economically mineable part of an aligning their strategies and operations indicated mineral resource, and in with ten universally accepted kL principles in human rights, labour, some circumstances, a measured Kilolitre. environment and anti-corruption. mineral resource. It includes diluting Labour Hire materials and allowances for losses Voluntary employee turnover Contractors backfilling permanent which may occur when the material Permanent and fixed term employees Fortescue roles and not hired in a is mined. Appropriate assessments who left Fortescue voluntarily for service contractor capacity. and studies have been carried out, reasons not initiated by the Company. and include consideration of and Local supplier modification by realistically assumed VTEC Suppliers based in the Pilbara region. mining, metallurgical, economic, Vocational Training and Employment marketing, legal, environmental, Centre. LOM social and governmental factors. Life of Mine, being the number of These assessments demonstrate at wmt years over which available reserves the time of reporting that extraction Wet metric tonne. will be extracted. could reasonably be justified. WMYAC m3 Senior Executive Wirlu-murra Yindjibarndi Aboriginal Cubic metres. Leadership position title of Director Corporation. or Group Manager. Magnetite WTI An iron ore compound that is typically West Texas Intermediate. a lower iron content than Hematite iron ore. Magnetite ore requires significant beneficiation to form a saleable concentrate. After beneficiation, 122 122 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 Contact details CORPORATE DIRECTORY Fortescue Australia Australian Business Number Level 2, 87 Adelaide Terrace ABN 57 002 594 872 East Perth, WA 6004 T: +61 8 6218 8888 Auditor F: +61 8 6218 8880 PwC E: fmgl@fmgl.com.au Level 15, 125 St Georges Terrace www.fmgl.com.au Perth, WA 6000 www.pwc.com.au Fortescue Shanghai, China Current address: Securities Exchange listings 33/F East Building Eton International Business Plaza Fortescue Metals Group Limited shares are listed on the Australian Securities 09 555 Pudong Ave, Pudong, PC200120 Exchange (ASX) Shanghai, P.R China ASX Code: FMG Address from October 2019: Unit 3, Floor 15 Fortescue Share Registry No. 1366 Lujiazui Ring Road Link Market Services Limited Pudong New Area Level 12, QV1 Building Shanghai, P.R China 250 St Georges Terrace Perth, WA 6000 Singapore Locked Bag A14 Corporate FMG International, The Central Sydney South, NSW 1235 8 Eu Tong Sen St, 24-91 Singapore T: 1300 733 136 (within Australia) 059818 T: +61 2 8280 7603 (International) information Fortescue VTEC and Community office F: +61 2 9287 0309 www.linkmarketservices.com.au 1B/2 Byass Street South Hedland, WA 6722 T: +61 8 9158 5800 Stay in touch F: +61 8 6218 8880 Latest news, reports and Event calendar 2019 E: hedlandcommunity@fmgl.com.au presentations via email Key dates for Fortescue E: vtec@fmgl.com.au If you would prefer to receive shareholders in 2019 information such as Annual Orange, NSW Reports, notices of meetings and Full year results announcement 5 Corporation Place announcements via email, you 26 August 2019 Orange, NSW 2800 can change your communication South Australia preferences on the Registry website: September Quarterly 34 Croydon Road www.linkmarketservices.com.au Production Report Keswick, SA 5035 24 October 2019 Twitter Fortescue Argentina @FortescueNews Annual General Meeting Ombú 3017 29 October 2019 Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires (1425) Buenos Aires Argentina Fortescue Colombia au.linkedin.com/company/ Carrera 12ª # 78 40, Edificio Wework fortescue-metals-group piso 10, oficina 105 Bogotá Cundinamarca Colombia www.youtube.com/user/ Fortescue Ecuador FortescueMetalsGroup Avenida Nayon s/n y Avenida Simon Bolivar Conjunto Corporativo EkoPark, torre 2, piso 7, oficina 702 Quito Ecuador FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 123 Fortescue Founder and Chairman, Andrew Forrest AO is greeted by local children in Santa Ana, Ecuador. 124 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY19 Global force Thriving communities Corporate Governance Statement FY19 Global force Thriving communities ABN 57 002 594 872 Inside 01 Overview of Governance 2 06 Security holders 24 02 Board of Directors 4 07 Business ethics and integrity 25 03 Board Committees and management 12 08 Market disclosures 27 04 Risk management 15 09 Compliance with Corporate Governance Standards 28 05 Assurance functions 23 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FY19 1 Good governance is the collective responsibility of the Board of Directors (the Board) and all levels of management. Fortescue seeks to adopt leading practice, contemporary governance standards and apply these in a manner consistent with its culture and Values. Fortescue supports the intent of the 4th Edition of the ASX Corporate Governance Council Principles and Recommendations (Principles and Recommendations). Unless otherwise disclosed, Fortescue has reported against the revised requirements of the 4th Edition of the Principles and Recommendations. The cornerstone principles of corporate governance at Fortescue are: Overview Transparency of Being clear and unambiguous about the Company’s structure, operations and performance, both externally and internally, and maintaining a genuine dialogue with, and providing insight to, stakeholders and the Governance market generally. Integrity Good corporate Developing and maintaining a corporate culture committed to ethical governance is critical behaviour and compliance with the law. to the long term, sustainable Empowerment success of Fortescue. Everyone at Fortescue is empowered to make decisions that support the organisation’s objectives and are in the best interests of stakeholders. Management and employees are encouraged to be innovative and strategic in making decisions that align with Fortescue’s risk appetite and are undertaken in a manner consistent with corporate expectations and standards. Corporate accountability Ensuring that there is clarity of decision making within the Company, with processes in place to authorise the right people to make effective and efficient decisions, with appropriate consequences delivered for failures to follow those processes. Stewardship Developing and maintaining a company-wide recognition that Fortescue is managed for the benefit of its shareholders, taking into account the interests of other stakeholders. 2 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FY19 OVERVIEW 01 STAKEHOLDERS GOVERNMENT BUSINESS AND PARTNERS AND SHAREHOLDERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY REGULATORS INVESTORS BOARD MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY Audit and Risk Remuneration and People Committee Finance Committee Nomination Committee Management Committee BUSINESS PROCESS INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE ACTIVITY DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY POLICIES AND PROCEDURES CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CORE LEADERSHIP TEAM EXECUTIVE AND LINE MANAGEMENT INTEGRATED RISK MANAGEMENT CORPORATE CULTURE AND VALUES FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FY19 3 Andrew Forrest AO Mark Barnaba AM Chairman Lead Independent Director/ Deputy Chair Board of Directors Elizabeth Gaines Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer Sharon Warburton Deputy Chair Fortescue has a talented and diverse Board committed to enhancing and protecting the Lord Sebastian Coe CH, KBE Jennifer Morris OAM interests of Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director shareholders and other stakeholders and fulfilling a strong governance role over the Company’s affairs. Dr Jean Baderschneider Penny Bingham-Hall Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Dr Cao Zhiqiang Non-Executive Director 4 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FY19 2.1 Role and place and functioning appropriately, 2.2 Board composition responsibilities thus approving and monitoring Under the Company’s Constitution, the financial and other reporting The Board is responsible to the Board must have a minimum of three BOARD OF DIRECTORS shareholders for the performance • S atisfying itself that remuneration and a maximum of twelve directors. of the Company. The Board’s focus policies and practices align with No director, other than the Managing is to enhance and protect the the Company’s corporate purpose, Director may retain office without interests of shareholders and other Values, strategic objectives and re-election for more than three years or key stakeholders, and to ensure the risk appetite past the third annual general meeting Company is properly managed. The • E nsuring the Company acts legally following the director’s appointment, Board understands the importance and responsibly and in accordance whichever is the longer. Additionally, of a strong and healthy working with its Code of Conduct and any new director, with the exception of relationship with management. Integrity (Code of Conduct) and all the Managing Director, appointed by The Board ensures the management material breaches are reported to the Board the Board must retire and may seek re-election in the year of appointment. 02 team is appropriately qualified and experienced to discharge their • C  hallenging management and The Board believes that its composition responsibilities and has established holding it to account represents an appropriate balance a Statement of Matters Reserved • A  ssuring itself that appropriate audit of executive and non-executive for the Board, identifying the key arrangements are in place directors to achieve the promotion responsibilities of the Board as follows: • R  eporting to and advising of shareholder interests and effective shareholders. governance of the business. The • Approving the statement of Values Board also has access to, and ability which underpin Fortescue’s culture The Board has also established to engage with, senior executives and overseeing the embedding of Delegations of Authority for matters who may also attend Board and Board the Values across the Company delegated to the authority of the CEO, Committee meetings by invitation. • Appointing, evaluating the Core Leadership Team (CLT) and key performance of, rewarding and, executives, and hence management 2 if necessary, removing the Chief remain accountable to the Board, Executive Officer (CEO) through those delegations, for the overall performance of the Company. • A  pproving corporate purpose, TENURE Whilst the CEO, CLT and key executives Values, strategic objectives, 2 AT 5 remain accountable to the Board, risk appetite and approving plans, 30 JUNE 2019 management are empowered to make new investments, major capital and decisions they believe are appropriate operating expenditures and major for the business, within the boundaries funding activities proposed by established by the Board. management A key focus of Board meetings 0 to 3 years 4 to 6 years 7+ years • M  onitoring actual performance of the Company and senior is monitoring the decisions of executives against defined management. Appropriate time is performance expectations and allocated during Board meetings for reviewing operational information consideration of key operational issues to understand the state of the health and progress towards achievement GENDER DIVERSITY 56% 44% of the Company of corporate objectives. The Board AT has established the Key Performance 30 JUNE 2019 • Overseeing management of Indicators (KPIs) against which the business risks (both financial and performance of management is non-financial), including economic, evaluated. These KPIs are discussed in environmental, operational, cyber the Remuneration Report within the and social sustainability risks Female Male FY19 Annual Report available on the • Satisfying itself that the financial Company’s website. statements of the company fairly 1 and accurately set out the financial Both the Statement of Matters 1 position and financial performance Reserved for the Board and the of the Company for the period Delegations of Authority are reviewed GEOGRAPHIC annually to assess continued 1 5 under review DIVERSITY AT relevance and to identify areas 30 JUNE 2019 • Satisfying itself that there are requiring improvement or change. appropriate reporting systems 1 Where changes are required to and controls to assure the Board these documents, such changes are that proper operational, financial, approved by the Board. compliance, risk management and WA Australia-Other China UK USA internal control processes are in FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FY19 5 The Directors of the Company during FY19: Date of initial Director appointment Period of office Last election Next election Mr Andrew Forrest AO 18 July 2003 Full year FY17 AGM FY20 AGM (Chairman) Mr Mark Barnaba AM 19 February 2010 Full year FY17 AGM FY20 AGM (Deputy Chair and Lead Independent Director) Ms Sharon Warburton 13 November 2013 Full year FY16 AGM FY19 AGM (Deputy Chair) Ms Elizabeth Gaines 22 February 2013 Full year n/a Managing Director (Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer) Dr Jean Baderschneider 19 January 2015 Full year FY18 AGM FY21 AGM Dr Cao Zhiqiang 18 January 2018 Full year FY18 AGM FY21 AGM Ms Penny Bingham-Hall 9 November 2016 Full year FY17 AGM FY20 AGM Ms Jennifer Morris OAM 9 November 2016 Full year FY17 AGM FY20 AGM Lord Sebastian Coe CH, KBE 25 February 2018 Full year FY18 AGM FY21 AGM 2.3 Meeting attendance The Board and its Committees meet as often as is necessary to fulfil their roles. Directors are required to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively, including adequate time to prepare for Board and Committee meetings and joining visits to the Company’s operational sites. Attendance at Board and Committee meetings during FY19 is summarised below: Audit and Risk Remuneration Management and Nomination Finance Board Committee Committee3 Committee Eligible Eligible Eligible Eligible Director to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended Mr Andrew Forrest AO1 6 6 (Chairman) Mr Mark Barnaba AM 7 7 4 4 5 5 (Deputy Chair and Lead Independent Director) Ms Sharon Warburton 7 7 4 4 5 5 (Deputy Chair) Ms Elizabeth Gaines2 7 7 4 5 (Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer) Dr Jean Baderschneider 7 7 3 3 Dr Cao Zhiqiang1 6 4 Ms Penny Bingham-Hall 7 7 4 4 4 Ms Jennifer Morris OAM 7 7 4 4 5 5 Lord Sebastian Coe CH, KBE 7 5 2 2 1 One meeting related to the consideration of special dividend. 2 In addition to attending Board and relevant Committee meetings in her capacity as an Executive Director, Ms Elizabeth Gaines also attended (by invitation) all relevant Committee meetings in her capacity as Chief Executive Officer. 3 Following the meeting on 18 May 2019 the Remuneration and Nomination Committee was split into two separate committees being the Remuneration and People Committee and the Nomination Committee. Generally, Board meetings are held over two days (including Board Committee meetings). Directors are invited to visit each of the major operations during the year, often in conjunction with Board and Committee meetings. The Board and key members of the management team also attend a multi-day strategic ‘think tank’ each year that is focussed on considering the strategic issues facing Fortescue and reviewing the future direction and objectives of the Company. In addition, Board members hold meetings with management as required. 6 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FY19 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 02 2.4 Board skills matrix The primary driver for the Board in The members of the Board contribute • Directors are proactive in staying seeking new Directors is the skills and industry knowledge, international abreast of emerging frameworks experience which are relevant to the experience perspectives and specific and regulations pertaining needs of the Board in discharging subject matter expertise in a range to environmental and social its responsibilities to shareholders. of strategic, operational and financial sustainability matters, including Fortescue’s policy is to assess all aspects that are critical to the health and safety. potential Board candidates without implementation of Fortescue’s strategy Looking forward, the Board expects regard to race, gender, age, physical and its long term success. In particular: that technology expertise will ability, sexuality, nationality, religious • The Board demonstrates in depth become increasingly important given beliefs, or any other factor not relevant knowledge of Fortescue’s operations the opportunity and challenges to their competence and performance and processes and brings additional technology provides and the rapid as a potential Board member. relevant global industry expertise rate at which it is evolving. As well The Board believes that collectively, • The Board applies strong leadership as enhancing the depth of expertise the directors have a diverse and and management skills with in this area at an executive level, the relevant range of skills, backgrounds, Directors being well versed in Board is conscious of the need to build knowledge and experience to ensure regulatory and governance matters its own technological capabilities. effective governance of the business. • Directors are also well skilled in To the extent that any skills are not corporate activities, including directly represented on the Board, experience in strategy and business they are augmented through development management and external advisors. FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FY19 7 The Board maintains a focus on its composition, thereby ensuring that all directors continue to have an appropriate balance of skills, experience and independence. The following table sets out the composition of skills and experience of the Board. The Directors’ skills, experience and qualifications are set out in the FY19 Annual Report available on the Company’s website. Leadership Governance • Successful history in business at a senior executive level • Experience in governance with complex organisations • Public listed company experience • Commitment to ensuring effective governance structures • Understanding/influencing organisational culture. • Maintaining effective risk management and internal controls. Strategy Health, safety and environment • Experience in developing and implementing successful • Experience related to complex workplace health and safety strategy management • Ability to provide oversight of management for the delivery • Experience with environmental and community issues and of strategic objectives frameworks in a large organisation • Understanding the business challenges, strategy and options associated with managing the risk of climate change. Mining, resources and infrastructure Capital projects • Operating and technical experience in large mining • Experience in assessing commercial viability of major organisations capital projects • Optimisation of large and complex operating assets • Experience in the delivery of large-scale capital projects • Experience in advising mining or resources companies • Experience in effective project governance and risk • Experience in exploration projects with proven results management processes that support the successful delivery and performance of large scale capital projects. • Large infrastructure organisation experience. International experience and business development Stakeholder management • Experience in developing successful and sustainable operations in • Experience with managing issues associated with working new geographies and jurisdictions with local communities, pastoralists and Traditional • Experience in the consideration of sovereign risk and managing Custodians to ensure that positive economic, social, the risk profile associated with developing operations in new environmental outcomes are delivered for all stakeholders geographies and jurisdictions • Executive experience managing complex industrial relations • Knowledge and experience in providing oversight and guidance challenges in designing and implementing appropriate operational, • Experience in regulatory policy and government affairs financial and governance structures for a multi-jurisdictional including implications for corporations. business • Experience in, and exposure to, political, cultural, regulatory and business environments in a range of global locations • Experience with doing business in China and the Asia region, including with government agencies, regulators and customers. Information technology and innovation Sales and marketing • Knowledge and experience in use and governance of critical • Senior executive experience in sales and marketing information technology • Building long-term, sustainable customer relations across • Understanding of potential cyber risk exposure a diverse customer base • Leveraging digital technology to support growth and drive • Detailed knowledge of the Company’s strategy, markets, competitive advantage. and competitors. Financial acumen Capital management • Experience in financial accounting and reporting, corporate • Experience with equity and debt funding strategies finance and internal financial controls • Understanding of local and overseas capital and debt markets • Experience in business analysis and financial forecasting. • Experience in capital and debt raising and management. Tax risk management and compliance Public policy and regulation • Understanding of corporate tax requirements and tax risk • Experience in managing how organisations adapt and respond management to changing public policy settings • Experience with oversight and application of corporate tax • Oversight and management of regulatory frameworks and policies and frameworks processes designed to ensure that all regulatory obligations are met • Experience in reviewing tax sensitive matters associated with • Oversight, management and reporting associated with the major transactions. goal of eliminating modern slavery practices within Fortescue’s supply chain. 8 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FY19 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 02 2.5 Diversity 2.6 Appointment, All directors are expected to maintain Fortescue is committed to providing induction and continuing the skills required to discharge a balanced and inclusive working education of Directors their obligation to the Company, including undertaking continuing environment underpinned by Directors, with the exception of the education and relevant training. The a documented Diversity Policy, built Managing Director, are required to Company periodically reviews existing on the Company’s Values. The Board retire by rotation at least once every directors’ need to undertake personal has implemented a Diversity Policy and three years and are able to offer development to maintain the skills and measurable objectives which reflect themselves for re-election. knowledge required to perform their Fortescue’s commitment to ensuring A letter of appointment sets out terms roles effectively. there are no impediments of engagement including the basis of to diversity at any level of the Directors are expected to contribute to remuneration. Prior to appointment, Company. The Diversity Policy includes the Company, primarily in relation to or offering themselves for re-election, targets and practices that promote the matters set out in the Statement of non-executive directors are required diversity through a range of criteria Matters Reserved for the Board, which to specifically acknowledge that including age, gender mix and can also be accessed through the they have the time available to fully Aboriginal employment across all areas Corporate Governance section of the discharge their responsibilities to of the business. Company’s website. the Company. The Board has a range of diverse In addition, directors are expected Prior to appointing a director, skills, experience and backgrounds. to contribute to the business of the the Company undertakes a rigorous Fortescue believes a diversity of views Board Committees on which they sit. process of evaluation and checks and opinions is critical in building It is recognised that directors have a to ensure their suitability and capacity sustainable, long-term value for all key diverse range of skills, experience and to discharge their duties as a stakeholders. This diversity is inherently knowledge and they are expected to Board member. valuable and promotes a range of contribute their considerable expertise perspectives on the key challenges This evaluation covers matters such as: at the boardroom table and at other and risks facing the Company. This times as required. • Skills and experience, including commitment to diversity is reflected the expected contribution to the Directors are expected to act in a Board with real gender equality, collective skills and experience of independently by challenging the demonstrated by five of the nine Board the Board status quo constructively, to act members being female, achieving ethically in all dealings and assist in • Current and prior directorships and/ 56 per cent female Board composition. setting standards for the Company, or executive roles The average age of the Directors is 56 as well as being involved and years, with an age range from 47 to 67. • Independence contributing to all decisions before • Any other matters (including the Board. Part of the Board’s role is to consider interests, positions and associations) and approve measureable targets for Directors are expected to comply which could adversely affect their workforce diversity each financial year with all requirements imposed upon ability to effectively discharge their and to assess annually both the targets them by the Corporations Act 2001, duties as a Board member. and their progress. Information on the ASX Listing Rules and the Company’s proportion of female in Fortescue’s Following appointment, directors are Constitution, a copy of which can workforce, women in manager and supported through a formal induction be obtained from the Corporate above positions and Aboriginal program to familiarise them with Governance section of the employment are included in the FY19 the operations of the business. This Company’s website. Corporate Social Responsibility Report, typically involves a combination of available on the Company’s website. meetings with senior management, The Diversity Policy can be accessed site visits and briefings on specific through the Corporate Governance issues. This process continues section of the Company’s website. throughout the directors’ tenure. FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FY19 9 2.6 Appointment, non-executive and executive directors • Any fees paid to a non-executive induction and continuing is beneficial to its role and provides director by the Company for services education of Directors strong operational and financial provided are not of such amounts (continued) insights into the business. The role that could make the director reliant of independent directors and their on such remuneration The letter of appointment also provides composition on the Board is discussed • They have no other material clear direction about the amount of time on the following pages. contractual relationships with the that directors are required to commit in order to adequately discharge their Company other than as directors of 2.9 Independence the Company responsibilities as directors. All Fortescue directors have an obligation • They are free from any interest It is Fortescue practice to allow its to be independent in judgement and which could reasonably be perceived non-executive directors to accept actions. Directors are considered to be to materially interfere with their appointments outside the Company independent if they satisfy established ability to act in the best interests of with prior approval of the Chairman. criteria, including the following: the Company. The commitments of non-executive • They are not a substantial In essence, the above guidance is directors are considered by the Board shareholder of the Company, or designed to ensure that all directors are prior to a director’s appointment to the an officer of, or otherwise affiliated able to act in the best interests of the Board and are reviewed annually. with, a substantial security holder Company at all times. of the entity 2.7 Chairman Directors are required to disclose • They have not been employed The Chairman of the Company has circumstances that may affect, or be in an executive capacity by the a primary responsibility to lead the perceived to affect, their ability to Company or there has been a period Board and promote the interests of the exercise independent judgement of three years between ceasing such Company, both internally and in the so that the Board can make regular employment and serving on the Board broader business context. A key part assessments of independence. If a of the Chairman’s role is to develop • They have not, within the last three circumstance arises whereby a director a cohesive Board which operates years, been a principal of a material may be required to consider a matter effectively in protecting shareholders’ adviser or consultant to the Company in which the director has a material interests and maintaining strong • They have not, within the last three personal interest, that director ceases relationships with the CEO, CLT and years, been in a material business to be involved in the decision making key executives. relationship with the Company, or regarding that matter. an officer of, or otherwise associated Fortescue Founder, Mr Andrew Forrest At the date of this report, the Board directly or indirectly with, someone AO was appointed to the role of has eight non-executive directors. with such a relationship non-executive Chairman by the Board Based on the above criteria, of the in August 2011. Mr Forrest, whilst • They do not receive performance-based eight non-executive directors, five are being a non-executive director, is not remuneration or participate in an considered to be independent an independent director due to his employee incentive scheme and three are considered to be previous role as CEO and his significant • They do not have close personal ties non-independent. The Board believes shareholding in the Company. with any person who falls within any that it has independent directors of the categories described above involved in all areas of Board activity 2.8 Executive directors • They are a non-executive director of where director independence is critical, At the date of this report, the Board the Company and have not been a including Lead Independent Director has one executive director, being director for such a period that their and involvement in the various Ms Elizabeth Gaines, the Company’s independence from management Board Committees. Chief Executive Officer. The Board and substantial holders may have believes that an appropriate mix of been compromised Director Executive/ Non-executive Independent Mr Andrew Forrest AO Non-executive No Mr Mark Barnaba AM Non-executive Yes Ms Sharon Warburton Non-executive Yes Ms Elizabeth Gaines Executive No Dr Jean Baderschneider Non-executive Yes Dr Cao Zhiqiang Non-executive No Ms Penny Bingham-Hall Non-executive Yes Ms Jennifer Morris OAM Non-executive No Lord Sebastian Coe CH, KBE Non-executive Yes 10 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FY19 2.9 Independence 2.10 Evaluating 2.13 Independent advice (continued) Board and Committee Directors and Board Committees, Changes in Board membership and performance in connection with the discharge BOARD OF DIRECTORS composition will occur from time to The Board and each of its Committees of their responsibilities, have the right time which may impact on the have established a process to to seek independent professional overall ratio of independent versus evaluate their performance annually. advice at the expense of the Company. non-independent Board members. The process is based on a formal Prior written approval of the Chairman A majority of non-independent questionnaire and interview conducted is required in these circumstances, directors has been maintained during every second year by an independent with such approval not to be the year. The Board is satisfied that it consultant and every other year by the unreasonably withheld. operates in a manner which ensures Company Secretary under the direction directors exercise independent of the Chair of the Remuneration 2.14 Non-English judgement and the interests of shareholders are always at the forefront and People Committee. The most recent review was undertaken by an speaking directors The Company provides appropriate 02 when important decisions are made. independent consultant in June 2019. access to experienced translators and The table on page 10 shows the current The results and recommendations interpreters to ensure that non-English composition of the Board by reference from the evaluation of the Board and speaking directors understand and are to their executive/non-executive status Committees are reported to the full able to participate at Board meeting and whether they are considered to be Board for further consideration and discussions, and discharge their independent and non-independent as action, where required. obligations in relation to all relevant at the date of this report. matters and documents. The entire Board agrees on Ms Sharon Warburton and Mr Mark improvement actions, where 2.15 Company Secretary Barnaba AM hold the position of appropriate, and these are acted The Company Secretary is directly joint Deputy Chairs. The Deputy upon utilising support from the accountable to the Board through the Chair’s role includes chairing the Company Secretary. Chairman on all matters regarding the Board and shareholder meetings The individual performance of proper functioning of the Board. The when the Chairman is unable to do directors is considered during the Company Secretary is appointed and so, approval of meeting agendas Board and Committee performance removed by the Board. and ensuring a consistent quality of evaluation process in addition to information is provided to the Board. The Company Secretary is also ongoing consultation between the The appointment of two Deputy responsible for ensuring compliance Chairman, Lead Independent Director Chairs further strengthens the overall of Board procedures and advising the and the relevant directors as required. independence of the Board and allows Board on governance matters. greater flexibility in responding to All directors have access to the 2.11 Remuneration and Company Secretary for advice and governance issues and supporting the executive performance support services as required. In interests of all shareholders. The Board, through the Remuneration addition to these responsibilities, the Mr Mark Barnaba AM also acts as and People Committee (RPC), Company Secretary is responsible for the Lead Independent Director. periodically reviews the performance oversight of the share registry services This role includes: of senior executives. A review was provided by Link Market Services. • Representing the Board as the senior performed in FY19 and the results have independent director when the been incorporated into remuneration Chairman is unable to do so due to results. Details of the remuneration his non-independent status policies and the remuneration paid to directors (executive and non-executive) • Acting as principal liaison between and executives are set out in the the Independent Directors and Remuneration Report section of the the Chairman. FY19 Annual Report available on the Transactions during the year which Company’s website. are classified as material related party transactions with directors or 2.12 Use of information director related entities, reported to The Board has implemented a Code the Board, are disclosed in Note 17 to of Conduct and Integrity designed to the financial statements in accordance ensure all directors and employees with International Financial Reporting of the Company act ethically and do Standards (IFRS). not use confidential information for personal gain. FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FY19 11 The ‘tone at the top’ is set by the Board so that it promotes effective and transparent governance practices throughout the business. Fortescue has a well-structured Board governance framework that delegates consideration of specific matters to nominated Board Committees Committees. The committees are responsible for providing robust and oversight and challenge and to support management in the execution management of the business strategy. 3.1 Board Committees The Board has established Committees to assist in the execution Fortescue’s culture of its duties and to ensure important and complex issues are given the and Values operate detailed consideration they require. within a strong The Committees of the Board are the Audit and Risk Management governance Committee (ARMC), the Remuneration framework and are and People Committee (RPC), the Finance Committee and the the foundation of Nomination Committee. delivering on its Each Committee has its own Charter commitments for approved by the Board, under which authority is delegated by the Board. the benefit of all Each Committee is required to report stakeholders. the outcomes of its deliberations to the Board so the Board is fully informed on all important matters before they are resolved. Committee Charters are available in the Corporate Governance section of the Company’s website. 12 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FY19 Members Composition Responsibilities include as at 30 June 2019 requirements oversight of the following • M  r Mark Barnaba AM • M  inimum three • Corporate governance and sustainability BOARD COMMITTEES (Chair) non-executive directors Audit and Risk Management Committee • Financial reporting • Ms Penny Bingham-Hall • M  ajority independent • Internal control framework • Ms Jennifer Morris OAM directors • External audit • Ms Sharon Warburton • C  hair must be an AND MANAGEMENT • Risk management independent director • Tax risk management and compliance • Internal audit • Anti-bribery and corruption 03 • Whistleblower reporting and investigation • Climate change • Human rights and modern slavery  ompliance with the Corporations Act 2001, • C ASX Listing Rules and Corporate Governance Principles. • M  s Sharon Warburton • M  inimum three • Remuneration strategy (Chair) non-executive directors • Non-executive director remuneration • Mr Mark Barnaba AM • M  ajority independent • C  hief Executive Officer and Executive director • Ms Jennifer Morris OAM directors remuneration Remuneration and • C  hair must be an • Senior executive remuneration independent director • Short term and long term incentive plans People Committee1 • Performance management • Succession planning and talent management • Diversity strategy, targets, policy and practices • Gender pay equity • M  atters relating to the Company’s recruitment, retention and termination policies. • M  r Andrew Forrest AO • Minimum three directors • M  aterial investment and financing decisions (Chair) • A  t least two members that have a potentially significant impact on Finance Committee • Ms Penny Bingham-Hall must be independent the Company including: • Ms Sharon Warburton non-executive directors Capital markets and other debt issues or • C  hair must be a repayment non-executive director Major acquisitions and disposals • C  ritically review and challenge any proposals presented by management that may significantly alter the Company’s position in respect of the above areas. • M  r Mark Barnaba AM • M  inimum three • Non-executive director skills (Chair) non-executive directors • Board membership and diversity Nomination • Mr Andrew Forrest AO • M  ajority independent • N  omination and review of applicants for • Ms Sharon Warburton directors Board director positions Committee1 • C  hair must be an • Committee member appointments independent director • Recruitment of the CEO • Succession planning. On 18 May 2019, the Remuneration and Nomination Committee was split into two separate committees being the Remuneration and People Committee and 1 the Nomination Committee. FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FY19 13 Our Vision: 3.2 Management The Board has delegated responsibility The safest, lowest for day-to-day activities to the CEO, CLT and key executives and the financial cost, most profitable limits associated with that delegation are set out in the Delegated Authority mining company Policy established by the Board. Management has been delegated responsibility for instilling and reinforcing Fortescue’s Values, executing its business strategy, managing business performance, reviewing and managing material risks, and leading and developing people and talent within the organisation. Management set ‘the tone from the top’ in terms of how Fortescue operates in a manner consistent with its Values, Code of Conduct and the risk appetite set by the Board. Management provides the Board with accurate and timely information on Fortescue’s operations, including compliance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements. The Board also acknowledges its role in promoting a strong ethical culture and management provide regular information on any conduct which is considered to be materially inconsistent with the Values, Code of Conduct and related policies. This includes information on how any material ethical issues, where relevant, have been investigated and resolved. Prior to appointing any key executive, the Company undertakes a rigorous process of evaluation and checks to ensure their suitability and Fortescue’s capacity to discharge their duties. The Board ensures the management Values team is appropriately qualified and experienced to discharge its responsibilities and has procedures in place to assess the performance of the CEO, CLT and key executives. The Board sets annual performance targets, which includes Company and Safety Family Empowerment Frugality Stretch targets individual performance objectives under the Company’s executive remuneration plan (detailed in the Remuneration Report of the FY19 Annual Report). These performance Courage and targets are determined by the Integrity Enthusiasm determination Generating ideas Humility Remuneration and People Committee on behalf of the Board and are cascaded through the management teams. The performance of key executives is evaluated against the agreed performance targets annually. 14 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FY19 4.1 Corporate culture 4.4 Fortescue Risk and Values Management Framework Everyone who works for Fortescue The Fortescue Risk Management is expected to behave in a manner Framework (FRMF) explains the RISK MANAGEMENT consistent with the Values. The methodology, approach and Company believes that by leveraging responsibility for the effective its unique and differentiating management and oversight of risk Values-based culture, Fortescue will within the business. The FRMF is drive business performance and aligned to ISO 31000, the international achieve stretch targets. standard for risk management, and provides a consistent approach to The Fortescue Values are promoted the recognition, measurement and through strong internal messaging across all communications channels, evaluation of risks across the business. It also supports executive management 04 including posters, websites, social and the Board in meeting their media channels, internal and external corporate governance responsibilities. publications and forums, to maintain visibility and encourage self-reflection. The ARMC reviews the FRMF on an annual basis. The most recent review During performance reviews, was conducted in May 2019 and the each employee is assessed on the Committee is satisfied the framework Risk demonstration of the Fortescue Values supports a sound system of risk in their roles and behaviours. management and internal control management Further information on Fortescue’s corporate culture and Values are included in the FY19 Corporate Social including in relation to contemporary and emerging risks, and is operating with due regard to the risk appetite set Responsibility Report available on the by the Board. Company’s website. The Company The Board acknowledges that Fortescue operates in a dynamic business 4.2 Policies and actively promotes procedures environment where it accepts and ethical and Fortescue’s commitment to integrity manages a range of business risks. Fortescue’s appetite for various classes responsible decision and compliance has resulted in the establishment of various policies and of risk is reflected in the operation of its making through its procedures that set out the Company’s risk management framework and the collective decision making processes culture and Values, expected behaviours of its people. These expectations are consistent of the Board and management. to set the moral with Fortescue’s corporate culture Fortescue’s capacity to take risk and related risk tolerances are reflected compass by which and Values. in a range of existing processes and the Company The Company’s policies and procedures are available in the documentation including: undertakes its Corporate Governance section of • The corporate risk profile which is reported to the Board on an annual business. the Company’s website. basis and sets out an analysis of Fortescue’s key risks and associated 4.3 Risk management risk management strategies. This The Board recognises risk management allows the directors to evaluate and internal compliance are key whether the level of risk is consistent elements of strong corporate with Fortescue’s risk appetite across a governance. The Board is responsible range of business activities for reviewing, ratifying and overseeing • Board-approved Delegations of systems of risk management and Authority which provides financial internal control, and ethical and legal limits on management’s ability to compliance. Fortescue recognises approve financial commitments and risk is inherent to its business and payments made by Fortescue effective management of risk is vital to delivering on its objectives, • Strategic, financial and operational success and continued growth, and is KPIs that are endorsed by the Board committed to managing all risks in a in areas such as safety, operational proactive and effective manner. performance, liquidity, growth, return on investment and other matters. FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FY19 15 FORTESCUE RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK RISK GOVERNANCE AND OVERSIGHT BOARD AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE RISK REPORTING MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY IDENTIFY ASSESS RESPOND MONITOR RISK MANAGEMENT IS EMBEDDED ACROSS THESE PRIORITIES Capital Business Strategic Operational Asset Safety and Climate Technology development Financial and debt and major planning management performance management environment change and cyber reporting projects Corporate Risk Systems Risk Policies and Strategy 4.4 Fortescue Risk Management Framework (continued) • A range of policies, procedures and The FRMF sets a framework which • Application of a structured approach standards that set parameters for risk aligns risk management activity at to risk management which taking within the organisation e.g. all levels of the business with a three establishes common understanding, Statement of Matters Reserved for tiered focus as follows: definitions and methodologies the Board. • Consideration of all types of risks and • Achievement of the Company’s Fortescue’s approach to risk strategic, operational, developmental how robust risk analysis supports management is underpinned by its and corporate objectives better informed decision making Values and culture. This emphasises • Maintaining a business that meets • Using the outcomes of risk management, employees and the Company’s obligations for health assessments to drive actions and contractors are collectively responsible and safety, the environment, heritage, activities which mitigate risks to an for managing all material business sustainability and community acceptable level risks and there should be a clear • Maintaining a strong focus on the • Building and maintaining a resilient understanding of responsibility and resilience of the business through business capable of achieving critical accountability for risk management. reliance on effective recovery plans objectives in the face of extreme Everyone at Fortescue has a events which may impact business for material adverse events responsibility to be aware of the risks as usual conditions. • Reporting regularly to the CLT and related to their activities at every level the Board on the outcomes of risk Fortescue does this by: and to be accountable for ensuring management activity. those risks are effectively managed. • Embedding risk management into In addition, the Company’s Group Risk critical business activities and Assurance function is focussed on and processes supporting each part of the business to • Understanding threats to and manage their risks and to align efforts opportunities for achievement of across the business to facilitate a ‘whole corporate objectives of business’ view of risk. 16 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FY19 RISK MANAGEMENT 04 4.5 Material risk exposures Fortescue operates in a dynamic • Optimising financial margins through • Operational events that could business environment which presents management of controllable costs negatively impact on Fortescue’s a range of uncertainties that have the to ensure the business can sustain operations, its people and its legal potential to impact, both positively and market volatility and social licence to operate negatively, on its corporate objectives. • Supporting sustainable long term • Risks arising from major projects and Fortescue acknowledges that risk is growth of the business through: business development activities. inherent in all aspects of its business Delivering Pilbara projects in line A range of material risks has been and that effective management of risk with target schedules, capital and identified by management and the and opportunity is essential to the operating cost forecasts Board which could substantively Company’s success and future growth. Accelerating the realisation impact Fortescue’s ability to create Fortescue is committed to managing of non-iron ore development or preserve value for all of its key all material risks within the risk appetite opportunities (both local and stakeholders over the short, medium or and tolerances set by the Board and overseas) while managing the long term. executive management. Fortescue’s associated risks. risk profile is continually reviewed and Material risks to the Company and how key risks are considered in the context Consistent with prior risk updates, risks these risks are managed are listed on of the following strategic priorities: have been grouped around a number the following pages. of key risk themes of: • Embedding a world-class safety culture that minimises the risk of • Economic risks driven by external injury to employees and contractors factors such as market changes and government policy and regulation • Delivering reliable and consistent production which supports • Economic risk derived from business flexibility in Fortescue’s product performance and execution of strategy to meet changing patterns Fortescue’s business strategy, in customer demand including business development activities FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FY19 17 Material risk Risk management strategy Economic risk external Geopolitical tensions There are a range of global factors that could impact on Fortescue. Escalating trade tensions between the US and China have resulted in the imposition of significant tariffs in both countries. It is unclear how this might influence future Chinese trade policy and regulations and specifically, the impact on the steel sector. This could have significant ramifications for the demand for iron ore or the treatment of Australian companies given the perceived alignment of Australia with the US both economically and politically. Global equity markets have seen continued volatility in 2019 partly as the result of concerns over the impact of tariffs on global trade. Other global factors such as rising tensions in the Middle East, and BREXIT also have the potential to impact global trade Management continues to monitor political and market conditions closely and is focussed on maintaining strong relationships with Fortescue customers and suppliers in all its key markets Deterioration in economic Fortescue’s key trading partners are Chinese steel mills and iron ore distributors. conditions in China could The Company’s sales strategy would be exposed if there was any significant impact the demand for deterioration in the economic conditions in China and particularly in the demand Fortescue’s products for steel, of which iron ore is a key component. The last 12 months has seen a range of factors drive demand by Chinese steel mills for high and lower iron content ores • F ortescue continues to review its product strategy and align this to its resource base and future mine developments and expansions. This includes a goal of developing products with a higher iron content, enabling the Company to better respond to market cycles which is evidenced by the introduction of the 60% Fe product, West Pilbara Fines, in December 2018 • F ortescue has a strong track record of supporting and enhancing Sino-Australian business relationships • F ortescue continues to pursue and promote strong relationships with all levels of the Chinese government as a partner in supporting the ongoing economic development within China and resultant demand for the Company’s products • F ortescue also supports a range of community and sponsorship initiatives in China including support for educational establishments and students in collaboration between Australian and Chinese Universities Fluctuations in market demand Fortescue is subject to the prevailing market price of iron ore, which it has a and commodity prices (iron limited ability to directly influence. In addition, there may be a range of market ore) may adversely impact the factors that directly impact the demand and/or price obtained for Fortescue’s Company’s results and future products. Specifically, evolution in iron ore market conditions can result in varying cash flows price differentials between high and low iron content ores. Fortescue continues to closely monitor market developments in China During FY19, the Company continued its focus on managing this risk by: • Maintaining high quality relationships with its customers to ensure its supplies of iron ore meet their expectations in terms of quality, consistency and reliability of supply • Review of product strategy and the potential to optimise longer term reserves and resource portfolio to meet the strategy • Driving sustainable productivity and efficiency gains throughout its business to ensure it remains a competitive, low cost producer • A disciplined approach to capital management and cashflows which strengthened the corporate balance sheet and achieved further reductions in its cost base 18 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FY19 Material risk Risk management strategy Economic risk external Fluctuations in currency exchange Fortescue is subject to the prevailing market exchange rates and interest rates, RISK MANAGEMENT rates and interest rates may which it has a limited ability to directly influence. Fortescue does not directly adversely impact the Company’s hedge for exchange rate or interest rate movements other than in specific results and future cash flows circumstances. A significant portion of the Company’s cost base is incurred in Australian Dollars. This could result in fluctuations in US Dollar denominated costs based on movements in exchange rates • T he Company’s exposure to interest rate movements has decreased given the continuing reduction in its debt facilities 04 • T he Company actively monitors interest and exchange rate movements and utilises treasury and cash management techniques to manage its exposure Actions by government, political Significant changes in areas such as tax policy, industrial relations frameworks and events or tax authorities could environmental regulation can have a significant impact on all companies operating have a negative impact on in the mining industry. This applies to actions undertaken at both Commonwealth Fortescue’s business and State level and in other international jurisdictions • F ortescue proactively engages with government and other regulators to ensure any potential adverse impacts of proposed regulatory changes are understood and, where possible, mitigated Estimates of reserves and resources There is a range of inherent uncertainties associated with the identification and measurement of iron ore reserves and resources. Prior valid assumptions may change in light of new information which potentially change the economic viability of some ore reserves. Additionally, volatility in commodity prices may result in adjustments to Fortescue’s recognition of ore reserves • Fortescue has a defined and comprehensive approach to estimate its published reserves and resources • A robust methodology is well established which includes systematic peer review and calibration against operational outcomes • The process is also supported by Competent Persons as defined in the Joint Ore Reserves Committee Code, and is subject to independent technical reviews and audits. The Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources section of the FY19 Annual Report contains further information FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FY19 19 Material risk Risk management strategy Economic risk business Productivity and cost pressures Cost pressures may continue to occur across the resources industry. Fortescue is could impact profit margins and exposed to the price variability of its production inputs and this could negatively future cash flows impact profit margins and future cash flows • F ortescue has a strong culture of innovation which empowers its people to develop and implement productivity and efficiency improvements that ensure the Company maintains its position at the lower end of the global cost curve • F ortescue is a global leader in a range of technical and operational solutions that have been deployed across the business to maximise the value obtained from the Company’s ore reserves • F ortescue adopts a risk based approach to the approval of major capital and operational expenditure which ensures the optimal allocation of financial resources to support the Company’s business strategy Fortescue does not fully exploit Resource and reserve estimates are expressions of judgement based on existing reserves or discover knowledge, experience and industry practice and failure to generate reserves new reserves that impact on to meet the Company’s future production could detrimentally impact long term future results shareholder return • F ortescue has a program of exploration and mining which identifies and exploits new ore bodies and supports the expansion of existing ore bodies • F ortescue has also developed innovative exploration techniques which have enabled it to commercialise previously unexploited tenements and invest in new sources of ore, including magnetite deposits Major development projects Although significant time and resources are devoted to project planning, experience delays to schedule approval and review processes, many of Fortescue’s development projects are or increased costs highly complex and rely on factors outside of its control, which may result in underestimation of cost or time required to complete a project • F ortescue has a robust and agile framework for the identification, assessment and delivery of all major projects • T his includes an uncompromising focus on operational and financial discipline, supplemented by a comprehensive project management capability, including project risk management and governance to ensure project objectives are achieved Violation of anti-bribery and Fortescue operates in a number of different geographies and locations. There is a corruption laws potential for increased exposure to fraud and corruption from within and external to Fortescue, leading to regulatory fines, financial loss, litigation, loss of operating licences or reputational damage • F ortescue understands the importance of acting with integrity, honesty and in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations wherever it does business • F ortescue’s Anti Bribery and Corruption Policy, as well as related policies and procedures describe the controls in place for the mitigation of this risk. This is supported by systems and processes which focus on the identification of high risk business partners and review of related business relationships • I n addition, Fortescue has developed training and education programs for management and employees, and periodic assessments to detect potential misconduct and monitor compliance 20 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FY19 Material risk Risk management strategy Operational risks Major, unplanned disruptions to Any unplanned and sustained interruption to operations or supply chain has the RISK MANAGEMENT operations or supply chain potential to impact financial performance. Such disruptions can arise from natural events such as cyclones and flooding, disruption to energy supply, cyber-attack, accidents which result in damage to Port, Rail or mine infrastructure or other factors such as labour disputes • F ortescue has a comprehensive contingency plan, including business continuity, IT disaster recovery and emergency management plans in place to manage major unplanned disruptions 04 • F ortescue’s diversity in both fuel sources (i.e. gas and diesel) and supplier arrangements minimises the risk related to the continuation and reliability of long term energy supplies • P  roperty and business continuity insurance also mitigates the financial impact of major unplanned disruptions Failure of tailings storage facilities Fortescue maintains tailings storage facilities (TSFs) at each of its mine sites. TSFs are reservoirs which store waste material (tailings) generated from the mining and processing of iron ore. TSFs typically include a range of infrastructure including dams, ponds, embankments, decant towers and pits. The Fortescue Tailings Storage Facilities Register and Tailings Storage Management Framework can be found in the Environmental Publications section of the Fortescue website. • Fortescue’s TSFs are designed according to leading industry practice standards and are located away from any major populated areas, including mining camps • Independent engineering reviews are undertaken every year on all TSFs maintained by Fortescue. In addition, the TSFs are operated and maintained in accordance with the Code of Practice issued by the Department of Mines and Petroleum (WA) and meet applicable requirements of the Mines Safety and Inspection Act 1994 and the Mining Act 1978 • Property and business continuity insurance also mitigates the financial impact of major unplanned disruptions arising from potential TSF failure Performance of key business Fortescue has contracts with various commercial and financial counterparties. partners is not aligned with Counterparties failing to meet their obligations may unfavourably impact Fortescue’s expectations Fortescue’s cost and production performance and they do not meet • F ortescue works collaboratively with its business partners to achieve superior their obligations safety, operational and financial performance • F ortescue has transitioned major elements of its mine sites to an owner/operator model to better control performance and introduced greater flexibility within its contractual arrangements, where appropriate • F ortescue has robust mechanisms in place to regularly review all major contracts with a focus on performance Information technology (IT) The rapid pace of technological change and the sophistication of cyber security breach or unsuccessful security attacks pose ongoing and real risks requiring the business to maintain innovation impacting competitive constant vigilance advantage • Fortescue maintains a robust IT security framework and back-up data and infrastructure which provides resilience and recovery capability in the event of a system outage • T he Company monitors and controls access to sensitive and private information maintained within its key systems • Innovation presents both risks as well as opportunities. Fortescue has a robust evaluation process for the technical and commercial feasibility of IT innovation projects, including collaboration with partners to ensure successful implementation • Fortescue monitors emerging technology trends, disruptive innovations and complementary technologies FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FY19 21 Material risk Risk management strategy Operational risks Health and safety and Safety is one of Fortescue’s core Values and the Company’s vision encompasses the environmental incidents and/ achievement of global leadership in safety performance or breaches of regulations could • Fortescue  has a comprehensive Health, Safety, Environment and Security adversely affect our people, framework that promotes responsibility and accountability at all levels within operations and reputation the organisation • Fortescue  has an active program of education, training, monitoring and reporting within the business which is focussed on continuous improvement and learning from experience • T he Company is actively engaged at both a local and global level to identify and implement leading safety and environmental practices operating within the mining and resources sector Social and environmental sustainability risks Breaches in Fortescue’s legal and Fortescue operates in a highly regulated industry within a complex regulatory regulatory obligations may lead to environment at both Australian Commonwealth and State level, as well as fines and potential loss of licence internationally. Failure to comply with obligations can have a serious impact on to operate the business ranging from fines and reputation damage through to temporary or permanent loss of Fortescue’s licence to operate • C ompliance with the Company’s obligations is recognised as a collective responsibility at all levels of the organisation and there is clear accountability and responsibility for ongoing management • F ortescue has a robust policy and compliance framework that promotes responsibility and accountability at all levels within the organisation • F ortescue has an active program of education, training, monitoring and reporting within the business that is focussed on reducing the risk of material compliance breaches and learning from experience Fortescue’s operations have the Mining operations have the inherent potential to cause damage to flora, fauna and potential to lead to adverse impact sites of significance to Aboriginal people located in the vicinity of the Company’s on local flora, fauna and Aboriginal operations. This could include adverse impacts on local ecosystems, biodiversity, heritage sites water resources and designated heritage sites • F ortescue has rigorous control and reporting processes to minimise the potential for any adverse impacts on Aboriginal/heritage sites • F ortescue consults with local communities, regulators and other stakeholder groups to ensure its operations are managed in an environmentally sustainable manner Climate change Climate change presents a range of risks and opportunities to Fortescue. Fortescue supports reporting in accordance with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), recognising that this provides the transparency, standardisation and meaningful disclosure that allows our stakeholders to access our performance. More extensive disclosure on climate change risk and Fortescue’s response is set out in Fortescue’s FY19 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 4.6 Annual Executive Certifications In accordance with the requirements support the declaration to the Board declaration as noted above, the Board, of ASX Principle 4 ‘Safeguard integrity by the CEO and the CFO pursuant to through the ARMC, uses this process in corporate reporting’ and section ASX Principle 4 and section 295(A) of as a means of identifying areas of the 295(A) of the Corporations Act 2001, the Corporations Act 2001. control environment where there an extensive executive certification are opportunities for improvement. The executive certifications are broad process was undertaken for the year Improvement actions identified and consider the key elements of the ended 30 June 2019. The process through this process are monitored control environment. In addition to requires certifications from the most by the Committee until actions providing support for the CEO and CFO senior executives in the business to are completed. 22 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FY19 5.1 Internal audit 5.2 External auditor The internal audit function at Fortescue Appointment and rotation of auditor ASSURANCE FUNCTIONS is governed by an Internal Audit In accordance with the Corporations Charter, approved by the ARMC. Act 2001, the Company has appointed Fortescue’s Group Risk and Assurance an external auditor whose primary role function is responsible for the design is to form an opinion as to the truth and delivery of internal audit activity, and fairness of the annual financial tailored to provide assurance that statements. Any external auditor the Company’s risk management appointed must demonstrate a high and internal control frameworks are quality of service and independence in appropriately designed and operating accordance with all relevant legal and regulatory requirements. at the level expected by the Board. The Group Manager of Risk and Assurance is PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) is the 05 supported by a combination of internal current external auditor of the Group. It is and external resources to conduct PwC policy to rotate audit engagement internal audit reviews. Deloitte and partners every five years in accordance Ernst & Young provide the support with the Corporations Act 2001. In for the delivery of the internal audit accordance with this policy, Mr Justin program. Other qualified professional Carroll assumed the role of external audit Assurance service providers are used to support the partner effective from 22 August 2017. internal audit program, where required. PwC attend ARMC meetings by functions The ARMC approves the annual invitation and report annually to internal audit plan and monitors the Committee on its independence findings issued by the Group Manager and the outcomes of its audit. The of Risk and Assurance, including Committee reviews the scope of the actions proposed by management to annual audit plan and related audit fees. An effective address issues reported by the internal auditors. The internal audit plan is Independence declaration internal audit dynamic and may be revised based The auditor’s independence declaration, as required under section function is a critical on changes to the risk profile of the business. Any revisions to the plan are 307C of the Corporations Act 2001, has part of ensuring that also endorsed by the ARMC. been received by PwC and is set out in the Financial Report section of the a strong financial At the request of the ARMC, during FY19 Annual Report, available on the risk and control FY19, the Internal Audit function was subject to an independent, external Company’s website. environment is review consistent with good industry Non-audit services The Board of Directors has considered maintained across practice and the requirements of the Institute of Internal Auditors’ Professional the position and, in accordance with the Company. Practices Framework. Recommendations advice received from the Audit and for improvement were implemented Risk Management Committee, is during FY19 to ensure Fortescue’s satisfied the provision of the non-audit internal audit function continues services is compatible with the general to effectively discharge its role and standard of independence for auditors responsibilities in an objective, effective imposed by the Corporations Act 2001 and efficient manner. The ARMC and did not compromise the auditor provides oversight and support of the independence requirements of the Internal Audit function to ensure it Corporations Act 2001. remains appropriately objective and Details of the amounts paid or payable is free to report its findings consistent to the auditor PwC Australia and with its role as defined in the Internal related entities for audit and non-audit Audit Charter. services provided during the year are While internal audit and external audit set out in Note 19 of the FY19 financial are separate and independent of each statements. other, there is strong collaboration Attendance at Annual General Meeting between both audit functions to The audit partner from PwC attends maximise the effectiveness of the the Annual General Meeting (AGM) and wider program of audit activity and to is available to answer questions from minimise duplication of effort shareholders in relation to the audit. and resources. FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FY19 23 Shareholders are encouraged to The Company has implemented attend the AGM, which is the forum a Continuous Disclosure Policy which for shareholders to vote on key is available on the Corporate business issues, including election of Governance section of the Company’s directors, changes to the Company’s website. The Policy includes a constitution, adoption of the Company’s verification process of the integrity annual financial report and incentive of corporate reports released to the arrangements. All substantive market that have not been audited resolutions at shareholders meetings, or reviewed by the external auditor. including the AGM, are decided by a poll. The Company uses various formal Information is communicated and informal measures to ensure to shareholders in respect to all it communicates effectively with resolutions tabled at the AGM, its Board, shareholders and including election and/or re-election investors throughout the year, of directors. as outlined below. Security holders A team of dedicated investor and corporate affairs responding to shareholder and investor queries. Regular briefings and site visits to the investment community The Board represents and investor representatives. the Company’s shareholders and Presentations with question and answer sessions at industry is accountable for forums and conferences. delivering value to them through Regular financial and production reports and media announcements, achievement of including the Annual Report, half year financial reporting and Quarterly Production Reports. strategic objectives and performance Media and analyst calls with Fortescue management following the excellence. release of key financial information. Presentation materials available via the ASX Market Announcements Platform in advance of the presentation to new and substantive investors and analysts. Maintenance of the Fortescue website, which contains up-to-date information of Fortescue operations. An email alert system allowing interested parties to register for automated alerts of ASX lodgements and other information related to the Company. 24 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FY19 BUSINESS ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Fortescue’s longstanding commitment Everyone who works for or with to doing business with integrity and Fortescue, including directors, honesty is built on its Values, the employees, contractors, suppliers professionalism of its employees and business partners is expected to and collective determination to act comply with the Code of Conduct. In with integrity, accountability and addition, they are required to ensure transparency at all times. that employees, contractors, suppliers and any other parties under their The Board has adopted the Code of supervision or direction with whom Conduct and Integrity, Whistleblower Fortescue does business are aware of policy, Anti-bribery and Corruption and comply with the Code of Conduct. policy, and Continuous Disclosure and Market Communication Policy (Code New employees are required to read and Policies), which detail frameworks for acceptable corporate behaviour. and acknowledge the requirements of the Code in writing before they 07 Business There have been no material breaches of the Code and Policies. commence with the Company. All material breaches of the Code of ethics and Conduct are reported to the Board. The Code and Policies are internally promoted regularly and training Further information on Fortescue’s integrity programs have been developed to approach to business ethics and instil and reinforce the Values and integrity is set out in the FY19 expected behaviours under the Code Corporate Social Responsibility Report and Policies. The Code and Policies are available on the Company’s website. subject to periodic review and can be Fortescue accessed on the Company’s website. 7.2 Whistleblower service is focussed on 7.1 Code of Conduct Fortescue provides various avenues for raising concerns about unethical maintaining a and Integrity or illegal business conduct including strong culture Fortescue understands the importance behaviour which may not accord with its Values or Code of Conduct, and of acting with integrity, honesty and of transparency in compliance with all applicable laws offers certain protection to anyone and accountability and regulations wherever it does who reports concerns in good faith. This applies to all officers, employees business. The Company maintains throughout the a publicly stated, formal policy of and contractors of Fortescue in all business. zero tolerance of corruption in all its jurisdictions where the Company operates. forms, including bribery. Fortescue’s reputation is built on its Values as A number of options are available to a Company, the professionalism employees who have questions or who of its employees and a collective wish to report suspected violations of commitment to acting with integrity, the law, the Code of Conduct or related accountability and transparency policies and standards. In addition to at all times. reporting any concerns to their line The Company actively promotes ethical manager, officers, employees (as well and responsible decision making as contractors) have the ability to raise through its Values and the Code of concerns with Fortescue’s Corporate Conduct that embodies these Values. Governance and Compliance Manager The Code can be accessed on the or, alternatively, to Fortescue’s external Corporate Governance section of the Whistleblower service. Company’s website. FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FY19 25 7.2 Whistleblower service 7.3 Anti-bribery It further provides an outline of (continued) and Corruption employee obligations with regard to reporting unethical behaviour Fortescue’s Whistleblower service is an Fortescue has a reputation for acting and declaring conflicts of interest. external and independent reporting with integrity and honesty wherever it Fortescue employees must comply channel for reporting any breaches does business. Fortescue is committed with all relevant laws and regulations of Company policy or breaches of the to a zero tolerance approach to bribery in Australia and other jurisdictions. law by Fortescue. Material breaches and corruption. The Company’s Fortescue prohibits bribery and reported through the Whistleblower reputation is built on its Values as corruption, in any form, whether direct hotline are also reported to the Board. a company, the professionalism of or indirect, whether in the private or our employees and our collective Fortescue takes this reporting channel public sector, anywhere in the world. commitment to acting with integrity, seriously and all disclosures received accountability and transparency at through this service are investigated all times. 7.4 Securities trading and reported to the executive team The Board has established a Securities and the Board by Fortescue’s Corporate Bribery and corruption undermine Trading Policy which outlines the Governance and Compliance Manager. legitimate business activities, distort policy for directors and employees Depending on the nature of the competition and expose Fortescue when trading in shares of the disclosure, investigative reports and its employees to significant risks. Company. Under the policy, certain may include recommendations for Fortescue is committed to conducting people are identified as designated remedial or disciplinary action. Persons its business ethically and in compliance persons and they are required to providing information to Fortescue’s with all applicable laws and regulations. comply with the policy with regard to Whistleblower system have the option Fortescue only conducts its business explicit non-trading periods which are to remain anonymous, ensuring the in a manner consistent with the laws set around financial and production protection of the individual as of the jurisdictions in which it operates reporting periods. well as the integrity of the including those relating to fraud, Whistleblower service. anti-bribery and corruption, and other The policy sets out a brief summary of laws that prohibit improper payments the law on insider trading and other to obtain a business advantage. Any relevant laws and also sets out the material breach of the Anti-bribery and restrictions on dealing in securities Corruption Policy is reported to the Board. by people who work for, or who are associated with Fortescue. Fortescue’s Code of Conduct clearly outlines the standards for ethical behaviour expected of all Fortescue employees. 26 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FY19 For this purpose, the Company has established a Continuous Disclosure Policy, a copy of which is available MARKET DISCLOSURES on the Corporate Governance section of the Company’s website. The Continuous Disclosure Policy summarises the processes that have been adopted to ensure Fortescue complies with its disclosure obligations. This policy applies to all directors, employees, contractors, suppliers and business partners and is regularly reviewed to ensure it remains effective 08 in guiding disclosure in accordance with Fortescue’s disclosure obligations. With regard to general disclosures at media briefings or public presentations, only the Chairman, CEO or their Market delegated persons are authorised to issue public comments on behalf of the Company or provide journalists and disclosures members of the investment community with information. The Company’s external auditor, PwC, reviews the annual Directors’ Report, The Board annual Remuneration Report and the annual and half yearly Financial understands the Statements. The balance of periodic importance of corporate reports, including Quarterly Production Reports, the annual keeping shareholders Corporate Governance Statement, the and other stakeholders annual Reserves and Resources Report and the annual Corporate Social fully informed of Responsibility Report, are subject to material information a rigorous internal review process coordinated by the Corporate Affairs in relation to the team with individual sign offs by the Company’s activities relevant functional areas. on a timely basis. Copies of announcements to the ASX, investor briefings, half yearly Financial Report, Quarterly Production Report, the Annual Report and other relevant information is available on the Company’s website at www.fmgl.com.au. FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FY19 27 Compliance with Corporate Governance Standards Fortescue supports the intent of the 4th Edition of the ASX Corporate Governance Council Principles and Recommendations (Principles and Recommendations). Fortescue’s compliance to the Principles and Recommendations and a checklist cross-referencing these Principles and Recommendations to the relevant disclosures are outlined within ASX Appendix 4G. Unless otherwise disclosed, Fortescue has adopted the revised requirements of the Principles and Recommendations. This is available on the Company’s website at www.fmgl.com.au 28 FORTESCUE METALS GROUP LTD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FY19 Global force Thriving communities
