Focused Energy, Every Day Uniting Energy United Nation Global Compact 2019 Table of Contents CORPORATE PROFILE LEADERSHIP RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT AND Rogers at a Glance 3 Board of Directors 23 OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES Voting Rights 5 Executive Team 26 Governance at Rogers Risk Management Organisational Chart 7 Statement of Report 39 Compliance & 34 Value Creation Map 9 Secretary’s Certificate Interview with the Chief Executive Officer 35 Stakeholder Engagement 11 Adopting a Sustainable Business Model 15 1 2 Evolution of Share Price & Discount to NAV 46 Market capitalisation of Rs 9,401m as at 30 June 2019 (31 July 2019: Rs 10,523m) 40% Rogers at a Glance 44 Rs 43.90 35% 30% 42 Rs 41.75 25% 40 Who we are Rs 38.95 20% Rs 38.25 When the Rogers Group started business in 38 18% Rs 37.50 1899, it understood that entrepreneurial spirit 15% as a leap of faith is not only a mindset, but also 36 10% Rs 36.00 an attitude. From a diversified conglomerate, Rs 34.00 34 we have now grown into one of the leading Rs 34.30 5% 3% international services and investment company 32 0% and forming part of the 10 top listed companies on the Stock Exchange of Mauritius. The Group -2% 30 -5% has been a major player in the tourism industry Jul-18 Aug-18 Sep-18 Oct-18 Nov-18 Dec-18 Jan-19 Feb-19 Mar-19 Apr-19 May-19 Jun-19 Jul-19 and participated actively in 1962 in the creation RCL Share Price (Left Axis) Discount to NAV (Right Axis) of Beachcomber, the leading hotel group on the Total Assets island. Rogers was also involved in setting up the Rs m DPS EPS* national airline, Air Mauritius, in 1967. Today, our Group operates in four served markets namely FinTech, 36,685( 9%) Rs 1.02 Rs 2.29 Hospitality, Logistics and Property across 11 countries including Mauritius. ( 5%) ( 45%) We believe that Energy creates the spirit of entrepreneurship of our people *Excluding exceptional items to make a meaningful impact in the world of our clients, employees, partners, local communities and stakeholders. Having been forerunners in various sectors, including aviation and tourism, International 13% Local 87% we continue to be driven by our entrepreneurial spirit and energies. Demographics Total Revenue Our edge Our values Female 39% Male 61% Rs m 10,297 Over the years, we have built a sound asset base as well as a quality network of contacts and partners. The Rogers values are: 1. Leadership Our audacity & engagement to co-create ( 10%) The expertise of our united, sustainable success Managers 10% 5,028 11 competent and balanced team is 2. Agility Our ability to anticipate widely recognised and our Group changes, adapt and improve maintains a significant market share Operatives 55% PAT* in each of its served markets. 3. Excellence Our commitment Employees Countries 1,121 to deliver promised quality on Rs m Our capabilities time Staff 35% We build on our expertise to grow These values are the foundation ( 24%) our brand and expand our business at of our Company culture and help an international level, while ensuring permeate ‘The Rogers Way’ of that the expected benchmarks are being and of doing things within the EBITDA* delivered. We also continuously seek meaningful growth opportunities to organisation. 110+ 4 Rs m 2,458 further develop the markets that we Leadership + Agility + Excellence Workplaces Served Markets serve. = Entrepreneurial Spirit ( 19%) The synergy of these three values Geography Gender Category drives the spirit of entrepreneurship Local International Male Female Managers Staff Operatives of our people to co-create *Excluding exceptional items meaningful opportunities with and 4,376 652 3,087 1,941 488 1,783 2,757 for our clients, employees, local 3 communities and partners. 4 Voting Rights as at 30 June 2019 Société Caredas 59.6% L’Accord Limited 77.9% 4.5% 2.4% La Sablonnière Holding Limited 65.1% ENL Limited 100% Rogers Consolidated National Pensions Shareholding Ltd Fund 6.7% 53.0% 5.5% Rogers and Company Limited 5 6 Organisational Chart FINTECH HOSPITALIT Y LOGIS TICS PROPERT Y Operating under the Rogers Capital brand, The Hospitality served market provides a Our Logistics arm, Velogic provides an The property portfolio includes our 36.19% our FinTech platform provides services in vertical integration of services including integrated logistics platform with services equity investment in Ascencia, the largest SERVED MARKETS CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER three lines of service. Hotels, Travel and Leisure. consolidated under Port and Haulage domestic property fund listed on the Stock Services, Freight Forwarding, Shipping and Exchange of Mauritius, as well as our Rogers also directly holds a 29.37% stake Through our operations in VLH and a Sugar Packaging. agricultural, property and leisure activities Philippe Espitalier-Noël in Swan General and a 20% shareholding in 22.93% equity investment in NMH, Rogers carried out in Bel Ombre and Case Noyale. Swan Financial Solutions. is a major player in the tourism industry, accounting for more than 20% of total rooms available in Mauritius. ROGERS EXECUTIVE TEAM Corporate Hotels Logistics Solutions Property Investments Technology Travel Property Development & Agribusiness SECTORS Financial Leisure CHIEF HUMAN RESOURCES EXECUTIVE Manish Bundhun Rogers Capital Veranda Leisure & Hospitality Velogic Ascencia Rogers Aviation Compagnie Sucrière de Bel Ombre MAIN COMPANIES Island Living Case Noyale Les Villas de Bel Ombre HEAD OF INTERNAL AUDIT & RISK MANAGEMENT KEY INVESTMENTS Swan General New Mauritius Hotels Le Morne Development Corporation (‘LMDC’) Swan Financial Solutions Air Mauritius Eric Cotry Mautourco CHIEF FINANCE EXECUTIVE Leveraging on its 120 years of existence and expertise, Rogers has a solid footprint in Mauritius as well as a strong international presence via its offices and affiliates around the world. The offices are led by a team of talented experts and we continuously seek opportunities to further build sustainable and successful business partnerships. Damien Mamet INTERNATIONAL PRESENCE • Rogers Capital has three representative • VLH currently has sales teams in France, • Velogic is established in countries such as offices in South Africa, Singapore and UK and Germany. France, India, Madagascar, Reunion Island, CHIEF LEGAL AND COMPLIANCE EXECUTIVE Seychelles. Bangladesh, Singapore and Kenya. It also • Rogers Aviation has 19 overseas offices represents the UPS brand through agents based in six countries namely Comoros, in Seychelles, Comoros and Mayotte. Aruna Radhakeesoon Madagascar, Mozambique, Mayotte, Reunion Island and South Africa. CHIEF PROJECTS AND SUSTAINABILITY EXECUTIVE Belinda Vacher MAIN LOGOS Ashley Coomar Ruhee Hotels Nayendranath Nunkoo Property Investments CHIEF EXECUTIVE François Eynaud* Frédéric Tyack Travel Property Development & Agribusiness OFFICER Alexandre Fayd’herbe de Maudave Michel Pilot Leisure Richard Stedman Yashinn Bhoyroo Hotels Naveen Sangeelee Property Investments CHIEF FINANCE OFFICER Thierry Montocchio Eric Weirich Travel Stéphane Langlois Property Development & Agribusiness Bruno Pydiah (Finance Manager) Leisure Reshmee Boodhooa *Resigned and replaced by Thierry Montocchio as from 01 September 2019 7 8 Value Creation Map Financial Human Intellectual Social & Natural CAPITAL INPUT • Equity raising • Strong leadership team • Culture shaping • Customer relationships OUTCOMES • Debt financing • Skills and career development • Brand and reputation • Stakeholders’ confidence • Reinvestment • Engaged workforce • Systems • Corporate Social Responsibility BUILDING A LEADING SERVICES AND INVESTMENT BUSINESS FOCUSED ON FOUR SERVED MARKETS Served Strategic Achievements in 2018-19 Targets in 2019-20 Main Risks Markets Objectives impacting Consolidated Value Added Statement objectives (Refer to page 71) Enhance customer Corporate Technology Financial Corporate Financial experience • Revenue growth despite • Launch of Information Security • Volume targets exceeded for leasing and hire • Full amalgamation of RCCS and GMS; • Enhancement of customerA B C with structured and innovative persistent turbulence in the Advisory capability; and purchase services; and • Growth of existing Corporate and Trust centricity through D E G 2019 Rs 4,679m Global Business sector; and • Setting up of new Data Centre • Successful completion of 2nd round of funding. services; and sophisticated digital tools; and FinTech solutions • New leadership for our two in Ebene with enhanced • Launch of Private Client services and • Additional merchant H I J Management Companies. capacity for cloud services. Accounting Outsourcing services. onboarding. 18% Technology • Implementation of new digital projects; and • Growth of international presence 17% through enhanced IPLC capacity and Points of Presence (POPs). 53% Enhance the Hotels Travel Leisure Hotels Leisure customer A B C experience and • Successful renovation, • Consolidation of ground • Launch of Domino’s Pizza with the opening of a • Construction of Heritage second • Acquisition of 2018 extension and repositioning handling activities commissary facility and three stores; 18-hole signature golf course and sales Croisières Australes; scale-up our of Veranda Tamarin as a 3*+; in Mozambique and • New Welcome Centre for Heritage Nature Reserve of memberships; • Opening of the Kaz’alala D E F Rs 4,263m Hospitality Leisure & Hotel • First edition of the Mauritius Madagascar; and Racing Republic; • Renovation and re-opening of Heritage hosted B&B; 26% businesses G H I 53% Wellness Festival by • Launch of the new online • Rebranding and positioning of Chamarel 7 Coloured C Beach Club; and • Development of Voilà Apart’ S T RAT EG IC MAP Heritage Resorts; tour operating concept, Earth as a Geopark destination; • Lagoon management plan. Hotel; J 25% • Creation of Heritage Resorts Islandian; • Launch of unique picnic nature experiences at • Roll-out of new stores for 4% Academy in Bel Ombre; and • Turnaround of BlueSky Heritage Nature Reserve; Travel Domino’s Pizza; • Guest experience enrichment Reunion; and • Setting up of a sports events management company, • Opening of new territory for GSA; • Refurbishment of Ocean at Heritage Bel Ombre with • New GSA representations in Racing Republic; • Particular focus on and monitoring Basket at Grand Baie new activities, product Mauritius and Mozambique. • Launch of the Seeloy Island Club brand; and of Islandian’s operational activities to La Croisette; 4% offerings and events. • Launch of a website with online booking capabilities for improve conversion rates and move • Leisure development at Heritage Nature Reserve, Chamarel 7 Coloured Earth towards profitability; Bel Ombre; and Geopark and Le Chamarel Panoramic Restaurant. • Leverage on Amex franchise for • Upgrading of digital corporate travel; and performance dashboards. Rs m 2019 2018 • Expansion of ground handling activities in Africa. Revenue 10,297 9,390 Bought-in materials & services (5,618) (5,127) Total value added 4,679 4,263 Improve • Completion of the turnaround for the haulage business; and • Turnaround of operations in France; performance • Stabilisation of businesses in Kenya following the disruption caused by the Mombasa-Nairobi railway line. • Development of new lines of services in Kenya; and A B C of our existing EMPLOYEES, 53% • Continuation of development of the regional courier business. service lines D G H Wages, salaries, bonuses, pensions 2,491 2,253 Logistics & other benefits I J Consolidate Property Investments Property Development & Agribusiness Property Investments Property Development & GOVERNMENT, 4% Ascencia’s portfolio • Construction of Bo’Valon Mall well on track with opening • Installation of new server; and • Opening of Bo’Valon Mall and ensuring Agribusiness A B C Income Tax 204 190 in the retail segment planned for November 2019; • Innovative beach rehabilitation project. that KPIs are on target; • Boosting the agricultural and secure new • Successful planning of the new access to Phoenix Mall to adapt • Extension of Bagatelle Mall with an diversification programme; and D E F PROVIDERS OF CAPITAL, 25% Property avenues of expansion to the Metro Express route, which should be fully operational incremental GLA of approximately • Improved infrastructure at G H I Dividends paid to: by October 2019; 13,000 sqm; and Chamarel 7 Coloured Earth Re-invent our • Installation of the largest rooftop photovoltaic farm (2 MWp) • New ASCE project initiative to improve Geopark precinct. Agribusiness J Shareholders of Rogers and 257 245 in the Southern wing at Bagatelle Mall; and Customer Focus and Operational Company Limited operations • Successful ‘Trash is Treasure’ initiative with the participation Excellence. of our staff members alongside our tenants whereby we have Outside shareholders of 296 291 manage to collect 3,274 kg of waste over four chosen regions. Subsidiary Companies STRATEGIC PILLARS: DIGITALISATION / INTERNATIONALISATION / OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE / SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT & INCLUSIVE GROWTH Banks & other lenders 568 550 GROUP LEVERAGE: BRANDING / CORPORATE GOVERNANCE / FINANCING / HR / LEADERSHIP / MARKETING / RISK MANAGEMENT / VALUES REINVESTED, 18% Depreciation & amortisation 565 424 Financial Human Intellectual Social & Natural Retained Profit 298 310 • Access to competitive • Top-of-mind employer • Enabling organisation culture • Sustainable protection of financial capital • People development (skilled which drives Leadership, natural resources CAPITAL OUTPUT • Optimisation of resources and engaged employee base) Agility and Excellence • Focused support and monitoring Note: The above statement excludes any amount of towards served markets • Positive and empowering climate • Strong brand image of projects Value Added tax paid or collected. • Delivering shareholders’ return • Robust systems supporting • Caring community development our operations 9 10 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholders Expectations Responses Outcomes Capital Impacted Shareholders, • Sustainable growth in • An experienced Board of Directors consisting of Executive, Events during the year Investors, shareholders’ equity; Non-Executive and Independent Non-Executive Directors • Sep-18: Investors Briefing (Presentation of 30 June 2018 results); Regulatory Bodies • Responsible management with to encompass the whole spectrum of the Group’s activities; • Oct-18: Annual Meeting of Shareholders; and Providers transparency; and • An established Risk Management and Audit Committee (‘RMAC’) which oversees the soundness of financial, operational, compliance • Nov-18: Publication of first quarter results and declaration of interim dividend (Rs 0.36 per share); of Capital • Sustainable interest cover and debt levels. and strategic risk management; • Dec-18: Payment of interim dividend; • A Corporate Governance Committee (‘CGC’), also acting as • Feb-19: P  ublication of second quarter results and Investors Briefing (Presentation of half-yearly Nomination and Remuneration Committees, ensures that the results for financial year 2018-19); Group complies with the provisions of the National Code of • May-19: Publication of third quarter results; Corporate Governance; • Jun-19: A  pproval by the Board of the 4-year strategic plan 2023 and declaration of final • Rogers has no formal dividend policy. Payment of dividend dividend (Rs 0.66 per share); and is subject to the profitability of Rogers, its foreseeable investment, • Jul-19: Payment of final dividend. capital expenditure and working capital requirements; • Financial performance is reported in a timely manner to the Committee meetings held in 2018-19 authorities and to the public on a quarterly basis. Additional • 7 Board meetings; resources have been deployed in the Sustainability and Financial Social & Natural • 6 RMAC; Communication Department to enhance communication through our website and other forms of media; • 3 CGC; and • Rogers organises Investors Briefing twice a year to present • 1 SIC. analysts, stockbrokers, fund managers, bankers and other financial experts its half-yearly and yearly results and to discuss the Group’s Key Performance Metrics strategy and outlook; and • Profit attributable to shareholders of Rs 555m (2018: Rs 554m); • An updated medium-term strategic plan that guides the resource • A growth of 5% in total dividends paid (Rs 1.02 per share) representing a total of Rs 257m; allocation to sectors, both in terms of investment and working • Share price appreciation of 10% to Rs 37.30 yielding a market capitalisation of Rs 9,401m as at capital needs. 30 June 2019; • A debt to equity ratio of 0.64 against 0.56 last year; and • Interest cover of 3.3x against 3.0x in 2018. Our Workforce • Career growth opportunities; • The Rogers management model focuses on the performance People Development and Value-add • Professional development and development of its People; • 3,265 employees trained (2018: 2,698); (Training, coaching and cross• Internal mobility and career progression philosophy; • 3 man days per trained employee; exposure); • Culture building programmes across sectors; • Rs 50m training investment (2018: Rs 31m); • Job engagement and satisfaction; • Group-wide skills development initiatives; • Training investment of Rs 15,245 per employee (2018: Rs 11,587); • Recognition and rewards; • Structured development programs-ACE Management • Investments in training covered 75% of employee base (2018: 66%); and • Competitive compensation Development Program (Curtin University), RISE-Sales program and benefits; (Stafford & Chan training); • Comprehensive list of key people metrics including Engagement, Retention rate and Productivity. • Safe and enabling work • Market remuneration benchmarking every 2 years: Top 3 People Development Areas environment; and Total rewards approach to compensation and benefits aligned • Technical skills; • Meaningful employee to market practices; • Leadership skills; and experience. • Pension benefits, Medical plan and Insurance cover provided to employees; • Customer service. • Group code of ethics and personal conduct; • Positive employee relations climate across the Group, with collaborative and cordial relationships with trade unions and established collective agreements (in applicable sectors); Human Intellectual • Annual Health and Wellness events; • Rogers Summit conference focusing on key aspects of leadership and business; • Group-wide engagement surveys and action plans; • Rogers Leaders Award and sector specific recognition programmes (e.g. Kudos–for recognising tenure and achievements); and • Executive Directors are not remunerated for serving on the Board and its committees. Their remuneration package as employees of Rogers, including their performance bonus, which are aligned to market rate are disclosed in the table set out on page 33. Such package is reviewed and approved by the Corporate Governance Committee of Rogers on an annual basis. 11 12 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholders Expectations Responses Outcomes Capital Impacted Customers and • Strong brand image • Strengthen Rogers brand’s visibility locally and internationally; • Strong sub-brands that are closer to the market through regular market research and more Clients and reputation; • Focus on communication with coordination at all levels; thorough use of technology and social media; • Representation of internationally • Establishment of a process to obtain useful information on brand • Enhanced brand image through various campaigns during the year (e.g. the “Hip Hip Hip, No waste” recognised brands; image and customer loyalty; campaign in 2018 and the “World Ocean Day Campaign” in June 2019); • Customer satisfaction through • Enlarged offering through our integrated services, such as a • Digitalisation of offerings to enhance customers’ experience (e.g. revamped websites for Islandian, interacting processes; one-stop shop for Travel, Accommodation and Leisure provided ResaMaurice and Velogic; online booking system for Chamarel 7 Coloured Earth Geopark • Innovating capabilities; for in the Hospitality served market; and Le Chamarel Panoramic Restaurant and a new mobile app for Rogers Aviation); • Adherence to intellectual • Customer Relationship Management in place; • Organisation and participation in Seminars, Conferences and Events (e.g. Rogers Aviation property rights such as patents participated in the “Salon du Prêt à Partir” and Rogers Capital in the “Salon de l’Automobile” • Investment in skills, processes and technology; and the “Salon de la Maison” whereas Islandian was present at the Salon IFTM Top Resa , in Paris); Financial Intellectual and trade marks; • Review of customer feedback and satisfaction; and • Communication through our magazines (such as Presence, Network and E-network) and our website; and • Staff competencies and skills; • Engagement with customers on online platforms. • Strengthened customer-centric service (setting up of four Rogers Capital counters at • Trust in products and services; and Rogers House, Bagatelle Mall, Phoenix Mall and Riche Terre Mall. Partnerships signed with more • Consistent and transparent than 200 merchants and 100 vehicle dealers). quality of products and services. Suppliers and • Promoting joint growth • Regular communication with major suppliers; • Roadshows and other events organised with partners (e.g. Rogers Capital held roadshows with car Service Providers opportunities in a responsive • Develop sustainable business relationships; and dealers and home appliance dealers in malls); and mutually respectful manner; • Focus on long-term partnerships, for instance by celebrating milestones (e.g. Rogers Aviation • Opportunities for cross-selling across the Group. • Fairness in contracting their and South African Airways celebrated their 70-year long collaboration); and goods and services; and • Partnership with other industry stakeholders in the organisation of major sports events (AfrAsia • Favourable contract terms Bank Mauritius Open and Heritage Trail). Financial Intellectual and timely payment. Government and • Support to Government • Regular dialogue conducted with Ministers and relevant authorities; • Our recommendations for National Budget were taken into consideration; Authorities initiatives; • Participation in pre-budgetary consultations; • Setting up of a Sustainability and Inclusiveness Committee headed by an Independent Director to • Consultative dialogue • Contribution to national welfare and national events; spearhead the sustainability agenda and strategy within the Group; and propositions; • Sponsorship for the Indian Ocean Islands Games; • National events sponsorship; • Participate in the development • Tax contribution of Rs 204m for financial year 2018-19; of the country in a sustainable • Responsible management with transparency; and way; and • Engagement in Environmental, Social and Governance. • Improved our score on the Stock Exchange of Mauritius Sustainability Index 72% in 2019 (2015: 61%); Financial Human • Promotion of national • Participation in several campaigns aiming at raising public awareness on waste managements; and international dialogue • Active participation in the national campaign towards cleaning up the island; and partnerships. • Setting up waste management systems across the subsidiaries; • Sponsorship of conferences at national level (namely on marine science, addictions & health and climate change); • Participation in various projects supporting the inclusion of vulnerable groups in mainstream Social & Natural activities such as financial literacy, arts, sports, zero hunger and quality education; and • Other initiatives are elaborated in the Sustainability Section on pages 16 to 21. Communities, • Responsible corporate • Cooperation and networking with the authorities and private sectors; • Supported NGOs and groups in the fields of education, literacy, nutrition, employability, smart Authorities and citizenship, integral to the • Promoting the inclusion and education of vulnerable groups related agriculture, sports and arts; NGOs community and the environment to poverty and other social shortfalls; • Engaged with and supported a list of social enterprises in the field of waste recycling and transport; in which our businesses operate; • Commitment to finding beneficial solutions to identified social • Through our sectorial waste management programme, we contributed to strengthening • Responsiveness to (both local concerns like poverty and education; and and supporting the circular economy of recycled resources; and and international) concerns and impacts on social • Effective coordination of our CSR initiatives with the aim of improving • Refer to the Sustainability section on pages 16 to 21 for initiatives on social and natural capital. the socio-economic conditions within neighbouring communities. Financial Human and environmental issues; • Operations conducted in a safe and lawful manner; • Investment in community infrastructure and development; and • Contributing responsibly Social & Natural and transparently to broader societal interests. 13 14 “ Adopting a Sustainable Business Model Rogers is committed to operate in an inclusive and sustainable way. Our core purpose is to co-create meaningful opportunities by: • Sensing with an outward mindset, the needs of our markets & clients; • Collaborating with local communities to create a purposeful impact; • Seeking growth opportunities to grow our footprint beyond our shores; and • Writing together our growth story with our employees & partners. At Rogers, Our core purpose is the catalyst, that creates the spirit of entrepreneurship of our people to make a meaningful impact in the world of our clients, employees, partners, local communities and stakeholders. we believe in Human In our commitment towards Sustainable & Inclusive Development, we ensure that our actions and their impacts are aligned with Energy. Energy fundamental needs of the community and our employees wherever we operate, without depleting our natural resources. We want to: • Enhance the quality of life of the community and our employees: Social that transcends • Rehabilitate, preserve and educate: Ecology barriers, beliefs • Strengthen responsible business practices: Economic and origins. Energy We strongly believe that we cannot be successful if the community, the environment and our natural resources are depleting. As a company, we depend on the economic, environmental and social sustainability of our ecosystems As such, it is in our best interest to that is individual and contribute to a sustainable world. collective, intuitive Following all of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) is quite ambitious but with the dedication of our sectors, we have and rational. Energy been able to integrate a few of them in our business operations. Rogers has set up a Committee to spearhead the Sustainability & Inclusiveness dimensions of the Group. We integrate the SDGs into our Strategic Pillars and Business Objectives as follows: we draw from Nature, from our Planet. Sustainable Sustainability and Served Markets Representatives Development must Inclusiveness be part of our DNA Committee under the chairmanship of and be anchored Deonanan (Raj) Makoond FinTech Hospitality Logistics Property in the way we do businesses. Philippe Espitalier-Noël Chief Executive Officer 15 16 Adopting a Sustainable Business Model Key Social and Environmental Initiatives 2018-19* Served Market Sector Applicable SDGs FINTECH A few initiatives were set up by Rogers Capital during the year: Corporate • An environmental policy that includes recycling and reducing paper consumption, recycling waste, batteries and plastic bottles. This initiative aims at having an efficient waste management program and to go paperless; Technology • Endemic plants have been planted at La Citadelle; and Financial • Support to young people through the Junior Achievement Mascareignes (JAM). JAM’s mission is to educate and inspire young Mauritians and to help them in developing entrepreneurial and life skills through their ‘Learn by Doing’ programs. HOSPITALITY Veranda Leisure & Hospitality (VLH) has developed several initiatives within its hotels: • Implementing a policy to source locally and sustainably. This initiative aims to encourage local farmers and to improve quality of life and service levels, thanks to quality products; • Implementing a water management strategy, which helps to reduce the water flow of taps and the treatment of 100% of Waste Water, which is re-used for irrigation; and • Monitoring energy usage by installing detectors in all rooms. Heritage Resorts implemented a number of social and environmental initiatives throughout the year: Hotels • Setting up of a Heritage Resorts Academy, to increase intake of local people and to create a pool of trained and employable people in the region. This academy aims to help alleviate the unemployment rate and to create a hospitality culture in the region; • Promoting awareness on marine life in the Bel Ombre region for the community at large, staff and guests via the Yellow Submarine, Timomo Kids Club and the Lagoon Directory; • Collaboration with the NGO Foodwise to avoid food wastage and help in recycling leftover food. This collaboration assists in maximizing access to nutritious food and resources that support food security for vulnerable children; • Supporting the local community, e.g. by organising job fairs and by promoting local artisans; and • Installation of solar panels in view of producing and utilising renewable energies. A number of activities have been carried out by Rogers Aviation namely: • Recycling plastic caps; and Travel • Beach clean-ups. Island Living has set up: • Educational tours such as the Bay2Bay Tour and the Biosphere Tour to raise awareness on environmental issues and educate people about endemic plants; and Leisure • A waste management system in order to segregate waste during disposal and to promote an eco-friendly environment. 17 18 Adopting a Sustainable Business Model Served Market Sector Applicable SDGs LOGISTICS Velogic has put in place a number of initiatives namely: Logistics Solutions • A policy minimizing the use of harmful chemicals in the vicinity of the harbour; and • An environmental policy as well as a Sustainability Committee. PROPERTY Ascencia has: Property Investments • Organised Green Markets in order to provide shoppers with responsible and healthy consumption alternatives through diverse exhibitors giving sustainable and responsible consumption alternatives; and • Opened its doors to local artisans and NGOs in order to educate visitors about social topics affecting our island, create awareness on waste impact and the means to reduce, reuse and recycle. CSBO has set-up: • A compost farm, the objective being to collect all of the green waste from hotels and to transform it into compost; and Property Development & Agribusiness • A smart agriculture and bio garden production of vegetables and fruits in a controlled environment in order to stop the use of chemicals. This initiative aims at producing healthy and good products free from chemicals. Les Villas de Bel Ombre have set up various social initiatives: • Support and assist local populations like Lovebridge and support to Bel Ombre ''Centre d'Eveil ; • Energy-saving projects such as the central monitoring of water consumption of 160 individual villas; and Property Development & Agribusiness • Reuse of water of dedicated Villas Valriche Sewage Treatment Plant to irrigate the golf course in order to save water and extend natural green spaces. *For more details on our social and environmental initiatives, please visit our website https://www.rogers.mu 19 20 “ We believe in the fusion of all energies. LEADERSHIP At Rogers, we believe in the fusion of all energies. We believe that progress is enabled by converging our efforts to create positive value. Board of Directors Executive Team We believe in co-creating meaningful opportunities with clear minds, sincere hearts and purposeful actions. Governance at Rogers Statement of Compliance Secretary’s Certificate Interview with the Chief Executive Officer 21 22 Board of Directors 1 2 5 6 3 4 7 8 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 ADAM, Guy (GA) ESPITALIER-NOËL, Eric (EEN) ESPITALIER-NOËL, Gilbert (GEN) ESPITALIER-NOËL, Hector (HEN) ESPITALIER-NOËL, Philippe (PEN) HUGNIN, Thierry (TH) MAKOOND, Deonanan (MD) MAMET, Damien (DM) NAME NAME (Born in 1977) (Born in 1950) (Born in 1959) (Born in 1964) (Born in 1958) (Born in 1965) (Born in 1966) (Born in 1952) Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director and TITLE Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director TITLE Independent Director Independent Director Executive Director Chief Finance Executive • Doctor of Medicine (MD); and • Bachelor’s degree in Social • BSc (University of Cape Town, • Member of the Institute of • BSc in Agricultural Economics • Master’s Degree in Computer • BA (Hons) in Economics; and • Member of the Institute of QUALIFICATIONS / CONTINUING • Fellowship of the Royal College Sciences (University of Natal, South Africa); Chartered Accountants in England (University of Natal, South Science and Management, • MSc in Tourism Planning. Chartered Accountants in QUALIFICATIONS / CONTINUING of Surgeons (FRCS). South Africa); and • BSc (Hons) (Louisiana State and Wales; and Africa); and University of Paris Dauphine, England and Wales; • Master’s degree in Business University, USA); and • Leadership Course – INSEAD • MBA (London Business School). France; • Executive Programs at London Administration (University of • Master's in Business Business School. • Institute of Chartered Accountants Business School; Surrey, UK). Administration (INSEAD England and Wales; and • INSEAD Business School, Fontainebleau, France). • Various professional qualifications Singapore; in Investment Management • Strengthening Marketing PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT industry, including IMC, UK. Capability; • Rogers Summit 2018; • IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments & IFRS 16 – Leases Workshop; • Crafting a Compelling Strategy for a Sustainable Future; and • Strengthening Marketing • 05 October 1994; and • 02 February 1994; • 15 July 1999 • 22 December 1987 Capabilities 2019. APPOINTMENT • Member of Corporate • Member of Corporate • 06 February 2004; • 12 February 2018; and • 02 May 2018; and • 10 May 2017; and Governance Committee since Governance Committee since APPOINTMENT • Member of Corporate Governance • Member of Risk Management • Chairman of Sustainability and • Member of Sustainability and 18 January 2012. 18 January 2012; and Committee since 18 January 2012; and and Audit Committee since Inclusiveness Committee since Inclusiveness Committee since • Member of Risk Management • Member of Sustainability and 10 May 2018. 13 February 2019. 13 February 2019. and Audit Committee since Inclusiveness Committee since 26 April 2017. 13 February 2019. B/G/BU/F/HR/C/E B/G/R/BU/F/HR/C/E/S/I/ A/B/G/R/BU/F/HR/C/E/S/I/ A/B/G/R/BU/F/HR/L/C/E/S/I/ EXPERTISE HB/LB/PB HB/PB HB/PB B/G/R/BU/F/HR/C/E/S/I/HB/ A/B/G/BU/F/HR/E/S/I/FB B/G/R/BU/F/E/S/I/FB/HB A/B/R/BU/F/HR/E/S/HB/PB EXPERTISE LB/PB KEY: A: Accounting, B: Board Matters, BU: Business skills, C: Communication skills, E: Entrepreneurial skills, F: Financial skills, FB: Knowledge of the FinTech Business, G: Governance skills, HB: Knowledge of the Hospitality Business, HR: HR skills, I: International Exposure, L: Legal skills, LB: Knowledge of the Logistics Business, PB: Knowledge of the Property Business R: Risk & Audit Issues, S: Strategic Dimension 23 24 Board of Directors Executive Team 9 10 1 2 3 4 5 11 12 9 10 11 12 NAME MASSON, Vivian (VM) MONTOCCHIO, Jean Pierre (JPM) RADHAKEESOON, Aruna (AR) RUHEE, Ashley Coomar (ACR) (Born in 1956) (Born in 1963) (Born in 1970) (Born in 1977) Chairman and Non-Executive Executive Director, Director Executive Director and Chief TITLE Independent Director Chief Legal and Compliance Executive Officer FinTech Executive. 6 7 8 • Masters in Economics • Notary in Mauritius. • BA (Hons) in Jurisprudence • First Degree – Mathematics (University of Paris-Assas); (Balliol College, Oxford University); and Physics (Faculté des • Diplôme d’Etudes Comptables • Solicitor of England and Wales (NP); Sciences de Luminy, Marseilles); QUALIFICATIONS / CONTINUING Supérieures (DECS, France); and • Attorney-at-law (Mauritius); • Masters In Engineering – • Consulting in MedTech • Executive Programs at London Automatic Control, Electronics industry. Business School; and Computer Engineering • INSEAD Business School, Singapore; with specialisation in Real • 1st Mauritius Compliance Risk & Time Engineering and Systems Economic Crime Conference; (Institut National des Sciences PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT • Strengthening Marketing Capability; Appliquées, Toulouse); and • Blockchain Technology: Introducing • Executive education new market perspectives for financial programmes at London Business markets practitioners; School, INSEAD Singapore and • Game-Changing Presentation Skills; IMD Lausanne. • Co-Creating/Laying the foundations for a circular economy in Mauritius; and 9 10 11 • Crafting a Compelling Strategy for a Sustainable Future. • 10 September 2015; • Chairman since 9 November 2012; and • 18 October 2012 • 20 July 2017 APPOINTMENT • Member of Risk Management • Chairman of Corporate Governance and Audit Committee since Committee since 19 January 2012. 10 December 2015; and • Chairman of Risk Management and Audit Committee since 10 May 2018. A/B/R/BU/F/HR/C/E/S/I B/G/BU/HR/L/S/I/HB/PB B/G/BU/HR/L/C/E/S/FB/HB/PB B/BU/F/HR/C/E/S/I/K EXPERTISE 12 13 KEY: A: Accounting, B: Board Matters, BU: Business skills, C: Communication skills, E: Entrepreneurial skills, F: Financial skills, FB: Knowledge of the FinTech Business, G: Governance skills, HB: Knowledge of the Hospitality Business, HR: HR skills, I: International Exposure, L: Legal skills, LB: Knowledge of the Logistics Business, PB: Knowledge of the Property Business R: Risk & Audit Issues, S: Strategic Dimension 25 26 Executive Team 1 2 3 7 8 9 BUNDHUN, MANISH COTRY, ERIC ESPITALIER-NOËL, PHILIPPE NUNKOO, NAYENDRANATH PILOT, MICHEL RADHAKEESOON, ARUNA Chief Human Resources Executive Head of Internal Audit & Risk Management Chief Executive Officer and Executive Chief Executive Officer – Logistics Chief Executive Officer – Agribusiness Executive Director, Chief Legal Director and Compliance Executive QUALIFICATIONS QUALIFICATIONS • Please refer to page 25. QUALIFICATIONS QUALIFICATIONS • Please refer to page 26. • BSc (Hons) Management; • Association of Chartered Certified Accountants • MSc in Engineering from the Odessa • Bcom in Finance and Management and a Master • Masters in Business Administration; (FCCA). Technological Institute of Food Industry; of Finance from Curtin University (Australia); and • Executive Programs at London Business School; and • Master’s degree in Business Administration from • In 2014 he also obtained an Masters in Business • INSEAD Business School, Singapore. the University of Mauritius; Administration (INSEAD Business School, France). • Executive Programs at the London Business School; and • INSEAD Business School, Singapore. EXPERIENCE EXPERIENCE EXPERIENCE EXPERIENCE • He joined Rogers in the Logistics sector in • He has over 17 years’ experience in the audit • He joined Rogers in 1993 and has since been • He started his career in the financial service January 2006 as Division Manager-Human field; involved in a number of business activities in the industry and was Portfolio Manager for High Net Resources and was subsequently appointed • He started his career as external auditor with De Group, which allowed him to develop a wideWorth Individuals before joining Rogers in 2016 Chief Human Resources Executive of Rogers in Chazal du Mée in 1997; ranging managerial capability; as Corporate Manager; and September 2008; • He has an extensive audit experience in various • He has worked as Project Manager, Deputy • He was promoted to Senior Manager of the • He holds a Certified Masters in NLP (Neuro sectors such as Property Investments, Hotels, General Manager of RIDS Madagascar , General Groups Agribusiness activities and is now the Linguistic Programming) and in Neuro Semantics, sugar, retail, Logistics and Financial; Manager of EIS Ltd, the IT subsidiary of the Chief Executive Officer. and is a certified Agility Coach and Trainer. • He has also worked in Rwanda as acting CFO in a Rogers Group, and Corporate Manager Manish is also a Co-active Coach from the Coach commercial bank in Bermuda and Guernsey in the Strategic Planning; and Training Institute (CTI) and a Certified Executive hedge fund industry; • In July 2011, he was appointed Chief Executive Coach from the International Association of • Before joining Rogers, Eric was a Senior Manager Officer of Velogic which is a logistics company Coaching Institutes (ICI); and at BDO & Co in the audit division; and employing 1500 people in Mauritius, Reunion • He regularly facilitates and delivers executive • He was appointed Head of Internal Audit & Risk Island, Madagascar, Kenya, India and France. leadership and team coaching workshops. Management of Rogers Group in April 2017. Manish also practices as adjunct professor in Human Resources Management and Organisation Development at post graduate level. 4 5 6 10 11 12 EYNAUD, FRANÇOIS* FAYD’HERBE DE MAUDAVE, MAMET, DAMIEN RUHEE, ASHLEY COOMAR STEDMAN, RICHARD TYACK, FRÉDÉRIC Chief Executive Officer Hotels ALEXANDRE Executive Director and Chief Finance Executive Director and Chief Executive Chief Executive Officer – Leisure Chief Executive Officer – Ascencia Chief Executive Officer – Travel & Aviation Executive Officer FinTech • Please refer to page 25. • Please refer to page 26. QUALIFICATIONS QUALIFICATIONS QUALIFICATIONS QUALIFICATIONS • “Diplôme d’école de commerce” • BCom (Hons) and is a qualified Chartered • “Ecole Hotelière de Lausanne” in 1983. • Graduated from the London School of (Institut Commercial de Nancy). Accountant from the South African Institute of Economics; and Chartered Accountants. • Member of the Institute of the Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. EXPERIENCE EXPERIENCE EXPERIENCE EXPERIENCE • He started his career with Sagem (France) as • He joined Rogers Aviation in 2001 as General • He had a 21-year career with Hyatt • His experience spans a number of industries Export Director and was subsequently appointed Manager Finance & Administration; International; having occupied senior positions in the Logistics, successively Country Manager of Sagem in the • Prior to joining Rogers, he worked in South Africa • After holding various senior operational positions, Manufacturing and Property sectors; and Caribbean Islands and in England; for a period of 7 years with Arthur Andersen; and he became a General Manager, specialising in • He is the Chief Executive Officer of Ascencia • He returned to Mauritius in 1991 to join Ciel • He was appointed Managing Director of Rogers openings as well as Resort management under and the Managing Director of EnAtt, the Asset, Textile as Marketing Director and was promoted Aviation in October 2006 and Chief Executive the Hyatt brand; Development and Property Management arm of as Executive Director of Tropic Knits in 2000; Officer in October 2010. • He joined the Food and Allied group in 2004 as Ascencia. • He was appointed Managing Director of Veranda the opening General Manager for Le Telfair Golf Resorts in August 2008 and Chief Executive & Spa Resort; Officer of VLH Group in October 2010; and • As from 2008, he joined ENL Property as a 13 • He was President of l’Association des Hoteliers et Development Manager; and Restaurateurs de l’Ile Maurice (AHRIM) in 2013 • From 2011 up to now, Richard has spearheaded VACHER, BELINDA and 2014. the development and growth of Island Living Ltd, Chief Projects and Sustainability Executive an operational cluster that manages 13 Lifestyle, Leisure & Hospitality Brands (including Voilà QUALIFICATIONS Hotels, Kaz’alala B&B’s, Ocean Basket Mauritius, MOKA’Z, Domino’s Pizza, Seeloy Island Clubs, Le • Master in Business Administration and a BSc Chamarel Panoramic Restaurant, Savinia Bistrot, (Hons) Finance, both from the University of Chamarel 7 Coloured Earth Geopark and Heritage Mauritius; Nature Reserve). • Certificate in Business Accounting; and • Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA). EXPERIENCE • Belinda has extensive experience in corporate finance, valuation, investment appraisal, investor relations, fund management, capital raising, *Resigned and replaced by Thierry Montocchio as from 01 September 2019 project management and business development. 27 28 Governance at Rogers Rogers and Company Limited (‘Rogers’) continues to review (‘Rogers Capital’), namely the Corporate Governance Committee 2. Governance Framework its governance structures in line with the Code of Corporate and the Risk Management and Audit Committee. It then became Governance to ensure that they support effective decisionnecessary to create the linkages between the Rogers Board making, establish a corporate culture aligned with its purpose, Committees and the Rogers Capital Committees. The Chairman Shareholders and other Stakeholders foster sustainable growth and align to evolving global good of the Rogers Risk Management and Audit Committee has a practice. In the last years, the financial arm of the Group has standing invitation to attend the Rogers Capital Risk Management grown considerably in size, thus challenging the established and Audit Committee meetings. The CEO of Rogers and the governance framework of the Group. The financial sector being Secretary ensure the flow of information between the Rogers an increasingly regulated environment and given the size of Corporate Governance Committee and the Rogers Capital the Group, the Board of Rogers resolved in February 2018 to Corporate Governance Committee. create two Board Committees at the level of Rogers Capital Ltd Rogers Board of Directors 1. The Context Determines the Company’s purpose and values, develops strategies in relation thereto and provides strategic direction Company Secretary and leadership aligned to the Company’s value system THE NATIONAL CODE OF to ensure the sustainability of the business CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FOR MAURITIUS (2016) Corporate Governance Risk Management and Audit Sustainability and Inclusiveness Committee (CGC) Committee (RMAC) Committee (SIC) LISTINGS REQUIREMENTS Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: CONSTITUTIVE DOCUMENTS* Rogers is listed on the Official • Assists the Board in Corporate • Assists the Board in its duties • Assists the Board in its duties List of the Stock Exchange Constitution of Rogers governance provisions to be relating to risk management, relating to the sustainability of Mauritius Ltd (SEM) and The Companies Act 2001 adopted, executive remuneration safeguarding of assets, the operation and inclusiveness strategy, best is subject to the listings Policies** and individual directors’ of adequate systems, control practices in terms of initiatives requirements remuneration and Board and senior processes and the preparation and practices and the performance management appointments. of accurate financial reports and monitoring of sustainability and statements in compliance with inclusiveness initiatives including terms of reference of the CGC.* legal requirements and accounting key performance indicators and standards. benchmarks. terms of reference of the RMAC.* terms of reference of the SIC will be published on the website of Rogers INTERNATIONAL <IR> once same is approved. FRAMEWORK Executive Management *Available on: https://www.rogers.mu/content/policies **For the year ended 30 June 2019, the Board has adopted a Board Charter and an Information Security and Technology Policy *Available on: https://www.rogers.mu/content/governance 29 30 Governance at Rogers 3. Board of Directors c. Induction Process and Continuing Professional Development e. Board and committee meetings The Board of Rogers assumes responsibility for leading and Upon appointment to the Board and/or its committees, the new The composition and attendance of Board, committee meetings and Annual Meeting of Shareholders as well as Remuneration and controlling the organisation and meeting all legal and regulatory Director receives a comprehensive induction pack. The induction Benefits are set out in Table 1. requirements. Rogers is headed by a unitary Board comprising programme and orientation process is supervised by the Group of 12 Directors. The profiles of Directors including their areas of CEO and the Senior Executives of Rogers. Table 1: Composition and attendance at Board, committee meetings and Annual Meeting of Shareholders, expertise and their full directorship lists are available on: Remuneration and Benefits The Terms and Conditions relating to the appointment of Nonhttps://www.rogers.mu/content/board-directors Executive and Independent Non-Executive Directors (including Risk Sustainability a. Composition of the Board contents of Induction pack) are available on: Corporate Management and https://www.rogers.mu/content/board-directors Governance & Audit Inclusiveness Annual Remuneration The composition of the Board and the category of directors are Committee Committee Committee Meeting of and benefits set out on page 24 of the Integrated Report. At 30 June 2019, Furthermore, Directors have access to the records of Rogers and Directors Category Board (‘CGC’) (‘RMAC’) (‘SIC’) Shareholders (in Rs) there were four Executive Directors, five Non-Executive Directors they have the right to request independent professional advice at and three Independent Non-Executive Directors, who satisfied the the expense of Rogers. The Board and its committees also have Dr Guy Adam NED 5/7 3/3 n/a n/a 1/1 460,000 criteria tests of Principle 2 of the Code of Corporate Governance. the authority to secure the attendance at meetings of third parties The size of the Board is in line with s.79 of the Constitution of with relevant experience and expertise as and when required. Eric Espitalier-Noël NED 6/7 2/3 5/6 n/a 1/1 610,000 Rogers. Furthermore, all Directors reside in Mauritius. Directors are further encouraged to attend courses to refresh their knowledge and to keep abreast of latest developments Gilbert Espitalier-Noël NED 6/7 n/a n/a n/a 1/1 380,000 b. Nomination Process and Appointment of Directors relating to their duties, responsibilities, powers and potential The nomination process and appointment of directors is available on liabilities. Regulatory and legislative updates are communicated Hector Espitalier-Noël NED 6/7 n/a n/a n/a 0/1 340,000 https://www.rogers.mu/sites/default/files/nomination_process_0.pdf. accordingly by the in-house Legal Counsel. Philippe Espitalier-Noël ED 7/7 3/3 n/a 1/1 1/1 18,516,417 A Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance policy has been d. Committees subscribed to and renewed by Rogers. The policy provides cover Thierry Hugnin INED 6/7 n/a 4/6 n/a 0/1 460,000 for the risks arising out of the acts or omissions of the Directors The Board is assisted in the performance of its duties by three and Officers of Rogers Group. The cover does not provide Board Committees, namely the CGC (acting also as Nomination Damien Mamet ED 6/7 n/a n/a 1/1 1/1 7,893,217 insurance against fraudulent, malicious or wilful acts or omissions. Committee and Remuneration Committee), the RMAC and the newly set up Sustainability and Inclusiveness Committee Jean-Pierre Montocchio (‘SIC’). The governance and risk and audit issues relating to (Chairman of the Board the businesses of the subsidiaries of Rogers operating in the and CGC) NED 6/7 3/3 n/a n/a 1/1 880,000 Hospitality, Logistics and Property (excluding Ascencia Limited and Rogers Capital) are overseen by the CGC and RMAC. The Deonanan Makoond membership and terms of reference of these committees are (Chairman of the SIC) INED 7/7 n/a n/a 1/1 1/1 380,000 available on: https://www.rogers.mu/content/governance On 14 August 2019 and 10 September 2019, the CGC and Vivian Masson RMAC reviewed their terms of reference and noted that they had (Chairman of the RMAC) INED 6/7 n/a 6/6 n/a 1/1 700,000 met their objectives. During the year under review, the Board also set up its SIC. Aruna Radhakeesoon ED 5/7 n/a n/a n/a 0/1 8,380,783 Its terms of reference is being finalised and will be approved subsequently. Ashley Coomar Ruhee ED 4/7 n/a n/a n/a 1/1 8,604,149 INED: Independent Non-Executive Director NED: Non-Executive Director ED: Executive Director Remuneration of Independent Non-Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors (which was last reviewed in December 2012) is composed of a basic monthly fee and an attendance fee. The committee members are paid a monthly fee only and the Chairman of the Board and Chairmen of committees are paid a higher monthly fee. For remuneration of Executive Directors, please refer to Stakeholder Engagement’s section. 31 32 Governance at Rogers Statement of Compliance f. Mandatory Disclosures g. Board and Individual Evaluation Name of PIE: Rogers and Company Limited For the year under review, dealing in the shares of Rogers by A Board evaluation exercise was carried out in July 2019 in We, the directors of Rogers and Company Limited, confirm that to the best of our knowledge, Rogers has complied with all its Director is set out in Table 2. the form of a web-based questionnaire covering the main obligations and requirements under the principles of the Code of Corporate Governance for Mauritius (2016). recommendations of the Code of Corporate Governance and Table 2: Dealings in the Shares by Director the Board dynamics of Rogers. The analysis of the outcome of the exercise will be considered by the Corporate Governance Signed by No. of shares Names acquired Committee and thereafter by the Board. Hector Espitalier-Noël 2,700 Furthermore, the individual director evaluation is yet to be finalised as appropriate timing and suitable technique to conduct For the year under review, instances where Directors were same remain to be agreed. conflicted were duly noted and conflicts of interest arising from Jean-Pierre Montocchio Philippe Espitalier-Noël h. Succession Planning transactions were effectively managed using the same process Chairman Director & CEO as for Related Party Transaction process. The said process is The CGC acting as Nomination Committee, together with 13 September 2019 available on: https://www.rogers.mu/content/board-directors the Chairman of the Board deals with succession planning for Non-Executive Directors and Independent Non-Executive The related party transactions approved by the Board using the Directors and monitors the succession planning for Related Party Transaction (‘RPT’) process for the year under Executive Directors. review were as follows: • the acquisition by Ascencia Limited (‘Ascencia’), a subsidiary i. Company Secretary of Rogers, of 50% stake in Floreal Commercial Centre Limited (‘So’flo’) from ENL Property Limited (‘ENLP’). ENLP and Rogers All Directors have access to the services and advice of the are subsidiaries of ENL Limited (‘ENL’); and Company Secretary, whose position statement is available on: • the purchase of a plot of land by the Chief Executive Officer https://www.rogers.mu/content/governance. of Rogers, at Heritage Villas Valriche which is managed by Les j. Relations with Shareholders and Other Key Stakeholders Villas de Bel Ombre Ltée (‘LVBO’), an indirect subsidiary of Rogers. The transaction is being completed. Please refer to page 12 of the Integrated Report. Furthermore at the time of approving this report, the Board approved the following related party transactions using the Secretary’s Certificate RPT process: 4. Other Matters • the acquisition of a plot of land by Ascencia from Moka For the year under review, the Board adopted a Board Charter City Limited, a subsidiary of ENLP for the development of a and an Information Security and Technology Policy. Same are commercial unit; and available on: https://www.rogers.mu/content/policies. • the disposal of all shares held by Rogers Capital Specialist Services Secretary's Certificate Ltd, an indirect subsidiary of Rogers to Swan Life Ltd, a subsidiary The Board is satisfied that the Integrated Report and accounts of of Swan General Ltd which in turn is an associate of Rogers. the Group taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable. In my capacity as Company Secretary of Rogers and Company Limited (the “Company”), I hereby confirm that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, the Company has filed with the Registrar of Companies, for the financial year ended 30 June 2019, all such returns as are required of the Company under the Companies Act 2001. Sharon Ah-Lin Company Secretary 13 September 2019 33 34 Interview with the Chief Executive Officer The CEO of Rogers and Company Limited, What were the main developments that characterised the 2018-19 financial year? Philippe Espitalier-Noël comments on the Group’s developments in Our Group continued to invest in new developments across all our served markets during the year. With regard to FinTech, the 2018-19 period and the strategy Rogers Capital captured market share in its main lines of business. for the coming years. In Financial Services, we now have a presence in 200 shops across the country with 39 desks at strategic partners’ locations. How would you reflect on the Group’s performance in the Furthermore, a one-stop service is available at Rogers House, prevailing economic environment? which enjoys substantial goodwill, and a new application was During the review year, the world economy was faced with launched to reduce processing time for customers while curbing a slowdown resulting from issues like the implications of the paper use. Additionally, Rogers Capital Corporate is in the US-China trade war, the Brexit process, the “yellow vests” process of finalising the amalgamation of its two Management movement in France, or again the Hong Kong protests. Companies to improve synergies and efficiency. On the local scene, economic growth stood at 3.8%, headline The highlights of the year in our Hospitality served market include, on inflation was 1% and the CPI increased by 0.6%. Over the same the Hotels front, the reopening of Veranda Tamarin with 116 rooms. period, the tourism sector registered 3% growth in arrivals with a The signing of a golf management contract for Avalon Golf Estate in slowdown leading to tepid 1% growth in the second semester. Bois Chéri is another strategic move that will enable us to leverage our recognised expertise and occupy a leadership position for our golf In our FinTech served market, Rogers Capital Corporate offering on the island. In May 2019, Island Living, our Leisure arm, continued to diversify its product offering. At the local level, was amalgamated with our hotel business, and has become a 100% there were further gains in purchasing power with GDP per capita subsidiary of VLH. During the year, the leisure sector continued to reaching US$ 11,282. This benefited the retail sector and local gain impetus with the opening of three Domino’s Pizza outlets and consumption, supporting our consumer finance business. On the the launch of Kaz’alala, a new hosted B&B offering in Bel Ombre. other hand, the global business sector operated in an environment Another step in our consolidation strategy to bring all our leisure perturbed by unfounded attacks from certain interested quarters activities under one roof was the acquisition of Croisières Australes and the coming into effect of less favourable provisions of the from the Travel sector. new Mauritius-India Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement. In the Logistics served market, we managed to rekindle our The sugar industry remains in a challenging position with reduced business operations in Kenya, which were impacted by the tonnage and sugar prices affecting our agricultural operations and implementation of the Mombasa-Nairobi Standard Gauge negative effects felt at the level of our Logistics served market. Railway. Our French operations remained challenged in the Overall, Group revenue for the year improved by 10% to wake of the impact of the continued “yellow vests” protests Rs 10,297 m, while EBITDA and PAT before exceptional items on shopping and garment consumption in France. In Mauritius were bolstered by healthy growth of 19% to Rs 2,458m and we benefited from the Metro Express Project, with significant 24% to Rs 1,121m respectively. growth in the volume of containers handled. And finally, the Group’s Property Investments sector moved forward with the acquisition of the remaining 50% stake in So’flo. With a 50% participation in Bo’Valon Mall, a new project at the entrance of Mahebourg, in the South-East of Mauritius, Ascencia is participating in this property development initiative led by EnAtt. On the Property Development & Agribusiness side, our Bel Ombre, Chamarel and Case Noyale estates are confirming their transition from a sugarcane-driven business to Co-create an agritourism and real estate focus. The “Protect” and “Produce” philosophy of CSBO and Case Noyale is permeating every aspect meaningful of the development of our operations, with the infusion of a shift towards a circular economy. Local production and consumption opportunities of tropical products with an inclusive participation model from the local and island communities is gaining traction. Philippe Espitalier-Noël Chief Executive Officer 35 36 Interview with the Chief Executive Officer What are your specific strategic priorities beyond 2019? co-designed by the golf professional, Louis Oosthuizen and the Rogers has shown its commitment to sustainability Day, we launched a campaign to encourage Mauritians to reflect designer and architect Peter Matkovich. As we keep “Embracing in Mauritius. You mentioned a dedicated committee on the impact of plastic waste on marine life, and ultimately on During the review period, our listed company has developed a new operating under the aegis of the Board of Directors… the Extraordinary” natural features of Bel Ombre, the new “La human health. The majority of our subsidiaries have jumped on four-year strategic plan to 2023, with the support of a special Reserve” golf course will be spectacularly set in the magnificent In recent years, in line with our commitment to the United Nations the bandwagon, carrying out beach clean-ups, awareness days, committee and EY-Parthenon from Paris. Our strategic plan is highlands. The awaited possibility of membership of the Bel Ombre Sustainable Development Goals, we have taken special measures trash challenges or waste sorting projects. focused on six main dimensions, namely marketing, digitalisation, golfing facilities, with an innovative offer, will be launched during to make sure that our activities were aligned with the fundamental operational excellence, internationalisation, sustainable Unfortunately, some of our best efforts are challenged in the face the 2019-20 financial year, allowing our guests to enjoy the unique needs of the community and our employees wherever we operate. development and inclusive growth as well as human resources. of global warming. In March 2019, various initiatives to protect and attractive features of the accommodation, residential and We have strived to respond to the challenges of development and rejuvenate the Bel Ombre lagoon have been squashed by the We will apply a structured marketing strategy with an outsideleisure offering of the Domaine. As we emphasise our commitment and growth in Mauritius by addressing both socioeconomic and heat waves that hit our ocean. The permanent state of stress in market approach. Through digitalisation, we will strengthen to swift customer service, we are setting up the “Heritage Resorts environmental challenges, which are interconnected in practice and imposed on live corals has reduced their resistance, and we are our technological capability using tools of the digital world to Academy” to address the skills mismatch in the hospitality industry require a holistic approach. engaging with other local and international bodies to heighten the innovate and drive customer centricity. Additionally, we will and enrol more personnel from the local surroundings. This is the rationale behind the creation of a Sustainability agenda of coral and associated marine life preservation. promote operational excellence through further optimising Besides, our Leisure sector is set to roll out three additional and Inclusiveness Committee under the aegis of the Board of of our resources, processes and systems to drive efficiency The Group recently embarked on a major project to map Domino’s Pizza stores, the launch of other hosted B&B under the Directors in early 2019. Steered by an Independent Director, out the Rogers way for the next four years. How does the and productivity. Kaz’alala brand and the future development of Voilà Apartments, this committee has the core responsibility of driving the Group’s new “Rogers, Uniting Energy” communication campaign Internationalisation is another key dimension and the Group a 48-room facility targeting guests who book extended stays. sustainability agenda and strategy. This involves ensuring the embrace this new vision? aims at growing its footprint by strengthening and expanding In addition, we will revamp our existing outdoor leisure offering sustainability of our projects, minimising the negative impact of The new four-year strategic plan to lead Rogers into the its presence overseas. at Chamarel and Bel Ombre. Within the next twelve months, the our ongoing operations on the environment and maximising our future required that we enter a new phase and refine our core Leisure team will be working on improving the attractiveness of influence on the quality of life of our citizens. Our commitment to fostering sustainable development and purpose in the light of changing socioeconomic conditions. This Heritage Le Château, its gardens and Place du Moulin to reinforce inclusive growth remains a strategic priority as we work together How has Rogers’ sustainability philosophy permeated the means that we address identified issues and act as “architects the current features and offer unique day packages to the market. to leave the world a better place than the one we inherited. The Group’s operations? of opportunity” to secure projects with attributes that fit our implementation, monitoring and follow-up will be carried out by Our Property Development & Agribusiness activity will values. This decisive process of introspection has led us to spell I believe our successes stem from our continuous and numerous a dedicated committee operating under the aegis of the Board pursue its reorientation, and a new brand will be launched out our vision to “co-create meaningful opportunities”. efforts to achieve our goals. Rogers and its subsidiaries recurrently of Directors. by December 2019 to replace the current CSBO label and contribute to the national efforts to create a better Mauritius We also reflected on the ingredients that are required to uphold our strategic orientation. This is part of an integrated And finally, a supportive HR strategy is essential. We will leverage where no one is kept away from the positive benefits of materialise our aspirational vision. These include an outward and sustainable approach that provides for the inclusion of our strong employer brand to attract talent, include the younger development. In addition to ongoing actions, we have introduced mindset; a “can-do attitude”; understanding the needs of our surrounding communities. For some time, efforts have been generation and consolidate capabilities in our sectors through electronic waste recycling, implemented a smart agriculture markets and clients; collaborating with local communities to create under way to develop an agritourism offering that continues structured development and engagement programmes. programme in Bel Ombre and phased out single-use plastics in our a purposeful impact; being on the lookout for opportunities to to transform the landscape of the region and benefits all How does this strategy translate into objectives and hotel and leisure operations this year. grow our footprint beyond our shores; and writing our growth stakeholders in the Bel Ombre region. Additionally, we continue challenges for Rogers? story together with our employees and partners. The result is the with our environmentally-friendly initiatives like a coral In the Hotels sector, significant efforts are carried out on a daily energy and creative efforts that all our team members put into This plan sets clear goals for each business unit, and we have rehabilitation programme and other nature-related activities. basis to reduce electricity and water consumption, as well as their collaborative work of generating value for the Group, its already put our strategy in motion. to diminish food wastage through donating surpluses via the In our Travel Services operations, we are fine-tuning Islandian’s clients, shareholders and the community at large. FoodWise network. Our Heritage Resorts’ five-star hotels have In our FinTech served market, Rogers Capital will continue to operating model to enhance the online tour operator’s market obtained the Green Key Certificate (which is awarded to hotels This explains our new tagline, “Rogers, Uniting Energy” which expand in consumer finance through leveraging new digital penetration. Other initiatives include taking our GSA business into promoting sustainable tourism) for the third consecutive year comes across as a natural extension of our 2016 campaign, technologies. The Corporate Services sector will pursue its market new territory, leveraging the Amex franchise for corporate travel thanks to their environmental policy which focuses on waste “Focused Energy, Every day”. It consolidates the momentum diversification strategy and introduce new value-added services. and expanding our ground handling activities in Africa. management, among other themes. created three years ago and embodies our revisited values of Effective 1st July 2019, the Private Equity Fund Amethis became In the Logistics served market, Velogic is expected to benefit Leadership, Agility and Excellence. Ascencia has equipped four of its shopping malls with photovoltaic a shareholder of VLH at 12.7% via a cash injection. This injection from the port’s expansion in Mauritius as announced in the farms. The programme was introduced at Phoenix Mall and This new campaign has put in the spotlight employees will enable us to further develop our activities, especially in National Budget. We continue to decrease our cost base to expanded a few months later to Kendra, Les Allées and Bagatelle of the Rogers Group and its subsidiaries who created the Bel Ombre, and in VLH will allow us to secure new opportunities complete the turnaround of our operations in France. In Kenya, Mall, to the extent that Ascencia can now utilise clean and communication campaign material. They were actors of their and further grow our hospitality and leisure businesses. In we will strengthen our refocused business and develop new renewable energy to address ecological concerns while saving on own story and I thank them for their demonstrative sense of the short and medium term, we will expand our Hospitality service lines. electricity bills. The company has adopted a package of measures, belonging and leadership. inventory further, with enhanced efforts to further enrich our At the level of the Property Investments sector, we will continue including water, paper and oil recycling to reduce its carbon product offering celebrating the Unique Selling Points of our To conclude, I would like to extend my heartfelt thanks and to expand our GLA with an additional 23,000 sqm. This will footprint. A green campaign branded Ini’Vert was also rolled in its local specificities. Local talent, our tropical environment, our sincere appreciation to all employees across the Group and to include 10,000 sqm at Bo’Valon Mall, which is due for delivery in malls to raise awareness about our waste journey as individuals. history and culture will all be brought to bear on deepening the my colleagues on the Management Team, with whom we have November 2019 and around 13,000 sqm at Bagatelle Mall attractiveness and customer experience of our promises. Awareness campaigns have remained one of our go-to crossed many value-enhancing milestones. for 2020. We are also investing in infrastructure to improve solutions in our endeavour to protect, preserve and restore the A number of key initiatives have been earmarked by VLH. In access to Phoenix Mall. We also value the support and trust of all our shareholders and environment, particularly in Bel Ombre. In 2018, our year-long September, Heritage has hosted the first GKA Kite World Cup in stakeholders at large. Their support and trust demonstrate their “Hip Hip Hip, No Waste” campaign helped muster up group Bel Ombre. In December, we will also be hosting the 5th edition assurance that we are heading in the right direction as we strive dynamics to encourage our fellow countrymen to tackle wastage of the tri-sanctioned AfrAsia Bank Mauritius Open, and we are for additional value creation, enhancement of the quality of life on a daily basis and live by the three Rs principle – Reduce, starting work on our second championship golf course in Bel Ombre, of all Mauritians, and improve the voyage visitors experience on Reuse, Recycle. In June 2019, in the wake of the World Oceans the island. 37 38 “ Risk Management Report 1. Overview The Group (‘Rogers’) has embarked on a new strategic thinking process across all sectors during this financial year. A strategic plan for the next four years was developed, taking into consideration the risks, opportunities and challenges faced by Rogers in the diverse served markets and strategic responses 3 were evaluated at management level in each sector, with the Group Chief Executive Officer (‘CEO’) and Directors. The risks discussed were the current and future ones associated with the new strategies. As part of our risk journey, areas for improvement were identified and appropriate measures were taken to strengthen the Integrated Risk Management Framework. The risk governance structure has been reinforced with the set-up of a new Risk Management and Audit Committee (‘RMAC’) in addition to the two existing committees (for Rogers Group and Ascencia Limited). The new committee is responsible for the oversight of risks faced by Rogers Capital and is in line with the RMACs Consolidation of the Risk growth experienced in the new consumer finance services. Rogers Group Management Framework As the Group is relying more on technology, it is important to keep abreast of the developments and its Ascencia Limited associated risks. Focus has thus been laid on information security and cyber threats. An information security will enable Rogers Group plan has been reviewed, updated and adopted and a cyber risk awareness session was conducted for Senior Rogers Capital to better manage its Management. This represents a step forward in the deployment of the information security plan for the Group. risk, secure the right Risk Management and Audit Committees opportunities and meet The three RMACs of Rogers have continued to play a key oversight role for the Boards of Directors. The members of the committees are financially well-versed and expert in their field of work. The composition and attendance to its sustainable strategic meetings of the main RMAC is disclosed in the Corporate Governance section on page 33. The three committees (RMACs) met during this financial year to acknowledge/review and to discuss on the following: objectives. Principal risks and The principal risks and uncertainties which impact Rogers were reviewed by the RMACs 6 uncertainties and discussed with the Group and sector CEOs, Chief Finance Executive (‘CFE’) and Directors are as follows: • Financial performance of some activities such as agribusiness – sugar cane, property development (IRS villas) and travel; • International pressure on the global business sector; • Credit, foreign exchange rate and liquidity; • Information security; Independent 1 • Cyber threats; and • Compliance with legislations and regulations. Directors Policies and plan The main policies that were reviewed and adopted are: Overview • Information Security and Technology policy; • Group Financial Guidelines and Policies Manual; • Credit Risk policy (FinTech); • Whistleblowing policy; and 2 • Impairment policy. Internal audit The Internal audit plan was in line with changes in the risk landscape and covered the following risk areas: Managing our Risks • Adequacy of key finance and operational controls; • Compliance with legislations and internal policies; 15 • Information Security; 3 • Credit; and • Human Resource. Reports from the Risk & Audit department team on risk areas and internal controls were reviewed by the respective RMACs. In instances whereby internal controls were not considered to be adequate, improvements were recommended and thorough follow-ups Principal Risks were planned for the next financial year. Meetings held External audit Tender for external audit services has been performed and the existing external auditor will be rotated in the next financial year in line with prevailing legislations and the Code of during the financial Corporate Governance. Other matters • Integrity of quarterly abridged and annual financial statements; year reviewed • Related Party Transactions; • Fair Value of Investment properties – (Ascencia Limited); Vivian Masson • Implementation of new IFRSs – IFRS 9 & 15; Chairman • Guarantees provided; and Risk Management • Business rationale of significant financial transactions. and Audit Committee 39 40 Risk Management The Way Forward 2. Managing our Risks Our main focus risks areas for the next financial year, as identified in the Group’s strategic plan, will be: The integrated risk management process, the risk governance structure and the four lines of defence at Rogers are as follows: Financial Sustainability 2.1 Integrated Risk Management Process Our process is as follows: Information Technnology & Financial & Security Operational Identification, analysis and evaluation of risks at Rogers Type of Risks Main Focus Operational & Management Regular meetings in sectors to identify and review operational issues. Areas Identify Compliance Compliance, Risk Managers and Health & Safety Officers Regular checks are carried out. Internal auditors Continuous audits with a risk-based approach. Inhouse Counsel Review of contracts and ensuring compliance with specific legislations to safeguard Rogers’ interests. Analyse Specialist consultants Appointed on an adhoc basis for specific risk assessments. Human Resource Compliance with Management Legislations and Regulations Financial & CEOs and Chief Finance Officers (CFOs) of sectors Preparation and discussion Strategic of the annual budget and strategic plan with Group CEO, CFE and management. Evaluate RMACs Review of quarterly accounts and other financial risks. We will continue to assess, review and enhance our current well-established risk management framework, to allow closer Strategic committee Development of new strategies in line with risk appetite. collaboration between our four lines of defence. We shall continue to work towards an effective and efficient integrated risk External auditors Annual audit of financial statements and review of financial risks. management process and a combined assurance model as we believe that our risk management practices should remain relevant to our strategic objectives to keep pace with current and future business environment. The risk culture will also be enhanced across Treat the organisation through risk awareness sessions and risk workshops. Management will also continue to focus on key risks identified Treatment, monitoring and reporting of risks at Rogers and the implementation of appropriate strategic risk responses in line with the Group’s risk appetite. This will enable management to secure the right opportunities for the Group. Management in sectors devise appropriate mitigating responses in light of their business model and Last, but not least, I would like to thank the RMAC members as well as the Group’s Chief Executive Officer, the Group’s Chief Finance set risk appetite. Where the level of residual risks is significant, the risks are further discussed with Executive, management team, external auditors and the Risk & Audit department for their constant support and commitment Monitor the Group CEO, RMAC, Board of Directors (‘Board’) of sectors and Rogers Group Board of Directors. throughout the year. Implementation of mitigating actions are performed by Executive Directors and monitored by Senior Management. In certain instances, a follow-up on the progress is carried out by the Risk & Audit Report department. Monitoring of the level of the risks and control effectiveness are performed and reported to the respective sectorial boards. Vivian Masson Chairman Risk Management and Audit Committee 41 42 Risk Management 2.2 Risk Governance 3. Principal Risks The ultimate responsibility for risk governance lies with the Board of Directors and it has been delegated to the RMAC of Rogers Group, Ascencia and Rogers Capital. These sub committees, which consists mainly of independent Directors, are governed by terms The Risk Heat Map provides an overview of the 10 principal residual risks identified for the Group and how these risks have evolved and references in their charters which are in line with the Code of Corporate Governance. over the financial year under review. A High ROGERS GROUP BOARD OF DIRECTORS Economic Factors and Market Conditions Projects Development, Strategic B Partnerships and Acquisitions Sector Board of Directors C Market Intelligence F D Financial Sustainability Rogers Group E G A RMAC E Liquidity/Credit/Interest Rate/Foreign exchange D IMPACT F Business Continuity H J I C B RMAC RMAC G Information Technology & Security H Skills Attraction, Performance and Retention Insignificant I Theft & Fraud J Legal and Regulatory Compliance Risk & Audit department Risk Owners CEO of sectors & other Senior Managers Improbable Frequent LIKELIHOOD 2.3 Our four lines of defence CATEGORIES At Rogers, our four lines of defence are as follows: High Medium Low 1st Line • Controls operated by employees involved in 2nd Line • Risk owners meet on a regular basis for the People, day-to-day activities. Management assessment, identification, and escalation of The principal risks for the Group, which are further classified as strategic, operational, financial and operational risks, are monitored Process and • The adequacy and relevance of internal and new/emerging risks. and evaluated by the Board of Directors and RMACs. Mitigating actions and opportunities are identified across the served markets to Technology controls is supported by the Rogers Guidelines Oversight • Compliance, Health & Safety Officers and Risk enable the sound management of these risks. These are discussed on the next pages. and Policies Manual and specific operating Managers act as a second line of defence. procedures manuals in each sector. 3rd Line • Internal audit, which is an independent inhouse 4th Line • Assurance from independent external Internal function, has direct reporting line to the RMACs External consultants and auditors is obtained on: Audit and Board of sectors. Assurance -Valuation of investment properties; • Internal audit findings and progress on -Retirement benefit obligations; and implementation of recommendations reported -Financial statements. to the RMACs and the Board of sectors. • The audit focus during this financial year was on higher risk areas which excludes joint ventures and associates. • No major limitations or restrictions in the audit scope, access to records, management and employees. More information on our integrated risk management framework and composition and qualifications of the key members of our team is detailed on our website https://www.rogers.mu 43 44 Risk Management Principal risks, mitigating actions and opportunities Principal Risks Description & Risk Context Capital Impacted Mitigating Actions and Opportunities Strategic risks • Indications of global economic slowdown. • A strategic plan has been developed which encompasses major levers of performance to enable the sectors to A • Economic and political situation in France and Reunion Island ‘yellow vests’ impacted on growth embrace changes and adapt to uncertain conditions. (Logistics Hospitality). • Strengthening of the offering and working on ambitious projects. Economic factors • Uncertainty: and market conditions -Impact of Brexit; -Volatility in some of our business lines that serve foreign markets (Logistics/Hospitality); and -Air access policy (Hospitality). • Increased local competition with more offerings from new entrants (such as Airbnb Hospitality and existing players in the commercial property space Property Investments). • Inability to secure the right opportunities through inadequate due diligence/feasibility study on acquisitions • Recruitment of two Executives (Chief Project & Chief International Development) and reinforcement of the current B and project development and insufficient preparation for successful implementation. team for improved market sensing opportunities. • Inefficient or ineffective alliance with strategic partners. • Requiring feasibility study for all projects and carrying out proper due diligence checks to review the financial, Projects development, technical, risk and legal aspects of each acquisition. strategic partnerships • Use of external independent experts for valuations and investment based on strict Key Performance Indicators. and acquisitions • Careful selection of strategic partners. • Ensuring proper contractual agreements between all parties involved. • Lack of relevant and/or reliable information on local and foreign markets. • Review and implementation of a tailor-made and a comprehensive marketing strategic plan. C • Market surveys and benchmarking exercise to be performed on a regular basis. Market intelligence Financial risks Changes in conditions that threaten the attractiveness or long-term viability of industries in which the sectors operate: • Gradual implementation of the turnaround plan is underway for Agribusiness and development of strategic plan for D -Low sugar prices on the international market (Agribusiness sector). other loss-making activities. -Decrease in volume transported-sugar and textile (Logistics). • Focus on sustainable measures for environmental risks such as, protection of coastal environment, sand replenishment, Financial sustainability -Excess supply on the residential real estate market, locally as well as internationally leading to increase coral regeneration, shift towards environmentally friendly products, green energy, promotion of responsible tourism competition (Property Development). activities and awareness campaigns on nature conservation to address erosion. -Ongoing deterioration of our physical and environmental ecosystem, including high vulnerability towards global • Partnering with the Government and Business Mauritius to devise appropriate remedies. warming and natural catastrophes. Gradual degradation of beach (erosion) and marine pollution (Hospitality). • Identifying potential opportunities and diversify in order to retain clients of the global business sector. -Changes in international tax agreements and other conditions in the global business has weakened the attractiveness of our jurisdiction (FinTech). -Financial performance of investments below expectations. • Inability to meet financial obligations. • Enhancement of treasury function through ongoing negotiations with bankers to secure favourable rates for the Group. E • Inappropriate credit assessment and default from debtors. • Monitoring level of gearing. • Significant hike in interest rates on the domestic market in the medium term. • Improvement of recoveries and reduction in arrears through stringent debtors’ management. Liquidity/Credit/Interest • Adverse fluctuation in exchange rates. • Use of currency hedging and foreign currency loans. Rate/Foreign exchange KEY: Financial Capital Human Capital Intellectual Capital Social & Natural Capital 45 46 Risk Management Principal Risks Description & Risk Context Capital Impacted Mitigating Actions and Opportunities Operational risks • Inability to operate due to: • Procedures in place in case of fire and terrorist threats. F -Unforeseen events, for example fire, riots and terrorism attacks; • Review and testing of Business Continuity Plan is in progress across the Group. -Major health and safety incidents/accidents; and • Safety audits performed by authorities and other independent consultant and implementation of mitigating controls Business continuity -IT operating system failure. (Property Investments sector). • Continuous review of adequacy of insurance cover. Innovation & Technology Innovation & Technology G • Not leveraging on innovation to sustain competitive advantage or lack of operational excellence. • Digital transformation to be undertaken by appropriate talents recruited. • Disruptive technology. • Automation of processes. Information Technology & • Inability to embrace the technological transformation impacting our businesses through decreased productivity. Security IT Security Measures reinforcement IT Security • Enhancing the Cybersecurity standard across all sectors. • Cyber threats such as fraudulent phishing attempts, spoofing e-mails, malware and/or ransomware. • Group’s Information Technology and Security policy has been updated and a cyber awareness workshop was • Inadequate security of data and privacy issues. conducted at management level. Training will be provided to all employees. • IT security audits started and will be carried out across all sectors. • Undertake IT system vulnerability test regularly and regular back up of the database. • Data encryption to reinforce security. Attraction Attraction H • Tightening job market with lack of adequate skills, including restrictive stand on foreign skills, for example, • Ongoing improvement of the recruitment process (Hospitality). availability of skills for Artificial Intelligence and Blockchain technology (FinTech) and also other skills and • Build on Employer brand. Skills attraction, talents in other sectors (Hospitality). performance and retention Performance Performance • Performance awards for Rogers employees. • Low staff engagement and performance. • Continuous training provided to employees such as Management Development Programme course. Retention Retention • Loss of key personnel in strategic positions and high staff turnover at operation level (Hospitality). • Engagement surveys carried out and corrective measures taken. • Improved communication via digitalisation. • Creation of Employee Experience/HR Touchpoints. • Misappropriation of assets. • Reinforced internal controls and adequate segregation of duties through: I • Fake bank transfer instructions and illegal transactions not detected (FinTech). -Implementation of updated Rogers Guidelines and Policies Manual. -Recommendations of internal and external audits. Theft and fraud • Zero tolerance policy on risk of errors and fraud (FinTech). • Code of ethics and Whistleblowing policy in place. • Insurance cover. Compliance Risks • Non-adherence to existing or new legislations and regulations such as Data Protection Act, General Data • Data Protection Officers appointed for the implementation of security measures. J Protection Regulations and the Code of Corporate Governance for Mauritius (2016). • Appointment of specialist consultant for review of compliance with new legislations and regulations. • Changes to laws and regulations not communicated and training not provided. • Monitoring of changes in legislations and regulations. Legal and regulatory • Not systematically applying enhanced due diligence with respect to high risk clients (FinTech). • Continuous audits to cover compliance aspect. compliance • Failure to comply with internal policies and operating procedures manual. • Inability to implement and communicate policies and procedures, for example Whistleblowing policy and internal compliance procedures. KEY: Financial Capital Human Capital Intellectual Capital Social & Natural Capital 47 48 Rogers and Company Limited 5th floor, Rogers House, 5 President John Kennedy Street, PO Box 60, Port-Louis, Mauritius Tel. (230) 202 6666 Fax. (230) 208 3646 www.rogers.mu
