CONTENTS OPERATIONS 1–27 THE SHARE 48 2018 in brief 1 Gränges is a global This is Gränges 2 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 52–54 Investment case 5 leader in aluminium CEO statement 6 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 55–65 engineering, manuGlobal trends 8 Board of Directors 62 facturing and Strategy 10 Group Management 64 Business model 11 innovation. Financial targets 12 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 66–111 Sustainability targets 13 Content 66 Market overview 14 Consolidated financial statements 67 The inside story 20 Notes to the consolidated Products and innovation 22 financial statements 72 Production and processes 26 Parent company financial statements 96 Notes to the parent company SUSTAINABILITY 28–43 financial statements 100 Creating sustainable business value 29 Definitions 105 Gränges’ value chain 30 Five-year summary 106 Gränges’ sustainability framework Proposed appropriation and targets 31 of retained earnings 108 Secure ethical business practices 32 Auditor’s report 109 Ensure responsible and sustainable sourcing 33 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES 112 Run sustainable operations 36 GRI Index 123 Build diverse and high-performing teams 40 Develop sustainable product offerings 43 Glossary 126 Annual General Meeting 127 RISK MANAGEMENT 44 History 128 Addresses 129 2018 IN BRIEF SOLID PERFORMANCE Sales volume increased by 0.5 per cent to 375 ktonnes (373). Net sales increased by 12.5 per cent to SEK 12,910 million (11,435). Adjusted operating profit increased by 7.7 per cent to SEK 1,005 million (933), and adjusted operating profit per tonne increased to 2.7 kSEK (2.5). Profit for the period increased to SEK 688 million (652). Earnings per share, basic and diluted, increased to SEK 9.11 (8.65) and to 9.11 (8.64) respectively. Cash flow before financing activities amounted to SEK 531 million (572). Return on capital employed was 16.5 per cent (16.7). Net debt amounted to SEK 2,494 million (2,292) on 31 December, 2018, which c ­ orresponds to 1.8 times adjusted EBITDA (1.8). Financial summary SEK million 2018 2017 Change Sales volume, ktonnes 375.0 373.0 0.5% Net sales 12,910 11,435 12.9% Adjusted operating profit1) 2) 1,005 933 7.7% Adjusted operating margin, % 7.8 8.2 –0.4 ppt Adjusted operating profit per tonne, kSEK 2.7 2.5 0.2 Operating profit 940 917 2.5% Operating margin, % 7.3 8.0 –0.7 ppt Profit for the year 688 652 5.5% Earnings per share basic, SEK 9.11 8.65 0.46 Earnings per share diluted, SEK 9.11 8.64 0.47 Cash flow before financing a ­ ctivities 531 572 –7.0% Equity/assets, % 44.2 41.5 2.6 ppt Net debt 2,494 2,292 201 Return on capital employed, % 16.5 16.7 –0.2 ppt Sales volume Adjusted operating profit1) 2) Adjusted cash flow before financing2) ktonnes SEK million kSEK SEK million % 400 1,000 4 1,000 200 300 750 3 750 150 200 500 2 500 100 100 250 1 250 50 0 0 0 0 0 14 15 16 17 18 14 15 16 17 18 14 15 16 17 18 Asia Europe Americas Adjusted operating profit Adjusted cash flow before financing Adjusted operating profit per tonne Cash conversion 1) Adjusted for items affecting comparability (see Note 12). 2) For alternative performance measures, see page 94. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 1 THIS IS GRÄNGES A LEADING POSITION ON THE GLOBAL MARKET Gränges is a leading global supplier of rolled aluminium products for heat exchanger applications and other niche markets. The company develops, produces and markets advanced materials that enhance efficiency in the customer manufacturing process and the performance of the final products. >> INDUSTRIES Gränges’ customers are in the automotive industry, the HVAC1) industry, and Sales volume per niche markets such as transformers and food packaging. In the industry for end-customer market, 2018 rolled products for brazed heat exchangers, Gränges has a clear market leading position, with a market share estimated at around 20 per cent globally. Automotive, 50% The automotive industry: Every second car produced in the world today contains heat HVAC, 24% exchangers with Gränges’ material and expertise. The increase of electric vehicles2) Other, 26% (EVs) will drive demand for Gränges’ products. The HVAC industry: Aluminium is increasingly used as a stationary heat exchanger material, and Gränges holds a strong position in this industry in Americas. Automotive, 50% Other end-customer markets: In Americas, Gränges is a major supplier of winding HVAC, 24% material for t­ ransformers, and aluminium foil suitable for food packaging. Other, 26% Reported sales volume 2018. AUTOMOTIVE HEAT EXCHANGERS HVAC PRODUCTION CAPACITY PERFORMANCE IS KEY SHIFT TO ALUMINIUM 420 KTONNES High requirements for product Stationary heat exchangers are Gränges has a total production performance, especially in widely used in commercial and capacity of about 420 ktonnes, terms of energy efficiency, have residential property, data split across five rolling plants resulted in brazed aluminium heat ­centres, and manufacturing. on three continents. When all exchangers becoming the preTogether, these areas account ongoing investments to vailing technology in this industry. for a considerable share of increase the capacity have In recent years, environmental energy consumption in many been completed, total producand performance requirements, countries. Demand for reduced tion capacity will reach 500 as well as passenger comfort energy consumption and ktonnes. The facilities are demands have increased the numrestrictions on the use of, and highly optimized according to ber of heat exchangers in cars. choice of, refrigerants is driving lean-principles with demand-­ The shift towards electric vehidemand for more compact heat driven production, and meet cles will drive demand for comexchangers with less refrigercustomer requirements in pact liquid-filled heat exchangers, ants, thereby speeding up the terms of q­ uality, flexibility, where Gränges holds a strong shift to aluminium as a stationand delivery. position through the patented ary heat exchanger material. TRILLIUM® technology. 1) A  bbreviation for Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning system including heat exchangers. Sometimes used to define the stationary heat exchanger market. 2) L  ight vehicles that are powered entirely or partly by electricity. They are often divided into Battery Electric Vehicles (BEV) and Hybrid Electric Vehicles (HEV), and in some cases Plug-in Hybrid Vehicles (PHEV). 2 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Our vision. To transform the world through innovative aluminium engineering. >> REGIONS Gränges is one of the few truly global players in the industry with product Sales volume per development, production, sales, and technical support on three continents. region, 2018 This enables the company to assist global and regional customers with leading products and unmatched capabilities. Asia, 23% Asia: Leading position in rolled products for brazed aluminium heat exchangers. Europe, 17% China is the region’s largest and most important market, and accounts for more than Americas, 60% 50 per cent of Gränges’ sales in Asia. Europe: Leading position in rolled products for brazed aluminium heat exchangers, ever since production started at the company’s production plant in Finspång in 1972. Asia, 23% Americas: Leading position in rolled aluminium products for stationary heat exchangers. Europe, 17% Second largest supplier of rolled aluminium brazed heat exchangers to the automotive Americas, 60% ­industry. Strong positions in niche markets such as transformers and food packaging. Reported sales volume 2018. Headquarters Sales offices and technical support Production facility GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 3 IMPORTANT EVENTS 2018 IMPORTANT EVENTS 2018 80 EXPANSION PLANS Gränges works actively to establish new capacity and capabilities to meet increasing demand, address new end-customer markets and improve operational efficiency. In the US, 60 ktonnes of new capacity will be added in 2019 by expanding the production plant in Huntingdon and restarting production at the ktonnes increase Newport plant. In Finspång, investments were initiated to improve efficiency in capacity by 2021. and increase capacity by 20 ktonnes in 2021. NEW AMBITIOUS SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS With a strong commitment to sustainability, Gränges raised its ambitions and Gränges launched launched a set of clear sustainability targets for 2025. These targets demonstrate the company’s holistic approach to sustainability through five ­pillars: ethical a set of ambitious ­business practices; responsible and sustainable sourcing; sustainable operations; sustainability diverse and high-performing teams; and sustainable product offerings. targets for 2025. STRONG INTEREST IN TRILLIUM® Gränges TRILLIUM® products help customers reduce costs, create new designs, increase profitability and reduce their environmental impact. Since the launch of ­TRILLIUM® Lean in April 2017, there has been a sharp increase in interest from both current and new customers. In 2018, sales of TRILLIUM® increased by 30 per cent. 4 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 INVESTMENT CASE REASONS TO INVEST IN GRÄNGES Since the listing of the share in 2014, Gränges has more than doubled its sales volume from 160 to 375 ktonnes, with an increase in adjusted operating profit from SEK 463 million to SEK 1,005 million. The aim is to maintain a higher growth rate than the market while generating strong and sustainable profit. THE MAIN REASONS TO INVEST IN GRÄNGES: Growth above industry average,  S trong earnings and cash flow generation, driven by innovative and technologically based on commercial and operational advanced products and solutions. strength, together with firm balance sheet management.  Leader in attractive niche markets, with a global offering and strong, long-term C  ommitted to sustainability, ­customer relations. as an integrated part of the business model.  Clear industrial focus, with a competitive advantage based on L  ong-term value creation, research and innovation, best-in-class with a dividend policy which ensures that technologies, and operational excellence. 30–50 per cent of net profit will be returned to shareholders. 20% global market share in rolled products for brazed aluminium heat exchangers. Sales volume 2008–2018 Total return since IPO vs index Volume ktonnes SEK ‘000 400 160 16,000 300 120 12,000 200 80 8,000 100 40 4,000 0 0 0 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 Oct Jan Jan Jan Dec 2014 2016 2017 2018 2018 Asia Europe Americas Turnover OMX Stockholm_GI Gränges share price performance including reinvested dividends GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 5 CEO STATEMENT CONTINUED STRONG VALUE CREATION – A SOLID BASE FOR THE FUTURE We continue to focus on growth while retaining profitability, fuelled by our dedicated and long-term investment in innovation and sustainability. I look back on yet another financially strong niche market that was previously largely in the automotive industry, which is very year for Gränges. Above all, we have continsupplied by imports. Moreover, we decided positive for Gränges as our TRILLIUM® ued to take important steps to drive Gränges’ to invest to improve the efficiency and technology has a competitive advantage in long-term growth – with investments in new expand the capacity of the plant in Finspång this field. All in all, we see the electrification production capacity and tailor-made prodwhich has been running at a high capacity in the automotive industry as a potential uct offerings for new niche markets. We utilization. The expansion of the plant in for a larger addressable market. have a special focus on the electrification of Huntingdon to meet the growing demand for the automotive industry. Major technology automotive and HVAC heat exchanger mateSustainable business shifts often present challenges, but for rial also progressed according to plan. In all things we do, we have a strong focus Gränges’ products we predict a strong posion sustainability as an integrated part of tion in this evolving market. our business. We strive to minimize the environmental impacts of our operations, Stable markets uphold ethical business practices, and proIn 2018, we saw a stable market develop“We have continued to vide a safe and good work environment. We ment on a global level. In the automotive take important steps participate in the UN Global Compact and industry we saw a slowdown in car producare committed to continuously integrating tion in primarily Asia and Europe, although to drive Gränges’ the ten principles into our strategy and Gränges’ sales volume to automotive cuslong-term growth.” our operations. In 2018 we continued to tomers continued to increase also in 2018. develop our sustainability platform and we In Americas, we continued to experience a raised our ambitions further by launching growing demand across all product cate­ a set of ambitious and clear sustainability gories, a growth that we currently cannot Results of innovation targets for 2025. I am also very pleased fully capture due to limitations in producWe have in recent years increased our that Gränges is now a member of Alumintion capacity. focus in research and innovation, and in ium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) and we 2018 we started to see the results from our fully support ASI’s commitment to promote Changes in trade legislation efforts. Our patent portfolio, which is very greater sustainability and transparency in The growing demand in Americas was important for the longer term, expanded the aluminium value chain. ­further fuelled by the US Department of and the sales of TRILLIUM®, our most innoCommerce introducing countervailing vative and advanced product, took off durStrategy for growth and anti-dumping duties on some rolled ing the year. I am also very pleased that we Our strategy remains intact. We are set to aluminium products from China, as well as through continued product innovation drive growth through innovation and acquisiincreasing general tariffs for aluminium were able to successfully enter into new tions, increase efficiency through continuimports from other countries. These tariffs market segments such as heat exchanger ous improvements, and add value through led to higher demand and prices for domesmaterial for wind power applications. our sustainability initiatives. This includes tically produced aluminium products in the increased focus on product development for US which was positive for Gränges. At the Electric vehicles electric vehicles, with its promising longsame time this also led to us having to move As I mentioned above, we view the global term growth potential. I’m confident that our the production of all products imported to trend of increased electrification in the solid 2018 achievements help promote conthe US from China to Sweden which necesautomotive industry as positive for tinued value creation for all our stakeholders sitated a reoptimized supply chain. Gränges. A higher share of electric and and reach our financial targets of achieving hybrid vehicles and increased usage of sustained and sustainable profitability. New capacity advanced on-board electronics, such as The changes in trade legislation also creautonomous driving, will have a positive ated new market opportunities for Gränges impact on demand for heat exchanger during the year. We decided to re-open the materials. D ­ uring the year it became more idled production plant in Newport to serve evident that liquid cooling will be the the US light gauge foil market, an attractive ­primary technology for battery cooling Johan Menckel, CEO 6 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CEO STATEMENT FOCUS 2018 C ontinued to explore growth opportunities in all regions. Initiated capacity expansion projects in the US. I ncreased efforts in R&I related to solutions for electric vehicles and new material technologies. I mplemented a new global ­­ sustainability framework and set long-term sustainability targets. L aunched a new concept for lean manufacturing to support operational excellence and continuous improvements. FOCUS 2019 C ontinue to explore growth opportunities in all regions. F inalize capacity expansion projects in the US and start efficiency improvement projects in Sweden. C ontinue efforts in R&I related to solutions for electric vehicles and new material technologies. C ontinue to embed the global sustainability framework across Gränges’ regions and align the regional strategies with global long-term targets.  ontinue to implement the C lean concept for operational excellence and continuous improvement. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 7 GLOBAL TRENDS DISRUPTIVE CHANGES The world is facing a period of intense change. Economies and industries are dramatically evolving, driven by development in emerging markets, the accelerated rise of new technologies, sustainability and climate change issues, and changing consumer preferences. URBANIZATION – A GROWING SUSTAINABILITY CHALLENGE The world’s urban population is expected to grow by another 2.5 billion by 20501), and more than 90 per cent of this growth will be in Asia and Africa. India alone is projected to add over 400 million new urban inhabitants by 2050. This rapid urbanization will produce challenges in infrastructure, services, job creation, climate, and environment. Reports show that cities today consume 75 per cent of the world’s natural resources and account for 80 per cent of global greenhouse gas emissions. Therefore, it is in the cities where global sustainability and climate change issues must be resolved. DIGITALIZATION – NEW BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES Digitalization, increasing automation, and new business models are starting to revolutionize industries and societies. In the automotive industry, trends such as electrification, autonomous driving, connectivity, and shared economy are reshaping businesses. To succeed in meeting the changes, automakers, suppliers and service providers form alliances or participate in for example the development of infrastructure for autonomous and electrified vehicles. The rise of the sharing economy will lead to higher fleet utilization, resulting in new requirements for vehicle materials and design, and therefore new business opportunities for suppliers. LIMITED RESOURCES – INCREASED IMPORTANCE OF A CIRCULAR ECONOMY Megatrends such as urbanization, population growth, and an expanding global middle class, will have a huge impact on the economics of materials. There will be strong demand for new housing and infrastructure, electric vehicles will account for a rapidly growing share of all vehicles, and sales of smartphones and other electronics will continue to rise sharply. This will put major pressure on the world’s natural resources and create temporary or long-term shortages of critical materials such as cobalt, copper, lithium and nickel. Business models involving recycling and a circular economy will become increasingly important to meet such challenges. 1) U  N, 2018 (The 2018 Revision of the World Urbanization Prospects) https://www.un.org/development/desa/en/news/population/2018-revision-of-world-urbanization-prospects.html The 2018 Revision of the World Urbanization Prospects is published by the Population Division of the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs (UN DESA). 8 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GLOBAL TRENDS ELECTRIC VEHICLES AND THE IMPORTANCE OF BATTERY COOLING The electrification of the automotive industry continues with unabated power. Most automakers are rolling out models, joined by new entrants without internal combustion engine legacies. Worldwide sales of electric vehicles1) (EVs) grew by around 562) per cent in 2018, and the industry is getting close to mass market adoption. This will have positive effects on Gränges’ business. EVs will support demand for aluminium heat exchanger materials and create new opportunities in brazed material development. There are some factors that could limit the is more complex and thereby costlier. For development of electric vehicles: driving indirect cooling, there is also a clear trend Automotive brazed heat exchanger range, cost, charging time, battery life-time that battery cooling plates will be used. material forecast and safety. Most electric vehicles today use For this application, the brazed type of lithium-ion battery packs, the same techbattery cooling plate is also becoming the ktonnes nology that powers smartphones, tablets most popular joining technology. 1,200 and laptops. Lithium-ion batteries require Thermal management will become a CAGR 2% 1,132 cooling to improve performance and to core technology to ensure future vehicle 960 1,061 1,000 keep from over-heating. When temperaperformance, as automakers integrate the 871 144 31 357 ture ranges from 25°C to 40°C, battery thermal management systems to minimize 488 power reaches its maximum. Efficient vehicle energy use and energy waste. 500 thermal management is therefore crucial New requirements on thermal managefor the performance and longevity of the ment drive new requirements on heat 840 816 704 644 0 battery. The cooling system plays an exchanger materials. Further weight 2016 2020 2025 2030 important role during the charging proreduction, and stronger and more corroElectric vehicles cess, where heat must be dissipated to sion resistant materials will be required, Combustion engine vehicles prevent battery cells from being damaged along with new designs. For liquid battery by overheating. Fast charging is only possicooling plates, brazing is the most cost-­ Source: Gränges analysis based on data from IHS Automotive 2017. ble if the battery is cooled to the lowest efficient joining technology. Brazing is temperature allowed before charging. also a technology that the automotive Cost comparison for joining There are two main cooling system soluindustry is familiar with, after several technologies tions for batteries – air cooling and liquid decades of investments in competence Index cooling. However, the trend clearly goes and equipment. 240 towards liquid cooling. The main advanTo meet customers’ new needs of 216 tage with liquid cooling is that it is possible ­battery cooling plates, chillers and charge to manage the increase of battery density air coolers, Gränges has a pipeline of new 160 more efficiently. Liquid cooling is also a materials, including TRILLIUM® Lean, 125 110 100 better solution for fast charging as well as ­further downgauging and new stamping 28 80 56 44 150 for improving the temperature uniformity and tube designs. Gränges works with between and within the cells. There are leading automotive OEMs on design and 72 69 66 66 two types of liquid cooling, either direct or prototyping for battery cooling, focusing 0 CAB VB LW FSW indirect cooling of the battery cells. The on reaching efficiency and lightweighting direct cooling has higher performance, but targets. Fabrication cost Raw material cost 1) L  ight vehicles that are powered entirely or partly by electricity. They are often divided into Battery Electric CAB = Controlled Atmosphere Brazing Vehicles (BEV) and Hybrid Electric Vehicles (HEV), and in some cases Plug-in Hybrid Vehicles (PHEV). VB = Vacuum Brazing 2) Source: IHS EV Market Outlook, September 2018. LW = Laser Welding FSW = Friction Stir Welding Source: Gränges’ analysis. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 9 STRATEGY EXECUTING ON STRATEGY By offering customized products with a high technical content, Gränges aims to grow above the market rate in the coming years, with sustained and sustainable profitability. Gränges’ ambition is to be the market leader within rolled aluminium heat exchanger materials in all regions in year 2020. STRATEGY 2020 The strategy has four main pillars: DRIVE GROWTH INCREASE EFFICIENCY THROUGH THROUGH INNOVATION CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENTS Gränges wants to lead the development of heat exchanger Gränges aims to increase productivity, process stability and materials and advanced aluminium solutions and be­ energy efficiency, while reducing waste in its operations. ­customers’ preferred choice. Achievements 2018 Achievements 2018 Increased patent portfolio by 20 per cent through I mproved product quality, and reduced the increased focus on innovation. number of quality claims and ppm by 30 per cent. Grew TRILLIUM® product sales volume by 30 per cent. Increased production yield by 2 per cent. Launched a new product range for windmill heat Reduced energy intensity by 1 per cent while exchangers.  producing a more energy intensive product mix. Strengthened competence for electric vehicles I mproved internal recycling rate by 1 per cent. and new material technologies. ­­ CREATE VALUE GROW PRESENCE THROUGH FROM SUSTAINABILITY STRUCTURAL EXPANSION Gränges strives to minimize the environmental impacts of Gränges plans to invest in production capacity and capabiliits operations, uphold ethical business practices, and provide ties, and to expand into adjacent markets. a safe and good work ­environment. Achievements 2018 Achievements 2018 Reduced the number of recordable accidents per million M ade a decision to improve efficiency and expand capacity hours worked (Total Recordable Rate) by 22 per cent. by 20 ktonnes in the Finspång plant – a total investment Reduced direct and energy indirect carbon intensity of SEK 400 million. by 6 per cent. M ade a decision to reopen the Newport plant with a Conducted Code of Conduct training with 99 per cent capacity of 20 ktonnes to address the US light gauge training participationacross the Group. foil market – total investment USD 26 million. Increased the share of sourced recycled aluminium by Carried out the expansion of the Huntingdon plant, with 46 per cent. 40 ktonnes capacity, according to plan. 10 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 BUSINESS MODEL A CUSTOMER-FOCUSED BUSINESS MODEL Gränges supports its customers with research and innovation, product development, and technical support throughout the product’s life-cycle. The performance of the final product in terms of efficiency and environmental impact depends largely on material properties and design, which are Gränges’ core competences. Strong customer relationships Product developers and engineers work ucts for brazed heat exchangers have built Gränges’ customers are dependent on reliclosely with the customer to optimize the experience and expertise in material charable and high-quality products. Gränges is interaction between the materials and the acteristics and manufacturing processes committed to serving its customers and customer’s machinery and processes. at all levels of the organization. Global colthe company’s number one priority is to laboration to share best practice, valuable deliver products and services that meet or Specialized and lean manufacturing knowledge and experience takes place exceed customers’ quality requirements. Gränges’ production sites in Shanghai and continuously. Business relationships are typically longFinspång are optimized to produce heat term and 85 per cent of Gränges’ customexchanger materials for brazed heat Proven revenue model ers have been with the company for more exchangers. In the US, the production sites Gränges generates its revenue by selling than ten years. are optimized to produce materials for staadvanced materials manufactured for tionary heat exchangers, food packaging, specific customers and applications in Technology leadership transformers, and other niche markets. To long-term contracts. Pricing is based on and product knowledge meet increasing demand, more production the added value that Gränges provides in Gränges has world-leading knowledge about capacity will be added in the US in 2019. terms of material properties and product metallurgy and understanding of the procomplexity. The cost of aluminium, which duction process, particularly in the developStrong expertise and experience is the primary input material, is passed on ment of alloys, hot rolling of clad materials, Gränges’ many years of specialization in to customers. thermo-mechanical processing, and slitting. developing and manufacturing rolled prodGRÄNGES’ POSITION IN THE VALUE CHAIN For more details about Gränges’ value chain, see page 30. SEMI-FABRICATION Gränges’ key customers: Automotive heat exchanger manufacturers PRIMARY ALUMINIUM PRODUCTION PRODUCT HVAC manufacturers MANUFACRECYCLED TURING ALUMINIUM ­PRODUCTION Packaging manufacturers PRODUCT USE GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 11 FINANCIAL TARGETS LONG-TERM FINANCIAL TARGETS Gränges should grow at least in line with the market, generate a return on capital employed of 15–20 per cent, have a net debt of 1–2 times adjusted EBITDA, and pay a dividend of 30–50 per cent of the profit for the year. In 2018, all these targets were met. GROWTH ktonnes Comment: In 2018, sales volume increased by 0.5 per cent, which was higher than the Increase sales volume at least in line 400 56.0% 0.5% growth in end markets. with the company’s end markets. 300 45.9% 200 0.9% 2.5% 100 14 15 16 17 18 Sales volume Growth RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED SEK million % Comment: In 2018, return on capital employed decreased by 0.2 percentage Generate a return on capital employed 6,000 20 points to 16.5 per cent. The increased of 15–20 per cent over time. adjusted operating profit was offset 4,500 15 by higher capital employed driven by expansion investments in the US. 3,000 10 1,500 0 14 15 16 17 18 Capital employed Return on capital employed CAPITAL STRUCTURE SEK million Comment: In 2018, net debt increased by SEK 201 million to SEK 2,494 million, after Have a net debt which should normally be 3,000 3 a reduction in 2017. The increase is a result 1–2 times adjusted EBITDA over the last of capacity investments in the US. On 31 12 months period. 2,000 2 December, 2018, net debt amounted to 1.8 times adjusted EBITDA and was within the target range. 1,000 1 0 0 14 15 16 17 18 Net debt Net debt/adjusted EBITDA DIVIDEND POLICY SEK per share % Comment: The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 3.20 per share for the Pay a dividend of 30–50 per cent of the 9 45 2018 fiscal year. This is an increase of 7 per profit for the year. Decisions on dividends cent compared to the previous year, and will reflect the company’s financial posi6 40 corresponds to 35 per cent of the profit tion, cashflow, and outlook. for 2018. 3 35 0 30 14 15 16 17 18 Earnings per share, diluted Dividend per share Dividend payout ratio 12 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS LONG-TERM SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS 2025 In 2018, Gränges implemented a new group-wide sustainability framework with twelve material topics grouped into five sustainability pillars. For each pillar, Gränges articulated a clear long-term commitment and accompanying targets for 2025. The targets presented below represent a subset of the full 2025 sustainability target overview which can be found on page 31. WORKPLACE SAFETY Number of recordable accidents Comment: In 2018, Total Recordable Rate was per million hours worked reduced by 22 per cent compared to 2017 and Reduce number of recordable accidents 9 reached 6.1 recordable accidents per million per million hours worked (Total Recordahours worked (7.8). ble Rate) to 3.0. 6 3 0 15 16 17 18 Total Recordable Rate EMISSIONS AND tonnes CO2e/tonne product Comment: In 2018, direct and energy indirect CLIMATE IMPACT 0.9 carbon emissions decreased by 6 per cent ­compared to 2017, driven by improved energy Reduce direct and energy indirect carbon intensity and a lower share of fossil fuel-based emissions intensity by 25 per cent.1) 0.8 electricity. 0.7 0.6 16 17 18 Direct and energy indirect carbon emissions intensity ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES Comment: In 2018, Gränges for the first time 99% rolled out a group-wide Code of Conduct Reach 100 per cent annual training particionline training which 99 per cent of all pation in Gränges’ Code of Conduct. employees conducted during the year. RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Comment: In 2018, Gränges rolled out an 98% updated Supplier Code of Conduct. In total, 137 Ensure that 100 per cent of the purchase significant suppliers – corresponding to 98 per value from significant suppliers2) is commitcent of the total purchase value from significant ted to Gränges’ Supplier Code of Conduct suppliers – signed or were approved to have or equivalent standard. equivalent sustainability standards in place. DIVERSITY AND EQUALITY % Comment: In 2018, the share of women among senior management was unchanged Increase the share of women among sen100 ­versus 2017 at 20 per cent. ior management3) to at least 30 per cent. 75 50 25 0 17 18 Men Women 1) Versus baseline 2017. 2) S  uppliers with a purchase value above 5 MSEK, 5 MCNY or 0.5 MUSD. 3) E  mployees eligible to participate in Gränges’ long-term incentive (LTI) programme. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 13 MARKET OVERVIEW A TRULY GLOBAL PLAYER Gränges has a leading global position in rolled aluminium materials and is one of the few players in the industry with production, sales, and customer-driven product development in all major regions. Gränges is active in the global market for reliability in terms of volume, time and qualCompetitors advanced aluminium materials, with a ity. All this requires well-tuned manufacturGränges’ competitors vary in size and straclear leading position in rolled products for ing capabilities and processes refined over tegic focus. Factors affecting the degree of brazed heat exchangers. The automotive long periods of time, as well as effective competition differ between regions and industry accounts for about half of Gränges’ customer service and a global logistics end-user markets, but generally Gränges sales, the HVAC industry accounts for capacity. competes on quality and technical content around 24 per cent, and other end-customer of the products, the ability to meet cusmarkets (transformers and food packaging) Continuous improvements tomer requirements, product range, lead account for the remaining 26 per cent. Manufacturers of heat exchangers are times, technical support, price, and cusGränges’ position is strong in all the faced with constant demands for improvetomer service. Competitors are primarily regions in which it operates. ments from their customers in the automajor global aluminium companies such motive and the HVAC industries. Therefore, as Arconic, Novelis and UACJ. In Asia, Market characteristics they need to continuously improve heat there are several local players that are High barriers to entry exchanger performance, reduce weight to direct competitors to Gränges in the Asian The market for advanced aluminium matemeet demand for lower environmental market. In Europe, there are signs of growrials is relatively difficult to enter. This is not impact, reduce total costs and increase ing competition from manufacturers in primarily due to the capital-intensive nature the value of their cooling and climate conEasternand Southern Europe. of the industry, but rather because of the trol solutions. A core challenge is to meet high level of competence and experience the requirements of next-generation autoChanges in trade legislation required to develop the new, advanced motive platforms, new applications and The North American market has seen materials that customers demand. These demand of end-customer products. This increased competition from Asian manuskills are also critical to operating flexible means that as a supplier, Gränges needs to facturers. However, the US Department of production processes efficiently, and to be be at the forefront of developing adaptable Commerce has in 2017 and 2018 imposed able to guarantee a high degree of delivery and customized aluminium materials. anti-dumping and countervailing duties (AD/CVD duties) on imports of rolled aluLong-term customer relationships minium products from China. ConseThe long development cycles of new prodquently, Gränges has moved production uct platforms in end-customer industries of the material that has been produced in Sales volume per end-customer such as automotive and HVAC require the production facility in Shanghai and market, 2018 long-term cooperation between producimported to the US, to the Finspång plant. ers and their suppliers. Gränges has longIn April 2018, the US Department of Comterm relationships with its customers, a merce also imposed general tariffs (based result of its strong focus on continually on Section 232 in Trade Expansion Act, developing new products, materials, 1962) of an additional 10 per cent on all Automotive, 50% HVAC, 24% and processes in close cooperation with imports of aluminium products, including Other, 26% customers. These long-term customer imports from manufacturers in the EU. relationships also reflect the strength of These tariffs are in most cases regulated Gränges’ brand for heat exchanger mateby Gränges’ agreements with customers, rials, recognized for its capacity as a reducing the net impact for Gränges. global supplier with excellent delivery ­Filings for exemptions from the 232 tariffs Automotive, 50% performance. Of Gränges’ customers, have been made and the majority of these HVAC, 24% 85 per cent have worked with the comhave been approved. Other, 26% pany for more than ten years. Reported sales volume, 2018. 14 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 MARKET OVERVIEW END-CUSTOMER MARKETS THE AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY The automotive industry includes all types of vehicles, from light to heavy duty, GRÄNGES’ MARKET SHARE, as well as hybrid and electric vehicles. Demand for heat exchanger material is strongly linked to global vehicle production and the number of heat exchangers per GLOBALLY: 20% vehicle, which tends to increase in line with requirements for improved performance and enhanced functionality. A higher share of hybrid vehicles, electric vehicles and vehicles with different types of advanced features, is also positive for the demand of heat exchanger materials. Brazed aluminium heat exchangers represent nearly 100 per cent of the market today. According to the international research firm IHS, global light vehicle production decreased by 1.0 per cent in 2018, while an average annual growth of 1.8 per cent is expected between 2019 and 2021. The production of electric vehicles is expected to grow, from low volume l­evels, by 40–60 per cent annually in the coming years, and reach a market share of more than 30 per cent globally in 2025. THE HVAC INDUSTRY HVAC1) include systems for heating, ventilation and air-conditioning, for GRÄNGES’ MARKET SHARE, instance in private homes, and commercial and industrial buildings. Underlying GLOBALLY: market drivers for heat exchangers in HVAC, regardless of type, are housing 10% starts, consumer confidence, and environmental legislation. Brazed aluminium heat exchangers account for only a small share of the total market. Gränges is a supplier of material to both brazed and mechanically-assembled aluminium heat exchangers, with the strongest position in the Americas, and a global ­market share of close to 10 per cent. OTHER END-CUSTOMER MARKETS In North America, Gränges is one of the major suppliers of aluminium foil for food containers and winding material for transformers. Aluminium foil provides a com“Gränges holds plete barrier to light, oxygen, moisture, and bacteria. These properties make it a number 1 or ideal for food cartons and pouches. Semi-rigid containers are among the most versatile of all types of packaging and are widely used for pre-packaged foods, number 2 position easily withstanding great differences in temperature from freezing to heating. in most of the A transformer is an electrical device used to increase or decrease the alternating voltages in electric power applications. It consists of two or more coils called markets in which windings, which are wrapped around a core. In North America, aluminium plays the company an important role in the design of electrical distribution and large power transformers thanks to its significant cost and weight advantages versus copper. operates.” The markets for semi-rigid containers and transformer windings made in ­aluminium are expected to show stable annual growth. 1) H  eating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning (also referred to as stationary heat exchangers). GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 15 MARKET OVERVIEW S Fi 60%* Velbert Saint-Avol Newport, Huntingdon, Salisbury Franklin GEOGRAPHIC EXPOSURE Gränges has manufacturing, sales and technical support on three continents. Furthermore, the production sites in Finspång and Shanghai are equipped with important competence centres for research and innovation in close cooperation with customers. A third research and ­innovation centre is under establishment in Huntingdon. AMERICAS Gränges has been present in the AmeriMexico and Brazil. Gränges’ global cuscan market since 1994 and is the second tomers accounted for around 15 per cent largest supplier of rolled aluminium brazed (15) of total sales volume in the Americas heat exchangers to the automotive indusin 2018. Gränges’ production sites in the try. Since 2016, Gränges has been a south-eastern US supply most of the cusleader in the HVAC industry and is a major tomers in the region. However, material supplier of winding material for transfor brazed aluminium heat exchangers is formers and aluminium foil for food consupplied from Gränges’ production facilitainers. Americas accounted for around ties in Finspång, Sweden, and Shanghai, 60 per cent (59) of the Group’s sales volChina. Due to US anti-dumping and counume in 2018, of which 22 per cent were tervailing duties on imports of rolled alusales to the automotive business and 78 minium products from China, material for per cent sales to the HVAC industry and brazed aluminium heat exchangers to cusother end-customer markets. Gränges’ tomers in the US is now exclusively supmain markets in the Americas are the US, plied from the plant in Finspång. Light vehicles production forecast, Housing starts forecast, Americas USA Million Million 2.0% 21.0 2.1% 1.6 4.5% 0.8% 3.1% 0.6% –1.0% 20.5 0.0% 1.2 20.0 0.8 19.5 0.4 20.3 20.5 20.3 20.7 21.1 1.3 1.3 1.3 19.0 0 18 19 20 21 22 18 19 20 Number of vehicles Growth Total housing starts Growth Source: IHS, 17 January, 2019. Source: NAHB Housing Forecast, 7 January, 2019. 16 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 AVSNITT MARKET OVERVIEW Stockholm Finspång Velbert 17%* Saint-Avold 23%* on, Salisbury Tokyo Seoul Shanghai Pune EUROPE ASIA Sales markets Gränges has a strong position in the Since establishing the plant in Shanghai Sales offices and technical support European market and, through its in 1996, Gränges has gained a leading Production sites advanced technical product content, it has position in the Asian market. In 2018 * Share of sales volume, full year 2018. strengthened its leading position in the Asia accounted for 23 per cent (23) of automotive heat exchanger industry over Group sales in terms of volume, with the last ten years. The automotive industry China as its main market. Other key accounts for over 90 per cent of Gränges’ ­markets include India, Thailand and sales in Europe. In total, the European South Korea. The automotive industry market represented around 17 per cent accounts for over 90 per cent of (18) of Group sales volume in 2018, with Gränges’ sales in Asia. Most of the the UK, Italy, the Czech Republic and ­production volume at Gränges’ plant in Poland as the largest markets. Europe is a Shanghai is sold in Asia, of which around consolidated market with global customers half goes to China. Global customers accounting for around 80 per cent (81) of accounted for 47 per cent (44) of total the sales volume in 2018. Most of the volsales volume in Asia in 2018. ume supplied to the European market is produced at the plant in Finspång. Light vehicles production forecast, Light vehicles production forecast, Europe Asia Million Million 2.3% 1.1% 3.5% 23 55 3.5% 1.2% –1.2% 0.0% 53 22 2.1% 1.9% 51 –1.2% 21 49 21.9 21.9 22.2 22.7 23.0 49.4 50.3 51.4 53.2 55.0 20 47 18 19 20 21 22 18 19 20 21 22 Number of vehicles Source: IHS, 17 January, 2019. Growth Number of vehicles Source: IHS, 17 January, 2019. Growth >> GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 17 MARKET OVERVIEW >> AMERICAS ADDRESSING The recent increases in tariffs on imports of aluminium products have risen demand for domestically produced heat exchanger A NEW material and foil products in the US. In 2018, Gränges announced the restart of production in the Newport facility to manufacture ATTRACTIVE light gauge aluminium foil for various types of consumer applications. This is an excellent opportunity to utilize existing assets NICHE while addressing an attractive niche market. MARKET EUROPE CRITICAL The latest addition to Gränges is Getek. In German Velbert and French Saint-Avold, two facilities supply long billets to their two PRODUCTION owners: Gränges and the German aluminium company Erbslöh. The facilities use their unique spray-forming technology for aluSECURED minium. Getek provides Gränges with spray-formed TRILLIUM® billets, which gives Gränges control over a critical process step FOR A for TRILLIUM®. This strategic product simplifies the complex STRATEGIC brazing process and is well suited for most automotive heat exchanger applications, such as chillers, radiators, charge air PRODUCT coolers, oil coolers and battery cooling plates. ASIA BETTER A few years ago, Gränges realized that the wind power sector was neglected in terms of heat exchanger materials and a deciMATERIALS sion was made to target it. Gränges held talks with wind power OEMs to learn about their challenges, tested a range of new FOR materials in cooperation with them, and invited representatives to seminars. Now, the innovation and marketing expertise of WIND Gränges has helped provide wind power operators with better POWER materials – and in 2018, Gränges ­doubled its sales of material for brazed aluminium heat exchangers for use in this sector. 18 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 19 THE INSIDE STORY THE INSIDE STORY Modern light vehicles typically contain up to ten different heat exchangers, ­sometimes more. In recent years, the number of heat exchangers per vehicle has increased, as engines have become more advanced, and environmental requirements and passenger comfort demands have grown. In electric vehicles there is a strong need for highly efficient heat exchangers for the thermal management of batteries. Plug-in hybrid electric vehicles have the largest need for heat exchangers – for cooling of both batteries and combustion engine, as well as heat exchangers for transmission oil and engine oil, air conditioning systems, and heaters. Today, Gränges is a world leader in heat exchanger materials, and around 50 per cent of sales are to customers in the automotive industry. Active battery chiller  ngine radiator E Charge air cooler AC condenser Battery & electric drive cooler Transmission oil cooler 20 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 THE INSIDE STORY  C evaporator A Compartment heater Engine oil cooler Battery cooling plate GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 21 PRODUCTS AND INNOVATION DRIVE GROWTH THROUGH INNOVATION Gränges conducts world-class strategic research and innovation as well as customer-driven product development based on extensive knowledge of material properties and characteristics. Development of new, innovative products and material technologies are drivers of Gränges’ future growth. Gränges Research & Innovation (R&I) is the Innovative products and technologies company’s world-leading competence unit Gränges has a strong focus on developing GRÄNGES R&I CENTRES with advanced knowledge about metalnew multi-layer products, which gives lurgy and understanding of the production more layers for improved brazeability and Finspång: Global R&I centre process. The strategic research is mancorrosion resistance to support further and regional R&I centre for aged globally, while the customer-driven downgauging and light weighting. DevelopEurope. Global development of development is carried out locally in close ment of the TRILLIUM® technology is materials and solutions for brazed heat exchangers and cooperation with the production facilities. important in this regard. TRILLIUM® Lean new technologies. Gränges R&I has over 60 highly educated was introduced in 2017 and is a new multi-­ employees worldwide working with prodlayer material with enhanced potential for Shanghai: Regional R&I centre uct development, including metallurgists, especially challenging applications. for Asia. Development of soluchemists, metallographers, physicists, Gränges also places greater emphasis on tions for electric vehicles and mechanical engineers and technicians – the development of processes, such as related new applications. all specialists in rolled aluminium products heat treatment of material from ingot to for heat exchangers and other advanced final product. Strong sagging resistant fins Huntingdon: Regional R&I centre applications. is a patented material that gives improved for Americas will be established properties based on advanced processes, in the first half of 2019. Development of materials and solutions Adapting the R&I process resulting in better strength after brazing. for stationary heat exchangers. for best outcome Through the acquisition of Noranda in Fundamental research in key areas is usu2016, Gränges gained access to continually carried out in-house, but in selected ous casting process and therefore the abilareas Gränges collaborates with leading ity to develop new material properties for universities and research institutes. The unclad products for brazed heat exchangobjective is to strengthen Gränges’ leading ers. Through Getek, a joint operation with position in the development of brazed heat Erbslöh Aluminium, Gränges has secured exchanger materials, to develop new expertise in advanced spray-forming tech­inno­vative aluminium products, new nology, which is well suited for the next ­material technologies and to enter new generation of materials for heat exchangcustomer segments. New alloys and alloy ers, such as TRILLIUM®. Spray-forming combinations are initially tested through technology also offers great potential in pilot casting, rolling and computer simulaother advanced aluminium applications. tions at Gränges R&I, before full-scale ­production takes place. This process Solutions for electric vehicles ­facilitates planning of effective high-­ The electric vehicles market is expected to precision production processes. The grow sharply over the next decade, espedevelopment of new p ­ roducts often takes cially in Asia and Europe. For Gränges, this place in teams with Gränges’ business means new business opportunities in development units. If critical skills are materials for brazed heat exchangers. The lacking to run an efficient development company’s strong position in the market for process, the possibility of external coopheat exchangers makes Gränges an exceleration and, in some cases, the acquisilent partner both for current customers tion of skills, such as from smaller and for new players entering this growth start-up companies, will be considered. market. Electric vehicles have a significant As part of Gränges’ new R&I organization, need for thermal management, especially established in 2017, there is a team focusfor cooling of the battery to increase pering solely on new material technologies. formance and to extend life-time. 22 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 PRODUCTS AND INNOVATION: CLAD TUBE CLAD FIN UNCLAD FIN CLAD PLATE MAIN PRODUCT GROUPS Gränges offers a full range of rolled aluminium products for heat exchanger manufacturers, and up to 3,000 product speciﬁcations, including 200 active alloy combinations. Leading-edge technology and true industrial craftmanship ensure material with consistent quality. The products can be divided into four main groups: CLAD TUBE Tube products for both welded and folded tube designs supporting the continuing trend for downgauging and increasing demands on corrosion resistance, brazeability and strength. CLAD FIN Clad fin developed for excellent brazeability to withstand core dissolution and high-temperature sagging, and to enable downgauging for lighter heat exchangers. UNCLAD FIN The most basic heat exchanger material. Unclad fin comprises only one alloy without clad layers and is used for applications such as radiators, heaters, charge air coolers and evaporators. CLAD PLATE Consists of a core alloy clad with braze clad on one or two sides. The rolled product is stamped or shaped by the customer depending on the application and used in most kinds of heat exchanger applications, either for coolant plates or manifolds. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 23 PRODUCTS AND INNOVATION: In cold climates, heating of batteries can mental impact. TRILLIUM® is well suited also be needed to reach the battery’s optifor most components in customer applicaRAPID PACE OF INNOVATION mal temperature range. New requirements tions, such as chillers, radiators, charge air 20% in thermal management systems drive new coolers, oil coolers and battery cooling needs in heat exchanger materials. The plates. Since the launch of TRILLIUM® typical solution today is battery air cooling, Lean in April 2017, there has been a sharp but the trend is towards liquid cooling increase in interest, with many customers which is more efficient. Gränges develops involved in tests and validations. Sales of several new solutions in this area, notably TRILLIUM® increased by 30 per cent in with its TRILLIUM® technology, as well as 2018, and Gränges expects the technology patent portfolio growth in 2018. discussing battery cooling plate solutions to represent a significant share of Gränges’ On 31 December 2018, Gränges with large automotive OEMs. sales in three to five years. had 58 patent families (52) and 198 granted patents (165), with Worldwide technical support Focus on new technologies an additional 106 patent appliGränges’ product developers and techniat Asian seminar cations pending (73). cians are represented throughout Asia, Gränges hosts annual technical seminars for Europe and Americas, offering advanced its customers and other partners in Asia, technical support to customers and peralternating between China and India. In 2018, forming a wide range of services. This the seminar took place in Xiamen, China. includes prototype brazing, aluminium About 350 representatives from customers braze simulations, brazeability tests, and other leading industry players attended ­sagging tests, filler flow tests, advanced the seminar in Xiamen, making it the largest metallurgical examinations, as well as seminar of its kind in the world. The seminar accelerated corrosion tests such as Neutral focused on innovations and new technoloSalt Spray Test (NSS), Cyclic Corrosion gies for heat exchangers. Since innovation Test (CCT) and Sea Water Acetic Acid Test and new technologies for electric vehicles (SWAAT), enabling Gränges to offer tailored will be a driving force for Gränges in the and optimized aluminium products. To ­coming years, the seminar in China was an support this work, Gränges has an applicaimportant event for meeting and discussing tion centre that can replicate the customthese topics with different players in the ers’ forming and brazing processes. The industry. centre, located in Shanghai, is also ideal for testing small units of custom-designed Strong product offering heat exchangers. To explore the applicaOver the years, Gränges has developed a tions of brazed heat exchangers within large number of products with improved non-automotive air-conditioning and other end-characteristics, increased stability industries, Gränges builds competence and enhanced sustainability (primarily within heat exchanger prototype design, related to increased share of recycled optimization, and performance testing. ­aluminium). Many of these products are based on new concepts such as strong Less work and more capacity sagging resistant (SSR) fins, TRILLIUM® with TRILLIUM® and multi-layer products. Gränges’ focus Gränges’ patented technology TRILLIUM® on technology, manufacturing processes, simplifies the complex brazing process by and material properties contribute to cremaking the degreasing, fluxing, cleaning, ating smaller, lighter and better designed and drying stages redundant. Instead, heat exchangers that are more energy effiGränges makes it all happen within the cient and reduce environmental impact. material in a process called Active brazing. Through the acquisition of Noranda in TRILLIUM® Solid, launched in 2010, and 2016, Gränges offers rolled aluminium TRILLIUM® Lean, launched in 2017, help products to manufacturers of automotive Gränges’ customers reduce costs, create heat shields, transformer windings and new designs, and reach a higher level of semi-rigid containers. profitability – while reducing their environ24 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 25 PRODUCTION AND PROCESSES: DEMAND-DRIVEN PRODUCTION With manufacturing capacity on three continents, Gränges has created a platform that meets complex customer demands and enables continued global expansion. The strong demand for Gränges’ products has resulted in investments to add further production capacity. Thanks to nearly fifty years of experience out twice a year, with teams from produc500 and specialized competence in production tion facilities cross-inspecting each other. of materials for brazed heat exchangers, More details can be found on page 39. The Gränges has become a world leader in purpose is to improve safety and promote rolled aluminium for the heat exchanger best practice across the organization. industry. Continual efforts are made to improve efficiency and productivity at all Demand-driven capacity expansion Gränges’ production sites, contributing to In the US, Gränges works actively to estabKTONNES lower environmental impact and improved lish new capacity to meet growing domesWhen all ­ongoing investments profitability for both Gränges and its custic demand for foil, automotive heat have been completed, Gränges’ tomers. exchanger materials and HVAC applicacapacity will reach 500 ktonnes. tions. The facility in Newport produced Gränges’ steps towards aluminium foil for consumer applications a global footprint until 2015 and has subsequently been Gränges has a total production capacity of idled with limited business in surface about 420 ktonnes, split across five productreatment. However, a domestically undertion sites on three continents. The producserved light gauge foil market in the US tion site in Finspång has a capacity of 100 together with trade legislation has made ktonnes. It was established in 1913 and has this an attractive market once again. The produced aluminium products for brazed investment to upgrade existing rolling mills heat exchangers since 1972. The production and equipment will add 20 ktonnes in new site in Shanghai was established in 1996, capacity by 2019. The expansion of the and since then Gränges has focused on Huntingdon plant’s aluminium rolling expanding capacity to keep pace with maroperation is proceeding according to plan. ket growth. The capacity has increased from The project was initiated in 2017 and will 12 ktonnes to 120 ktonnes. In the US, add 40 ktonnes in new capacity by 2019. Gränges has three production sites with a Gränges also reviews its capacity needs in combined capacity of 200 ktonnes. This will Asia and Europe and is evaluating options reach 260 ktonnes by the end of 2019 when to grow the business with good and susongoing expansion investments have been tainable profitability. In 2018, Gränges completed. Through the joint operation comdecided to invest SEK 400 million to pany Getek, Gränges has secured skills and expand capacity and improve efficiency material supply for the next generation of in the Finspång facility. The project is materials for heat exchangers. expected to be completed in 2021. Knowledge sharing for even Continuous improvements with lean better practice Improvements in Gränges’ internal effiClose cooperation between the production ciency have made important contribuplants in China, Sweden and the US drives tions to the increase in the Group’s profit growth and improvement work – at all over recent years. To improve efficiency sites. Initiatives to learn from each other and reduce costs, Gränges focuses on include regular environment, health and operational improvements. Gränges safety meetings where representatives applies its own concept for lean manufacfrom all plants set up action plans and turing – The Gränges Production System common activities. Internal environmental (GPS). The system is implemented in all and safety cross inspections are carried production sites and includes internal 26 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 PRODUCTION AND PROCESSES: benchmarking, collaboration, shared best customers’ manufacturing processes – Rolling and thermo-mechanical practices and dialogue through steering from forming to assembly and brazing. processing groups. Positive effects from GPS include These are used to alter alloys’ microstrucsimple production flows, direct connecCladding ture to achieve desired properties of the tion between production steps, and Cladding is a key capability that provides end product. Gränges has extensive expewell-defined and waste-free processes. high added value and differentiates rience of thermo-mechanical processes, Production lead times are kept as short as Gränges from manufacturers of rolled and their effect on the performance of possible and are balanced against the products for general use. The company materials in the brazing process. need for processes to be cost efficient, produces singleand double-sided clad which also enables Gränges to offer a products, and symmetrical and asymmetSlitting more flexible customer service. Efficient rical products, with many different alloy Gränges has market-leading competence metal management contributes to lower combinations. and experience in slitting technologies costs through continuous improvement of that play an integral role in manufacturing the sorting operations, slab outsourcing heat exchanger materials. optimization and use of new categories of recycled aluminium. Digitalization – next step towards operational excellence At the Shanghai production site, Gränges works on a project to maximize productivity and quality by using machine intelligence and increasing the level of digitalization. This includes an integrated system with in-plant logistic automation, quality customization and standardization. Sensors allow for even higher precision and will be applied to maintenance and process control systems, and data integration will support process optimization across the full line. In addition, more accurate process control can lead to improved energy utilization, thereby reducing the negative environmental impact from operations. Knowledge sharing is in >> AWARD FOR REDUCED place with the other production sites. BOTTLENECKS Technical leadership The Gränges Finspång team has managed to reduce bottlenecks in Over the years, Gränges has developed the ­Tandem Cold Mill by systematically applying GPS principles and four specific competences that have contools. The average mill speed has increased, and the coil change time tributed to the company’s technical leadhas been reduced. These efficiency improvements have enabled the ership within heat exchanger materials: Finspång plant to reach new production records and increase sales. At the 2018 Gränges Company Awards, the Finspång team won the Alloy development Continuous Improvement Award. The annual event is part of Gränges has excellent expertise in develGränges’ efforts to recognize good performance and continually improve the business. oping alloys and combinations with properties specifically adapted to each step of GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 27 SUSTAINABILITY 28 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY CREATING SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS VALUE Sustainability is a natural part of Gränges’ core business and strategy. It helps to increase the company’s long-term competitiveness and aims to create lasting value for Gränges as well as for its customers, employees, investors and other stakeholders. In 2018, Gränges raised the company’s ambitions for sustainability and implemented a new ­sustainability framework with clear long-term targets. By managing its business in a sustainable good potential to be recycled without losing and responsible way, Gränges will enhance its inherent material characteristics. GRÄNGES’ LARGEST its possibilities to deliver strong financial Through its light-weighting properties CONTRIBUTIONS TO and operational results. and its recyclability, Gränges’ aluminium Sustainable business value is created products enable customers to achieve sigTHE UN SUSTAINABLE both by reducing undesired impacts of the nificant savings in energy consumption DEVELOPMENT GOALS company’s operations and by further and greenhouse gas emissions – both in increasing the positive contributions that customers’ production process and for the emerge from integrating sustainability end users. A study1) from 2016 concluded aspects into the business. that light-weighting of transport vehicles leads to substantial fuel and carbon emisNew sustainability ­framework sions savings. According to the study, the and long-term targets potential life-time saving for a passenger In 2018, Gränges implemented a new car is 500 kg to 2 000 kg carbon dioxide per group-wide sustainability framework with 100 kg weight reduction. twelve material topics grouped into five Gränges technical expertise and compesustainability pillars. For each pillar, tence in material properties and perforGränges articulated a clear long-term mance helps customers and the whole commitment and accompanying targets value chain to improve its climate perforfor 2025. More details on the process to mance. identify material topics can be found on pages 113–114. Supporting sustainable development Each sustainability pillar is governed by Gränges has participated in the UN Global one member of Group Management. This Compact since October 2016. In doing so, individual proposes global sustainability the company undertakes to fulfil the prinpriorities and coordinates with Gränges’ ciples relating to human rights, labour law, regional teams to implement local the environment, and anti-corruption. The ­sustainability activities within a principles also form the foundation of the ­specific sustain­ability pillar. company’s Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct. Sustainability as a business opportunity Gränges is also committed to helping With the global push for sustainable develfulfil the 2030 Agenda and UN Sustainable opment and the transformation into a more Development Goals (SDGs). In its work to circular and resource-efficient economy, establish the new sustainability frameGränges’ customers are increasingly work, Gränges identified ten SDGs that are becoming aware of the importance of most relevant for the company’s business using sustainable materials. and where Gränges has its largest contriAluminium is often called the green butions. More details on Gränges’ contrimetal thanks to its unique combination of butions to the SDGs and how these goals properties. It is light-weight and strong, relate to the company’s sustainability has high corrosion resistance, is durable framework can be found on page 115. and impermeable, and is versatile and used in many applications. Aluminium is also a highly recyclable material with very 1) IFEU 2016: Energy savings by light-weighting – 2016 Update. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 29 SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES’ VALUE CHAIN COLLABORATION IN THE VALUE CHAIN Gränges is committed to improving conditions and the overGränges encourages and contributes to improvements in the all footprint of the aluminium value chain. By collaborating industry and promotes robust networks across the compaacross the industry, Gränges can promote and drive change ny’s markets. where it has the highest value chain impact. During 2018, Gränges applied for participation in AluminTo ensure that aluminium is mined, produced and used susium Stewardship Initiative with the aim to work towards tainably, Gränges participates in various industry i­nitiatives. greater sustainability and transparency in the aluminium More information can be found on page 115. Through active industry. More information can be found on page 33. participation in industry committees and working groups, Gränges’ input materials: Gränges’ output materials: • Primary aluminium • F lat rolled aluminium coils for • Recycled aluminium SEMI-FABRICATION automotive heat exchangers, • Alloying metals HVAC, packaging etc. Internal recycled aluminium PRIMARY ALUMINIUM Recycled aluminium PRODUCTION from customers PRODUCT RECYCLED MANUFACALUMINIUM TURING ­PRODUCTION End of life recycling PRODUCT USE SUPPLY GRÄNGES’ CUSTOMERS CHAIN OPERATIONS AND END USERS Key Primary aluminium Recycled aluminium Semi-fabrication: Product manufacturing ­process production: extraction, ­production: collecting, re-melting and casting, and product use refining, smelting sorting and recycling rolling and s ­ litting DescripThe value chain of aluminEfficient collection and In the re-melting process, Gränges’ rolled aluminium tion ium starts with the extracsorting systems are critiother metals are added to products can be found in tion of natural resources, cal for effective recycling the molten aluminium to cremany applications such as primarily in the form of of aluminium and for helping ate customized alloys. The engine cooling products, bauxite, which is extracted to retain the value of the molten alloy is then solidified climate control solutions, from bauxite mines. alloy elements in the loop. in the form of slabs during power transmissions, and After mining, bauxite is Gränges uses internal the casting process. packaging. refined into pure aluminrecycled aluminium from In the rolling and slitting Gränges’ customers ium oxide, called alumina. its own operations and process, the alloyed slabs include automotive heat Molten aluminium is sources external ­recycled are transformed into coils exchanger manufacturers extracted from the alumina aluminium from customers and sheets with specific as well as HVAC and packthrough an electrolytic and ­recycling companies. shapes and properties for aging manufacturers. process called smelting. different applications. 30 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES’ SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK AND 2025 TARGETS PILLARS MATERIAL TOPICS 2025 TARGETS AND 2018 DEVELOPMENT PAGE SECURE ETHICAL • Ethics and anti-corruption 1  00 per cent of employees annually trained in 32, 117 BUSINESS Gränges’ Code of Conduct. PRACTICES 100 per cent of applicable employees1) annually trained in anti-corruption. ENSURE • Responsible sourcing 100 per cent of the purchase value from signifi33–36, RESPONSIBLE • Sourced recycled aluminium cant suppliers2) committed to Gränges’ Supplier 117–119 AND SUSTAINABLE Code of Conduct or equivalent standard. • Emissions and SOURCING climate impact 20 per cent sourced recycled aluminium of total sourced metal inputs. Increase the share of sourced renewable energy (electricity, heat, fuels).3)  educe indirect carbon emissions intensity from R purchased materials and services.3) RUN SUSTAINABLE •W  orkplace safety 3.0 recordable accidents per million hours 36–39, OPERATIONS •E  nergy worked (Total Recordable Rate). 118–120 •E  missions and 50 lost workdays per million hours worked climate impact (Severity Rate). •W  ater management 17 per cent reduction in energy intensity.3) 25 per cent reduction in direct and energy ­indirect carbon emissions intensity.3) All Gränges sites to have implemented a local water management plan. BUILD DIVERSE AND •C  areer and leadership 1  00 per cent of employees receiving annual 40–42, HIGH-PERFORMING development ­performance and ­development ­discussion. 121–122 TEAMS •D  iversity and equality At least 30 per cent women among senior •E  mployee wellbeing ­management4). Employee engagement index: 85. DEVELOP • Eco-responsible 80 per cent of Gränges’ products have verified 43, 122 SUSTAINABLE innovation sustainability ­information available. PRODUCT OFFERINGS •P  roduct life-cycle sustainability performance 1) Employees working in sales, purchasing and senior executives who have external contacts. Positive or unchanged development 2018 versus 2017 2) Suppliers with a purchase value above 5 MSEK, 5 MCNY or 0.5 MUSD. Negative development 2018 versus 2017 3) Versus baseline 2017. 4) Employees eligible to participate in Gränges’ long-term incentive (LTI) programme. Development 2018 versus 2017 not applicable as result for 2017 and/or 2018 are unavailable GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 31 SUSTAINABILITY SECURE ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES Gränges is committed to ethically sound business practices and running its business in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. Gränges expects all employees to support the company’s values and act responsibly towards each other and business partners. ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION its operations in China. The assessment New Code of Conduct did not find any incidents but led to a betOUR COMMITMENT Gränges’ Code of Conduct outlines what ter understanding of the risks as well as We will run our business in an Gränges considers to be responsible the measures which should be taken to ethical and responsible way and behaviour and is an important cornerstone furter enhance payment routines. An be an ethically sound partner in in Gränges’ policy framework. The Code of assessment of anti-bribery and anti-­ all our relations and in the socieConduct is based on international standcorruption procedures is also integrated ties in which we conduct busiinto Gränges’ internal audit. More informaards2) on human rights, labour conditions, ness. We never accept corruption the environment and anti-corruption. This tion can be found on page 59. and we will always act rapidly, stringently and vigorously if disincludes UN Global Compact and its set of covering corruption or unethical ten principles. Expanded whistleblower function behaviour. During 2018, Gränges updated its Code In 2018, Gränges implemented an updated of Conduct with the focus to make it more whistleblower function to detect irregularimodern and user-friendly. The updated ties that may seriously harm the business or document is available in English, Swedish its employees. The function is managed by and simplified Chinese. Gränges also an external company and can be accessed PERFORMANCE rolled out global Code of Conduct online online (intranet or external website) or by AND FOCUS 2018 telephone. Through the function, employees training, which 99 per cent of all employ aunched a new Code of L ees completed. and external business partners can provide ­Conduct; 99 per cent of employinformation and be guaranteed full anonymees trained across the Group. Zero tolerance for corruption ity without fear of retaliation. By quickly  pdated the whistleblower U Gränges has zero tolerance for corruption uncovering and remediating irregularities, function to be accessed by and does not accept any form of bribery or Gränges is in a better position to manage employees as well as by other type of corruption. This is founded on the underlying causes before they become ­external business partners. the Code of Conduct and the Anti-corrupunmanageable.  I nitiated efforts to develop a tion Policy. To ensure that suppliers mainglobal anti-corruption training tain the same standards as Gränges, they programme with the aim to are required to sign Gränges’ Supplier Code train applicable employees1) of Conduct in which anti-corruption is one in 2019. No bribery or other criterion. More information can be found on type of c ­ orruption incidents page 33. In 2018, no corruption incidents were detected during the year. were detected and no business contracts Share of employees trained were breached or not renewed due to corin Code of Conduct, 2018 ruption. During the year a new training programme for anti-corruption was initiated, to improve 1) E mployees working in sales, purchasing and ­senior executives who have external contacts. awareness of corruption risks. In line with 2) U N Global Compact, UN Universal Declaration Gränges’ long-term target, all employees of Human Rights, UN Sustainable Development Goals, and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational working in sales, purchasing and senior Corporations. executives who have external contacts, will from 2019 complete annual anti-corruption training. Gränges also engaged an external party Completed training, 99% Not completed training, 1% to conduct a corruption risk assessment of 32 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY ENSURE RESPONSIBLE AND SUSTAINABLE SOURCING An efficient and sustainable supply chain is essential for Gränges’ long-term success. To manage social and environmental impacts from its supply chain, Gränges has routines and guidelines for sourcing metals and other materials and services. RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Once a supplier is added to the supplier Supplier commitment base, Gränges performs periodic supplier To ensure that Gränges’ suppliers share assessments. OUR COMMITMENT the company’s sustainability principles, Gränges Asia and Gränges Europe reguWe will ensure that our suppliers significant suppliers1) are required to sign larly assess suppliers’ performance using maintain high sustainability Gränges’ Supplier Code of Conduct, includtools such as supplier scorecards. Supplier standards by enforcing strict ing the ten principles of the UN Global audits are conducted periodically dependcriteria in our supplier sourcing Compact. Gränges’ Supplier Code of Coning on suppliers’ strategic importance and agreements and partnerships. results from assessments. Audits focus on We also commit to improve the duct states that suppliers shall comply environmental footprint in our with all applicable laws and regulations, evaluating suppliers’ quality and delivery supply chain by working with our that suppliers shall avoid conflicts of interprecision, but sustainability related criteria suppliers and promoting sustainest; have zero-tolerance for corruption and such as environment, labour laws, health able practices. bribery; compete in a fair manner; have an and safety, and human rights are also open, non-discriminatory and safe workincluded. If improvements are needed, a place; respect human rights; provide fair corrective action plan is compiled in collabworking conditions; and run its operations oration with the supplier. Gränges there­ after checks to ensure that the supplier has PERFORMANCE with respect for the environment. By signing, the suppliers also declare to implemented actions as promised. During AND FOCUS 2018 promote implementation of these principles the year, ten supplier audits were conI nitiated efforts to establish a in their own supply chain. If a first-tier supducted, none with significant deviations. group-wide process aimed at plier does not commit to the Supplier Code of Gränges Americas conducts pre-qualifipromoting responsible pracConduct, Gränges first discusses with the cation assessments, including assessing tices in the supply chain. supplier and then creates an action plan. suppliers’ sustainability practices, on all I ncreased the scope of Supplier During the year, Gränges updated and critical suppliers2). Suppliers’ quality perforCode of Conduct commitment; rolled out a new version of its Supplier mance is then assessed on a semi-annual 98 per cent of the purchase Code of Conduct. In total, 137 suppliers, basis and if a supplier is assessed to undervalue from significant suppliers corresponding to 98 per cent of the total perform and does not have sufficient quality committed. Ten supplier audits purchase value from significant suppliers, management system procedures in place, conducted. signed the Supplier Code of Conduct or supplier audits are to be conducted. During A  pplied for participation in were – via an internal escalation process – the year no such audits were carried out. ­Aluminium Stewardship Initiaassessed to have equivalent standards in tive to promote sustainability place which are in line with Gränges’ susIndustry collaboration and transparency in the alumintainability requirements. To enforce responsible sourcing practices ium value chain. across the industry, Gränges during the year I ncreased the share of sourced Supplier assessments and audits applied for joining the industry association recycled aluminium of total Before selecting new suppliers, Gränges Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI).3) ASI sourced metal inputs by 46 per conducts supplier pre-qualification is a global, multi-stakeholder, non-profit cent to 16.7 per cent (11.5). assessments using criteria such as quality, standards setting and certification organization which works to maximise the contriR  educed indirect carbon emisservice, price, delivery precision, reliabilsions intensity from purchased ity, ethics and material traceability, as well bution of aluminium to a sustainable society. materials and services by 6 per as social and environmental standards. Through its membership, Gränges aims to cent to 11.2 tonnes CO2e/tonne During 2018, 17 new significant suppliers promote greater sustainability and transproduct (11.9). were added to Gränges’ supplier base. parency in the aluminium value chain. 1) Suppliers with a purchase value above 5 MSEK, 5 MCNY or 0.5 MUSD. 2) Suppliers who supply items that are by their nature critical to the quality of products produced. 3) The membership in Aluminium Stewardship Initiative was formalized on 7 January, 2019. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 33 SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES’ SUPPLY CHAIN AND MATERIALS SOURCED In 2018 Gränges had approximately 2,200 suppliers globP  rimary aluminium (ingots and slabs): In 2018, Gränges ally. Of the total purchase value, Gränges Americas sourced ingots and slabs from 17 suppliers globally, accounted for 46 per cent, Gränges Europe (including the largest purchase value from China, Switzerland, Gränges AB) 28 per cent and Gränges Asia 26 per cent. Sweden, the US and Norway. Ingots are are sourced In total, 143 suppliers – corresponding to 89 per cent of from commodity traders, where origin-labelled aluminthe total purchase value – were defined as significant supium enables traceability to the smelter of origin. pliers1). Sourcing activities are mainly managed by the  ecycled aluminium: Gränges works actively to increase R local procurement organizations and the supplier base is the volumes of sourced recycled aluminium. In 2018, generally geographically close to the respective markets. Gränges used approximately 70.4 ktonnes externally Approximately 85 per cent of the 2018 purchase value sourced recycled aluminium in its global operations. from significant suppliers was related to sourcing of Sourced indirect materials accounted for around 15 per direct materials: primary ingots, rolling slabs, alloying cent of the total purchasing value among significant ­elements and recycled aluminium. ­suppliers. Important indirect purchasing categories were transport, utilities and services. Share of purchase value from significant suppliers – by category and country Primary aluminium (ingots), 51% China, 27% Primary aluminium (slabs), 20% Switzerland, 22% Recycled aluminium, 10% The United States, 21% Transportation, 3% Sweden, 11% Utility, 3% Norway, 6% Services, 3% Other, 12% Other, 10% Primary aluminium (ingots), 51% China, 27% Primary 1) S aluminium  uppliers (slabs), with a purchase 20% value above 5 MSEK, 5 MCNY or 0.5 MUSD. Switzerland, 22% Recycled aluminium, 10% The United States, 21% Transportation, 3% Sweden, 11% Utility, 3% Norway, 6% Services, 3% Other, 12% 34 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Other, 10% SUSTAINABILITY SOURCED RECYCLED a ­ luminium in its global operations, equivare-melting process. In 2018, Gränges ALUMINIUM lent to 16.7 per cent of total sourced metal Americas increased its volumes of recyPromoting sourced recycled aluminium inputs. This was an increase by 46 per cent cled aluminium significantly, driven by Gränges strives to increase the volumes of compared with the previous year, driven by higher volumes sourced from commodity sourced recycled aluminium as the extracincreased volumes in Gränges Americas. traders as well as from its customers. Durtion of bauxite and production of primary Gränges has set a 2025 target to reach 20 ing the year, Gränges Americas had ongoaluminium are energy intensive processes per cent sourced recycled aluminium of ing recycled aluminium programs with ten with undesired effects on both costs and total sourced metal inputs and to reduce customers with plans to expand the prothe environment. Recycled aluminium the indirect carbon intensity from sourced grams in the coming years. requires about 5 per cent of the energy materials and services. needed to produce primary aluminium. Innovating for increased recyclability Thus, the higher the share of recycled input Finding sufficient quality Material for brazed heat exchangers are materials, the lower the carbon footprint Due to the high number of alloys used to clad with high silicon level alloys to allow for from purchased materials and services. produce Gränges’ clad aluminium prodbrazing and suitable material properties, The company’s procurement teams ucts, it can be challenging to find recycled which makes recycling more complex. To actively coordinate with the production aluminium which fits well in the re-melting increase the use of recycled aluminium as units to optimize sourcing so that the operaprocess. When using recycled clad alumininput materials for its clad aluminium prodtions can make efficient use of process ium from its customers, Gränges requires ucts, research and innovation activities are scrap, and to maximize recycling. strict sorting of the process scrap. focused on identifying integrated solutions Gränges sources recycled aluminium from Gränges Asia currently only sources that achieve the required technical specifirecycling companies or directly from cussmall volumes of recycled aluminium as it is cation, and improve recycling rates. tomers. During the year, Gränges sourced difficult to obtain a stable supply of recyapproximately 70.4 ktonnes of recycled cled aluminium of sufficient quality, and as EMISSIONS AND there is little price difference between priCLIMATE IMPACT mary and recycled aluminium in China. DurTracking supply chain carbon footprint ing the year, a pre-study was conducted to More than 90 per cent of Gränges’ total initiate sourcing of recycled aluminium. greenhouse gas emissions are emitted outShare of recycled aluminium of Results from the study confirmed difficulside Gränges’ own operations – in the comties of supply and quality, but that sourcing pany’s supply chain when producing pritotal sourced metal inputs, 2018 of recycled aluminium would be feasible in mary aluminium. Indirect carbon emissions theory. Gränges Asia intends to establish from the supply chain decreased by 6 per source channels gradually. cent to 4,200 ktonnes CO2e (4,500) in 2018. During the year, Gränges initiated efforts Collaborating with customers to better understand the carbon perforGränges Americas produces alloy applicamance and use of renewable energy in its tions that are more standardized and allow supply chain. The company aims to develop for wider composition limits, compared a plan for integrating carbon performance with alloys for brazed heat exchanger into its sourcing process and to more applications which are produced in Gränges actively choose supplier and raw material Primary aluminium Asia and Gränges Europe. It is therefore source based on such criteria. For more (ingots + slabs), 81% possible of reach higher volumes of information about how Gränges works with Recycled aluminium, 17% sourced recycled aluminium in the renewable energy, see page 36. Alloying elements, 2% >> INCREASED At the Gränges global 2018 Company Awards event, Gränges Americas was rewarded for its efforts to greatly increase the use of sourced external recyRECYCLED cled materials in casting at the Huntingdon and Salisbury production facilities in the US. At the time of the event, sourced recycled materials replaced ALUMINIUM more than 20 per cent per month of otherwise required primary aluminium ­purchases, corresponding to an estimated reduction of carbon emissions UTILIZATION by around 340 ktonnes CO2e per year. The result is a good contribution to Gränges’ work to reduce its environmental footprint and it was achieved by a multi-functional team with representatives from procurement and operations. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 35 SUSTAINABILITY RUN SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS Efficient management of energy and materials offer opportunities to improve profitability, competitiveness, and environmental performance and is critical to Gränges and its stakeholders. Also, providing a safe work environment is a top priority as the company strives towards operating an injury-free workplace. ENERGY Gränges Americas reduced its natural Reducing energy consumption gas consumption by rebuilding one melter OUR COMMITMENT The melting and casting of aluminium are in the Salisbury plant and two melters in We will strengthen operational energy intensive processes and Gränges the Huntingdon plant. efficiency and continuous strives to reduce the company’s energy Gränges Asia installed a recuperation improvements in our operations consumption for both sustainability and system to reuse the heat from melting to improve material & energy profitability reasons. Energy costs are the and holding furnaces to pre-heat ingots. efficiency and reduce emissions In addition, Gränges Asia reduced annealmost significant expense after metal and to air and water, while at the personnel costs. Gränges primarily uses ing cycles and natural gas consumption same time provide a safe and energy in the form of natural gas, electhrough improved nozzle design for the secure workplace for our employees. Thereby, we minimize tricity, and liquefied petroleum gas. The coil annealing furnaces. the negative impacts of our operenergy is mainly used in furnaces where ations. aluminium is re-melted either via direct Promoting renewable energy combustion or induction. Gränges has articulated a long-term target to increase its share of renewable energy as a Improving energy and material efficiency means to reduce carbon emissions. On a Gränges has set a 2025 target to reduce group level, 9 per cent of the total energy PERFORMANCE energy intensity by 17 per cent versus the used during 2018 was from renewable AND FOCUS 2018 sources1), where the renewable share origi2017 baseline. To improve energy effiR  educed Total Recordable Rate ciency, Gränges carries out energy audits, nates from sourced electricity and district by 22 per cent to 6.1 recordable implements related improvements, and heating. accidents per million hours selects the best available technology for Higher levels for Gränges Europe were worked (7.8). Severity Rate new investments. partly offset by lower levels for Gränges increased to 165 lost workdays Energy efficiency measures are primarily Americas and Gränges Asia. The latter priper million hours worked (112) linked to increased metal yield, improved marily use natural gas in production, raisdue to a couple of accidents that ing the share of non-renewable energy and thermal processes and recovery of waste resulted in long recovery of the heat from various processes. Furthermore, therefore the carbon emissions. Gränges injured individuals. by re-melting unavoidable production Europe uses mainly induction melters R  educed energy intensity by scrap in-house rather than selling it to third combined with electricity from low carbon 1 per cent to 3.3 MWh/tonne parties, Gränges can avoid quality degrasources (hydro and nuclear), reducing carproduct (3.3) driven by different dation and energy losses involved in transbon emissions. energy efficiency measures at The production facilities of Gränges Asia porting and handling recycled aluminium. the plants. The total share of During the year, several process effiand Gränges Americas are located in areas sourced renewable energy was ciency measures were implemented which where the energy markets are regulated. unchanged at 9 per cent (9). led to a 1 per cent improvement in energy This means that Gränges is bound to the Reduced direct and energy indiintensity, reaching 3.3 MWh/tonne (3.3) for ­utility in that area and that Gränges cannot rect carbon emissions intensity affect the share of renewable energy in the the full year. by 6 per cent to 0.76 tonne energy mix unless developing its own renewGränges Europe collaborated with its CO2e/tonne product (0.81) main slab supplier and implemented a new able energy solutions. Gränges Europe driven by improved energy slab shape, which reduced scalping yield sources electricity from the deregulated intensity and a higher share of low carbon nuclear electricity and energy consumption. In addition, energy market in Sweden. replacing fossil fuel-based Gränges Europe reduced the idling conGoing forward, Gränges aims to more electricity in Gränges sumption of propane through newly actively evaluate alternative energy sources ­Americas. installed burners and a control system and to increase the use of renewable energy, which only operates when recycled aluin line with the company’s long-term target. minium is loaded. 1) W  ind, solar, hydro, geothermal, tidal and biomass. 36 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY EMISSIONS AND bauxite to delivery of Gränges’ products to CLIMATE IMPACT customers. Product use and end-of-life Energy use by type, 2018 Reducing emissions to air and water were excluded due to lack of relevant data. Gränges believes it is essential to help Results clearly showed that the main part combat climate change and works actively of Gränges’ greenhouse gas emissions, to reduce the climate impact from its own more than 90 per cent, originates operations and along its value chain. upstream in Gränges’ supply chain, in the The company emits various substances production of primary aluminium. Direct mainly to air, but also to water and soil. emissions from Gränges’ own operations Emissions to air, in terms of carbon dioxcombined with indirect emissions from ide, nitrogen oxides and dust, come from purchased energy, accounted for around 7 burning fossil fuels and particularly natuper cent. The results from the study were ral gas and liquefied petroleum gas. Emisin 2018 used to formulate reduction tarNatural gas, 62% gets; Gränges aims to reduce its greenElectricity, 33% sions of oil are linked to the cold rolling Liquified petroleum gas, 4% operations where oil is used to cool down house gas emissions from its own operaDiesel, 1% the mill and lubricate the interface tions and purchased energy by 25 per cent District heating, 0.3% between the rolls and the material. by 2025 compared with 2017. Petrol, 0.1% In 2018, direct and energy indirect carbon Gränges’ carbon footprint emissions intensity was reduced by 6 per To better understand its climate impact, cent to 0.76 tonne CO2e/ton product (0.81), Share of renewable Gränges in 2017 conducted a carbon footwhich was driven by improvements in energy energy sourced, 2018 print study in accordance with the Greenintensity and a higher share of low carbon house Gas Protocol. The study included all nuclear electricity replacing fossil fuelparts of the value chain from extraction of based electricity in Gränges Americas. Renewable energy, 9% Non-renewable energy, 79% Nuclear energy, 12% Carbon footprint, 2018 Supply chain (scope 3), 94% Gränges (scope 1+2), 6% GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 37 SUSTAINABILITY WATER MANAGEMENT system is closed-loop, and therefore conSustainable water use tains no contaminants, the used water can Ensuring sustainable water use and be discharged to nearby water bodies access to clean fresh water is essential for without further treatment. economic growth and welfare. Gränges’ Gränges Europe’s plant withdraws operations are located in areas with vari­surface water from a nearby lake which ous water risks and water consumption is is in an area with low water stress and managed based on local circumstances. no restrictions on water withdrawal. The The production facilities of Gränges water is used to cool components and Americas and Gränges Europe are situated afterwards it is released into local waterin areas with low to medium risk, while the ways. Daily measurements are made to Gränges Asia plant is situated in a medium ensure that the released water does not to high risk area.1) No water sources are contain hazardous substances. Hazardous considered to be significantly affected by condensates are treated before being the water withdrawal or discharge from returned to water bodies. Gränges Europe Gränges’ operations. regularly sets reduction targets for water As Gränges’ water consumption is manconsumption. aged based on local circumstances, the company has set a target to develop and WORKPLACE SAFETY implement local water management plans A safe work environment Water withdrawal by source, 2018 in all its locations. The ambition is that Gränges strives towards operating a safe such a plan should provide information and injury-free workplace that protects about current water uses and proposals the health and fosters the well-being of for water efficiency improvements, conemployees and all persons directly or indiservation activities and water reduction rectly related to the company’s operations, targets. This work will be initiated in 2019. such as contracted workers and consultants. No employee or other individual Managing water based on should be at risk of injury in a Gränges local conditions workplace. Much of Gränges’ production equipment Gränges’ operations entail specific requires cooling water for efficient operasafety hazards which Gränges continually Surface water, 75% tion. Lack of cooling water could result in monitors to eliminate or reduce the risks Ground water, 18% overheating and interruptions during profor these hazards to cause injuries. The Municipal water, 7% duction. following five main hazard categories are Gränges Americas’ and Gränges Asia’s defined as the “critical five” for Gränges: plants have closed-loop cooling systems fall protection; molten metal; mobile with a high degree of water recirculation. equipment; confined spaces; and machine These systems reduce water consumption guarding, lockout and tagout (ensuring and the risk of water contamination. that machinery is fully switched off and Gränges Asia’s plant uses municipal tap de-energized before maintenance work water for both production processes begins). (mainly cooling) and for office buildings. During the year, Gränges Europe invested Water from the cooling system is further in improved machine safety including noise re-used in other parts of the production reducing walls and a robotic eliminating the process, for example in the cold rolling manual task of cutting steel straps close to mill. Water of insufficient quality is later hot materials. Gränges Asia implemented discharged to the local waste water treata new process for lockout and tagout ment plant, in accordance with the local equipment. drainage permit which limits water volSafety targets are set for each plant as umes and types. part of the business planning cycle, and Gränges Americas’ plants withdraw actual results are reported monthly. ground water from the company’s own ­During the year, there were 7 serious acciwells, which cool in a closed-loop system dents, where 7 individuals were injured. using non-contact cooling towers. As the Of the 23 recordable workplace accidents, 1) B  ased on the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas developed by the World Resources Institute. 38 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY 14 resulted in lost workday cases. This Using a risk-based approach During the year the company conducted resulted in a total of 620 lost workdays. Gränges’ safety strategy is focused on preone internal assessment at the Finspång Hand and finger injuries were the most venting workplace injuries. The company plant and one in the Huntingdon plant. frequent injury type; 11 of the 23 cases strives to better understand how work is Suggestions for improvements provided by were related to such injuries in 2018. For performed in relation to hazards in the participants were incorporated into the details on methodology and definitions, work environment, and the associated location improvement plans. refer to page 120. risks. To promote better safety, knowledge is Job safety analysis is carried out for also shared with other companies through A “safety first” culture both repetitive and non-repetitive tasks. industry associations. Gränges’ representGränges aims to create a work environThis involves identifying hazards associatives are active in the European Aluminment and culture characterized by “safety ated with work tasks, assessing the risk of ium task force for safety. In this forum best first”. This is an important aspect of leadinjuries and developing action plans to practices are shared on specific subjects. ership at Gränges, and safety in the five manage and mitigate these risks. Actions critical categories outlined above has top are coordinated and prioritized by manpriority. During 2018, Gränges continued agement and safety representatives. with safety management walks in which All incidents and accidents are regisGroup Management regularly visits the tered and classified in incident reporting company’s production facilities to observe systems, and reviewed weekly and and monitor safety. The objective is to monthly. For all recordable accidents as enforce the safety culture. well as for injury free and first-aid events Safety work is integrated into Gränges’ with severe potential consequence, operational excellence programme, which Gränges performs a root-cause analysis as is part of the strategy of continuous a basis for corrective and preventive improvements throughout the organizaactions. tion. During the year, Gränges Production Gränges also performs chemical risk System (GPS), based on lean manufacturassessments. The company strives to mining principles, was further deployed into imize employee exposure to chemicals and operations. The 5S system, an important takes steps to ensure that it uses alternatool within GPS, helps to increase operator tives that are as safe and environmentally awareness and involvement, and to improve sound as possible. work morale by ensuring a clean and healthy work environment. Sharing best practice Safety training Regular safety inspections are conducted in all production facilities and offices. The >> IMPROVED Gränges believes that injuries, occuparesults are reviewed by safety committees SAFETY IN tional illnesses, and safety incidents can be prevented, and therefore takes a pro­ in the various locations. Supervisory safety committees, headed by the regional PresiSHANGHAI active approach to continually improve dents, monitor the efficiency of all safety During 2018 Gränges Asia health and safety awareness and skills. committees. In Gränges Americas, each implemented a new process This includes regular health checks and plant has an employee managed safety for lockout and tagout of training employees in machine safety, committee supported by local manageequipment. The purpose of ­personal protective equipment, fire safety, ment. this process is to ensure first aid and emergency response. All Knowledge sharing and cooperation that all sources of energy employees are covered by accident and among facilities takes place through are isolated in order to sickness insurance. group-wide internal cross-assessments, perform safe maintenance All employees take part in comprehenand by communicating information on sigwork on an equipment. sive safety training at least once a year and nificant incidents to promote best practice A visual overview of all specific safety courses are regularly proand harmonize work processes. Such energy sources and lockout points is made for each vided for production personnel, managecross-assessments, which focus on the specific equipment as well ment and new employees. Production critical safety categories, fire safety and as a clear procedure for employees receive specific safety training environmental matters, are conducted de-energizing. covering aspects such as hand and finger every six months at one of the production injury prevention. All new employees attend sites. safety training before starting their jobs. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 39 SUSTAINABILITY BUILD DIVERSE AND HIGH-PERFORMING TEAMS Competent and committed employees form the foundation on which Gränges can be innovative and competitive and is therefore a crucial part of the company’s business strategy and growth plans. During 2018, Gränges had an average total of 1,699 employees (1,568). CAREER AND LEADERSHIP Securing leadership development DEVELOPMENT To ensure that employees are engaged and OUR COMMITMENT motivated, Gränges conducts annual perAttracting and retaining employees We will ensure that our people Gränges strives to offer good working formance and development discussions as are motivated and engaged. ­conditions and interesting career and well as compensation reviews. The compaBy being an open and inclusive ­personal development opportunities to ny’s target is that all employees should employer, with zero tolerance for attract and retain talented employees. The receive an annual performance and develdiscrimination, we will provide a opment discussion, and in 2018, Gränges company offers remuneration levels in line diverse workplace where employwith market rates and the conditions of reached 99 per cent. ees can realize their full potenemployment needed to recruit, develop During the year, the annual appraisals tials and contribute to developing a high-performing organization. and retain employees. process for key individuals and senior Gränges has a professional recruitment managers was updated to clarify the link process to ensure the company hires between performance and compensation skilled employees. Employee and manager level. Gränges also continued to impletraining takes place continually to guaranment its talent management and succesPERFORMANCE tee employee engagement, craftmanship, sion planning processes aiming to secure and good leadership. It is important that leadership development for the individual AND FOCUS 2018 employees are proud to work for Gränges. and for the company. 9 9 per cent of all employees Having a strong employer brand is an received performance and important tool when attracting and securRecognizing good performance development discussion. ing talented employees. According to a Gränges works actively to strengthen its S hare of women reached 14 Swedish survey conducted 2018 among corporate culture and core values, which is per cent (14) of the total university students and young professionimportant for employee engagement and workforce and 20 per cent als, civil engineers’ awareness of Gränges performance. Gränges continued its global (20) of senior management1). as an employer reached 48 per cent.2) Company Awards event aiming at recognizDuring the year, Gränges updated its ing individuals, teams or departments that I ncreased focus on diversity and equality in the recruitment employer value proposition to be used in achieved significant improvements during and onboarding processes, future communication activities towards the year. Local events were also arranged and into the process of putting existing and potential employees. Gränges in Gränges Americas and Gränges Asia to together teams. aims to be or become the employer of reward employees who reflected the comchoice. pany’s core values or made other contribuI mplemented a global employee tions to the company’s strategic roadmap. survey in Gränges Asia and Gränges Europe in autumn 2018; Employee engagement index reached 78. 1) Employees eligible to participate in Gränges’ long-term incentive (LTI) programme. 2) U  niversum: Företagsbarometern 2018. 40 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY DIVERSITY AND EQUALITY Increased focus on diversity and equality An inclusive workplace During the year, Gränges worked to incorporate the diversity and equality perspecEmployees by region, 20181) Gränges believes that diversity is a competitive advantage and that an inclusive tive into the recruitment and onboarding work environment which leverages processes, and into the process of putting employees’ different perspectives, experitogether teams. In the recruitment proences and ideas, will lead to a more innocess, all else being equal, individuals from vative, competitive and productive organiunderrepresented groups are given zation. A multifaceted workforce also recruitment priority. reflects the international market in which Gränges also included the topic in Gränges operates. the Code of Conduct and in the Code of In line with Gränges’ Diversity Policy, no Conduct training to increase employees’ employee should experience discriminaawareness and skills. In addition, Gränges Asia, 31% tion based on gender, age, world view, incorporated the diversity and equlity Europe, 29% background, sexual orientation, ethnicity, ­p erspective more clearly into the 2018 Americas, 40% physical ability or similar. employee survey to enable measurement 1) Based on full-time positions. Gränges’ target is to increase the proporand follow-up. Results showed that 86 tion of women, both in its total workforce per cent of employees perceive that all and in senior management. By 2025, employees have the same opportunities Gränges aims to have at least 30 per cent and duties regardless of gender, gender women among senior management. In 2018, identity or expression, ethnicity, religion or the share of women in the total workforce other belief, disability, sexual orientation, was unchanged at 14 per cent (14). Also the or age. share of women among senior management Gränges Europe also performed a was unchanged at 20 per cent (20). ­gender-related disparity pay analysis, which did not find any non-objective gaps. >> FEMALE LEADERSHIP IN THE NEWPORT SITE During spring 2018, Gränges decided to restart production at the ­Newport facility in Arkansas, US, with an aim to produce light foil in 2019. As part of its recruitment efforts to staff the new site, Gränges selected Susan VandeZande, one of its management team members from the Huntingdon site, to take on the role as plant manager. Susan VandeZande’s extensive competence and experience from the foil market made her an excellent fit for the role. By promoting gender equality and diversity in senior positions, Gränges hopes that more women across the organization will be inspired to become leaders. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 41 SUSTAINABILITY EMPLOYEE WELLBEING Gränges regularly follows up on employFostering productivity and engagement ees’ wellbeing via the annual performance Having engaged and healthy employees is and development discussion. Gränges also a prerequisite for productivity and building conducts employee surveys to track high-performing teams. Mismanaging employee wellbeing and engagement. health and wellbeing can also lead to sigResults from 2018 showed that a high nificant cost implications both for the share of Gränges’ employees are engaged; employee and the company. To promote Employee engagement index was 78 employee health and wellbeing, Gränges (excluding Gränges Americas) which is offers initiatives such as flexible work slightly above benchmark. Gränges has set options, occupational health care, wella 2025 target to reach an Employee ness grants and support to employees who engagement index of 85. have recurrent illness. In 2018, total sick-leave reached 1.6 per cent (2.0) and total employee turnover 9.1 per cent (7.4). GRÄNGES’ CORE VALUES Gränges’ corporate culture and values are important in attracting and retaining employees. The core values signal that Gränges promotes being dedicated to serving its customers and other stakeholders, making things happen, constantly seeking new and better solutions, and collaborating actively. The core values guide employees in their daily actions and lay the foundation for conducting business responsibly and ethically. COMMITTED ACTION ORIENTED INNOVATIVE ACCESSIBLE We are committed to We are action oriented, We are innovative, We are accessible to each serving our customers make things happen and promote creativity and other, our customers and and acting responsibly continuously learn from constantly seek new and our business partners. towards each other and our experiences. better solutions. our communities. 42 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY DEVELOP SUSTAINABLE PRODUCT OFFERINGS Gränges’ ambition is to create tangible business and sustainability benefits for its customers. Through aluminium’s light-weighting properties and its recyclability, Gränges’ aluminium products enable customers and end-users to achieve s­ ignificant savings in energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. ECO-RESPONSIBLE SUSTAINABLE LIFE-CYCLE INNOVATION PERFORMANCE Gränges aims to develop eco-responsible As part of the work to develop its new susOUR COMMITMENT product offerings that contribute to sustainability framework, Gränges identified We will enhance the sustainabiltainable development and a circular indusproduct life-cycle sustainability perfority performance of our products try approach. The company creates value mance as one of its material topics. It through development of innovafor customers and end-users by making its means taking product stewardship and tive and eco-responsible offeraluminium products lighter, stronger and responsibility to reduce environmental ings and provide customers with verified sustainability performore corrosion resistant, while also impacts and create value along the value mance data. By doing so, we aim improving brazeability and introducing chain. This topic is a result of the eco-­ to improve their environmental new functions into the material. responsible innovation efforts described footprint and contribute posiGränges believes that customers’ above, as well as the work conducted to tively to a more circular industry requirements on sustainable product perreduce the environmental impacts from approach to aluminium. formance will increase, and the company Gränges’ supply chain and own operations. has therefore integrated sustainability More information can be found on pages aspects into its product development pro33–35 and 36–39. cess. During 2018, each product developTo facilitate customers’ analysis and PERFORMANCE ment project was assessed whether it leads assessment of the environmental perforAND FOCUS 2018 to projected carbon emissions savings in mance of its products, Gränges during the the use phase. In total, 44 per cent of such year inititated a project aimed at establishIncorporated clear sustai­ projects were assessed to lead to carbon ing a foundation for how the company can nability criteria into the prodemissions savings in the use phase. assess and communicate the sustainability uct development process to When developing new products, Gränges performance for its products from a life-­ strengthen focus on developcollaborates with customers to understand cycle perspective. Gränges has set a target ing eco-responsible product offerings. their business and sustainability drivers. that 80 per cent of its products should have Examples of activities during the year third-party verified sustainability information I nitiated a project aimed at include discussions with customers about available in 2025. Going forward, Gränges will establishing a foundation for battery cooling, fluxing-free processes and start to perform product life-cycle assesshow Gränges can assess and continuous downgauging. Also, Gränges ments to be used as a basis for this. communicate the sustainability Asia launched very corrosion resistant performance for its product from a life-cycle perspective. materials for offshore wind power use, which was appreciated by customers and end-users. LIGHT-WEIGHT PRODUCTS WITH IMPROVED CORROSION RESISTANCE Tube materials in heat exchanger applications require very high corrosion resistance to avoid leakage of the cooling agent. Some decades ago, very thick gauges were used to provide enough corrosion resistance. Gränges has now developed a multi-layer concept that can allow improved corrosion resistance at lower gauges. This can reduce the weight of the tubes by up to 30 per cent, which in turn leads to improvements in heat exchanger performance in terms of both energy efficiency and maintenance. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 43 RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT As a group with operations in different parts of the world, Gränges is exposed to various risks and uncertainties. Gränges’ risk management aims to identify, assess, and reduce risks related to the Group’s business and operations. Local risk reporting systems for environment, quality, and health and safety are in place at the production sites. Risks are managed as a part of daily operations where key risks are raised to the regional management team and mitigation measures are implemented. Gränges always maintains adequate insurance coverage in relevant areas. MARKET RISKS OPERATIONAL RISKS FINANCIAL RISKS Market risks are managed and Operational risks are managed and Financial risks are managed in accordance controlled by the corporate functions controlled by the corporate functions with Gränges’ Financial Management Policy. and operating units in accordance with and operating units in accordance with Gränges uses derivatives and other financial established guidelines and procedures. established guidelines and procedures. instruments to reduce financial risks. • Risks related to market development • Quality and efficiency risks • Currency risk and competition • Risks related to critical machine • Commodity price risk • Risks related to customer satisfaction breakdowns or disasters • Interest rate risk • Supply chain risks • Health and safety risks • Liquidity risk • Energy price risks • Environmental risks • Credit risk • Political risks • Risks related to employees and the workplace • Business conduct risks • Risks related to compliance and upcoming legislation 44 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 RISK MANAGEMENT MARKET RISKS RISK RISK DESCRIPTION AND CONSEQUENCE RISK MANAGEMENT RISKS RELATED Changes in automotive market demand Diversification and adaptability TO MARKET About half of Gränges’ sales volume goes to customers in the autoGränges is a global company operating in all major regions. The DEVELOPMENT motive industry. Vehicle production rates depend on a number of worldwide presence reduces risks of an economic downturn in indiAND external factors such as the general economy, interest rates, vidual markets. Gränges has a diversified product portfolio and COMPETITION taxes, legislation and consumer behaviour. During an economic about half of the Group’s sales volume goes to other niche markets downturn, the automotive industry normally sees a decline in proin the industry, including stationary heat exchangers, transformers, duction, which reduces demand for aluminium products used in and food packaging that are less cyclical. The aim is to continue to vehicles. increase sales to other markets than the automotive industry. Electrification of the automotive industry Extensive R&I The electrification of the automotive industry is accelerating and Research and innovation are core elements of Gränges’ strategy, is driving demand for new solutions and components for cooling and Gränges continues to increase the efforts in this area. To be and heating. Although Gränges as technical leader in the industry able to meet future market demands, in-depth research work is is well positioned to benefit from this development there is a risk combined with innovation. Gränges supports its customers in that other technologies will emerge over time and that Gränges’ product development for future applications such as electrical current technology becomes outdated. vehicles, and invests to secure competence and advanced technology suited for the next generation of materials. RISKS RELATED Maintaining customer focus and providing the right products at Gränges upholds good relationships with customers to proactively TO CUSTOMER the right time to customers are key success factors for Gränges. meet their demands. Additionally, the company regularly conducts SATISFACTION Dissatisfied customers can adversely affect the company’s profitglobal customer satisfaction surveys to track customers’ percepability and market share, and may also pose a reputational risk. tions of Gränges’ products and services. Results from the studies are reviewed and lead to actions to develop Gränges’ internal processes and specific customer relationships. SUPPLY CHAIN Ethical, environmental and social risks Supplier Code of Conduct, assessments, and audits RISKS Ethical risks in the supply chain are related to bribery and other To ensure that suppliers have zero tolerance for corruption, protypes of corruption. Among the countries that Gränges sources vide reasonable working conditions, ensure good workplace health metal from, there are a few that, according to Transparency Interand safety standards, and respect human rights and the environnational’s Corruption P ­ erceptions Index for 2018, are deemed to ment, significant suppliers must sign and follow Gränges’ Supplier have a higher risk for corruption. Code of Conduct. Suppliers thereby declare to observe all applicaEnvironmental risks in the supply chain are mainly connected ble laws and regulations, including the ten principles of the UN to environmental permits and the potential lack of compliance. Global Compact. Labour law risks include unfair working conditions. In certain Furthermore, Gränges aims to periodically conduct supplier regions there is a risk of child labour. assessments and audits of its strategic suppliers to make sure they adhere to the company’s sustainability requirements. Supply of slabs and other materials Gränges depends on the supply of commodities, mainly aluminSupply management ium. Insufficient supply means that Gränges cannot produce cerGränges enters into agreements with suppliers in each market to tain end products. In the future, depending on chosen end designs, ensure deliveries based on estimated volumes. Gränges has its special material types may be more difficult to source due to their own cast house in the production facilities, making it less sensitive particular characteristics. to supply issues regarding for example slabs. ENERGY PRICE Energy price risks relate largely to changes in energy prices that Gränges uses hedging and delivery agreements to secure future RISKS can adversely affect Gränges’ operating profit. Gränges is mainly energy prices and supply. Financial hedges and physical fixedexposed to price changes in electricity and natural gas, but the price contracts may be used up to two years before delivery. Long price of other energy commodities may also affect Gränges’ operterm changes to market prices will eventually affect Gränges ating profit directly and indirectly. operating profit if changes are not transferred to the customers. POLITICAL RISKS Gränges has its primary operations in Sweden, China, and the US, Political risks are closely monitored, particularly regarding legislaand customers in around 40 countries. Markets and operations are tion for cross-border trade. As a global company with production affected by the political and economic environments within and facilities on three continents, Gränges has some flexibility to between these countries. Political changes and changes in for transfer production and re-route supply flows should political instance trade legislation or sanctions against individual countries changes have a negative impact on the current setup. or organizations could interfere with the company’s supply chain, production or market activities, and affect the ability to meet the demands of Gränges’ customers. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 45 RISK MANAGEMENT OPERATIONAL RISKS RISK RISK DESCRIPTION AND CONSEQUENCE RISK MANAGEMENT QUALITY AND Quality and efficiency risks are mainly connected to defective To ensure high-quality products and efficient production processes, EFFICIENCY RISKS products and insufficient process stability, and often due to Gränges has ongoing programmes for operational excellence and is unplanned stoppages at production plants. continually upgrading and maintaining production equipment. RISKS RELATED TO Critical machine breakdowns or calamities (such as fire) risk to Gränges follows proven maintenance plans for critical machinery, CRITICAL MACHINE damage equipment. and ensures access to spare parts and service staff to continually BREAKDOWNS maintain critical machinery. Gränges has invested in state-of-­t heOR CALAMITIES art fire protection systems and has extensive insurance policies in place. HEALTH AND Health and safety risks Using a risk-based approach SAFETY RISKS Cast houses and rolling mills are work environments that impose Gränges has strict safety routines and continually invests in various significant health and safety risks. Examples of such risks are safety measures to prevent and mitigate workplace injuries. Employ­finger, hand, foot, and leg injuries. Also, production personnel risk ees work according to the global EHS Policy. being exposed to chemicals that are hazardous to health. Safety risks are reported as risk observations in local incident Strict safety routines may never be bypassed or assigned a management systems at the production facilities. lower priority. If the implementation of safety procedures is Regular job safety analysis and comprehensive safety training is unsuccessful or inefficient, employees and other individuals may arranged for all employees at least once a year, and targeted safety be injured. Unsafe workplaces can also lead to increased training is carried out for specific safety aspects. Safety aspects employee turnover as well as higher operating costs. Injuries can are also integrated into Gränges’ operational excellence programme lead to production interruptions, which could result in financial GPS, with the aim to improve the workplace environment through costs for Gränges. structural and systematic reduction and elimination of the many small hazards at origin. Internal cross assessments are carried out every six months at the production sites to share knowledge and best practice, harmonize work processes and cooperate to develop improvement plans. Knowledge is also shared with other companies through industry associations. ENVIRONMENTAL Emissions to water, soil, or air Standardized routines and daily monitoring RISKS Environmental risks are related to emissions to water, soil and air Environmental risks are reported as risk observations in local incior releases of environmentally hazardous substances resulting dent management systems at plants. Risks are managed in accordfrom incidents and accidents, such as fire, oil spill, or leak of ance with a standardized routine and integrated as a part of daily ­hazardous substances. operations. Emissions to air, in terms of carbon dioxide, nitrogen oxides and Key risks are raised to the regional management team and mitigadust, come from burning fossil fuels and particularly natural gas tion measures are implemented accordingly. Measures to mitigate and liquefied petroleum gas. environmental risks are also integrated in investment and mainteEmissions of oil are linked to cold rolling operations in which oil nance routines. is used to cool down the mill and lubricate the interface between Emissions are monitored and managed as part of daily operations. the rolls and the material. Compliance is a prerequisite for Gränges’ continued licence to operate. Such events may have financial, non-financial, and regulatory Local authorities continually monitor compliance to ensure that repercussions. emissions are within limits. Emissions of nitrogen oxides, sulphur ­dioxide, dust, volatile organic compounds (VOC) and in some regions, oil emissions, are regulated by legislation. Gränges includes the precautionary principle in environmental risk assessments. RISKS RELATED Talent attraction and employee retention Attractive workplace and leadership development TO EMPLOYEES Gränges operates in a specialized niche where experience and To attract and retain skilled employees, Gränges works actively to AND THE knowledge of the company’s markets, customers, and production strengthen its employer brand. Gränges also offers remuneration WORKPLACE are critical for the company’s success. Competent, committed, and ­levels in line with market rates and conditions of employment necesengaged employees form the foundation on which Gränges can be sary to recruit, develop, and retain key employees. innovative and competitive. To ensure that employees are motivated and engaged, Gränges conLosing key employees can negatively affect Gränges’ possibilities ducts regular performance and development discussions. To develop of conducting and developing its operations, and its ability to develop the leadership that is needed, the company works actively with training new products. It can also lead to significant cost implications. opportunities, talent management and succession planning as well as strengthening the corporate culture and core values. Diversity and equality Gränges also works proactively to promote health and wellbeing Gränges believes that diversity is a competitive advantage and that through initiatives such as flexible work options and occupational employees with different backgrounds and experiences make health care. Gränges a more innovative, profitable and productive organization. Lack of diversity and equality may affect Gränges’ ability to reach An inclusive approach its long-term targets. In the recruitment process, all else being equal, individuals from underrepresented groups are given recruitment priority. Gränges also works to make sure that diversity is incorporated into the onboarding process as well as into the process of putting together teams. The company also regularly trains its employees in the Code of Conduct, which covers the inclusion and diversity perspective. 46 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 RISK MANAGEMENT RISK RISK DESCRIPTION AND CONSEQUENCE RISK MANAGEMENT BUSINESS Violations of the company’s ethical business principles as described Gränges is committed to operating in accordance with responsible, CONDUCT RISKS in its Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption Policy, may adversely ethical and sound business principles, and in compliance with all affect the company’s reputation and brand, and therefore earnings. applicable laws and regulations. All Gränges employees and board members, as well as temporary staff such as independent contractors and consultants, intermediaries or others acting on behalf of Gränges, must follow the Code of Conduct. Gränges employees and board members must also follow policies such as the Anti-Corruption Policy and take reasonable steps to ensure that Gränges’ independent business partners, including suppliers, customers, and joint-venture partners, do not engage in corruption or other ­illegal or unethical activities related to their business with Gränges. Employees regularly undergo training in the Code of Conduct and anti-corruption. Gränges has set a long-term target that 100 per cent of all employees are annually trained in the Code of Conduct and that 100 per cent of all applicable employees are annually trained in anti-corruption. Gränges’ whistleblower function enables employees and external business partners to report irregularities or concerns of misconduct anonymously. The function is open 24 hours a day and seven days a week. RISKS RELATED Gränges operates in many different markets, with local laws and Gränges observes all applicable local and international laws and TO COMPLIANCE rules. Failure to keep abreast of legislative and regulatory require­regulations. AND UPCOMING ments may cause financial liabilities or even loss of permits. Gränges continually monitors legislative and regulatory developLEGISLATION If employees or individuals who work on Gränges’ behalf violate ments through external partners, and through membership in various laws and rules, it could have negative consequences for Gränges. The industrial organizations. The company’s employees are regularly company may be affected by events that damage confidence in the informed of relevant changes that the company must follow. Gränges company, its operations, or employees, for example if environmental, conducts in-house training of relevant personnel to ensure good quality, or ethical requirements are not met in the manner prescribed knowledge and understanding of legal risks and requirements. by Gränges. FINANCIAL RISKS RISK RISK DESCRIPTION AND CONSEQUENCE RISK MANAGEMENT CURRENCY RISK Gränges Group sales are primarily generated outside of Sweden. Gränges’ Financial Management Policy regulates the company’s Sales contracts are mainly denoted in USD, EUR and CNY, dependmanagement of foreign exchange risk. Gränges uses financial instruing on where the customers are located. Changes in foreign ments, mostly forwards, to reduce the company’s exposure to exchange rates have an impact on Gränges’ income statement, changes in foreign exchange rates regarding its commercial cash balance sheets, and cash flow. flows. Changes in exchange rates for firm commitments are managed Over time, changes in foreign exchange rates may also affect in accordance with a model whereby the exposure with a duration of the company’s long-term competitiveness and earning capacity. up to 18 months is hedged. Exposures relating to customer orders without firm commitments are partly hedged up to 24 months. COMMODITY Gränges procures large volumes of aluminium for the company’s Gränges’ Metal Management Policy regulates the company’s manPRICE RISK production facilities in Sweden, China and the US. The price of aluagement of commodity price risk. The goal is to balance the short minium is based on the trade price on the LME in London or SHFE and long position so that the company is not affected by changes in Shanghai. Gränges’ revenue model means that the cost of aluin the price of aluminium. Financial instruments are used to manminium is passed on to the customer, through the agreements with age the commodity price risk, that can arise if there is a lag customers and suppliers. Typically there is a lag between the alubetween the aluminium procurement date and the sale of the finminium procurement date and the sale of the finished product, ished product. Gränges takes no positions for speculative purwhich means that Gränges is partially exposed to fluctuations in poses. the price of aluminium. INTEREST Gränges’ interest rate risk mainly relates to the Group’s interest-­ Gränges’ borrowings are mainly in SEK and USD at floating interest RATE RISK bearing liabilities. Changes in interest rates may affect the Group’s rates. The duration of the interest-bearing debt portfolio can be results and cash flow and/or the fair value of financial assets and adjusted by longer interest periods or by interest rate swaps. The liabilities. The actual interest rate risk also depends on the total target for the duration of the interest-bearing debt portfolio is size of the interest-bearing debt. ­regulated in the Financial Management Policy. In 2018 no interest rate swaps were used to prolong the duration. LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity risk is the risk that Gränges will not be able to meet its Gränges forecasts future payments and obligations for the next payment obligations. Cash flow from operations, which is affected twelve months against incoming cash flows and available credit by changes in working capital among other factors, is managed at facilities, including a strategic reserve. The Financial Management group level. The liquidity risk is affected by for example Gränges’ Policy regulates a minimum level for available liquidity, including future commitments, available cash and available credit lines. committed credit facilities from banks. Excess liquidity is managed by the Group’s treasury function. CREDIT RISK Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty does not meet its finanGränges’ trade receivable exposure is managed and followed up cial obligations towards Gränges. A credit risk can be related to for continually in local credit committees. The need for provisions is example trade receivables or financial counterparties. tested every quarter, or when necessary, according to predefined criteria. The credit risk on financial counterparties is managed by choosing counterparties with a good credit rating, by limiting the actual exposure, and by agreements such as ISDA agreements. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 47 THE SHARE THE GRÄNGES SHARE The Gränges share was listed on Nasdaq Stockholm in the Mid Cap segment in October 2014. The share is included in the Automobile & Parts category and traded under the ticker GRNG. Since the listing on Nasdaq Stockholm in Share capital 147% October 2014 and until the end of February The share capital in Gränges amounts to 2019, the Gränges share has risen by about SEK 101 million, distributed among 122 per cent. During the same period, 75,512,386 shares, each with a quota value shareholders have received a total return of SEK 1.339775. Gränges has only one of 147 per cent, including the reinvestment class of shares. of the annual dividends.The share price was SEK 80.50 at the end of 2018, which Ownership is the total return that the sharerepresents a market capitalization of On 31 December 2018, the number of holders have received since the almost SEK 6.08 billion. The share’s highGränges shareholders totalled 8,368 IPO in 2014 and until the end est price in 2018 was recorded on 2 May at (9,279). The largest shareholder The Fourth of February 2019. SEK 127.20, and the lowest price was SEK Swedish National Pension Fund (AP4) held 78.20 on 27 December. The share price 9.5 per cent of the total number of shares, decreased by 4.66 per cent during the year. followed by AFA Insurance with 7.5 per cent, and Swedbank Robur investment Turnover funds with 5.7 per cent. Overall, the 15 In 2018, the average daily turnover in the largest shareholders’ holdings amounted Gränges share was 249,431 shares (276,306) to 51.9 per cent of the total number of and the total turnover of shares was around shares. There are no pre-emption clauses, 62 million (69). refusal clauses or other restrictions to the transfer of shares in the company by law, the company’s articles of association or any other document to which the company is a party. Total shareholder return, 2014–2018 Volume SEK ‘000 160 16,000 120 12,000 80 8,000 40 4,000 0 0 Oct Jan Jan Jan Dec 2014 2016 2017 2018 2018 Turnover Gränges share price performance OMX Stockholm_GI including reinvested dividends 48 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 THE SHARE Dividend Capital Markets Day The Gränges Board of Directors proposes a In March 2018, Gränges held a Capital dividend of SEK 242 million (227), equivaMarkets Day in Stockholm for analysts and lent to SEK 3.20 (3.00) per share for the investors. During the day, Gränges pre2018 fiscal year. The proposed dividend is sented an overview of its strategy and equivalent to 35 per cent (35) of the profit goals for 2020, what has been achieved so for 2018. Gränges’ Dividend Policy is to pay far, and growth ambitions for the coming a dividend of between 30 and 50 per cent years, focusing on innovation, expansion of the profit for the year. In its decisions and sustainability. Gränges also gave an about dividends, the Board of Directors updated view on the electric vehicles martakes into account the company’s financial ket, as well as the expansion projects in position, cash flow, and outlook. the US. Gränges gets top score in investor relations ranking Colin Xu, President Asia, speaks at the Capital At IR Nordic Market 2018, Gränges was Markets Day in Stockholm in March 2018. ranked third Best Company of the listed companies in Sweden, and CFO Oskar ­Hellström was ranked second best CFO. PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENTS IN 2018 6 February Letter of Intent dend to the shareholders of SEK 3.00 20 September Gränges’ 10th Asian between Scandium International per share for the fiscal year 2017. Technical Seminar in Xiamen, China. and Gränges for a heat exchanger Innovation and new technologies 19 July Q2 report: Focus on growth application testing project. in focus. and US expansion. Net sales: 21 March Capital Markets Day SEK 3,443 million (3,081). Adjusted 25 October Decision to improve in Stockholm. operating profit: SEK 301 million (290). efficiency and expand capacity in Finspång – an investment of SEK 26 April Q1 report: Improved 17 August Halted plans for a joint 400 million. ­performance, strong start of the year. venture with Mitsubishi Aluminum Co. Net sales: SEK 3,071 million (2,892). Ltd in North America. 25 October Q3 report: Stable sales Adjusted operating profit: SEK 282 ­volume, investment in Finspång. 30 August MTN program (Medium million (237). Net sales: SEK 3,322 million (2,728). Term Note) established with a frameAdjusted operating profit: SEK 230 3 May Announcement to restart work amount of SEK 3 billion. million (227). ­production in Newport, Arkansas 14 September Bonds of SEK 600 – an investment of USD 26 million. ­million issued under the MTN program 3 May The Annual General Meeting that was established on 30 August, 2018 decides on the proposed divi2018. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 49 THE SHARE Share capital development Change in number Total number Change in share Total share Date Event of shares of shares capital, SEK capital, SEK 1 Jan 2014 – 37,319,693 – 932,992,325 14 Aug 2014 Decrease in share capital – 37,319,693 –832,992,325 100,000,000 15 Sep 2014 Share split 37,319,693 74,639,386 – 100,000,000 18 Nov 2016 Rights issue 516,000 75,155,386 691,324 100,691,324 4 Apr 2017 Rights issue 20,000 75,175,386 26,796 100,718,120 31 May 2017 Rights issue 337,000 75,512,386 451,504 101,169,624 6 Dec 2017 Rights issue 5,000 75,517,386 6,699 101,176,323 Share information Share data 2018 2017 Market Nasdaq Stockholm Earnings, SEK 1) 9.11 8.64 Segment Mid Cap Stockholm Equity, SEK1) 51.29 44.04 Ticker symbol GRNG Cash flow from operating activities, SEK1) 17.89 12.82 ISIN code SE0006288015 Share price at end of period, SEK 80.50 84.25 Listed since 10 October 2014 Dividend, SEK 3.202) 3.00 Currency SEK Dividend rate, % 35 35 Number of shares 75,517,386 Yield, % 3.89 3.56 1) Calculated on the weighted outstanding ordinary shares, diluted. 2) The Board of Director’s proposal to the AGM 2019. Ownership Share of ­capital and Largest shareholders Shares votes, % Geographical distribution Shareholders Share of capital, % The Fourth Swedish National Pension Sweden 8,103 50.2 Fund, AP4 7,191,207 9.5 United States 54 23.3 AFA Insurance 5,684,893 7.5 Germany 9 3.9 Swedbank Robur investment funds 4,275,682 5.7 Australia 6 3.2 Dimensional Fund Advisors 2,853,027 3.8 The Netherlands 4 0.8 Allianz Global Investors 2,843,762 3.8 Total other 192 18.6 SEB Fonder 2,438,488 3.2 Total 8,368 100 Paradice Investment Management 2,239,611 3.0 Source: Modular Finance as of 2018-12-31. Handelsbanken Fonder 2,206,041 2.9 Fidelity Investments 2,090,164 2.8 Columbia Threadneedle 1,732,297 2.3 Share distribution Unionen-Svenska 1,700,000 2.3 Franklin Templeton 1,436,298 1.9 Number of shares Shareholders Share of capital, % Lazard Asset Management 943,779 1.2 1–500 5,948 1.4 BlackRock 872,906 1.2 501–1,000 1,103 1.2 Avanza Pension 679,269 0.9 1,001–5,000 972 3.0 Total 15 largest shareholders 39,187,424 51.9 5,001–10,000 146 1.5 Other shareholders 36,329,962 48.1 10,001–50,000 109 3.3 Total 75,517,386 100.0 50,001–100,000 25 2.3 Source: Modular Finance as of 2018-12-31. 100,001– 65 87.3 Total 8,368 100.0 Source: Modular Finance as of 2018-12-31. For additional investor relations-related questions, please contact: Oskar Hellström, CFO: oskar.hellstrom@granges.com, +46 8 459 59 00, or Lily Sun, IR-coordinator: lily.sun@granges.com, or +46 8 459 59 00. 50 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 51 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer of Gränges AB During 2019, Gränges will continue to work actively with innovation (publ), corporate registration number 556001-6122, hereby submit the and a more sustainable customer offering, which includes an increased annual accounts and consolidated accounts for the financial year focus on product development for electric vehicles. Demand for 1 January–31 December 2018. ad­vanced heat exchanger materials for electric vehicles is expected to increase significantly in the coming years, as more car manufacturers choose liquid cooling solutions for batteries. In the US, the expansion of the facility in Huntingdon is expected to be finalized in mid-2019 OPERATIONS and the capacity at the facility in Newport will gradually become availGränges is a leading global supplier of rolled aluminium products for able during the year. Altogether, Gränges is determined to continue to heat exchanger applications and other niche markets. The Group’s grow with sustainable profitability in the coming years. geographical regions are Asia, Europe and Americas. Gränges has five production facilities on three continents with a Sales combined annual production capacity of 420 ktonnes. The facilities During 2018 sales volume reached 375.0 ktonnes (373.0), an increase are located in Shanghai in China, Finspång in Sweden, as well as in of 0.5 per cent compared with 2017. Net sales amounted to SEK 12,910 Huntingdon (Tennessee), Salisbury (North Carolina), and Newport million (11,435). The net effect of changes in exchange rates was posi(Arkansas) in the US. tive and amounted to SEK 346 million during 2018. Gränges works actively to establish new capacity and capabilities to meet increasing demand, address new end-customer markets and Asia improve operational efficiency. In the US, 60 ktonnes of new capacity During 2018, sales volume in Asia remained stable compared to previwill be added in 2019 by expanding the production plant in Huntingdon ous year at 86.2 ktonnes (86.3). and restarting production at the Newport plant. In Finspång, investments will be made to improve efficiency and increase capacity by Europe 20 ktonnes in 2021. During 2018, sales volume in Europe remained stable compared to Gränges holds 51 per cent of the shares in the production company previous year at 65.4 ktonnes (65.6). Getek GmbH, which produces aluminium billets using advanced spray-forming technology. Gränges also owns 50 per cent of a ShanghaiAmericas based company, engaged in metal stamping. During 2018, sales volume in the Americas reached (223.3) ktonnes Gränges’ end customers are in the automotive industry, the stationary (221.1), an increase of 1.0 per cent compared to previous year. heat exchanger industry, and niche markets such as transformers and food packaging. The company has long-term customer relationships Operating profit with global sup­pliers and 2018, the company’s ten largest c ­ ustomers During 2018, adjusted operating profit increased to SEK 1,005 million accounted for 48 per cent of the net sales. (933), while adjusted operating profit per tonne increased to 2.7 kSEK The Group’s parent company, Gränges AB, is a Swedish publicly (2.5). Adjusted operating margin was 7.8 per cent (8.2). Costs for US listed company with its head office on Linnégatan 18. anti-dumping duties on imports from China and Section 232 tariffs The Gränges’ share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s Mid Cap list. are included with SEK 18 million. The net effect of changes in foreign exchange rates was positive and amounted to SEK 59 million during Market development 2018, and the effect from changed depreciation periods had a positive Demand for aluminium products for automotive heat exchangers, impact of SEK 32 million. Operating profit during 2018 increased to which is Gränges’ largest market and accounts for about half of the SEK 940 million (917) and includes items affecting comparability of Group’s sales volume, is correlated to the number of produced light SEK –64 million (–16) related to a change in the distribution model in vehicles. A higher share of hybrid vehicles, electric vehicles and the US on the imports from Sweden and China. For further information advanced vehicles with different types of advanced features is also see Note 12. positive for the demand of heat exchanger materials. Due to lead times in the supply chain there is, however, a time lag between growth in Profit for the period and earnings per share demand for Gränges’ products and the vehicle production. In Americas, During 2018 profit before taxes increased to SEK 849 million (797) and materials to the HVAC industry is the dominant product category. The includes a positive effect from joint ventures of SEK 22 million (–5) growth in this market is mainly driven by energy efficiency requirewhich is related to revaluation from book value to fair value of Norca. ments and construction of new houses and buildings. Finance income and costs was SEK –113 million (–115) and includes The global production of light vehicles decreased by 1.0 per cent in interest expenses and financing costs of SEK 117 million, foreign 2018 compared with 2017, according to the international research and exchange effects of SEK –2 million and interest income of SEK 6 million. analysis firm, IHS1. The production of light vehicles in Asia decreased Income tax for the year was SEK –161 million (–145) which corresponds by 1.2 per cent in 2018 and in China the decrease isolated was 3.8 per to an effective tax rate of 19 per cent (18). Excluding the positive effect cent. In Europe the production of light vehicles decreased by 1.2 per from release of corporate income tax in China of SEK 55 million (53) and cent in 2018. In Americas production of light vehicles during 2018 was cost for withholding tax on dividend of SEK –26 million (–19), the effecflat compared to 2017. tive tax rate was 22 per cent (22). During 2018, the profit for the period increased to SEK 688 million (652) and diluted earnings per share was Outlook SEK 9.11 (8.64). The global automotive market is expected to slow down in the beginning of 2019. The research firm IHS1 however estimates that the light Cash flow vehicle production will turn to a 1 per cent growth for the full year. During 2018 cash flow from operating activities increased to SEK 1,351 Gränges target is to increase the sales volume at least in line with the million (968) and includes an increase in working capital of SEK 165 company’s end markets. 1) Source: IHS, 14 January, 2019. 52 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT million due to US sanctions against one of Gränges suppliers of aluSustainability minium slabs. Cash flow from investing activities was SEK –819 milSustainability is a natural part of Gränges’ core business and strategy. lion (–396) and includes a positive net effect of SEK 24 million mainly It helps to increase the company’s long-term competitiveness and aims related to the acquisition of the remaining 50 per cent of Norca Heat to create lasting value for Gränges as well as for its customers, employTransfer LLC. Capital expenditure during 2018 amounted to SEK –843 ees, investors and other stakeholders. In 2018, Gränges raised the commillion (–358). Of this, SEK –373 million referred to maintenance pany’s ambitions for sustainability and implemented a new sustainabilinvestments and SEK –470 million related to expansion investments. ity framework with clear long-term targets. During 2018 cash flow before financing activities amounted to SEK Gränges is committed to improving the overall footprint of the alu531 million (572). Cash flow from financing activities was SEK –825 minium value chain. By collaborating across the industry, Gränges million (–650) and includes a dividend payment of SEK –227 million works to ensure that aluminium is mined, produced and used sustain­ as resolved by Gränges’ 2018 Annual General Meeting, new loans of ably. Gränges’ sustainability efforts are focused around topics which SEK 3,078 million and repayment of loans of SEK –3,579 million. internal and external stakeholders have assessed to have the highest Cash and cash equivalents amounted to SEK 457 million at impact. The company strives to minimize the environmental impact of 31 December 2018 (SEK 742 million 31 December 2017). its operations and the prevailing risks, in relation to both products and processes. Important environmental topics are energy and material Financial position efficiency, emissions and climate impact, water management and use Gränges’ total assets amounted to SEK 8,773 million at 31 December of recycled aluminium. Further, the company works to secure ethical 2018 (SEK 8,005 million at 31 December 2017). The equity to assets business practices and run its business in compliance with all applicaratio was 44.2 per cent at 31 December 2018 (41.5 per cent at 31 ble laws and regulations. Gränges does not accept any form of bribery, December 2017). Consolidated net debt including pension liabilities extortion or corruption. In terms of practices related to its employees, was SEK 2,494 million at 31 December 2018 (SEK 2,292 million at the company strives have an open and inclusive workplace with zero 31 December 2017). At 31 December 2018, the Group’s net debt tolerance for discrimination. The company works actively to improve ­corresponds to 1.8 times adjusted EBITDA. employee wellbeing and to operate a safe and injury-free work workplace. Gränges also works to manage social and environmental impacts Seasonal variations from its supply chain. The company works to ensure responsible and Gränges’ end-customer markets consists primarily of the global autosustainable sourcing of metals and other materials as well as to motive industry and the HVAC industry in North America. Gränges’ sales improve the carbon footprint in the supply chain. of rolled aluminium products to the automotive industry is correlated Gränges’ 2018 sustainability report has been prepared in accordance with the production of light vehicles. Demand on the HVAC market is with the Annual Reports Act on sustainability reporting as well as GRI driven by factors such as construction investments, new regulations for Standards: Core option. It also constitutes Gränges’ Communication on energy efficiency and climate impact, and are usually higher during Progress in line with the UN Global Compact guidelines. summer months as there is more demand for cooling systems. Major The sustainability report outlines the company’s impacts, efforts, annual maintenance work in Gränges’ production facilities mainly occurs policies and performance related to sustainability – including how the in the fourth quarter. Overall, seasonal factors mean that the fourth company works with topics related to environment, social conditions, quarter usually is the weakest and the second quarter the strongest. employees, respect for human rights as well as anti-corruption. For more details, please refer to the following sections in this annual Acquisition report document: From 2018 Gränges coordinates the distribution of products from the • Business model: page 11 facilities in Finspång and Shanghai to North America through Gränges • 2018 sustainability report: pages 28–43 and pages 112–125 Americas. The sales was previously done by the joint venture company • Material risks and risk mitigating activities: pages 44–47 Norca Heat Transfer LLC and as part of the distribution change Gränges acquired the remaining 50 per cent of the company from the joint venParent company ture partner. For more information about the acquisition refer to Note 30. Gränges AB is the parent company of the Gränges Group. The operations includes Group Management and Group functions such as Employees finance, treasury, legal and communications. For 2018, net sales in the The average number of employees was 1,699 (1,568) during 2018. The parent company was SEK 203 million (219) and the profit for the period increase in number of employees is mainly related to expansion of the was SEK 560 million (385). The net profit includes dividend from the US production facilities. Chinese subsidiary of SEK 517 million (378). Income tax includes withholding tax of SEK –26 million (–19) relating to the dividend. Research and development Gränges Research & Innovation (R&I) is the company’s world-leading The Gränges share and ownership competence unit with advanced knowledge about metallurgy and The share capital in Gränges amounts to SEK 101 million, divided into understanding of the production process. The strategic research is 75,517,386 shares, each with a quota value of SEK 1.339775. Gränges managed globally, while the customer-driven development is carried only has one class of shares. out locally in close cooperation with the production facilities. There are no pre-emption clauses, refusal clauses or other Gränges has a strong focus on developing new multi-layer products, restrictions on the transfer of shares in the company by law, the which gives more layers for improved brazeability and corrosion company’s articles of association or any agreement or other docuresistance to support further downgauging and light weighting. Develment in which the company is a party. opment of the TRILLIUM® technology is important in this regard. At 31 December 2018 Gränges had no shareholder that owned The total expenses for research and development amounted to SEK more than 10 per cent of Gränges’ capital and votes. 93 million (82) during 2018. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 53 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Operating risks and uncertainty factors Other benefits As a global business with operations in different parts of the world, Benefits that are not directly related to fixed and variable pay, such as Gränges is exposed to various risks and uncertainties such as raw car allowance, should facilitate the execution of duties and be in line with material prices, market risk, operational and legal risk, as well as standard practices in the market for this ­target group. financial risk related to foreign exchange, interest rates, liquidity and funding opportunities. In its risk management, Gränges seeks to idenPension tify, evaluate, and reduce risk related to the Group’s business and Pension benefits are to comply with Swedish laws and relevant collecoperations. In the section risk management on pages 44–47 Gränges’ tive agreements and are, in relation to members of the Swedish Group risks and risk management is further described. For a more compreManagement, limited to the ITP plan (supplementary pension for salahensive description of the financial risks, see Note 27. ried employees in industry and commerce). Gränges thus has both defined contribution and defined benefit commitments based on indiGuidelines for remuneration to Group Management vidual circumstances. The ITP plan exists, mainly, in two versions: The Gränges will offer the remuneration levels and employment terms ITP 1 is applicable on those who are born on 1 January 1979 or later, necessary in order to recruit, develop and retain senior executives. and the ITP 2 is applicable on those who are born on 31 December These individuals must have the expertise, motivation and capacity 1978 or earlier. To equalise differences that may occur between parto be able to uphold, develop and implement comprehensive, valueticipants of ITP 1 and ITP 2, that is between different senior execucreating strategic objectives for the Gränges Group. Senior executives tives, some adjustments are made in relation to the solution dictated refer to the Group’s Chief Executive Officer, the Group’s Deputy Execuby ITP 2, regarding how much of the remuneration (salary+bonus) that tive Officer and other members of Group Management. is pensionable. For the Chief Executive Officer, other than the convenRemuneration to Group Management is to be determined by the tional defined benefit pension according to the ITP, direct pension Board of Directors, but follow the guidelines adopted by the General applies in the form of a company-owned endowment. In relation to Meeting. The basic principle is that remuneration is to be competitive members of a foreign management team corresponding structure and consist of a fixed salary and a variable component such as various applies based on the circumstances in the relevant country. Pension incentive programmes. Applicable laws and other relevant regulaterms are to be in line with market norms. tions, both Swedish and foreign, in the relevant sector should always be complied with. Period of notice of termination The contract between the company and Chief Executive Officer stipuFixed salary lates a mutual twelve-month period of notice. Additionally, in the case The fixed salary is to consist of normal basic pay. The salary is of termination by the company, s ­ everance pay is payable without based on responsibility, performance, skills and the complexity and deduction for an additional twelve months. The contracts between the scope of the duties. company and other senior executives stipulate a mutual six-month period of notice. Additionally, in the case of termination by the comVariable pay pany, severance pay is payable of an additional twelve months, Variable pay is to consist of an annual short-term incentive prowithout deduction for the first six months. gramme (STI 2018) and a long-term incentive programme (LTI 2018). Both STI 2018 and LTI 2018 will provide cash pay outs. There will be no Information on previously agreed remuneration not yet due for payment guaranteed variable remuneration. In addition to the long-term incentive program LTI 2018, two similar long-term incentive programs, LTI 2016 and LTI 2017, from previous Annual short-term incentive programme (STI 2018) years runs parallel. As with LTI 2018, the programmes run for three The outcome of the STI is determined by a number of parameters conyears and are designed so that an amount equivalent to the outcome sisting of financial key ratios for the Group, such as adjusted operatfrom STI for each year and for each participant is set aside in a ing profit and cash conversion, and individual pre-determined targets. so-called LTI bank. Provided participants continue to be employed by Remuneration under STI 2018 may not exceed 60 per cent of the total Gränges, one third of the amount for LTI 2016 is paid per year during basic pay paid to all members of Group Management, except for the 2018, 2019 and 2020, and for LTI 2017 during the years 2019, 2020 and person holding position as President Americas, whom may obtain 100 2021. The payments are adjusted for total return of the Gränges share. per cent of the total basic pay. The total payment of LTI together with STI in one year is limited to 1.5 times an annual salary, except for the President Americas whose payLong-term incentive programme (LTI 2018) out is limited to 2 times an annual salary. The long-term incentive program (LTI 2018) is offered to senior executives and certain key individuals. LTI 2018 runs for three years and is Other structured as follows: An amount equivalent to the payout from STI 2018 Insofar as elected board members conduct work on behalf of the comfor each participant will be reserved in a special so-called LTI bank. Propany, in addition to board assignments, consultancy fees and other vided that the participants remain in the employ of the Gränges Group, compensation for such work shall be paid. The board may deviate the amount allocated to LTI 2018 will be paid by one third per year during from these guidelines in individual cases if there are specific reasons the years 2020, 2021 and 2022, adjusted for total return of Gränges for doing so. However, such reasons shall imply limited scope to devishare. The total payout from STI and paying LTI programmes may not ate from these guidelines. exceed 150 per cent of annual basic pay as of the date of the payout. The Board of Directors is expected to make a decision during March This shall not apply to the person holding the position as President 2019 regarding the guidelines for remuneration of senior executives, Americas, who instead will have 200 per cent as a limit. that the Board will propose to the Annual General Meeting. Events after the end of the year No significant events have occurred after the year end. 54 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 DEAR SHAREHOLDER, Gränges is today a significantly larger company than it was at the time for the IPO in October 2014. Sales have increased from SEK 5 billion to SEK 13 billion in 2018 and the operating profit from SEK 541 million to SEK 1 005 million. Today Gränges has production facilities in three continents, a diversified product portfolio and is the leading actor in the markets in which it operates. A year of growth and expansion During the year, the Board of Directors has continued to evaluate opportunities for continued growth. We closely followed the ongoing expansion of the Huntingdon facility in the US, whose capacity will increase with almost 25 per cent when fully expanded in the fall of 2019. The fact that the US imposed anti-dumping and countervailing duties on imports from China of aluminium foil products in the autumn of 2017 has made this project even more attractive. We also during the year took the decision to re-open the idled production facility in Newport in the US and use this asset to enter into the niche market for light gauge aluminium foil, as well as to invest to improve efficiency and increase capacity in the production facility in Finspång in Sweden. Going forward we will also continue to evaluate potential acquisition opportunities. Intensified research and innovation efforts During the year the Board of Directors has also reviewed and supported Gränges’ inten”Good corporate sified efforts and encouraging development within research and innovation. Gränges governance is essenhas a market leading position in a global market, which has been achieved through key success factors such as good customer understanding, technical leadership, inno­ tial for Gränges to vation, and extensive knowledge of the production of advanced aluminium products. be a trustworthy and Going forward we will continue to support a strengthened Gränges’ organization within this field and in 2019 Gränges will open a new Research and Innovation centre in responsible company. Huntingdon to improve the service for our customers in Americas. It creates good A trustworthy and responsible company conditions for contiGood corporate governance is essential for Gränges to be a trustworthy and responsible nued sustainable and company. It creates good conditions for continued sustainable and profitable growth and thus value for our shareholders. During the year, the Board of Directors took part in profitable growth and the development of a new group-wide sustainability framework including a set of ambithus value for our tious and clear sustainability targets for 2025. From the Board of Directors’ perspective, value creation from sustainability implies strengthening the company’s long-term comshareholders.” petitiveness and business opportunities while at the same time reducing sustainability-­ related risks. In 2018, Gränges reported a higher growth rate than the market, while improving earnings and reducing debt. In view of the company’s strong financial position and taking into account the company’s outlook, the Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting 2019 that the dividend should be increased by 7 per cent to SEK 3.20 per share. This implies that 35 per cent of the profit for the year will be returned to our shareholders. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to express the Board of Directors’ appreciation to CEO Johan Menckel, Group Management, and all the Gränges employees for their strong commitment and excellent performance in 2018. Stockholm, February 2019 Anders G. Carlberg Chairman of the Board of Directors GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Good and sound corporate governance ensures that the company is Gränges complies with the Swedish Corporate Governance Code run as sustainably, responsibly, and efficiently as possible in the and this corporate governance report has been prepared as part of interests of the shareholders. Good corporate governance creates Gränges’ application of the Code. Gränges has not reported any order and system for the Board of Directors and management, and infringements of the Code in 2018. The company’s auditors have made contributes to increased trust and confidence among existing and an examination, according to the regulations in chapter 9 of the Swedish potential owners, customers, legislators, the public and other stakecompanies Act, of this corporate governance report. The Code is availholders. In this way, industry’s freedom to develop is ensured, as is the able on www.bolagsstyrning.se. supply of risk capital and competence. Gränges has during the year followed Nasdaq Stockholm’s regulaGränges’ corporate governance is based on Swedish regulations tory framework for issuers and good practice in the stock market. No and Swedish legislation, primarily the Swedish Companies Act and the violations of applicable stock exchange rules or good practices in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, Nasdaq Stockholm’s regulatory strucstock market have been reported regarding Gränges by the Nasdaq ture for issuers, the Swedish Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”), Stockholm Disciplinary Board or the Stock Market Board in 2018. CEO the Articles of Association, and other relevant internal and external has no external commitments that can be considered as contrary to regulations and policies. the company’s interests. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN GRÄNGES The governance, management, and control of Gränges are distributed between the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, the Board of Directors (the Board) and the CEO under Swedish Company Law, the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance and the Articles of Association. Shareholders Vote at the Annual General Meeting Appoints the Nomination committee1) Information Nomination Annual General Meeting External auditor committee Proposes Board and auditor Appoints auditor The auditor reviews Information the annual accounts and accounting, and the Board and CEO’s Objectives, strategies, policies, management. Reports governing instruments, core values, Board of Directors to the Board and remuneration structure. The Board shareholders. sets up the committees and appoints its members. Remuneration committee Audit committee CEO Internal audit Group Management External steering documents Internal steering documents • Swedish Companies Act • Articles of Association • Swedish Annual Accounts Act • Formal work plan for the Board of Directors and committees, • Nasdaq Stockholm’s regulatory structures for issuers instructions for CEO • EU Market Abuse Regulation, no 596/2014 (MAR) • Code of Conduct • Swedish Corporate Governance Code (“The Code”) • Insider Policy • Other applicable laws • Financial Management Policy • Accounting Manual • Information Policy • Other policies, guidelines, and manuals 1) Appointed in accordance with an instruction for the Nomination committee decided by the Annual General Meeting (AGM). 56 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Organization • To resolve, according to the Nomination Committee’s proposition, that Gränges is a leading global supplier of rolled aluminium products for fees paid to the Board members for the period until the conclusion of heat exchanger applications and other niche markets. The Group has the next AGM will be in accordance with the following. The Chairman of about 1,800 employees and net sales of SEK 13 billion. Gränges has the Board will receive SEK 550,000 and each of the other Board memfive production facilities on three continents with a combined annual bers elected by the AGM will receive SEK 300,000. In addition, remuproduction capacity of 420 ktonnes. The facilities are located in Finspång neration to the Board committees will be unchanged at SEK 80,000 to in Sweden, Shanghai in China, as well as in Huntingdon (Tennessee), the Chairman of the Audit Committee and SEK 40,000 to each of the Salisbury (North Carolina), and Newport (Arkansas) in the US. other members, and SEK 50,000 to the Chairman of the Remuneration Gränges holds 51 per cent of the shares in the production company Committee and SEK 25,000 to each of the other members. Fees to all Getek GmbH, which produces aluminium billets using advanced the employee representatives on the Board will remain unchanged at spray-forming technology. Gränges also owns 50 per cent of a Shanghai-­ SEK 40,000 each for the corresponding period. based company, engaged in metal stamping. • To resolve that remuneration to the auditor shall be paid in accordThe Group’s parent company, Gränges AB, is a Swedish publicly ance with the approved account, listed company with reg.no. 556001-6122. Its registered office is in • To approve the guidelines proposed by the Board of Directors on Stockholm with its head office on Linnégatan 18. Gränges’ shares are remuneration to senior executives, listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s Mid Cap list. • To resolve, according to the Board’s proposal, on a long-term (three years) incentive program, LTI 2018, offered to Group Management and The share and shareholders selected key individuals as a supplement to the annual short-term Gränges’ shares have been traded on Nasdaq Stockholm’s Mid Cap list incentive programme (“STI 2018”). STI 2018 measures EBIT (50 per since 10 October, 2014. The share capital in Gränges amounts to SEK cent), cash conversion (30 per cent) and individual performance (20 101 million, distributed among 75,517,386 shares that give the right to per cent). Remuneration under STI 2018 may not exceed 60 per cent of an equal number of votes and an equal share in the company’s assets annual basic pay, except for the person holding the position President and profits. On 31 December, 2018, the number of shareholders totalled Americas, who may obtain 100 per cent of annual basic pay. A payout 8,368. The Fourth Swedish National Pension Fund (AP4) was the largest equivalent to the amount for STI 2018 is allocated, indexed to the shareholder, followed by AFA Insurance and Swedbank Robur investGränges Group’s total return and paid out proportionately on an ment funds. 71.1 per cent of the shareholders held 500 shares or fewer annual basis over a period of three years, provided that the individual and the 15 largest shareholders held 51.9 per cent of the total number remains a Gränges Group employee. The total payout from STI and of shares. Foreign-­based share ownership amounted to 49.8 per cent. paying LTI programmes in one year is limited to 1.5 times an annual No shareholder has a shareholding of more than 10 per cent of the total salary, except for the person holding position as President Americas, number of shares. There are no limits on how many votes each sharefor whom such total payout is limited to two times an annual salary. holder may cast at a general meeting of shareholders. The Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on 3 May, 2018, authorized The complete minutes of the AGM are available at www.granges.com. the Board of Directors, on one or more occasions before the 2019 AGM, to have the option of deciding to issue new shares and/or conNomination committee vertible instruments. These are equivalent to 10 per cent of the total The Nomination committee represents Gränges’ shareholders. It number of shares outstanding in the company at the time of the reso­proposes to the AGM nominations for Chairman of the Board, Board lution adopted by the AGM, 7,517,539 shares. members, auditor and auditor’s fee, chairman of the AGM, as well as Shareholdings of Board members and Group Management are fees for Board and committee work. shown on pages 62–65. More information about the Gränges share Gränges’ Nomination committee for the 2019 AGM consists of and shareholders, including a table showing share ownership on 31 representatives of the company’s three largest shareholders as of 31 December, 2018, can be found on pages 48–50. August, 2018, and the Chairman of the Board. The member representing the largest shareholder shall be Chairman of the Nomination comAnnual General Meeting mittee, unless the Nomination committee agrees otherwise. The AGM, which is the company’s highest decision-making body, As of 31 August 2018, Gränges’ three largest shareholders were The allows all shareholders to exercise the influence that their respective Fourth Swedish National Pension Fund, AFA Insurance, and Swedbank shareholdings represent. Robur investment funds, which have been invited to nominate candidates for the Nomination committee. On 13 September 2018, it was announced Annual General Meeting 2018 on the company’s website and in a press release that the Nomination The AGM was held on 3 May 2018. At the meeting, 40.8 per cent of committee ahead of the 2019 AGM had the following composition: Jannis shares in the company were represented. Kitsakis (AP4), Anders Algotsson (AFA Insurance), Lennart Francke At the AGM, Anders G. Carlberg, Carina Andersson, Peter Carlsson, (Swedbank Robur investment funds), and Anders G. Carlberg (Gränges’ Katarina Lindström, Hans Porat and Ragnhild Wiborg were re-elected Chairman of the Board). The Chairman of the Nomination committee is as Board members. Mats Backman was elected as new Board memJannis Kitsakis. ber. Anders G. Carlberg was re-elected as Chairman of the Board. Ernst & Young AB was again appointed as the company’s auditors Nomination committee for the 2019 AGM and authorized public accountant Erik Sandström was appointed by Percentage of shares/ Ernst & Young AB as auditor in charge. votes on 31 DecemOther resolutions taken during the AGM included: Appointed by/Name ber, 2018 • To adopt the income statement and balance sheet as well as the AP4/Jannis Kitsakis* 9.5 consolidated income statement and consolidated balance sheet for AFA Insurance/Anders Algotsson* 7.5 the 2017 financial year, Swedbank Robur investment funds/Lennart Francke* 5.7 • To pay a dividend of SEK 3.00 per share; SEK 226,552,158 in total, Chairman of the Board of Gränges AB/Anders G. Carlberg 0.0 • To authorize the Board, on one or more occasions before the 2019 AGM, to have the option of deciding to issue new shares and/or con*Independent in relation to the company and its management. vertible instruments. These are equivalent to 10 per cent of the total number of shares outstanding in the company at the time of the Shareholders have been able to submit proposals and comments to the resolution adopted by the AGM, 7,517,539 shares in total, Nomination committee until 1 February 2019. The Nomination commit• To resolve that the Board, according to the Nomination Committee’s tee’s proposals are published through the notice convening the AGM. proposal, should consist of seven elected members without depuIn connection with the notice, the Nomination committee has pubties for the period up to the close of the 2019 AGM, GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board’s work in 2018 January/February • Year-end report December • Annual report • Budget for next year •R eport from auditors and Nomination committee JAN DEC October F V March • Interim report Q3 NO EB •N otice of the Annual General Meeting (AGM), including OCT MAR ­matters of the AGM September April • Strategy SEP APR • Interim report Q1 G M AU AY JUL JUN May • Annual General Meeting July • In-depth review of market and • Half-year report competitive situation lished a motivated statement on the company’s website that supports tion of the Board has been part of the basis for this assessment. The its proposals to the Board and a report on how the Nomination comNomination committee is continuously working to identify and evalumittee’s work has been conducted. ate potential new Board members. Work of the Nomination committee before the 2019 AGM The Board of Directors Since the Nomination committee was formed in autumn 2018, it has had The Board’s main responsibility is to manage Gränges’ business in the three meetings. No fee has been paid for the work in the committee. best interests of the company and shareholders. The Board continually At the second meeting of the Nomination committee on 4 December assesses Gränges’ financial position and ensures that the company’s 2018, the Chairman of the Board presented an evaluation of the Board’s financial position can be satisfactorily verified. The Board decides on work that was conducted in September 2018. The result of the evaluaissues related to the Group’s strategic direction and organization, and tion was predominantly very positive. At the Board meeting of 7 Decemdecides on key acquisitions, investments, and disposals. The Board also ber 2018, the Board of Directors was also informed of the result. evaluates Group Management. Before every AGM, and based on proposIn the work before the 2019 AGM, the Nomination committee has als made by the Remuneration committee, the Board prepares proposals assessed whether the composition of the current Board is sufficiently for guidelines for remuneration to the CEO and Group Management. broad, competent, diverse and gender equal, and whether it meets the Adopting a systematic and structured process, the Board annually demands on the Board given the company’s current and future situation. evaluates the work of the Board to develop its procedures and effiGränges, through the Nomination committee, applies Rule 4.1 of the ciency. In 2018 this was conducted under the leadership of the ChairSwedish Code of Corporate Governance as Diversity Policy in the man of the Board who asked all Board members and Board deputy preparation of proposals for election of Board members. The rule members to grade given aspects of its work, and gave them the opporimplies that the Board should have a, with regard to the company’s tunity to submit proposals for improvements. The results of the evalubusiness, development phase and general circumstances, appropriation, which are presented in the Nomination committee section, were ate composition, characterized by versatility and breadth regarding strongly positive throughout. the competence, experience and background of the members of the The constituent Board meeting following the 2018 AGM established Board. An even gender distribution should be pursued. the formal work plan for the Board including work plans for the RemuThe Nomination committee has made the assessment that the neration and Audit committees, as well as instructions for the CEO Board has a good breadth, is versatile in terms of background and and Insider Policy. The work plan governs the work and responsibilicompetencies, and has a good gender distribution. The annual evaluaties of the Board, the frequency of Board meetings, as well as the diviBoard of Directors composition, attendance and remuneration 2018 Independent Attendance Attendance in relation to Attendance Audit RemuneraBoard of Audit Remunerathe company Board committee tion commitDirectors committee tion commitTotal fees, Name Elected year /owners meetings meetings tee meetings fees, SEK fees, SEK tee fees, SEK SEK Anders G. Carlberg 2014 Yes 11/11 2/2 3/3 541,667 13,333 50,000 605,000 Ragnhild Wiborg 2014 Yes 11/11 5/5 n/a 296,667 80,000 – 376,667 Hans Porat 2016 Yes 11/11 n/a 3/3 296,667 – 25,000 321,667 Carina Andersson 2014 Yes 11/11 n/a 3/3 296,667 – 25,000 321,667 Peter Carlsson 2016 Yes 9/11 n/a 3/3 296,667 – 25,000 321,667 Katarina Lindström 2016 Yes 10/11 5/5 n/a 296,667 40,000 – 336,667 Mats Backman (from 3 May, 2018) 2018 Yes 5/5 3/5 n/a 200,000 26,667 – 226,667 Öystein Larsen 2010 No 10/11 n/a 3/3 – – – 40,000 Konny Svensson 2013 No 10/11 4/5 n/a – – – 40,000 Elin Lindfors 2016 No 11/11 n/a n/a – – – 40,000 Christer Lewin (from 1 May, 2018) 2018 No 6/6 n/a – – – 27,000 Total fees 2,657,002 58 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT sion of duties between the board members, between the Board combe presented in the decision-making basis for the 2019 AGM. In 2018, in mittees, and between the Board and the CEO. Before each Board addition to the annual evaluation of the incentive programs (STI and LTI), meeting, the members receive an agenda and data on which to base the committee has made a more comprehensive review of senior execudecisions. Each Board meeting includes a review of current business tives’ terms of employment and benefits in order to harmonize them as conditions, the Group’s earnings and financial position and outlook. far as possible. Other issues that are considered include competitive and general More information about members of the Remuneration committee market conditions. The Board regularly reviews the overall risk situacan be found in the table on page 58. A statement of remuneration to tion from a variety of aspects, and the Group’s work on health and Group Management can be found in Note 8. safety, including accident statistics. The Board also has a system for continual follow-up of decisions and open questions. Audit committee The Audit committee should comprise at least three Board members Composition of the Board of Directors elected at a general meeting of shareholders, and the majority of them Under the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors must comprise should be independent of the company and Group Management. The at least four and no more than eight members elected by a general committee elects a chairman from among its members, who may not meeting of shareholders, with no more than four deputy members. The be the Chairman of the Board. The Audit committee meets before each Board constitutes a quorum when more than half of all Board members reporting date, and in addition if necessary. (including members appointed by employees) are present. The Board The Audit committee’s duty is to support the Board in fulfilling its should consist of a well-balanced mix of the competencies required to responsibilities in internal control and accounting, and to ensure the manage Gränges’ work responsibly and successfully. The assessment quality of Gränges’ financial reporting. The aim is to improve the qualis that Gränges’ Board has, with regard to the company’s operations, ity of the company audit, the relationship between the Board and the phase of development, and general circumstances, an appropriate company’s auditor, as well as the supervision and control of the comcomposition characterized by versatility and breadth in terms of mempany’s financial risk exposure and risk management. bers’ competence, experience, and background. Gränges’ Board has a The Audit committee analyses and highlights key accounting issues good gender distribution, since three of its seven members are women. affecting the Group, and monitors the financial reporting process to In accordance with the law on Board representation of privateensure quality. The committee also takes note of the company’s sector employees, staff is entitled to appoint two Board members and impairment test and its assumptions, assists the Nomination comtwo deputy Board members. The employee organizations have exermittee to prepare proposals for auditors and their fees, and assesses cised this right also in 2018. More information about Board members the independence of the external auditor. can be found on pages 62–63 and www.granges.com The company’s risk management process is based on production processes and flows. The Audit committee considers the identified Chairman of the Board risk areas. Based on the outcome of that, the committee determines The Chairman organizes and leads the Board’s work, represents the the focus and scope of the internal auditing and establishes an intercompany in ownership matters, evaluates the Board’s work, has daynal audit plan. to-day contact with the CEO, and ensures that the Board fulfils its Gränges’ internal audit is reported to the Board and must ensure duties and obligations effectively. that the company has sufficient internal control systems for financial reporting. The General Counsel is responsible for internal audit. It is The Board’s work in 2018 performed on a rolling schedule and is conducted by the company’s Eleven minuted Board meetings were held in 2018, of which five were group accounting function with support from the subsidiaries’ telephone meetings and six were physical meetings. The meeting in accounting functions, except for the business that is the subject of February was held at Gränges’ subsidiary in Jiading (Shanghai) and the audit. The purpose of applying so called cross-functional audit the meeting in September was held at Gränges’ plant in Finspång. between the units is to exchange experiences and achieve best pracThe rest of the meetings were held at the headquarter in Stockholm. tice within the Group. In autumn 2018, an internal audit of Gränges’ The Board formed a quorum at all meetings. At the February and operations in China was conducted. In addition, at the Audit CommitSeptember meetings, the Board held sessions in the absence of Group tee’s request, the audit and consulting company PwC made an addiManagement. The CEO participated in all meetings and the deputy CEO, tional internal audit of the operations in China. also the CFO, participated in all meetings except for one. The Secretary In conjunction with the quarterly reviews of the company’s financial of the Board is Gränges’ General Counsel who is not a Board member. performance and position, the Audit committee takes part of manageAmong the issues discussed by the Board and decided upon in 2018, ment’s assessment of the areas where estimates are important to the are the establishment of a medium term note (MTN) programme as part Group. An area that has been reviewed extra during the year as a result of the Group’s long-term financing, the restart of production of lightof the adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments from January 1, 2018, is gauge aluminium foil at the Newport plant, the decision to invest in a new model for calculating credit losses. Another area that is reviewed expansion and upgrading of the facility in Finspång, development of and in connection with each quarterly report is whether the Chinese busidecision on a new framework and strategy for the Group’s sustainability ness is expected to achieve qualification as a high-tech company and work, extensive revision and updating of the Group’s Code of Conduct, the thus a tax rate of 15 per cent instead of the ordinary tax rate of 25 per establishment of a new global whistleblower function, and implementacent. For further information, see Note 15 Taxes. tion of the new data protection regulation GDPR. The Audit committee annually sets a number of focus areas within Financial and Internal Control, Business Control, Treasury, IT and StrateRemuneration committee gic Projects. Examples of focus areas in 2018 include implementation of a According to the Board’s formal work plan, the Remuneration commitnew consolidation system, ensuring implementation of new IFRS standtee shall comprise the Chairman of the Board, and one or more Board ards, and further improvements in metal handling in the US and China. members, who should be independent in relation to the company and The Audit committee has had five meetings in 2018. Auditor Erik Group Management. During the year, the committee consisted of four Sandström attended all meetings and reported on controls and audit members and held three meetings. planning throughout the year. More information about members of the The Remuneration committee submits proposals to the Board on Audit committee can be found in the table on page 58. the CEO’s salary and other terms of employment, and sets out limits for other Group Management’s salaries and terms of employment. The Auditor committee also adopts guidelines for remuneration principles and The auditor, elected at the AGM, is responsible for reviewing the evaluates their application. annual accounts and accounting, and examining the Board’s and In the end of 2018 and early 2019, the Board, through the RemuneraCEO’s administration of the company. According to the Articles of tion committee, conducted a review of the guidelines for remuneration to Association, Gränges should have at least one and at most two senior executives. The Board’s proposition regarding new guidelines will ­auditors. Registered auditing firms may be appointed as auditors. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Ernst & Young AB was appointed auditor at the AGM, and has informed Sustainability governance the company that authorized auditor Erik Sandström will be auditor in Gränges sustainability efforts are led by Group Management and the charge until the 2019 AGM. VP Sustainability, who coordinates, facilitates and drives the global The external audit of the parent company and group accounts, and of sustainability strategy, long-term targets and sustainability related the administration of the Board and CEO, is conducted according to Interpolicies. The VP Sustainability also communicates on sustainability national Standards on Auditing (ISA), and with generally accepted auditperformance and progress to different stakeholders and co­ordinates ing standards in Sweden. The auditor in charge participates in all Audit a continuous stakeholder dialogue. committee meetings. For information on auditor fees, see Note 10. Gränges’ CEO regularly presents global sustainability performance to the Board of Directors, who in turn reviews and monitors perforCEO and Group Management mance against the company’s targets. The Board of Directors is the Group Management is responsible for developing and implementing body which approves the company’s global sustainability strategy, the Group’s overall strategies regarding for example product and cuslong-term targets and policies, and adopts the annual sustainability tomer strategies, and acquisitions and disposals. The matters are report. prepared by Group Management to be decided upon by the Board. Group Management ensures that Gränges’ global sustainability The CEO is appointed by the Board and is responsible for the daystrategy, long-term targets and policies are aligned with the company’s to-day management of the company in accordance with the Board’s vision and strategy. The team also reviews and monitors sustainability instructions and guidelines. performance against sustainability targets, as well as makes On 1 January, 2019, Group Management comprised eight people: ­decisions related to global sustainability priorities. the CEO, CFO, President Asia, President Europe, President Americas, Each sustainability pillar is governed by one member of Group SVP Technology & Business Development, General Counsel, and SVP ­Management. This individual proposes global sustainability priorities Communications & Investor Relations. The SVP Human Resources, and coordinates with Gränges’ regional teams to implement local SVP Process Engineering & Operational Development and SVP ­sustainability activities within a specific sustainability pillar. Research & Innovation are part of the extended Group Management. The regions in turn ensure that a local sustainability strategy, longGroup Management holds monthly meetings to review the results and term targets and policies are in place and aligned with the global financial position of the Group and subsidiaries. Other questions dealt strategy and the needs of the local business. They also report on local with at these meetings include strategy issues and follow-up of budgets sustainability performance and progress. and forecasts. Subsidiaries are also monitored more closely due to the Gränges has published a sustainability report each year since 2015, CEO being chairman of the three subsidiaries. Other members of Group and intends to continue to publish a report annually. The sustainabilManagement and employee representatives also serve on these boards. ity information in this report has been prepared in accordance with The subsidiaries’ boards monitor day-to-day operations and approve GRI Standards: Core option and constitutes Gränges’ Communication each subsidiary’s strategy and budget. More information about Group on Progress in line with UN Global Compact guidelines. The report and Management can be found on pages 64–65. its contents have not been externally assured. GRI’s guidance on the reporting principles of materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, susRemuneration to Group Management tainability context, and completeness, has been used to define the In the end of 2018 and early 2019, the Board, through the Remuneration content of the report. committee, conducted a review of the guidelines for remunerating senior The statutory sustainability report in accordance with the Swedish executives. The Board’s proposition regarding new guidelines will be preAnnual Accounts Act has been issued by Gränges’ Board of Directors. sented in the decision-making basis for the 2019 AGM. In addition to the See details on page 53. annual evaluation of the incentive programs (STI and LTI), the Board, The report relates to the financial year 2018 and covers all fully owned through the Remuneration committee, has in 2018 made a more compreoperations of the Group at the start of 2018. For more information, refer hensive survey of senior executives’ total terms of employment and bento page 112. Gränges’ last sustainability report was published on 13 efits in order to harmonize them. For more information about remunerMarch 2018. ation to senior executives, see Note 8. GROUP MANAGEMENT CEO Johan Menckel SVP Technology SVP President Europe President Deputy President Asia & Business Communications General Counsel Jörgen Americas CEO & CFO Colin Xu Development & IR Niclas Nelson Abrahamsson Patrick Lawlor Oskar Hellström Torbjörn Sternsjö Pernilla Grennfelt SVP Process SVP Research Engineering SVP Human & Innovation & Operational Resources Kent Schölin Development Magnus Carlström Paul Neutjens Extended Group Management 60 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Internal control and risk management regarding financial reporting Control activities Under the Swedish Companies Act and the Code, the Board of Directors The main purpose of control activities is to prevent and discover mateis responsible for ensuring that the company has good internal control rial errors in financial reporting at an early stage, thereby being able to and routines that ensure compliance with established principles for manage and resolve them. Control activities are conducted at a general financial reporting and internal control. The Board must also ensure level and at more detailed levels throughout the Group, and are both that financial reporting complies with the Companies Act, applicable manual and automated in nature. Routines and activities have been accounting standards, and other requirements for listed companies. designed to manage and resolve material risks related to financial reporting, and that are identified in risk assessments. Depending on the Framework character and type of control activity, corrective action, implementaGränges’ work with internal control complies with the established intertion, documentation, and quality assurance, occur at a group or subsidnational framework, Internal Control Integrated Framework, published iary level. As is the case for other processes, each manager is responsiby the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Comble for the completeness and accuracy of the control activities. mission (COSO). According to the COSO model, review and assessment The Group has a common consolidation system, where the legal are carried out in the areas of control environment, risk assessment, entities report, which provides good internal control of financial control activities, information and communication, and monitoring. reporting. Most controls and processes are automated and authorizaGränges’ internal control process is designed to ensure with reasontion to access IT systems is limited. Control activities are performed at able certainty the quality and accuracy of financial reporting, and all levels of the Group. One such example is the established controller ensure that reporting is prepared in accordance with applicable laws function that analyses and monitors deviations and reports its findand regulations, accounting standards, and other requirements for ings to other parts of the Group. listed companies in Sweden. This requires a healthy control environMonitoring by Group Management occurs, for example, through ment, reliable risk assessment, established control activities; and that regular meetings with subsidiary managing directors to discuss operinformation, communication, and monitoring works satisfactorily. ations, financial position, and results, as well as key financial and operative key figures. The Board continually analyses reports on operControl environment ations in which Group Management describes the previous period, The control environment is defined by the Group’s organizational strucand comments on the Group’s financial position and results. Signifiture, Group Management’s working methods and values, and other cant fluctuations and deviations are therefore monitored, which limits roles and responsibilities within the organization. The Audit committee the risks of errors in the financial reporting. assists the Board with essential accounting issues, and monitors the The closing of the books and work on the annual accounts are prointernal control of the financial reporting. To maintain an effective concesses where there is further risk that errors arise in financial reporttrol environment and robust internal controls, the Board has delegated ing. Naturally, this work is less repetitive and often includes several the day-to-day responsibility to the CEO, who in turn has allocated instances where estimates are made. Important control activities responsibilities to other Group Management members. include ensuring that there is a well-functioning reporting structure in Quality in the financial reporting is ensured through different measwhich subsidiaries report using standardized models, and that imporures and routines. The company has policies and manuals for financial tant income and balance sheet items are specified and commented on. reporting, including the Financial Management Policy, Metal Management Policy, Group Accounting Manual and Instruction for Financial Information and communication Reporting. In addition to the above, there are important group-wide Effective and accurate internal and external information is important to steering documents such as the Code of Conduct, Insider Policy and ensure full and accurate financial reporting on time. Gränges’ financial Information Policy. There is continuous work to develop policies and reporting follows group guidelines and policies, and is updated and manuals. communicated regularly by Group Management to all relevant staff. In 2018, Gränges implemented an updated whistleblower function The accounting function has operational responsibility for day-toto detect irregularities that may seriously harm the business or day financial reporting, and works to ensure that the Group’s guideemployees. The function is managed by an external company and can lines, policies, and instructions are applied uniformly across the be accessed online (intranet or external website) or by telephone. Group. The accounting function also identifies and communicates Through the function, employees and external business partners can deficiencies in financial reporting. provide information and be guaranteed full anonymity without fear of Policies, guidelines, and manuals are regularly updated and are retaliation. By quickly uncovering and remediating irregularities, available on the company’s intranet. Gränges is in a better position to manage the underlying causes All communication from Gränges must be timely, reliable, accurate, before they become unmanageable. and up to date. External communication should be in accordance with the Group’s Information Policy, Nasdaq’s regulatory framework for Risk assessment issuers, and other applicable regulations. The financial information To handle the internal and external risks that Gränges’ organization is should provide the capital and equity markets with a comprehensive exposed to, regular risk assessments are carried out. Risks that may and clear picture of the company, its financial position, development, affect financial reporting are identified, measured, and managed. This and strategy. All financial reports and press releases are published is an integral part of day-to-day reporting to Group Management and simultaneously to Nasdaq Stockholm and Finansinspektionen, and Board, and forms the basis for assessing risks of errors in financial published on the company’s external website. reporting. Gränges’ operations are characterized by processes with estabMonitoring lished routines and systems. Risk assessment therefore largely The Board’s monitoring of the internal control of financial reporting occurs within the framework of these processes. At group level, only takes place primarily through the Audit committee, including the mongeneral risk assessments are conducted. Managers identify, monitor, itoring of the internal audit, and through contact with the external and evaluate these risks. This creates the basis for taking wellauditors. External auditors annually monitor selected areas of internal rounded and correct business decisions at all levels. As a rule, financontrol within the framework of the group audit, and report the outcial risks such as currency, commodity, refinancing, and counterparty come of their audit to the Audit committee and Group Management. risk, as well as interest rate and credit risk, are mainly handled by the Material observations are also reported directly to the Board. Regardparent company’s accounting and finance functions according to the ing the 2018 audit, the auditors have monitored the internal control in Financial Management Policy, the Metal Management Policy, the selected key processes, and have reported their findings to the Audit Group Accounting Manual and the Instruction for Financial Reporting. committee and Group Management. For a description of the Group’s risks and risk management, see pages 44–47. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 61 BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 1. ANDERS G. CARLBERG of Ramnäs Bruk and Scana RamOther assignments: CEO of 6. HANS PORAT Born: 1943 näs; Board member of Mälardalens Northvolt. Board member in Born: 1955 Education: M.Sc. Business Högskola, Sandvik Riser Metso and Orbital. Education: M.Sc. Engineering, ­Administration. Technology, and Sintercast; Previous positions: Vice President ­Material Science. Position: Chairman of the Board. Chairman of Sandvik Powdermet Supply Chain and Chief ProcurePosition: Board member. Elected to Elected to the Board in 2014. and Sandvik Osprey. ment Officer at Tesla Motors; the Board in 2016. Member of the ­Chairman of the Remuneration Own and related parties’ Senior Vice President and Chief Remuneration ­committee. committee. Member of the Audit shareholding: 2,402 shares. Procurement Officer at NXP Other assignments: Board committee until 30 April 2018. ­Semiconductors; Head of member of Ecolean. Other assignments: Chairman of Sourcing at Sony Ericsson. Previous positions: President and CEO 3. MATS BACKMAN Herenco. Board member of Own and related parties’ of Nolato, various executive positions Born: 1968 Investment AB Latour, AxFast, ­shareholding: 0 shares. at ABB, Deputy CEO at Trelleborg, Education: B.Sc. Business Recipharm, and Beijer Alma. Administration. ­President of Gadelius Japan. Previous positions: Board m ­ ember Position: Board member. Elected 5. KATARINA LINDSTRÖM Own and related parties’ of Sapa 2002–2013, CEO of J.S. to the Board in 2018. Member of the Born: 1965 ­shareholding: 0 shares. Saba, CEO of Nobel Industrier, Audit committee. Education: M. Sc. Material CEO of Axel Johnson International, Other assignments: CFO and ­Science. 7. RAGNHILD WIBORG Deputy CEO of SSAB and other ­E xecutive Vice President of Position: Board member. Elected Born: 1961 management positions. ­Financial Affairs at Veoneer, Inc. to the Board in 2016. Member of Education: M.Sc. Business Own and related parties’ Previous positions: CFO at Autoliv, the Audit ­committee. ­Administration. shareholding: 35,294 shares. Inc. Various m ­ anagement positions Other assignments: President Position: Board member. Elected to at Sandvik, including as CFO. Global Operations at Munters. the Board in 2014. Chairman of the 2. CARINA ANDERSSON ­Various management positions at Elected member of the Swedish Audit committee. Born: 1964 Outokumpu, Nordea, and Boliden. Royal Engineering Academy. Board Other assignments: Chair of EAMSoEducation: M.Sc. Engineering, Own and related parties’ member of Skövde Högskola. lar. Board m ­ ember and Chair of Audit Material Science. shareholding: 0 shares. Previous positions: Senior Vice committee in INSR, Intrum and REC­ Position: Board member. Elected President International ManufacSilicon. Board member of Sbanken. to the Board in 2014. Member of the turing and Senior Vice President, Previous positions: Fund manage4. PETER CARLSSON Remuneration ­committee. Operations and Supply Chain ment operations at Odin Fonder and Born: 1970 Other assignments: Board member Management at Volvo Group Trucks at Wiborg Kapitalförvaltning. Worked Education: M.Sc. Business of Systemair, Beijer Alma, and Operation. Various management at several investment banks, inclu­Administration. BE Group. positions at Volvo since 1988. ding Pareto, ABG Sundal Collier, Position: Board member. Elected Previous positions: General Own and related parties’ First Chicago and SEB. to the Board in 2016. Member of the Manager Powder Technology, shareholding: 2,000 shares. Own and related parties’ Remuneration ­committee. Sandvik Materials Technology; CEO shareholding: 1,176 shares. 62 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 BOARD OF DIRECTORS EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVES ÖYSTEIN LARSEN KONNY SVENSSON ELIN LINDFORS CHRISTER LEWIN Employee representative Employee representative Deputy employee representative Deputy employee representative Born: 1957 Born: 1954 Born: 1988. Born: 1962 IT architect , employed at Gränges Employed at Gränges since 2008. Technical manager re-melting, Maintenance electrician, since 1979. Employee representative of the employed at Gränges since 2013. employed at Gränges since 1982. Employee representative of the Board since 2013. Chairman of blue Employee representative of the Employee representative of the Board since 2010. Representing collar union IF Metall. Representing Board since 2016. Representing Board since 2018. Representing ­Unionen. IF Metall. Employee representative the Swedish Association of IF Metall. Own and related parties’ of Gränges Sweden AB. ­Graduate Engineers and the Own and related parties’ shareholding: 470 shares. Own and related parties’ Union for Professionals. shareholding: 0 shares. shareholding: 235 shares. Own and related parties’ shareholding: 420 shares. AUDITOR ERIK SANDSTRÖM Auditor in charge Ernst & Young AB Born: 1975 Authorized public accountant and member of FAR. Other assignments: Autoliv, ­Munters, Mycronic, Tradedoubler, Praktikertjänst, and Transcom. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 63 GROUP MANAGEMENT GROUP MANAGEMENT Back row: Oskar Hellström, Torbjörn Sternsjö, Magnus Carlström, Niclas Nelson, Jörgen Abrahamsson, Paul Neutjens, Kent Schölin and Patrick Lawlor. Front row: Colin Xu, Johan Menckel and Pernilla Grennfelt. 64 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GROUP MANAGEMENT JOHAN MENCKEL MAGNUS CARLSTRÖM NICLAS NELSON TORBJÖRN STERNSJÖ CEO SVP Human Resources General Counsel SVP Technology & Business Born: 1971 Born: 1966 Born: 1964 Development Education: M.Sc. Engineering. Education: LL.M., Executive MBA, Education: LL.M. Born: 1962 Position: CEO since 2013. Member studies in behavioral sciences. Position: General Counsel since Education: M.Sc. Engineering. of Group Management since 2013. Position: SVP Human Resources 2014. Member of Group Position: SVP Technology & BusiPrevious positions: CEO at Sapa since 2017. Member of extended Management since 2014. ness ­Development since 2017. Heat Transfer, 2012–2013. Group Management since 2017. Previous positions: Associate Member of Group Management Business Area President at Sapa Previous positions: Director HR & General Counsel at Autoliv, 2002– since 2017. Profiles Asia, 2011–2012. MD at Communications at Gränges AB and 2014. Legal Counsel at ABB, 1998– Previous positions: Director BusiSapa Heat Transfer Shanghai, Gränges Europe, 2012–2016. VP HR 2002. Attorney at Hökerberg & ness Development at Gränges, 2007–2010. Management posiat Strabag Scandinavia, 2009–2012. Söderqvist Advokatbyrå, 1993– 2015–2017. President at the joint tions at Sapa Heat Transfer, 2004– Head of Strategic Leadership & 1998. Associate at Vinge, 1992– venture Sapa Chalco A ­ luminium 2006. Consultant at Accenture, Training at Peab Group, 2006–2009. 1993. Law Clerk at City Court of Products Chongqing, 2011–2015. 1996–2004. Head of HR at Peab Sverige, 2000– Malmö, 1990–1992. President at Sapa P­ rofiles in Asia, Other assignments: Member of 2006. Other assignments: Chairman of 2007–2010. Managing Director at the Board of Directors at Svenska Own and related parties’ the Board of Directors at SWERMA Gränges Shanghai, 1999–2007. Postkodföreningen AB and shareholding: 0 shares. (Swedish Risk Management Various senior p ­ ositions at ­Nederman Holding. Member of the ­Association). Gränges and Sapa since 1994. Steering Committee of the World PERNILLA GRENNFELT Own and related parties’ Own and related parties’ Materials Forum. SVP Communications & Investor shareholding: 5,000 shares. shareholding: 15,605 shares. Own and related parties’ Relations shareholding: 38,000 shares. Born: 1970 PAUL NEUTJENS COLIN XU Education: B.Sc. Economics. SVP Process Engineering & President Asia OSKAR HELLSTRÖM Position: SVP Communications & ­Operational Development Born: 1976 CFO & Deputy CEO Investor Relations since 2014. Born: 1959 Education: M.Sc. Economics and Born: 1979 Member of Group Management Education: M.Sc. Engineering, Business Administration, MBA. Education: M.Sc. Engineering and since 2014. Metallurgy and Applied Material Position: President Asia since B.Sc. Economics. Previous positions: IR Manager at Science. 2013. Member of Group Position: CFO since 2013 and ICA Gruppen, 2013–2014. Head of Position: SVP Process Engineering Management since 2013. Deputy CEO since 2017. Member of Investor Relations at Hakon Invest, & Operational Development since Previous positions: MD at Sapa Group Management since 2013. 2005–2013. ­Journalist and Editor at 2017. Member of extended Group Heat Transfer Shanghai, 2011– Previous positions: CFO at Sapa News Agency Direkt, 1999–2005. Management since 2017. 2013. At Sapa Heat Transfer Heat Transfer, 2011–2013. Director Advisor at Matteus Fondkommission, Previous positions: CTO at Gränges Shanghai, 2001– 2010, with seveGroup Development & Control at 1996–1999. and member of Group Management, ral leading management positions Sapa Group, 2009– 2011. Strategy Own and related parties’ 2013–2017. Strategic Project Direcsince 2003. Manager at Sapa Group, 2008– shareholding: 4,905 shares. tor at Sapa Heat Transfer, 2011–2013. Own and related parties’ 2009. Consultant at Booz Allen Director of Lean Production at Sapa shareholding: 0 shares. Hamilton, 2005–2008. PATRICK LAWLOR Profiles Europe, 2007–2010. Several Own and related parties’ President Americas management positions at Alcoa, shareholding: 15,000 shares. Born: 1964 1994–2007. Several management Education: B.Sc. Economics. positions at Hoogovens Aluminium, JÖRGEN ABRAHAMSSON Position: President Americas 1986–1994. President Europe since 2016. Member of Group Own and related parties’ Born: 1967 Management since 2016. shareholding: 4,000 shares. Education: Upper secondary Previous positions: President school. ­Americas at Sapa Extrusions, 2010– KENT SCHÖLIN Position: President Europe since 2015. CFO at Sapa Extrusion North SVP Research & Innovation 2017. Member of Group America, 2009–2010. CFO at Born: 1964 Management since 2017. Indalex, Inc., 2007–2009. Several Education: M.Sc. in Engineering, Previous positions: Production management positions at Norsk Material Science. Manager at Sapa Heat Transfer. Hydro, 1997–2007. Position: SVP Research & Innovation CEO at Rosengrens Produktions Other assignments: Member of the since 2017. Member of extended AB, Sapa Profilbearbetning AB, Board of Directors at Can Art ExtruGroup Management since 2017. Sapa Profilbockning AB and Sapa sions LLP. Vice President at Global Previous positions: President Komponenter AB. Head of Sapa Aluminium Foil Roller Initiative Europe at Gränges and member of Profiler Finspång. Production (GLAFRI). Group Management, 2013–2017. Director at Gränges Sweden AB. Own and related parties’ MD at Sapa Heat Transfer Finspång, Own and related parties’ shareholding: 0 shares. 2012–2013. MD at Gunnebo shareholding: 0 shares. ­Gateway, 2005–2012. Several management positions at Sapa Heat Transfer, 1994–2004. Research engineer at Gränges Technology 1989–1994. Own and related parties’ shareholding: 4,705 shares. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENT GROUP NOTES GROUP NOTES PARENT COMPANY Consolidated income statement 67 Note 1 General information 72 Note 1 Accounting principles 100 Consolidated statement of 68 Note 2 Basis of preparation of 72 Note 2 Financial risk management 100 comprehensive income consolidated financial Note 3 Breakdown of net sales by 100 Consolidated balance sheet 69 ­statements area of operation Consolidated statement of changes 70 Note 3 New accounting standards 73 Note 4 Items affecting 100 in equity Note 4 Accounting standards 73 comparability Consolidated cash flow statement 71 Note 5 Significant accounting 76 Note 5 Operating lease payments 100 Notes to the consolidated financial 72 assessments and assumpNote 6 Remuneration to auditors 101 statements tions Note 7 Payroll expenses 101 Alternative performance measures 94 Note 6 Geographic breakdown of net 77 sales, non-current assets and Note 8 Financial income and costs 101 average number of employees Note 9 Taxes 101 PARENT COMPANY Note 7 Revenue from contracts with 77 Note 10 Intangible assets 102 Parent company income statement 96 customers Note 11 Property, plant and 102 Parent company balance sheet 97 Note 8 Payroll expenses 78 ­equipment Parent company statements of 98 Note 9 Pensions 80 Note 12 Participations in Group 102 changes in equity Note 10 Remuneration to auditors 82 companies Parent company cash flow statement 99 Note 11 Other operating expenses 82 Note 13 Share capital 103 Notes to the parent company financial 100 Note 12 Items affecting 82 Note 14 Provision for pension and 103 statements comparability similar obligations Note 13 Joint arrangements 82 Note 15 Interest-bearing liabilities 103 Note 14 Financial income and costs 82 Note 16 Accrued expenses and 103 Definitions 105 Note 15 Taxes 83 deferred income Five-year summary 106 Note 16 Earnings per share 84 Note 17 Pledged assets 104 Proposed appropriation of retained 108 Note 17 Intangible assets 84 Note 18 Contingent liabilities 104 earnings Note 18 Property, plant and 85 Note 19 Related party ­transactions 104 Auditor’s report 109 equipment Note 20 Proposed appropriation 104 Note 19 Inventories 85 of retained earnings Note 20 Overview of financial 86 ­instruments Note 21 Current receivables 87 Note 22 Cash and cash equivalents 87 Note 23 Share capital 87 Note 24 Other current liabilities 88 Note 25 Capital management 88 Note 26 Financing and interest88 bearing liabilities Note 27 Financial risk 88 Note 28 Derivatives and hedging 91 Note 29 Leasing 92 Note 30 Acquisition 92 Note 31 Pledged assets, guarantees 93 and contingent liabilities Note 32 Related party transactions 93 Note 33 Events after the balance 93 sheet date 66 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED INCOME ­STATEMENT SEK million Note 2018 2017 Sales revenues 32 12,884 11,427 Other operating revenues 26 8 Net sales 6, 7 12,910 11,435 Cost of materials1) –8,601 –7,396 Payroll expenses 8, 9 –1,270 –1,113 Other operating expenses 11 –1,747 –1,622 Depreciation, amortization and impairment charges 17, 18 –353 –370 Items affecting comparability1) 12 – –16 Operating profit 940 917 Profit from joint ventures 13 22 –5 Financial income 14 15 5 Financial costs 14 –128 –121 Profit before taxes 849 797 Income Tax 15 –161 –145 Profit for the year 688 652 Profit for the year attributable to – owners of the parent 688 652 – non-controlling interests – – Earnings per share Earnings per share, basic, SEK 16 9.11 8.65 Earnings per share, diluted, SEK 16 9.11 8.64 1) Items affecting comparability are presented in note 12. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 67 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME SEK million Note 2018 2017 Profit for the year 688 652 Items not to be reclassified to profit/loss for the year Remeasurement of pensions before tax 9 –26 7 Tax on above 6 4 Items to be reclassified to profit/loss for the year Change in hedging reserve before tax 27 –42 53 Tax on above 10 –12 Translation differences 142 –160 Comprehensive income for the year attributable to the owners of the parent company 778 545 68 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET SEK million Note 2018 2017 ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets 17 761 640 Property, plant and equipment 18 3,651 3,076 Deferred tax assets 15 54 44 Interests in joint ventures 13 10 17 Interest-bearing receivables 20, 25, 32 2 33 Other non-current receivables 20, 27 11 16 Total non-current assets 4,489 3,827 Current assets Inventories 19 1,968 1,611 Receivables 20, 21, 27, 32 1,859 1,826 Cash and cash equivalents 20, 22 457 742 Total current assets 4,285 4,179 TOTAL ASSETS 8,773 8,005 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 23 101 101 Share premium 23 49 49 Reserves 494 405 Retained earnings 3,229 2,768 Total equity 3,873 3,322 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 15 76 60 Pension liabilities 9 321 276 Interest-bearing liabilities 20, 25, 26 2,117 2,215 Other non-current liabilities 20, 27 9 3 Total non-current liabilities 2,522 2,555 Current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 20, 25, 26 515 576 Current tax liabilities 15 82 78 Other current liabilities 20, 24, 27 1,781 1,474 Total current liabilities 2,378 2,128 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 8,773 8,005 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 69 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Reserves Share Share Hedging Defined benefit Translation Retained Total SEK million Note capital premium reserve pension plans reserve ­earnings equity Opening balance at 1 January 2018 101 49 12 –8 401 2,768 3,322 Profit for the year – – – – – 688 688 Items in comprehensive income – – –32 –20 142 – 90 Group comprehensive income – – –32 –20 142 688 778 Dividend1) – – – – – –227 –227 Closing balance at 31 December 2018 – – –21 –28 543 3,229 3,873 Opening balance at 1 January 2017 101 33 –29 –20 561 2,296 2,942 Profit for the year – – – – – 652 652 Items in comprehensive income – – 41 12 –160 – –107 Group comprehensive income – – 41 12 –160 652 545 Dividend1) – – – – – –180 –180 Rights issue 23 0 16 – – – – 16 Closing balance at 31 December 2017 101 49 12 –8 401 2,768 3,322 1) Dividend per share amounted to SEK 3.00 (2.40) during 2018. 70 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT SEK million Note 2018 2017 Operating profit 940 917 Depreciation and impairment charges 353 370 Other non-cash items 64 – Change in net working capital etc. 98 –267 Income taxes paid –105 –53 Cash flow from operating activities 1,351 968 Acquisition 30 24 –42 Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 17, 18 –843 –358 Divestments of property, plant and equipment 4 0 Other capital transactions –3 4 Cash flow from investing activities –819 –396 Dividend –227 –180 Rights issue 23 – 16 Interest paid and received 14 –98 –124 New loans 3,078 888 Repayment of loans –3,579 –1,250 Cash flow from financing activities –825 –650 Cash flow for the year –294 –79 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 742 851 Cash flow for the year –294 –79 Translation difference on cash and cash equivalents 9 –30 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 22 457 742 Reconciliation between opening and closing balance of liabilities whose cash flows are recognized in financing activities SEK million 2018 2017 Interest-bearing liabilities at 1 January 2,791 3,324 Cash flow –501 –362 Non-cash items Exchange rate differences 336 –174 Change in accrual borrowing costs 5 4 Interest-bearing liabilities at 31 December 2,632 2,791 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 71 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 GENERAL INFORMATION l­ iabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquired business and equity interests issued by the group. The consideration also includes fair value of all assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent considThe Group’s parent company, Gränges AB, is a Swedish public listed eration arrangement. company. Company registration number is 556001-6122, and its regisIdentifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilitered office is in Stockholm with its head office on Linnégatan 18, ties assumed in a business combination are, with limited exceptions, SE-114 47 Stockholm. This document was approved for publication by measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. The group the Board of Directors of Gränges AB on 7 March 2019. recognizes any non-controlling interest in the acquired entity either at fair value or at the non-­controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquired entity’s net identifiable assets. 2 BCONSOLIDATED ASIS OF PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealized gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated. Unrealized Basis of preparation losses are also eliminated. When necessary, amounts reported by The Gränges Group includes, in addition to the parent company subsidiaries have been adjusted to conform with the group’s Gränges AB, directly and indirectly held subsidiaries of Gränges AB. accounting policies. Significant accounting principles applied in preparing these ­consolidated financial statements are described below. Unless Joint arrangements ­otherwise stated, these principles have been applied consistently for Shares in companies in which the Group exercises a controlling influall the years presented. The consolidated financial statements have ence are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures dependbeen prepared and presented in compliance with the Inter­national ing on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor. Joint Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, the arrangements are included in the consolidated accounts as of the date Swedish Annual Accounts Act and RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting when significant influence is transferred to the Group and are consoliRules for Groups. dated up to the date when the significant influence ceases. The financial statements have been prepared by applying the cost For joint operations, assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are method, with the exception of financial assets and liabilities (includrecognized in the consolidated accounts in relation to ownership. ing derivatives), which are measured at fair value. Preparing financial Interests in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of important Under the equity method, investments in joint ventures are initially caraccounting estimates. ried at cost in the consolidated statement of financial position. The Management is also required to make certain judgements in carrying amount is then increased or decreased to take account of the applying the Group’s accounting principles. Areas which involve a Group’s share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income high degree of judgement, are complex or where assumptions and from its joint ventures after the date of acquisition. The Group’s share estimates have a material impact on the consolidated accounts are of the profit or loss is presented in the line “Profit from joint ventures” described in Note 5. in the income statement and the line “Interests in joint ventures” in An asset or liability is classified as current when it is a part of an the balance sheet. For further information regarding joint arrangeentity’s normal operations, is primarily held for trading, matures ments, see Note 13. within 12 months and consists of cash and cash equivalents at the balance sheet date. Other items are classified as non-current. Foreign currency translation A ­dividend is classified as a liability only upon formal approval by Functional currency and presentation currency a ­general meeting of shareholders. Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s Unless otherwise stated, all amounts are stated in SEK million. entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic Negative amounts refer to expenses or outgoing payments (cash flow). environment in which the operates (’the functional currency’). The consolidated financial statements are presented in Swedish krona Items affecting comparability (SEK), which is the Group’s presentation currency. Items affecting comparability are presented in Note 12 and refer to non-recurring income and expenses. Transactions and balance sheet items The primary purpose of separating significant non-recurring items Transactions in foreign currency are translated to the functional curis to facilitate understanding of the underlying business development. rency at the exchange rates applying on the transaction date or the date when the items were re-measured. Foreign exchange gains and Consolidation losses arising from such transactions and upon translation of moneSubsidiaries tary assets and liabilities in foreign currency at closing day rates are All companies over which the Group exercises a controlling influence are recognized in the income statement. The exception is when the classified as subsidiaries. The Group controls a company when it is transactions constitute hedges and meet the criteria for hedge exposed to or has the right to a variable return from its involvement with accounting of cash flows or net investments, in which case any gains the company and has the ability to affect those returns through its power and losses are recognized in other comprehensive income. over the company. Subsidiaries are included in the consoli­dated Financial receivables and liabilities in foreign currency are stated at accounts as of the date when the control is transferred to the Group and the closing rate and any gain or loss is recognized in financial items in are consolidated up to the date when the controlling influence ceases. the income statement. Other monetary items in foreign ­currency are Business combinations are accounted for in accordance with the carried at the closing rate and any gain or loss is ­recognized in operatacquisition method. The consideration transferred for the acquisition ing items in the income statement. of a subsidiary comprises the fair values of the assets transferred, 72 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3 NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 4 ACCOUNTING STANDARDS New accounting standards adopted by the Group in 2018 Revenue from contracts with customers From the financial year beginning 1 January 2018, Gränges applies Revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of promised goods or serIFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenues from contracts vices to its customers in an amount that reflects the consideration with customers. The new standards have not had a material impact which expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. on the Group’s financial statements. Gränges mainly sells rolled products for heat exchangers and selected niche applications. Revenue is generated through sale of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments material that is produced for a certain customer and application. IFRS 9 Financial instruments has replaced IAS 39 Financial instruRevenue is recognized at the point in time when control is transferred ments: Recognition and Measurement. The new model regarding to the customer. ­calculation of credit loss impacts the impairment process, however it The transaction price for Gränges’ products is based on the added has not had a significant impact on the Group’s financial statements. value Gränges offers in terms of material properties and production The new principles for hedge accounting have had no impact on the complexity (fabrication price), and the price of the raw material, aluGroup’s financial statements. The transition has not had a material minium. The cost of the aluminium is mainly passed on to the cusimpact on the Group’s financial statements and consequently previtomer through metal price clauses. Commodity price risk is described ous periods have not been restated. in Note 27. In determining the transaction price for Gränges’ products the Group IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers considers the effect of variable consideration. The variable consideration IFRS 15 Revenues from contracts with customers has replaced existing (early payment discounts and retrospective volume discounts) is estirevenue standards and interpretations. Gränges has chosen to adopt mated at contract inception and included in the transaction price only to IFRS 15 with full retrospective approach from 1 January 2018. The transithe extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal of accumution has not had a material impact on the Group’s financial statements lated revenue will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the and consequently previous periods have not been restated. Neither the variable consideration is subsequently resolved. practical expedient referred to the existence of a significant financing At the end of each reporting period, Gränges updates the estimated component nor the practical expedient referred incremental costs of transaction price (including updating its assessment of whether an obtaining a contract has been used. estimate of variable consideration is constrained). Other revenue is limited and primarily refer to rental revenue from New and amended standards and interpretations which have not properties owned by Gränges AB. The rental revenue is recognized on yet become effective but will be applied in future periods a straight-line basis over the lease term. Gains or losses on the sale of property, plant and equipment are IFRS 16 Leases accounted for as “Other operating revenues” or “Other operating From the financial year beginning 1 January 2019, Gränges applies expenses” and are included in the income statement. IFRS 16 Leases. The new standard is adopted based on the modified retrospective transition method and mainly impacts the reporting of Statement of comprehensive income machinery and equipment, vehicles, office premises, warehouses and The statement of comprehensive income includes items which are land areas that are not owned by Gränges. recognized in equity but which are not included in the regular profit or As a consequence, the implementation of IFRS 16 positively loss for the period. The items in the statement are actuarial gains and impacts the operating margin due to the elimination of operation leaslosses on pensions, changes in the hedging reserve in hedging transing expenses which are partly compensated by depreciation of the actions and currency translation effects. right-of-use assets. In addition, the finance costs will increase due to the recognition of interest expenses on the finance lease liabilities. Assets Carrying amounts for right-of-use assets and lease liabilities are Property, plant and equipment based on cash flows at present value during expected contract periProperty, plant and equipment are tangible, long-lived assets which ods. Discount rates are determined on the basis of assumptions are intended for the production or delivery of goods or for administraregarding interest rates for loans during the corresponding period and tive purposes. They are stated at cost in the balance sheet less accuwith corresponding collateral. Right-of-use assets with contracts mulated depreciation and impairment. Maintenance of assets is shorter than 12 months or which terminate within 12 months from the ­recognized in operating expenses when the maintenance is carried transition date are classified as short-term contracts and are thereout while more significant periodic maintenance and expenses for fore not included in the reported liabilities or rights of use. In addition, replacements and improvements are accounted for as an investment rights of use for office equipment or other low-value assets have also and added to the cost of the assets. been classified as low-value contracts and are not included in the To distribute the cost down to the estimated residual value, items of reported liabilities or right-of-use assets. property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line At initial application as of 1 January 2019, opening balances for basis, divided into different components, over their useful lives using right-of-use assets and lease liabilities will be recognized by SEK 270 the following percentage rates: million each. • buildings and land improvements 10–40 years, • machinery, inventory and installations 5–30 years, • fixtures and vehicles 5–20 years, • IT equipment 5 years. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 73 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS >> CONT. NOTE 4 Useful lives and residual values of assets are reviewed each year and s ­ alary. The company is responsible for the size of the future pension adjusted where required. benefit and the economic value of this obligation are recognized in If the residual value exceeds the carrying amount no further depreciathe income statement and balance sheet. tion charges are recognized. This applies especially to buildings. If there The liability or asset recognized in the balance sheet in respect are indications of impairment of an asset, the asset is written down to its of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined recoverable amount if this is lower than the carrying amount. The recovbenefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value erable amount is the higher of net realisable value and value in use. of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by Loan expenses in connection with the production of the Group’s independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The own property, plant and equipment are recognized as part of the cost present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by disof the asset. counting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in Intangible assets which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms approximating to The Group has expenses for research and development. Expenditure the terms of the related obligation. For the Swedish plans, mortgage for research is carried as a cost immediately while expenditure for bonds are used to determine the discount rate. development is recognized as an intangible asset if the underlying The cost relating to service during the current period is accounted economic factors are identifiable and represent future economic for as payroll expenses. The net interest cost is calculated by applying ­benefits controlled by the Group. the discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit obligation The Group is running a large number of development projects but and the fair value of plan assets. This cost is included in financial the criteria for recognizing the projects as intangible assets are costs in the income statement. ­currently not met as the future economic benefits for the company Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience adjustcannot be identified and because it is not possible to obtain any ments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognized in the degree of certainty during the development phase of the intangible period in which they occur, directly in other comprehensive income. assets. Capitalised expenditure for internally generated or specially Provisions adapted software is recognized as intangible assets. These are Provisions are recognized for potential loss-making contracts and for depreciated on a straight-line basis over 10 years. restructuring when the decision to restructure is made. Provisions do The customer relationships acquired as part of business combinanot cover any potential future operating losses. As regards restruction are recognized at their fair value at the date of acquisition and are turing reserves, there must exist a detailed plan identifying which amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of operations will be restructured as well as a well-founded expectation 20 years. among those affected by the restructuring. It must also be possible to Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the reliably estimate the cost of the restructuring. excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the identifiThe provision is calculated based on the best estimate of expected able net assets acquired. Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken costs. If the effect is significant, expected future cash flows will be annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indidiscounted. cate a potential impairment. The carrying amount of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill is attributed to is compared with the recoveraContingent liabilities and contingent assets ble amount, which is the highest of the value in use and the fair value less A contingent liability or contingent asset is a potential obligation or cost of disposal. Any impairment is recognized immediately as an potential asset whose existence is uncertain and which will be conexpense and is not sub-sequently reversed. firmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of a specific future event, such as the out-come of legal proceedings or the final settlement of Inventories an insurance claim. If the probability that the liability has been Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. incurred exceeds 50 per cent a provision is recognized in the balance Purchased goods are measured at cost in accordance with the FIFO sheet. If the probability is lower a contingent liability is shown as an principle while own-produced finished goods and products in proadditional disclosure in the financial statements, unless the probabilgress are measured at production cost. A deduction is made for obsoity of an outgoing payment is remote. An asset is only recognized in lescence. The net realisable value is the estimated selling price less the balance sheet if it is highly probable that the Group will receive the selling costs. For a description of inventories as hedged item in a fair asset. Disclosures regarding contingent assets are given where an value hedge see “Fair value hedging”, under section “Financial Instruinflow of resources is probable. ments”. Tax Cash and cash equivalents Income tax is the sum of current tax and changes in deferred tax. Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and cash equivalents with Tax is recognized in the income statement, except to the extent that maturities of up to three months. it relates to items recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case, the tax is also recognized in other Provisions and liabilities ­comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively. Current Pensions tax is ­recognized at the amount that is expected to be paid to the tax Gränges Group has a pension system in Sweden and US that ­primarily authorities based on the taxable income that is reported for the units consists of defined contribution plans as well as some defined benefit included in the consolidated financial statements. The income tax is plans. determined using tax rates that have been enacted on the ­balance For defined contribution pension plans the company has a responsisheet date. bility to make contractual payments for its employees’ future p ­ ensions. Deferred tax in the balance sheet has been calculated at the Future pensions are determined by the size of contributions and the ­nominal tax rate based on temporary differences for assets and return on the plan assets. After the contributions have been paid the ­liabilities at the balance sheet date. company has no further payment obligations under the defined contriA provision for deferred tax on retained earnings in foreign subsidibution plan. No provisions are therefore made in the balance sheet. aries is recognized to the extent that it is likely that the dividend will The company’s pension costs for its defined contribution plans be distributed in a near future. ­consist of payments to employees’ pension plans during the reporting Deferred tax assets are reviewed continually and recognized in the period and are accounted for as payroll expenses. balance sheet only to the extent that it is likely that future t­ axable Defined benefit pension plans are based on a promise from the profits can be used. company to the employees that they will receive a certain pension Deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets are offset insofar as upon retirement, normally defined as a percentage of their final this is possible under local tax laws and regulations. 74 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS >> CONT. NOTE 4 Financial instruments Accounts payable The Group’s financial assets consists of loans and accounts receiv­able Accounts payables are obligations to pay for goods or services which as well as derivatives. Purchases and sales of financial assets are have been acquired from suppliers or service provides in the course of ­recognized at the transaction date, which is the date when the Group the company’s operating activities. Accounts payable are classified as undertakes to buy or sell the asset. Accounts receivable are recognized current liabilities and are measured at amortized cost. when the invoice has been sent. Financial assets are removed from the balance sheet when the right to receive cash flows from the instrument Borrowings (loans) has expired or been transferred and the Group has transferred essenBorrowings are initially recognized at fair value, net of transaction tially all risks and benefits associated with ownership to another party. costs. Subsequently loans are carried at amortized cost and any difThe Group’s financial liabilities comprise borrowings and accounts ference between the amount received (net of transaction costs) and payable as well as derivatives. Financial liabilities are recognized in the amount repayable is recognized in the income statement over the the balance sheet when the counterparty has performed and a conterm of the loan by applying the effective interest method. tractual obligation to pay exists. Accounts payable are recognized when the invoice has been received. Financial liabilities are derecogHedge accounting nized from the balance sheet when the contractual ­obligation has The Group uses the following criteria for classifying a derivative or been fulfilled or in some other way is extinguished. other financial instrument as a hedging instrument: (1) the hedging Financial instruments are initially recognized at fair value plus instrument is expected to be very effective in offsetting changes in transaction costs, which applies to all financial assets and liabilities the fair value of or cash flows for an identifi­able item (hedged item), that are not measured at fair value through profit and loss. These are (2) the hedge efficiency can be reliably measured, (3) satisfactory docinitially recognized at fair value excluding transaction costs. umentation is drawn up before the hedging instrument is acquired Financial assets and liabilities are in general not netted even when showing, in particular, that the hedge relationship is effective, (4) in there is a legal right of netting the carrying amounts and an intention case of the use of cash flow hedges, that the future trans­action is to settle them by a net amount or to simultaneously realize the asset deemed to be highly probable, and (5) the hedge relationship is and settle the liability. The legal right must not depend on future reviewed on a regular basis. events and must be legally binding for the company and the counterGains and losses on the hedging instrument are recognized in the party both in case of normal business activities and in the event of income statement at the same time as gains and losses from the default, insolvency or bankruptcy. hedged item. Interest income and interest expense are recognized using the effective interest method and accounted for under “Financial income” Fair value hedging and “Finance expense” respectively. Changes in the fair values of derivatives designated as hedging instruments are recognized immediately in the income statement. Changes Derivatives in the fair value of the hedged item (inventory) relating to the hedged Derivatives are classified either as measured at fair value through risk are recognized in the income statement in the same way and are profit and loss or as hedging instrument for which hedge accounting is recognized as an adjustment on the hedged item’s carrying amount. applied. Derivatives are measured at fair value at the balance sheet Hedge accounting is discontinued if: (a) the hedge instrument has date and accounted for as assets or liabilities. Gains and losses on expired, been terminated, exercized or sold or (b) the hedge no longer changes in fair value are recognized in profit or loss when the derivameets the aforementioned criteria for hedging. In the case of a distive is not part of a hedge relationship which meets the criteria for continued hedge, changes in the fair value of the hedged item are hedge accounting. Purchases and sales of derivatives are recognized ­recognized in the balance sheet until the hedged item (inventory) is at the transaction date. recognized as cost of materials in the income statement. Financial assets at amortized cost Cash flow hedges The business model for the financial assets in this category is to receive The effective portion of changes in the fair value of the hedging instrucontractual cash flows, which have been assessed to only consist payment is recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated ments of principal and interest. Assets in this category comprise in the hedging reserve until the hedged transaction is executed. At accounts receivable and other receivable as well as cash and cash equivthat time the accumulated gains or losses on the hedging instrument alents. They are included in current assets, with the exception of items will be reclassified to the income statement. The ineffective portion maturing later than twelve months from the end of the reporting period, of the hedging instrument is recognized immediately in the income which are classified as non-current assets. statement. When a hedging instrument has expired, been sold, exerAccounts receivable are always classified as current assets. The cised or terminated, the accumulated gains or losses will remain in the assets in this category are carried at amortized cost in the balance sheet hedging reserve and will be recognized in the income statement upon applying the effective interest rate method. Accounts receivable are execution of the hedged transaction. If the hedged transaction is no measured at the amount expected to be paid, that is after deducting longer expected to occur, the accumulated gain or loss on the hedging expected credit losses. instrument will be recognized immediately in the income statement. The Group applies an impairment model based on forward-looking expected credit losses (ECL). The ECL allowance applies to all items (from Segments initial recognition). An analysis of expected credit losses is performed The reporting of operating segments is consistent with the internal using a provision matrix adjusted for the market location of the customer reporting submitted to the highest executive decision maker, which to measure expected credit losses, where historical, current and forconsist of the CEO. The business operation is characterized by strong ward-looking factors are taken into consideration. integration between the different regions in order to maximize the The ECL allowance is based on the life-time ECL for all accounts Group’s profitability. Operations are monitored on a global market, and receivables. the Group thus reports only one segment in line with IFRS 8. Expected credit losses are calculated as the difference between the For information on the geographic distribution of non-current assets, carrying amount of the asset and the present value of estimated future sales revenue and the average number of employees, see Note 6. cash flows, discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. For accounts receivables expected credit losses are calculated Other principles without discounting. The asset’s carrying amount is written down and the Cash flow impairment loss including future changes in expected credit losses are The cash flow statement, which has been prepared using the indirect recognized in the consolidated income statement. method, shows cash flows from operating activities, investing activiThe Group define credit-impaired assets as assets which are past-due ties and financing activities, and explains changes in “Cash and cash more than 90 days or assets with other observable information indicating equivalents” for the reporting period. a measurable decrease in estimated future cash flows. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 75 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS >> CONT. NOTE 4 Acquisitions held by the lessor or lessee. A lease is classified as a financial lease if The acquisition method is used to account for the acquisitions of subit essentially transfers all risks and benefits associated with ownersidiaries and operations. All payments to acquire a business are ship of an asset. recorded at fair value at the acquisition date. The excess of the cost of The Group has no leases classified as a financial lease. Costs for acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired operating leases accounted as operating expenses when they occur. is recorded as goodwill. Government grants Leasing Government grants are recognized in the financial statements when it The leases that occur are those where the Group judged that it is not is a reasonable assurance that the grant will be received. The grants possible or economically advantageous to purchase the underlying are accounted for either as income or a reduction of expenses, and are asset, such as office facilities, vehicles or equipment, that will only be in the latter case matched with the expenses which they are intended held for a shorter part of its service life. to compensate for. Government grants attributable to assets are Leases are classified based on the extent to which the economic accounted for as a reduction of the cost of the asset. The grant risks and benefits associated with ownership of the leased asset are reduces the depreciation of the asset. 5 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ASSESSMENTS AND ASSUMPTIONS In preparing Gränges’ consolidated accounts, it is necessary to make ments, management makes its best assessments in areas of signifia number of assessments and assumptions which can influence the cant importance. Accounting items where changes in assessments carrying amounts of assets and liabilities. Future events and changes and assumptions would have a significant impact on the consolidated in operating parameters may make it necessary to make other financial statements during next financial year are: assessments and assumptions. When preparing the financial stateAccounting item Note Assessments and assumptions that are of significant importance for carrying amounts Right-of-use assets 3 As of 1 January 2019, IFRS 16 Leases is adopted. The value of identifiable right-of-use assets and and lease liabilities lease liabilities are based on the present value of future payments during the expected contract periods. The discount rate is set based on assumptions in interest rates for loans during the corresponding period and with corresponding collateral. Pension liability 9 The present value of the pension obligations depends on a n ­ umber of factors which are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions. The assumptions used in determining the net pension expense (income) include the discount rate. Taxes 15 The tax rate in China depends on whether Gränges qualifies as a high technology company. This qualification entails an income tax rate of 15 per cent instead of the ordinary rate of 25 per cent. However, in order to obtain the classification special requirements established need to be met and approved by local authorities. Intangible assets 17 Impairment test for goodwill is carried out annually or throughout the year if an event occurs that may result in the need for impairment. Important assumptions on the basis of impairment testing are forecasts of future cash flows, which include assumptions for sales growth and operating margin. The discount rate is set based on assumptions about weighted average cost of capital. Other intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life, and therefore a changed assessment of the useful life entails a change in carrying amount. Tangible assets 18 Depreciation of tangible assets is recorded over the estimated useful life of components or tested for impairment in an indication of impairment is identified. Changes in assumptions regarding the recoverable amount and estimated useful life may lead to significant changes in value. Ongoing expansion investments regarding the production facilities are essential in their nature. Depreciation begins when the new facilities are put into use and the balance sheet’s valuation and accounting are dependent on compliance with timetables and investment calculations. Inventories 19 Valuation of production costs is done using calculation models based on current prices and cost levels, where direct and indirect production-related costs are attributed to manufactured products. For estimation of incursions, assumptions and assessments are based on the turnover rate and other historical data. 76 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 GEOGRAPHIC  AVERAGEBREAKDOWN AND NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES OF NET SALES, NON-CURRENT ASSETS Net sales are distributed regionally based on where the customers are located. Non-current assets and the average number of employees are based on where Gränges is located. 2018 SEK million Sweden Rest of Europe China Rest of Asia USA Rest of Americas Total Net sales 367 2,057 1,991 1,013 6,128 1,354 12,910 Non-current assets1) 552 194 946 0 2,721 – 4,412 Average no. of employees 500 – 517 8 675 – 1,669 2017 SEK million Sweden Rest of Europe China Rest of Asia USA Rest of Americas Total Net sales 295 1,935 1,914 997 5,445 849 11,435 Non-current assets1) 659 5 934 0 2,118 – 3,716 Average no. of employees 457 – 524 8 578 – 1,568 1) Excluding deferred tax assets, interests in joint ventures, interest-bearing receivables and other non-current receivables. The ten largest customers accounted for 48 per cent (48) of sales. No customers accounted for more than 10 per cent of total sales in 2018 or 2017. 7 REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS Gränges mainly sells rolled products for heat exchangers and selected In determining the transaction price for Gränges’ products the Group niche applications in different regions. Gränges’ customers are in the considers the effect of variable consideration. The variable consideraautomotive industry, the HVAC industry and niche markets such as tion (early payment discounts and retrospective volume discounts) is transformers and food packaging. estimated at contract inception and included in the transaction price The transaction price for Gränges’ products is based on the only to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal added value Gränges offers in terms of material properties and of accumulated revenue will not occur when the uncertainty associproduction complexity (fabrication price), and the price of the ated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved. raw material, aluminium. The fabrication price is fixed while the The fabrication price allocated to the remaining (unsatisfied or aluminium price is variable and based on metal price clauses ­partially unsatisfied) performance obligations in contracts with ­c onnected to the market price. ­customers is shown in the table below. Sales by region Remaining performance obligations at 31 December 2018 SEK million 2018 2017 SEK million Asia 3,004 2,911 Within 1 year 4,358 Europe 2,403 2,209 Within 2 years 3,203 Americas 7,482 6,294 After 2 years 2,896 Total revenue from contracts with customers 12,889 11,414 Total1) 10,457 Other revenue 21 21 1) Corresponding to sales volume of 857.4 ktonnes. Net sales 12,910 11,435 Since the raw material price is variable, based on metal price clauses, Gränges only disclosures the amount of fabrication price allocated to Sales by market the remaining performance obligations in contracts with customers. Fabrication Raw material revenue and other revenue Total SEK million 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Automotive 3,117 3,051 3,754 3,288 6,870 6,339 HVAC & Other 1,907 1,701 4,111 3,374 6,019 5,075 Total revenue from contracts with customers 5,024 4,752 7,865 6,662 12,889 11,414 Other revenue – – 21 21 21 21 Net sales 5,024 4,752 7,886 6,683 12,910 11,435 Other revenue is limited and primarily refer to rental revenue from properties owned by Gränges AB. Rental revenue has not been classified as revenue from contracts with customers and is recognized in other revenue in the tables above. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 77 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8 PAYROLL EXPENSES Average number of employees 2018 2017 Average no. of employees Of which, women Average no. of employees Of which, women Gränges AB Sweden 31 10 26 8 Subsidiaries Sweden 469 90 431 85 China 517 58 520 56 US 675 82 578 70 Other countries 8 1 13 2 Group total 1,699 241 1,568 221 Board members and other senior executives 2018 2017 No. at balance sheet date Of which, women No. at balance sheet date Of which, women Board members 7 3 6 3 CEO, deputy CEO and other senior ­executives 8 1 8 1 Salaries, remuneration, social security contributions and pension costs 2018 2017 Salaries and Salaries and remuneration remuneration (of which, Social sec. (of which, Social sec. SEK million variable portion)1) contrib. Pension variable portion)1) contrib. Pension Gränges AB Board, CEO, deputy CEO and other senior ­executives –31 (–15) –11 –5 –27 (–13) –10 –5 Other employees –33 –10 –6 –27 –8 –8 Subsidiaries Other senior ­executives –20 (–11) –2 –1 –16 (–7) –1 –1 Other employees –918 –175 –57 –820 –158 –33 Group total –1,002 –198 –70 –890 –176 –47 1) During 2018 SEK 3 million (12) has been received in government grants for Americas. The grant has reduced the payroll expenses. Salaries and other remuneration to the Board members, CEO, is based on results achieved in relation to defined targets and is made deputy CEO and other senior executives up of two components, a short-term incentive programme (STI) and a Board members long-term incentive programme (LTI). Several long-term incentive Until the Annual General Meeting on 3 May 2018 the Board of Directors ­programmes can run in parallel. consisted of six members, elected by the Annual General Meeting The contract between the company and CEO is subject to twelve in 2017. Following the Annual General Meeting in 2018 the Board of months’ notice by either party without deduction. In case of termination Directors consisted of seven members, elected by said Annual by the company the CEO is also entitled to severance pay of a further General Meeting. Two employee representatives and two deputy twelve monthly salaries, which is off-set against income from new employee representatives are also represented on the Board. employment. The contracts between the company and other senior The Chairman and other members of the Board receive Directors’ executives, including the Deputy CEO, are subject to six months’ notice fees in accordance with the resolutions adopted by the annual general by either party without deduction. In case of termination by the company meeting. the executive is entitled to severance pay of a further twelve monthly salaries, which is off-set against income from new employment. CEO and other senior executives The remuneration paid to the CEO and other senior executives consists Pension of a basic salary, variable remuneration, other benefits and pension. The retirement age for the CEO is 65 years. The CEO has a direct penSenior executives refer to the members of Group Management. During sion in form of a company-owned endowment insurance. The premi2018 Group Management consisted of eight persons, including the ums to the endowment insurance amounts to 35 per cent of the basic CEO and Deputy CEO. salary, reduced with what is being payed to ITP. For other senior execThe basic salary for the CEO is deliberated in the Remuneration comutives, including the deputy CEO, the retire­ment age is 60–65 years mittee and adopted by the Board of Directors. For all other senior execdepending on the country of employment and both ­premium-based utives including Deputy CEO the salaries are decided by the CEO with and defined-benefit-based obligations exist. the support of the Chairman of the Board. The variable remuneration 78 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS >> CONT. NOTE 8 Remuneration and other benefits in 2018 Short-term Long-term incentive Basic salary/ incentive proprogrammes (LTI 2017, Total variable Other Directors’ fee gramme (STI)¹) 2016 and 2015) remuneration benefits Pension Total Board of Directors Anders G. Carlberg –0.6 – – – – – –0.6 Ragnhild Wiborg –0.4 – – – – – –0.4 Hans Porat –0.3 – – – – – –0.3 Carina Andersson –0.3 – – – – – –0.3 Peter Carlsson –0.3 – – – – – –0.3 Katarina Lindström –0.3 – – – – – –0.3 Mats Backman –0.2 – – – – – –0.2 Group Management CEO Johan Menckel –5.5 –3.3 –2.9 –6.2 –0.1 –1.9 –13.6 Deputy CEO Oskar Hellström –2.8 –1.7 –1.5 –3.2 –0.2 –1.4 –7.7 Other senior executives (6 individuals) –14.5 –10.3 –6.3 –16.6 –0.8 –2.5 –34.4 Total –25.3 –15.4 –10.6 –26.0 –1.2 –5.7 –58.2 Remuneration and other benefits in 2017 Short-term Long-term incentive Basic salary/ incentive pro­programmes Total variable Other Directors’ fee gramme (STI)2) (LTI 2016 and 2015) remuneration benefits Pension Total Board of Directors Anders G. Carlberg –0.6 – – – – – –0.6 Terje Andersen –0.1 – – – – – –0.1 Ragnhild Wiborg –0.4 – – – – – –0.4 Hans Porat –0.3 – – – – – –0.3 Carina Andersson –0.3 – – – – – –0.3 Peter Carlsson –0.3 – – – – – –0.3 Katarina Lindström –0.3 – – – – – –0.3 Group Management CEO Johan Menckel –5.2 –3.2 –2.4 –5.6 –0.1 –1.8 –12.8 Deputy CEO Oskar Hellström –2.7 –1.6 –1.3 –2.9 –0.1 –1.3 –7.1 Other senior executives (6 individuals) –13.4 –9.2 –3.0 –12.1 –0.6 –2.1 –28.2 Total –23.7 –14.0 –6.7 –20.7 –0.8 –5.2 –50.4 1) The amounts are attributable to 2018 but will be disbursed in 2019. 2) The amounts are attributable to 2017 but were disbursed in 2018. Variable remuneration The programmes are designed so that an amount corresponding to Short-term incentive programme (STI) the outcome from STI for each year and participant is set aside in a The remuneration from STI is determined by a number of parameters ­so-­c alled LTI bank. The costs are provided for during the perforconsisting of financial key ratios for the Group, such as adjusted operatmance years and the provision for LTI for each year are shown in the ing profit and cash conversion, and individual pre-determined targets. tables Remuneration and other benefits. Provided that the particiRemuneration under STI 2018 may not exceed 60 per cent of the pant is still employed by Gränges, one third of the amount for LTI total basic salary paid to the CEO, deputy CEO and to the other 2015 is paid per year during 2017, 2018 and 2019, for LTI 2016 during ­members of Group Management, except for the person holding the years 2018, 2019 and 2020 and for LTI 2017 during the years 2019, ­position as President Americas, whom may obtain 100 per cent of 2020 and 2021. The payments are adjusted for the total return of the the total basic salary. Gränges share. The total payment of LTI and STI in any one year is limited to 1.5 times an annual salary, except for the person holding Long-term incentive programmes (LTI 2017, LTI 2016 and LTI 2015) position as President Americas, for whom such total payout is limGränges’ long-term incentive programmes are offered to the company’s ited 2.0 times the annual salary. senior executives and certain selected key persons. The incentive programmes aim to ­promote and encourage loyalty to the company by Other benefits aligning personal objectives and interests with the shareholders’ Other benefits mainly consist of company cars and medical benefits. interest of strong share price performance and a good dividend. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 79 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9 PENSIONS Gränges has pension plans in Sweden and the US. Approximately 76 per US plans are partially funded. To secure unfunded accrued pension cent (74) of the employees in Sweden are covered by defined contribution rights of their employees in Sweden, companies need to take out a pension plans, with the remainder covered by defined benefit plans. All credit insurance policy with Försäkringsbolaget PRI Pensionsgaranti. permanent full-time employees in the US are eligible for the defined conPRI Pensionsgaranti also administers and calculates the Group’s tribution plan. Approximately 23 per cent (26) of permanent full time unfunded pension obligations. The Group’s pensions in Sweden are employees in the US are eligible for the defined benefit pension plan. regulated by the Act (1967:531) respecting retirement pensions. The Gränges Benefits Committee in the US is responsible for the overDefined contribution plans sight and management of the plans’ investments. It has a written investEmployees of Gränges in the Swedish and American operations are ment policy. The aim of the investment decisions made by the Committee mainly covered by pension plans classified as defined contribution plans. is to achieve optimal returns while taking into account a reasonable level Defined contribution plans are arrangements in which the company pays of risk. Investments are diversified, such that the failure of any single annual contributions to its employees’ pension plans and where future investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets. pensions are determined by the amount of contributions paid and the An asset liability management assessment is conducted periodically. return on the pension assets. In Sweden employees covered by a collecSpecial payroll tax has been taken into account in calculating tive bargaining agreement have defined contribution ­pension plans, as do ­pension obligations. salaried employees born after 1979 under the ITP1 supplementary pension plan. Assumptions for defined benefit plans The assumptions are defined in consultation with professional actuarDefined benefit plans ies. Assumptions on future salary adjustments and sales are specific to The defined benefit pension plan in Sweden applies for salaried the Group. The discount rate is determined by reference to high-quality employees covered by the ITP2 supplementary pension plan, based on corporate bonds traded in a well functioning market, which reflect the a collective agreement between the Confederation of Swedish Enterduration of the pension obligation. In Sweden the discount rate is based prise and the trade unions for salaried employees in the private sector. on secured mortgage bonds. The pension plan is a net plan under which the pension obligation is not linked to changes in Swedish social insurance schemes. Under the Assumptions for defined benefit plans applicable collective agreement, all salaried employees born in 1979 or Sweden US after are covered by a defined contribution plan. This means that the 2018 2017 2018 2017 scope of the defined benefit plan will be reduced over time. The group Discount rate, % 2.4 2.6 2.9–4.5 2.6–3.8 also operates defined benefit pension plans for hourly union employees in the US under broadly similar regulatory frameworks. All of the plans Future salary adjustments , % 3.2 3.0 4.0 4.0 are final salary pension plans, which provide benefit to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life. The level of beneIncome base amount, % 3.0 2.9 N/A N/A fits provided depends on members’ length of service and their salary in Inflation, % 2.0 1.9 N/A N/A the final years leading up to retirement. In the Swedish plans, pensions Employee turnover, % 5.0 5.0 2.0–15.0 2.0–15.0 in payment are generally updated in line with the retail price index, Weighted average whereas in the US plans, pensions generally do not receive inflationary remaining duration, years 19.0 19.0 11.4 12.0 increases once in payment. With the exception of this inflationary risk in Sweden, the plans face broadly similar risks, including the risk of The assumptions for life expectancy in Sweden are based on DUS14 life increased life expectancy and sensitivity to changes in interest rates. expectancy tables. Both the Swedish and US defined benefit plans are accounted for The mortality assumption in the US is based on the RP-2006 mortality as a provision in the balance sheet. Swedish plans are unfunded and tables, Scale MP-2018 (MP-2017). Distribution of pension costs Sweden US Total SEK million 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Defined contribution plans –28 –33 –25 – –53 –33 Current service costs –9 –6 –5 –4 –13 –10 Administrative expenses 0 0 –4 –3 –4 –3 Pension costs recognized as operating expenses –37 –39 –33 –7 –70 –47 Interest on net pension liabilities recognized as a financial expense –4 –4 –4 –5 –9 –9 Pensions costs recognized in the income statement –41 –43 –37 –12 –79 –55 Actuarial gains and losses recognized in the statement of comprehensive income –15 –15 22 –11 8 –26 Return on plan assets greater than discount rate – – –33 33 –33 33 Total pension costs –56 –58 –48 10 –104 –49 Distribution of pension liabilities at 31 December Sweden US Total SEK million 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Present value of unfunded pension obligations –200 –177 –118 –99 –318 –276 Present value of funded and partially funded pension obligations – 0 –297 –306 –297 –306 Funded plan assets – 0 297 306 297 306 Endowment insurance –4 – – – –4 – Total pension liabilities –203 –177 –118 –99 –321 –276 80 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS >> CONT. NOTE 9 Changes in the present value of pension obligations Sweden US Total SEK million 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Pension obligations at 1 January –177 –157 –405 –440 –582 –597 Current service costs –9 –6 –5 –4 –13 –10 Interest on pension provision –4 –4 –16 –16 –20 –20 Actuarial gains and losses recognized in the statement of comprehensive income: – due to changes in financial assumptions –12 –13 27 –14 16 –27 – due to changes in demographic assumptions – 1 1 3 1 5 – due to experienced-based adjustments –3 –4 –7 1 –10 –4 Benefits paid during the year 5 5 25 22 30 28 Translation differences – – –37 44 –37 44 Endowment insurance –4 – – – –4 – Pension obligations at 31 December –203 –177 –415 –405 –618 –582 Changes in the present value of plan assets Sweden US Total SEK million 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Plan assets at 1 January 0 1 306 310 306 310 Administrative expenses 0 0 –4 –3 –4 –3 Interest on plan assets – 0 12 11 12 11 Return on plan assets greater than discount rate – – –33 33 –33 33 Employer contributions – 0 13 9 13 9 Benefits paid during the year 0 –1 –25 –22 –25 –23 Translation differences – – 28 –31 28 –31 Plan assets at 31 December – 0 297 306 297 306 Net pension liabilities –203 –177 –118 –99 –321 –276 Distribution of plan assets Sweden US Total SEK million 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Equity – – 107 132 107 132 Fixed income – – 141 121 141 121 High yield – – 27 31 27 31 Real estate – – 15 18 15 18 Cash – – 7 4 7 4 Pension trust – 0 – – – – Total plan assets – 0 297 306 297 306 Sensitivity analysis of the effect on the pension liabilities (+increase/-decrease in pension liabilities) Defined benefit pension liabilities terms SEK million Sweden US Total SEK million Sweden US Total Discount rate, % +0.5 –16 –20 –36 Benefits scheduled for disbursement –0.5 18 22 40 within 12 months 5 27 32 Increased/decreased +1 8 14 22 Benefits scheduled for disbursement life expectancy, years within 1–5 years 24 111 136 –1 –8 –15 –23 Benefits scheduled for disbursement after 5 years or more 268 139 407 The sensitivity analysis is based on a change in an individual actuarial assumption while other assumptions remain unchanged. This method Contributions to plans for post-employment remuneration are shows the obligation’s sensitivity to a single assumption. This is a simpliestimated at SEK 21 million for the financial year 2019. fied method, as actuarial assumptions are normally correlated. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 81 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10 REMUNERATION TO AUDITORS 13 JOINT ARRANGEMENTS SEK million 2018 2017 Gränges reports two joint arrangements, Shanghai Gränges Moriyasu Aluminium Co Ltd and Getek GmbH. EY Shanghai Gränges Moriyasu Aluminium Co Ltd provides stamping Audit engagement –5.5 –6.4 capacity for Gränges’ customers in China. Gränges owns 50 per cent. Audit services in addition The holding is classified as a joint venture and is accounted for using to audit engagement –0.7 –0.4 the equity method. Tax advisory services –0.3 –1.6 In 2017, Gränges acquired 51 per cent of Getek GmbH. The company Other services –0.1 –0.7 produces aluminium billets using advanced spray-forming technology Total remuneration to auditors –6.6 –9.2 and has two production sites, one in Germany and one in France. Getek is jointly owned with Erbslöh Aluminium GmbH, which owns 49 per cent of the company. The terms of the shareholder agreement Audit engagement refers to the examination of the annual report and require consent of the parties in relevant activities. This activity is clasaccounting records and of the Board of Directors and CEO’s manage­ sified as a joint operation and the Group recognizes its direct right to ment of the company, other tasks incumbent on the company’s audit­or jointly owned assets, liabilities, ­revenues and expenses. Gränges holds as well as advice and other assistance occasioned by observations an option to acquire the remaining 49 per cent of Getek, but the option made in the course of such examinations or the performance of such is currently not considered to be of any significant value. other tasks. Audit services in addition to audit engagement is mainly No significant capital injections are deemed to be required in the joint related to review of interim reports. arrangements during 2019. Tax advisory services include advice on tax, including transfer pricing issues, as well as value-added tax. Investments accounted for in accordance with the equity method Other services refer to advice that is not attributable to any of the aforementioned categor­ies of services. Shanghai Gränges Moriyasu 11 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES SEK million ­ luminium A Carrying amount at 1 January 2018 7 Acquisitions/sales 3 SEK million 2018 2017 Share of profit/loss 0 Energy and utility expenses –393 –372 Dividend – Freight expenses –335 –279 Tax – Repair and maintenance expenses –277 –281 Translation differences 0 Consumable material –189 –123 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 10 Consultant fees –167 –147 Carrying amount at 1 January 2017 7 Rental/leasing –50 –38 Acquisitions/sales – Travel expenses –44 –36 Share of profit/loss 0 Vehicle operating expenses –32 –17 Dividend – Insurance –28 –33 Tax – Other –232 –296 Translation differences 0 Total other operating expenses –1,747 –1,622 Carrying amount at 31 December 2017 7 The Group has made the assessment that the joint arrangements are 12 ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY not essential and has therefore not provided additional financial information in summary. Financial SEK million statement line 2018 2017 Inventory effect due to changed Cost of 14 FINANCIAL INCOME AND COSTS distribution model materials –64 – Closure costs for US sales Items affecting SEK million 2018 2017 company comparability – –16 Interest income 10 5 Total items affecting comparability –64 –16 Net foreign exchange gain 6 – On 2 January 2018, Gränges acquired the remaining 50 per cent of the Total financial income 15 5 joint venture company Norca Heat Transfer LLC (“Norca”), which previInterest expense –107 –91 ously has managed import and distribution of Gränges’ heat exchanger materials to customers in North America. This import is related to prodNet interest expense, pensions –9 –9 ucts that are produced at the facilities in Finspång and Shanghai. As of Net foreign exchange losses – –11 January 2018, the import and sales to customers in North America is Other financial expenses –12 –10 managed by Gränges Americas. The acquisition of the remaining 50 per Total financial costs –128 –121 cent of Norca included finished products from Gränges that Norca had Total financial income and costs –113 –115 in inventory at the time for the acquisition. As Gränges already had reported the profit for these products when sold to Norca in 2017, a Financial income during 2018 mainly consists of interest income from negative effect on operating profit of SEK –64 million occurred in 2018. bank deposits in China. Other financial expenses mainly can be This had no impact on the cash flow and is included in other non-cash referred to as costs for financing and bank costs. items in the consolidated statement of cash flows. Items affecting comparability for 2017 relateds to closure costs for Norca. 82 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15 TAXES Tax expense Income tax paid abroad mainly consists of paid income tax of SEK –26 million (–19) in China on dividends from the subsidiary in Shanghai to SEK million 2018 2017 Gränges AB. Profit before taxes 849 797 Gränges’ Chinese subsidiary has obtained a pre-qualification as a High and New-Technology Enterprise for the three years period 2016 Current tax –139 –103 to 2018. The pre-qualification means that the company preliminary Deferred tax –22 –42 pays 15 per cent in corporate income tax instead of the ordinary tax of Total tax –161 –145 25 per cent for the period. However, in order to finally obtain the lower tax rate, the company must meet special requirements established by Tax as % of profit before taxes 19 18 the authorities in China for each one of the three years. The tax return for 2017 has during 2018 been approved and thereby Reconciliation of the Group’s tax rate also the special requirements to finally obtain the lower tax rate of 15 The following table shows a reconciliation of reported tax and tax calper cent for income year 2017. The provision related to the ordinary tax culated on Swedish tax rate of 22 per cent. The main tax components rate for 2017 has thereby been released and effects income tax posiare shown below. tive with SEK 55 million for 2018. In 2017, a positive tax of SEK 53 million was reported related to release of 2016 years provision. SEK million 2018 2017 In view of the difficulties to currently estimate whether these speEarnings before tax multiplied by nominal tax cial requirements will be met for the financial year 2018, corporate rate in Sweden –187 –175 income tax in the Chinese operation has been based on the standard Effect of foreign operations with tax rates other rate of 25 per cent for 2018. The provision for the higher tax rate than 22 % –6 –25 applied on 2018 years profit for China amount to SEK 51 million per 31 Non-deductible expenses –5 –4 December 2018. Non-taxable income 1 8 During 2018, the Swedish Parliament approved the proposal of reduced corporate taxation in Sweden, which will be in two steps from Tax subsidies abroad 23 12 22.0 to 20.6 per cent from 2019 to 2021. In the first two years, the tax Other income tax paid abroad –36 –24 will be reduced to 21.4 per cent and then to 20.6 per cent. As a result Adjustment of tax in respect of prior years –8 12 of the reduced corporate tax rate, deferred tax was recalculated durChanges in tax legislation 1 –3 ing the year and affected the income tax positive with SEK 1 million. Release on tax provision in China 55 53 Total tax –161 –145 Deferred tax Deferred tax consists of the Group’s tax items, which are settled in the future. The table below specifies deferred tax assets and tax ­liabilities relating to temporary differences between the carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax on temporary differences 2018 2017 Deferred Deferred Net deferred Deferred Deferred Net deferred SEK million tax asset (+) tax liability (–) tax tax asset (+) tax liability (–) tax Property, plant and equipment 6 –161 –155 – –102 –102 Intangible assets – –40 –40 – –35 –35 Hedging reserve in equity 6 – 6 – –4 –4 Net pension provision 28 –12 16 17 –9 8 Other non-current items 22 0 22 9 – 9 Total non-current items 61 –213 –152 26 –151 –125 Current receivables 5 – 5 4 – 4 Inventories 39 – 39 6 – 6 Other current items 81 –6 76 52 – 52 Total current items 125 –6 120 62 – 62 Tax losses 11 – 11 47 – 47 Set-off –144 144 0 –91 91 0 Net deferred tax assets (+) / liabilities (–) 54 –76 –22 44 –60 –16 Deferred tax asset in respect of tax losses have been taken into Change in deferred tax in the income statement account in full since the company is of the opinion that sufficient income will be generated in the future to be utilized against the tax SEK million 2018 2017 losses. The tax losses amount to SEK 50 million (215) per 31 December Change in deferred tax in balance sheet –6 –56 2018 and are limited to be used within 10 years. Change in deferred tax, hedging reserve in other comprehensive income –10 12 Change in deferred tax, actuarial gains and losses on pensions in other comprehensive income –6 –4 Business combinations – –1 Translation effects in other comprehensive income 0 5 Change in deferred tax in the income statement –22 –42 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 83 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16 EARNINGS PER SHARE Earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit for the year by the weighted average number of outstanding shares. There are no potential shares and hence no dilution effect for 2018. For further information of Gränges’ shares, see Note 23. 2018 2017 Profit for the year (SEK million) 688 652 Weighted average number of outstanding shares, basic 75,517,386 75,370,577 Weighted average number of outstanding shares, diluted 75,517,386 75,440,749 Earnings per share, basic, SEK 9.11 8.65 Earnings per share, diluted, SEK 9.11 8.64 17 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Customer Customer relationrelationSEK million IT Goodwill ships Total SEK million IT Goodwill ships Total Carrying amount at 1 January 2018 91 372 178 640 Carrying amount at 1 January 2017 17 359 207 584 Acquisitions 99 0 – 99 Acquisitions 74 0 0 74 Business combinations – – – – Business combinations – 31 – 31 Amortization –1 – –10 –11 Amortization –1 – –10 –11 Translation differences – 17 16 33 Translation differences – –18 –20 –38 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 188 389 183 761 Carrying amount at 31 December 2017 91 372 178 640 Cost at 31 December 2018 216 389 207 813 Cost at 31 December 2017 118 372 190 679 Accumulated amortization Accumulated amortization and impairment –28 – –24 –52 and impairment –27 – –13 –39 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 188 389 183 761 Carrying amount at 31 December 2017 91 372 178 640 Impairment test of goodwill Customer relationships Impairment testing for goodwill is made annually or continuously durThe customer relationships arose in conjunction with an acquisition in ing the year if an event that may result in impairment need arises. The US during 2016. The acquired business has a number of large customforecast period is five years with an average growth rate of 3.5 (4.1) per ers that they have had long relationships with. The customer relationcent. Estimated growth rate beyond the forecast period amounts to 1.5 ships are recognized at their fair value at the date of acquisition and (–) per cent. Cash flows have been discounted at a present value using are subsequently amortized on a straight-line basis over their estia discount rate calculated at 7.9 (7.9) per cent after tax, corresponding mated useful lives of 20 years. to 8.2 (8.7) per cent before tax. Sensitivity analyses have been performed to evaluate whether reasonable changes in discount rate and Other the growth rate would indicate need for impairment. No reasonable IT mainly refers to implementation of new production and ERP systems changes in assumptions or events during the year or after its expirawithin the Group. tion indicate need for impairment. The Group is running a large number of development projects but he criteria for recognising the projects as intangible assets are currently not met. Total costs for research and development projects amount to SEK 93 million (82) for 2018. 84 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Land, land improvements Machinery and Fixed assets under Fixtures, SEK million and buildings ­equipment construction vehicles, etc. Total Carrying amount at 1 January 2018 661 2,153 218 44 3,076 Acquisitions1) 0 2 734 8 744 Business combinations – – – – – Sales 0 –3 – –4 –7 Transferred assets, fixed assets under construction 34 240 –302 28 0 Impairment – – – – – Depreciation –43 –280 – –19 –342 Translation differences 30 139 10 1 180 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 682 2,250 661 59 3,651 Cost at 31 December 2018 1,135 4,812 661 250 6,858 Accumulated depreciation and impairment –453 –2,563 – –191 –3,207 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 682 2,250 661 59 3,651 Carrying amount at 1 January 2017 713 2,428 159 46 3,347 Acquisitions 0 25 247 12 284 Business combinations 4 5 0 0 9 Sales – –1 – 0 –1 Transferred assets, fixed assets under construction 19 152 –183 12 0 Impairment – –4 – –1 –4 Depreciation –40 –291 – –24 –355 Translation differences –36 –162 –5 –1 –204 Carrying amount at 31 December 2017 661 2,153 218 44 3,076 Cost, 31 December 2017 1,064 4,388 218 216 5,887 Accumulated depreciation and impairment –404 –2,236 – –171 –2,811 Carrying amount at 31 December 2017 661 2,153 218 44 3,076 1) During 2018 SEK 45 million has been received in government grants for Americas. The grant has reduced the acquisitions. For information on lease costs regarding leased property, plant and equipment, see Note 29. For information on collateral and mortgages related to property, plant and equipment, see Note 31. 19 INVENTORIES SEK million 2018 2017 Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and fair value after deduction of selling costs. Raw materials 596 499 The amount of inventories recognized as an expense is included in cost Work in progress 615 547 of materials and amounted in 2018 to SEK 8,536 million (7,396) including Finished goods and merchandise 821 586 the change in the provision for obsolescence of SEK 8 million (1). Provision for obsolescence –34 –21 Total inventories 1,968 1,611 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 85 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20 OVERVIEW OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial ­instruments at Derivatives Financial fair value included in ­liabilities Of which 2018 Measurement through profit hedge ­ easured at m Loans and interest­ SEK million Note level or loss accounting amortized cost r­ eceivables Total bearing Non-current assets Non-current financial ­receivables 26, 32 – – – – 2 2 2 Non-current derivatives 28 2 – 2 – – 2 – Total – 2 – 2 4 2 Current assets Accounts receivable 21 – – – – 1,414 1,414 – Other current receivables 21 – – – – 278 278 – Current derivatives 21, 26, 28 2 71 5 – – 76 – Cash and cash equivalents 22 – – – – 457 457 457 Total 71 5 – 2,149 2,225 457 Non-current liabilities Non-current financial ­liabilities 26 – – – 2,112 – 2,112 2,112 Non-current derivatives 28 2 4 0 – – 5 4 Total 4 0 2,112 – 2,117 2,117 Current liabilities Current financial liabilities 26 – – – 515 – 515 515 Accounts payable 24 – – – 1,250 – 1,250 – Other current liabilities 24 – – – 2 – 2 – Current derivatives 24, 26, 28 2 39 32 – – 71 – Total 39 32 1,767 – 1,838 515 Total financial instruments (receivables + / liabilities –) 28 -26 -3,879 2,151 –1,726 –2,173 Financial ­instruments at Derivatives Financial fair value included in ­liabilities Of which 2017 Measurement through profit hedge ­measured at Loans and interest­ SEK million Note level or loss accounting amortized cost r­ eceivables Total bearing Non-current assets Non-current financial ­receivables 26, 32 – – – – 33 33 33 Non-current derivatives 28 2 – 5 – – 5 – Total – 5 – 33 38 33 Current assets Accounts receivable 21 – – – – 1,599 1,599 – Other current receivables 21 – – – – 91 91 – Current derivatives 21, 26, 28 2 44 24 – – 68 0 Cash and cash equivalents 22 – – – – 742 742 742 Total 44 24 – 2,432 2,500 742 Non-current liabilities Non-current financial ­liabilities 26 – – – 2,215 – 2,215 2,215 Non-current derivatives 28 2 – 3 – – 3 – Total – 3 2,215 – 2,218 2,215 Current liabilities Current financial liabilities 26 – – – 576 – 576 576 Accounts payable 24 – – – 986 – 986 – Other current liabilities 24 – – – 2 – 2 – Current derivatives 24, 26, 28 2 57 10 – – 67 – Total 57 10 1,564 – 1,631 576 Total financial instruments (receivables + / liabilities –) –13 16 –3,779 2,465 –1,311 –2,016 86 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS >> CONT. NOTE 20 Measurement of financial instruments Interest-bearing receivables and liabilities The Group uses the following hierarchy to determine the fair values of The fair value of interest-bearing assets and liabilities is provided for financial instruments: disclosure purposes and is estimated by discounting the future cash Level 1: Q uoted, unadjusted prices in active markets for identical flows of principal and interest discounted at the current market rate. instruments. In the fair value measurement of borrowings the credit spread has Level 2: I nputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are remained constant unless there is clear evidence that a change in directly or indirectly observable for the instrument. the Group’s creditworthiness has resulted in an observable change Level 3: N on-observable inputs that have significant impact on the fair in the credit spread. The fair value of borrowings amounted in 2018 value of the instrument. to SEK 2,641 million (2,805). Currency forwards Other receivables and liabilities Fair value of currency forward contracts is calculated by discounting For other receivables and liabilities, which are short-term, the the difference between the contracted forward rate and the forward ­carrying amount is considered to reflect the fair value. rate that can be contracted on the balance sheet date for the remaining contract period. No transfers from one level to another in the valuation hierarchy were made in 2018 and 2017. Aluminium futures Aluminium futures are measured at observable quoted prices on LME (London Metal Exchange) and SHFE (Shanghai Futures Exchange) for similar assets and liabilities. 21 CURRENT RECEIVABLES 22 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS SEK million 2018 2017 SEK million 2018 2017 Accounts receivable 1,414 1,599 Cash and bank balances 457 742 Derivatives 76 68 Total cash and cash equivalents 457 742 Other current receivables 316 91 Total financial receivables 1,807 1,758 Advances to suppliers/accrued income Tax receivables 45 7 28 39 23 SHARE CAPITAL Total current receivables 1,859 1,826 2018 2017 Opening numbers of shares 75,517,386 75,155,386 Change in provisions for bad debts Rights issue – 362,000 SEK million 2018 2017 Closing numbers of shares 75,517,386 75,517,386 Provisions for bad debts at 1 January –19 –32 SEK million 2018 2017 Bad debts recognized in income statement –5 10 Used during the year 1 1 Share capital, opening balance 101 101 Translation differences –1 1 Rights issue – 0 Provisions for bad debts at 31 December –23 –19 Share capital, closing balance 101 101 Accounts receivables maturity structure SEK million 2018 2017 Share premium, opening balance 49 33 SEK million 2018 2017 Rights issue – 16 Not yet due 1,116 1,105 Share premium, closing balance 49 49 Overdue 1–30 days 218 293 Overdue 31–60 days 55 85 The articles of association for Gränges AB state that the share capiOverdue 61–90 days 23 35 tal shall be not less than SEK 80,000,000 and not more than SEK Overdue more than 90 days 26 101 320,000,000. The number of shares shall be not less than 32,000,000 and not more than 128,000,000. Provisions for bad debts at 31 December –23 –19 Due to the exercise of options from the Group’s prior incentive Accounts receivable, carrying amount at program new shares were issued during 2017. The rights issue 31 December 1,414 1,599 increased equity by SEK 16 million, whereof share capital by SEK 0 million and number of shares with 362,000. The maturity structure of overdue receivables has been relatively The share capital comprises a single class of share and amounts to stable over time and reflects the fact that Gränges operates in certain SEK 101 million as of 31 December 2018. Share capital is divided into regions and markets where payments from customers are generally 75,517,386 shares, each with a quota value of SEK 1.339775. For earnsomewhat slow. Overdue accounts receivable are allocated across the ings per share and dilutive effect, see Note 16. whole customer base. Bad debts have historically been relatively small and stable. Five customers accounted for 33 per cent of total outstanding accounts receiv­able at 31 December 2018 (five customers accounted for 20 per cent of the total in 2017). A more detailed description of the customer base is given in Note 6. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 87 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INANCING AND INTEREST-BEARING 24 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES 26 FLIABILITIES SEK million 2018 2017 Financing Gränges’ long-term interest-bearing debt consists of USD term loans of Accounts payable 1,250 986 USD 170 million and bonds issued in the Group’s MTN program. During Derivatives 71 67 the third quarter 2018 two bonds of SEK 300 million each were issued. Non-interest-bearing liabilities 2 2 The tenor was 3 and 5 years at floating interest rate. The duration of the Total non-interest-bearing financial liabilities 1,323 1 ,055 interest-bearing debt portfolio was approximately three months at 31 December 2018. Gränges has a revolving credit facility of SEK 1,200 milValue-added tax, employee withholding tax etc. 39 38 lion, available in several currencies with a remaining time to maturity of Accrued expenses 145 144 two years. At 31 December 2018 SEK 0 million (0) was utilized. Gränges Employee-related liabilities 241 195 commercial paper program was utilized to SEK 250 million (300) at year Other current liabilities 34 42 end 2018. Additional short-term debt amounted to SEK 265 million (276). The loan facilities are subject to covenants, which are Net Debt/EBITDA Total other current liabilities 1,781 1,474 and Interest coverage ratio. The covenants were fulfilled at 31 December 2018. 25 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT SEK million Carrying amount 2018 2017 Gränges’ capital management is governed by principles adopted by Non-current interest-bearing liabilities the Board of Directors. The capital structure is also adapted to legal Interest-bearing loans 1,512 2,215 and tax considerations. The company’s financial objective for capital Bonds in MTN program 600 – management is a net debt of one to two times adjusted EBITDA over Current interest-bearing derivatives 4 – the past twelve months. A further description of Gränges’ manageTotal non-current interest-bearing liabilities 2,117 2,215 ment of financing is given in Notes 26 and 27. Gränges does not currently have an official credit rating. Current interest-bearing liabilities Interest-bearing loans 265 276 SEK million 2018 2017 Commercial papers 250 300 Total interest-bearing liabilities 2,632 2,791 Total current interest-bearing liabilities 515 576 Total interest-bearing receivables 2 33 Total interest-bearing liabilities 2,632 2,791 Cash and cash equivalents 457 742 Interest-bearing receivables Net interest-bearing liabilities 2,172 2,017 Non-current interest-bearing receivables 2 33 Provision for pensions 321 276 Cash and cash equivalents 457 742 Net debt 2,494 2,292 Total interest-bearing receivables 459 774 Adjusted EBITDA 1,357 1,303 Net interest-bearing liabilities 2,172 2,017 Net debt/Adjusted EBITDA 1,8 1.8 Under the current loan agreements Gränges has entered into customFor definition and calculation of adjusted EBITDA, see alternative perary undertakings not to pledge assets or in a similar manner use its formance measures on page 94. property to give creditors a better right than the banks providing the credit facility. 27 FINANCIAL RISK Financial risk management total sales volume while net sales in foreign currencies totalled Gränges operates on a global basis and is exposed to financial risks SEK 12,542 million (11,140). The largest currencies were USD, such as market risk in the form of currency risk, commodity price risk CNY and EUR. and interest rate risk, and also to liquidity risk and credit risk. Gränges The selling price for Gränges’ products is divided into a metal price uses derivatives and other financial instruments to reduce the risks in component for the raw aluminium and a conversion price component accordance with the Group’s Financial Management Policy. covering Gränges’ processing costs and margin. The cost of the aluTo secure the Group’s shortand long-term financial flexibility and to minium is passed on to the customer through metal price clauses. The monitor and manage financial risks are some of the treasury departaluminium price is generally set in connection with delivery. As both ment’s central responsibilities. This is done in cooperation with the purchase and selling price for the metal component in general are operating companies within Gränges. based on the London Metal Exchange (LME) price for aluminium, which Financial risk refers to risk pertaining to financial instruments. The is expressed in US dollars, no material currency exposures arise on the financial risks that cannot be mitigated by a natural hedge, are hedged metal price component. Unlike the metal price, the conversion price is with financial derivates according to policies decided by the Board. subject to contracts covering a longer period of time, thus creating a Gränges manages financial risks in a non-­speculative manner and all greater currency risk. transactions in financial derivates are adapted to limit financial risks The largest portion of Gränges’ cost base for processing is in USD, in the operations. CNY and SEK while the conversion price is set primarily in USD, CNY and EUR. The Group’s sensitivity to exchange rate fluctuations before Currency risk currency hedges, that is excluding the impact of currency derivatives, Transaction exposure is shown in the table below. Gränges conducts operations globally and is thereby exposed to currency risk. Exposure occurs as the Group’s sales and purchases are 2018 Change, % Effect on operating profit, SEK million carried out in different currencies. The currency risks may cause flucUSD/CNY +/–10% +/–65 tuations in the value of financial instruments, that is debt instruments, accounts receivables and accounts payables, and the value of USD/SEK +/–10% +/–44 expected and contracted payment flows. In 2018, sales volume to EUR/SEK +/–10% +/–54 countries outside Sweden accounted for 98 per cent (97) of Gränges’ 88 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS >> CONT. NOTE 27 The transaction risk is hedged according to the Financial Management cast in which a portion of the forecast currency exposure is hedged. In Policy. The objective for Gränges’ currency hedging activities is to 2018, 50–70 per cent of the forecast currency exposure of the coming minimize the effect of rapid changes in currency rates in the short and 12 months was hedged. medium term by hedging a part of the Group’s foreign currency expoThe Group’s total outstanding currency hedges of future trans­actions sure. Exposures relating to c ­ ustomer orders without firm commitat the balance sheet date are shown in the tables below. ments are hedged up to 24 months out in time based on a rolling foreCurrency contracts linked to hedging of future income and expenses1) EUR/SEK USD/SEK USD/CNY Maturity Sold volumes, EUR Sold volumes, USD Sold volumes, USD 31 Dec 2018 million net Price million net Price million net Price Q1 2019 21 10.06 11 8.45 18 6.72 Q2 2019 18 10.16 9 8.63 17 6.76 Q3 2019 14 10.07 7 8.41 11 6.72 Q4 2019 11 10.32 4 8.54 11 6.82 FY 2020 18 10.40 0 7.82 6 6.87 Total 82 10.19 31 8.50 63 6.77 31 Dec 2017 FY 2018 and FY 2019 87 9.65 51 8.33 64 6.81 Metal related currency contracts linked to hedging of future income and expenses1) EUR/SEK USD/SEK USD/CNY Maturity Sold volumes, EUR Sold volumes, USD Sold volumes, USD 31 Dec 2018 million net Price million net Price million net Price Q1–2 2019 –11 10.26 38 8.92 2 6.72 31 Dec 2017 Q1–2 2018 –7 9.88 28 7.99 7 6.75 1) In currency pairs where the net hedged position exceeds SEK 20 million. Gränges applies hedge accounting for most hedges of future trans­ Interest rate risk actions, either cash flow hedges or fair value hedges of firm commitGränges’ interest rate risk is primarily related to the Group’s interest­ ments. The various types of hedging are described in Note 28. bearing liabilities and assets. Gränges’ revolving credit facility allows for borrowing with interest terms of one, two, three or six months. The Translation exposure average duration in the loan portfolio at 31 December 2018 was three As SEK is the presentation currency for the Group, Gränges is exposed months (three months). Gränges’ loans have variable interest rates. to currency risk upon translation of net investments in foreign operaThe interest bearing debt’s duration was not prolonged with financial tions. This refers mainly to CNY and USD, and the total trans­lation instruments during 2018. exposure was SEK 3,190 million (2,843) at 31 December 2018. Gränges does not hedge this exposure. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that Gränges will be unable to fulfil its pay­ment Commodity price risk obligations. Gränges’ Financial Management Policy stipulates metrics to Aluminium is traded mainly on the London Metal Exchange (LME), but ensure adequate liquidity in the Group. Cash flow from operating activialso on the Shanghai Futures Exchange (SHFE). For Gränges the price ties is managed centrally in Gränges Group and Gränges monitors both on metal purchases are mainly affected by fluctuations in the market short­and long-term liquidity in the Group. price of aluminium on LME and SHFE. The guiding principle is that The table below shows the maturity structure for the Gränges Gränges should, where possible, avoid exposures to changes in the Group’s contractual financial liabilities. The amounts refer to non-­ LME price or other benchmark prices, such as the SHFE price. Gränges discounted future cash flows and may therefore differ from the recreduces this risk primarily by linking prices from metal ­suppliers to the ognized ­figures. All variable interest cash flows have been calculated prices it offers the customers. In addition, futures contracts for aluat the rate prevailing on the balance sheet date and all future cash minium on LME and SHFE are used in order to reduce the price risk in flows in foreign currency are translated to SEK using the closing rate connection with orders and secure the value of metal in stock. at year-end. The table also includes derivatives which are recognized Gränges normally has a certain level of stock for which the price to as assets at the balance sheet date, as derivatives can include both the customers has not been fixed. The part of the stock where the positive and negative cash flows, and the fair value var­ies over time. price has not been fixed with the customers are hedged using finanFinancial liabilities are managed using operating cash flow, liquid cial instruments. At 31 December 2018 Gränges had sold a net 15,725 and interest-­bearing assets and, where necessary, available credit tonnes (11,500) of aluminium for hedging on LME and 12,190 tonnes facilities. (7,500) for hedging on SHFE. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 89 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS >> CONT. NOTE 27 2018 Contractual SEK million Carrying amount cash flows < 1 year 1–2 years 2–4 years > 4 years Other interest-bearing liabilities 2,632 2,864 610 59 1,892 303 Accounts payable 1,250 1,250 1,250 – – – Other current liabilities 2 2 2 – – – Net-settled derivatives1) – aluminium derivatives 34 – – – – – Inflow – –61 –61 – – – Outflow – 27 27 – – – Gross-settled derivatives1) – currency derivatives –28 – – – – – Inflow – –21 –23 2 – – Outflow – –6 –6 0 – – Total 3,891 4,055 1,799 61 1,892 303 2017 Contractual SEK million Carrying amount cash flows < 1 year 1–2 years 2–4 years > 4 years Other interest-bearing liabilities 2,791 3,034 656 516 1,650 212 Accounts payable 986 986 986 – – – Other current liabilities 2 2 2 – – – Net-settled derivatives1) – aluminium derivatives –12 – – – – – Inflow – –27 –27 – – – Outflow – 39 39 – – – Gross-settled derivatives1) – currency derivatives –15 – – – – – Inflow – –3,534 –3,160 –374 – – Outflow – 3,519 3,147 372 – – Total 3,752 4,019 1,643 514 1,650 212 1) Including derivatives recognized as assets. Credit risk • For currency hedges of concluded contracts changes in the fair The management of credit risks related to accounts receivable and value of the hedging instrument will affect the income statement other current assets is handled as part of the commercial risk and while changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged contract monitored continuously by the operating units. Gränges customers are that is offset by the hedging instrument will not be shown, as this is also spread over various countries and geographic markets. Credit not a financial instrument. losses have historically been low due to the relatively strong financial • If one of the parameters changes the analysis will not take account position of Gränges’ customers as well as strict credit pro­c edures. of any correlations with other parameters. Gränges’ credit risks related to other financial instruments are • Financial instruments issued in the functional currency of individ­managed by choosing counterparties with a good credit rating and ual units do not create a currency risk and are therefore not by minimising the risk per counterparty. Gränges also enters into included in this analysis. For the same reason the currency expocustomary agreements with financial counterparties, as for example sure is not included upon translation of such financial instruments ISDA-agreements. into the presentation currency. Sensitivity analysis Generally, the effect on the income statement and other comprehenFinancial instruments in the Gränges Group are exposed to different sive income of financial instruments shown in the table below is types of market risk which can affect the income statement or equity. expected to offset the effects of the hedged items in cases where the Financial instruments, especially derivatives, are used as a means of financial instruments are included in a hedging relation­ship. hedging financial and operational exposures. Accounting effects of changes in market risk are classified to the The table below shows a partial analysis of the sensitivity of finanincome statement and other comprehensive income depending on cial instruments, where the isolated effect of each type of risk on the where the effect of changes in fair value should be recognized initially. income statement and other comprehensive income is calculated. Effects which are accounted for in the income statement also affect This is done on the basis of a chosen hypothetical change in market other comprehensive income in addition to the figures presented in prices or prices in the balance sheet at 31 December. In accordance the table. with IFRS, the analysis only covers financial instruments and is not intended to provide a full overview of the Group’s market risk, for example: Accounting before tax effects on Income statement Other comprehensive income SEK million 2018 2017 2018 2017 Interest rate risk: 100 bp parallel shift in yield curves, all currencies –/+22 –/+20 – – Currency risk: +/–10 % change in FX rate, USD/SEK –/+6 –/+3 –/+22 –/+31 Currency risk: +/–10 % change in FX rate, EUR/SEK –/+7 0 –/+63 –/+70 Currency risk: +/–10 % change in FX rate, CNY/USD 0 0 –/+38 –/+37 Price risk: +/–20 % change in LME prices –/+110 –/+82 +/–14 +/–11 90 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28 DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING The table below shows the fair value of all outstanding derivatives grouped by their treatment in the financial statements. Derivatives and hedging 2018 2017 SEK million Assets (+) Liabilities (–) Assets (+) Liabilities (–) Cash flow hedges Currency forwards, currency swaps 7 –26 26 –13 Aluminium futures 0 –7 3 0 Total 7 –33 29 –13 Fair value hedges Currency forwards, currency swaps 3 –4 6 –7 Aluminium futures 61 –19 22 –39 Total 64 –23 28 –46 Other derivatives – changes in fair value recognized in income statement Currency forwards, currency swaps 7 –15 15 –11 Interest rate swaps – –4 – – Aluminium futures 0 –1 1 0 Total 7 –20 16 –11 Total derivatives 78 -76 73 –70 Cash flow hedges Fair value hedging Gränges’ purchases futures contracts for aluminium on LME and Gränges sells aluminium futures contracts to hedge the value of SHFE, as well as currency forwards are identified as hedging instruinventory. Where there also is a currency risk exposure, related curments in cash flow hedges. All derivatives are classified as hedging rency derivatives are entered into. Metal and currency derivatives are instruments in cash flow hedges accounted for at fair value in the balthen together designated as a hedging instrument in fair value ance sheet. Changes in fair value are recognized in other comprehenhedges. Gains and losses on hedged items, as well as the hedging sive income and accumulated in the hedging reserve in equity and instrument are accounted for as cur­rency gains and losses in the reclassified to the income statement when the hedged cash flows are income statement and the value of inventory is adjusted by changes in recognized in the income statement. the fair value of the hedged risk. Gain on the hedging instruments No gain or loss has been recognized in the income statement as a amounted to SEK 60 million in 2018 (–2) and loss on the hedged items result of ineffective hedging in 2018 and 2017. All expected cash flows attributable to the hedged risk amounted to SEK –60 million in 2018 that were hedged in 2018 still qualify for hedge accounting. (2). Change in hedging reserve Offsetting Financial assets and liabilities subject to an enforceable master SEK million 2018 2017 ­netting arrangement or similar agreement relate only to the Group’s Opening hedging reserve before tax 16 –38 derivatives. Gränges has entered into ISDA-agreements with relevant financial counterparties. Reclassified to income statement –14 31 Change in value during the year –27 22 Derivatives Closing hedging reserve before tax –26 16 Net not amounts intended Collaterals Deferred tax, hedging reserve 6 –4 SEK Gross in balance to be received/ Net Closing hedging reserve after tax –20 12 ­million amounts Offset sheet settled net pledged amounts 2018 A negative hedging reserve will result in negative figures in the income Derivative statement in the future. Accumulated hedging gains and losses from assets 78 – 78 44 – 34 cash flow hedges which were recognized in the hedging reserve as at Derivative 31 December 2018 and are expected to be recognized in the income liabilities –71 – –71 –44 – –28 statement (before tax) are SEK –27 million for 2019 and SEK 2 million after 2019. 2017 Derivative assets 73 – 73 50 – 23 Derivative liabilities –70 – –70 –50 – –20 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 91 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 29 LEASING The Group has no agreements classified as financial leasing. OperaOperating leases – lessees tional leasing is primarily attributable to agreements regarding Future minimum lease payments relating to leases and other leases in warehousing, office facilities, vehicles and equipment. In ­Finspång, the capacity of lessees attributable to non-cancellable agreements Sweden, Gränges conduct rental of industrial premises. are distributed on the balance sheet date over the following maturity dates: Land and buildings Machinery and equipment Fixtures and vehicles Other assets Total SEK million 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Within 1 year –16 –8 –16 –5 –19 –6 –1 – –52 –19 Within 2–5 years –47 –31 –70 –18 –36 –18 0 – –153 –67 After 5 years –5 –12 –128 – 0 0 – – –133 –13 Total future lease costs –67 –52 –213 –23 –55 –24 –1 – –337 –99 The expense for lease payments for the period is shown in Note 11. Operating leases – lessor Future minimum lease payments relating to leases and other leases as lessor attributable to non-cancellable agreements are distributed on the balance sheet date over the following maturity dates: Land and buildings Machinery and equipment Fixtures and vehicles Other assets Total SEK million 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Within 1 year 20 20 – – – – – – 20 20 Within 2–5 years 6 19 – – – – – – 6 19 After 5 years 0 0 – – – – – – 0 0 Total future lease income 26 40 – – – – – – 26 40 Rental income for 2018 amounts to SEK 21 million (21). 30 ACQUISITION Norca Norca was until the acquisition classified as a joint venture and conNorca Heat Transfer LLC (“Norca”), in which Gränges held a 50 per solidated according to the equity method. Following the acquisition, cent ownership until January 2018, administered the import and the operation is consolidated according to the acquisition method. distribution of Gränges’ heat exchanger materials to customers in The consolidated value of share in associates was SEK 11 million at the Americas, supplied from the production sites in Finspång and the time of acquisition. The result of revaluation at fair value amounted Shanghai. 2 January 2018 Gränges acquired the remaining 50 per cent to SEK 22 million and is recognized as profit from joint ventures in the of Norca for a purchase price of USD 4 million. Gränges has from 2018 income statement. coordinate the Group’s distribution in North America through Gränges Norca only distributed products from Gränges, meaning that the Americas. inventory in Norca consisted of products only from Gränges. When consolidating using the equity method, 50 per cent of the intercomPurchase price allocation Norca pany profit in inventory was eliminated and accounted for in the line USD million SEK million investments in joint ventures. When using the acquisition method 100 per cent of internal profit in inventory is eliminated and accounted for Current assets, excluding cash 59.8 482 within cost of materials. Cash 7.1 57 The purchase price allocation is determined without adjustments. Interest-bearing liabilities 24.5 197 Other current liabilities 34.5 278 Net identifiable assets and liabilities 8.0 64 Purchase price 8.0 64 Cash consideration paid for acquisition –4.0 –32 Fair value of investment in joint venture –4.0 –32 Total purchase price –8.0 –64 92 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 PLEDGED ASSETS, GUARANTEES AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Pledged assets In 2018, a new guarantee was issued for the supply of electricity to the Swedish operation. SEK million 2018 2017 During 2017 Gränges issued a guarantee for a bank loan to its curProperty mortgages – 15 rent joint venture company Norca Heat Transfer LLC. The bank loan Own liabilities covered by property mortgages – 1 was repaid 2 January 2018 and the guarantee did at the same time expire. Contingent liabilities Disputes SEK million 2018 2017 From time to time disputes with counterparties arise in the ongoing operGuarantee for supply of electricity 13 – ations. The Group regularly makes assessments and provisions if necessary in the accounts. Currently, the Group is not involved in any major litiGuarantee commitment PRI Pensionsgaranti 2 2 gation that is expected to substantially affect the accounts negatively. Guarantee for worker’s compensation 5 7 Guarantee for bank loan at Norca Heat Transfer Environmental issues LLC – 170 The Group has conducted industrial production for a long time at facilTotal contingent liabilities 20 178 ities in Finspång, Västerås and Upplands Väsby. In light of the public review of potentially polluted areas in Sweden that is being conducted For the loan agreements described in Note 26, Gränges has entered by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and country admininto a customary undertaking to not pledge assets or in a similar manistrative boards, Gränges may be involved in reviews and investiganer use its property to give creditors a better right than the banks that tions relating to facilities where industrial production has historically are providing the credit facilities. The commitment that was covered taken place. For instance, industrial production has been conducted by the property mortgages has ceased and there are no longer any by various operators at Gränges’ facility in Finspång since the 16th pledged assets within the Group. century. There are currently no ongoing cases relating to responsibility in this respect. 32 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Intra Group transactions are executed in accordance with ­specific SEK million 2018 2017 arrangements at arm’s length and shared costs in Gränges are allocated among the companies in the Group using allocation formulas Transactions with joint ventures depending on the types of expenditure. Sales 7 751 During 2017 transactions with Norca Heat Transfer LLC (“Norca”) Other income and expenses 0 3 were identified as transactions with join ventures. Subsequently, after Non-current interest-bearing receivables 2 33 the acquisition of the remaining shares in Norca, only transactions Accounts receivable 3 255 with Moriyasu Aluminium Co Ltd. are included in transactions with joint ventures in 2018. Non-interest-bearing liabilities – 8 For information on remuneration and benefits to board members and key individuals in senior positions, see Note 8. There are no other trans­actions with related parties. 33 EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE No significant events have occurred after the year end. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 93 ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Gränges makes use of the alternative performance measures return on capital employed, net debt, equity to assets ratio and cash conversion. Gränges believes that these performance measures are useful for readers of the financial reports as a complement to other performance measures when assessing the possibility of dividends, the implementation of strategic investments, and the Group’s ability to meet financial commitments. Further, Gränges uses the alternative performance measures adjusted operating profit, adjusted operating profit per tonne and adjusted EBITDA, which are measures that Gränges considers to be ­relevant for investors who want to understand the profit generation excluding items affecting comparability. For definitions of the measures, see page 105. SEK million 2018 2017 Adjusted operating profit Operating profit 940 917 Items affecting comparability 64 16 Adjusted operating profit 1,005 933 Adjusted operating profit per tonne Adjusted operating profit 1,005 933 Sales volume, ktonnes 375.0 373.0 Adjusted operating profit per tonne, kSEK 2.7 2.5 Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted operating profit 1,005 933 Depreciation and amortization 353 370 Adjusted EBITDA 1,357 1,303 Return on capital employed Total assets less cash and cash equivalents and interest-bearing receivables, rolling 12 months average 7,999 7,111 Non-interest bearing liabilities, rolling 12 months average –2,194 –1,810 Pensions, rolling 12 months average 293 280 Capital employed 6,098 5,581 Adjusted operating profit 1,005 933 Return on capital employed, % 16.5 16.7 Net debt/Adjusted EBITDA Cash and cash equivalents and interest–bearing receivables –459 –775 Interest-bearing liabilities 2,632 2,791 Pensions 321 276 Net debt 2,494 2,292 Equity to assets Equity 3,873 3,322 Total assets 8,773 8,005 Equity to assets, % 44.2 41.5 Adjusted cash flow before financing activities Cash flow from operating activities 1,351 968 Cash flow from investing activities –819 –396 Cash flow from expansion investments 470 38 Cash flow from acquisitions –24 42 Adjusted cash flow before financing activities 977 652 Cash conversion Adjusted cash flow before financing activities 977 652 Adjusted operating profit 1,005 933 Cash conversion, % 97 70 94 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 95 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY INCOME STATEMENT SEK million Note 2018 2017 Net sales 3 203 219 Payroll expenses 7 –96 –84 Other operating expenses 4, 5, 6 –161 –156 Depreciation, amortization and impairment charges 10, 11 –26 –27 Operating loss –80 –47 Profit/loss from financial items Dividends from subsidiaries 517 378 Financial income 8 135 117 Financial costs 8 –117 –103 Financial items 535 391 Profit after financial items 455 344 Appropriations Change in accelerated depreciation 43 –25 Group contributions 115 90 Tax on profit for the year 9 –53 –23 Profit for the year 560 385 The parent company has no items which are accounted for as other comprehensive income. Total comprehensive income is therefore the same as profit for the year. 96 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET SEK million Note 2018 2017 ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets 10 7 159 Property, plant and equipment 11 206 217 Participations in Group companies 12 1,160 1,160 Receivables from Group companies 2,674 2,344 Interest-bearing receivables – 33 Other non-current receivables 8 13 Total non-current assets 4,054 3,925 Current receivables Accounts receivable 3 4 Receivables from Group companies 161 147 Other receivables 67 84 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 5 7 Total current receivables 237 242 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and bank balances 120 106 Total cash and cash equivalents 120 106 Total current assets 356 348 TOTAL ASSETS 4,411 4,273 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Restricted equity Share capital 13 101 101 Statutory reserve 7 6 Total restricted equity 108 107 Non-restricted equity Share premium reserve – 16 Retained earnings 938 765 Profit for the year 560 385 Total non-restricted equity 1,498 1,166 Total equity 1,606 1,273 Untaxed reserves Accelerated depreciation 37 80 Total untaxed reserves 37 80 Provisions Provisions for pensions 14 27 22 Total provisions 27 22 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 15 2,117 2,215 Other non-current liabilities 0 3 Total non-current liabilities 2,117 2,218 Current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 15 450 548 Accounts payable 46 14 Other liabilities 70 68 Accrued expenses and deferred income 16 55 50 Total current liabilities 622 680 Total liabilities 2,804 3,000 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 4,411 4,273 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 97 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Share Statutory Share premium Retained Profit for Total SEK million capital reserve reserve earnings the year equity Opening balance at 1 January 2018 101 6 16 765 385 1,273 Appropriation of retained earnings: Carried forward – – –16 401 –385 – Dividend – – – –227 – –227 Profit for the year – – – – 560 560 Change in fund for development expenditure – 1 – –1 – –1 Rights issue – – – – – – Closing balance at 31 December 2018 101 7 – 938 560 1,606 Opening balance at 1 January 2017 101 5 33 195 718 1,052 Appropriation of retained earnings: Carried forward – – –33 751 –718 – Dividend – – – –180 – –180 Profit for the year – – – – 385 385 Change in fund for development expenditure – 0 – –0 – – Rights issue 0 – 16 – – 16 Closing balance at 31 December 2017 101 6 16 765 385 1,273 98 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT SEK million Note 2018 2017 Operating loss –80 –47 Depreciation and impairment charges 26 27 Change in net working capital etc. 91 –55 Taxes paid 24 –3 Cash flow from operating activities 61 –79 Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 10, 11 –8 –17 Divestments of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 10, 11 152 Investments in subsidiaries 12 – –67 Cash flow from investing activities 144 –84 Dividend paid to shareholders –227 –180 Rights issue – 16 Dividend received from subsidiary 491 359 Interest paid/received 37 –1 New Loans 3,000 831 Repayment of loans –3,365 –1,164 Financial intra-group transactions –127 224 Cash flow from financing activities –191 86 Cash flow for the year 14 –77 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 106 182 Cash flow for the year 14 –77 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 120 106 Reconciliation between opening and closing balance of liabilities whose cash flows are recognized in financing activitites SEK million 2018 2017 Interest-bearing liabilities at 1 January 2,761 3,260 Cash flow –365 –333 Non-cash items Exchange rate differences 165 –170 Change in accrual borrowing costs 5 4 Interest-bearing liabilities at 31 December 2,566 2,761 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 99 NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 4 ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY The Parent Company financial statements have been prepared in SEK million 2018 2017 accordance to the Annual Accounts Act and RFR 2 Reporting for Legal M&A costs – – Entities. Application of RFR 2 entails that the Parent Company is to apply all IFRS and interpretations approved by the EU as far as possiClosure costs for US sales company – –8 ble within the framework of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, the Total items affecting comparability – –8 Pension Obligation Vesting Act and in regard to the connection between accounting and taxation. Changes in RFR 2 has not had material impact on the financial reports of the parent company. An account of the Gränges Group’s accounting policies are described in Note 4 Accounting standards in the consolidated financial state5 OPERATING LEASE PAYMENTS ments. The main deviations between the accounting policies applied Distribution of lease payments by the Gränges Group and the parent company are described below. Future minimum lease payments relating to leases and other leases in Gränges Group applies IAS 19 Employee Benefits in the consolithe capacity of lessees attributable to non-cancellable agreements dated financial statements. The Parent Company applies the princiare distributed on the balance sheet date over the following maturity ples of the Pension Obligations Vesting Act. Consequently there are dates: differences between the Gränges Group and the Parent Company in the accounting of defined benefit pension plans. SEK million 2018 2017 The Parent Company recognizes the difference between depreciation according to plan and tax depreciation as accumulated additional Within one year –4 –4 depreciation, included in untaxed reserves. Later than one year but within five years –16 –15 Group contributions received from subsidiaries are recognized as After five years –3 –7 appropriations. Total future minimum lease payments –23 –27 Capitalised development expenditure is allocated to a fund for development expenditure. The fund is restricted equity and dissolve Leasing costs amount to SEK –6 million (–3) during 2018. at the same rate as amortization or impairment of the capitalized development. Distribution of lease income Future minimum lease payments relating to leases and other leases as leaseholders attributable to non-cancellable agreements are dis2 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT tributed on the balance sheet date over the following maturity dates: SEK million 2018 2017 Gränges’ financial risks are monitored centrally in the Group, see the notes to the consolidated financial statements, Note 27 Within one year 29 30 Financial risk. Later than one year but within five years 10 47 The Parent Company applies hedge accounting for the risk expoAfter five years 0 0 sure arising from the derivative transactions with Gränges Sweden AB Total future minimum lease payments 39 77 by entering into offsetting derivatives. As hedge accounting is applied and the relationships are expected to be highly effective no unrealized gains or losses are recognized on the derivatives. For information about rental income, see Note 3. In addition, the Parent Company holds a few derivates to an insignificant value at the closing date. 3 BOF  REAKDOWN OPERATION OF NET SALES BY AREA SEK million 2018 2017 Intra-group service charges 103 95 Rental income 30 31 Research and development 60 40 Licence fees – 49 Other 10 5 Total breakdown of net sales by area of operation 203 219 100 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 REMUNERATION TO AUDITORS 9 TAXES SEK million 2018 2017 Tax expense for the year Ernst & Young AB SEK million 2018 2017 Audit engagement –0.9 –1.3 Current tax –43 –23 Audit services in addition to audit engagement –0.7 –0.4 Deferred tax attributable to Tax advisory services –0.2 –0.9 Changes in temporary differences for the year –10 0 Other services –0.1 –0.7 Total tax –53 –23 Total remuneration to auditors –1.9 –3.4 When cash and cash equivalents in China shall be made available for Audit engagement refers to the review of the annual report and the parent company, this is done through dividend payments which accounting records and of the Board of Directors and CEO’s manage­ today is being taxed with 5 per cent. Cash and cash equivalents per 31 ment of the company, other tasks incumbent on the company’s auditor December 2018 for the Chinese subsidiary amounts to SEK 135 million as well as advice and other assistance occasioned by observations (131). made in the course of such examinations or the performance of such other tasks. Audit services in addition to audit engagement consisted Reconciliation of effective tax in 2018 and in 2017 primarily of review of interim reports. Tax advisory SEK million 2018 % 2017 % services include advice on tax, including transfer pricing issues, as well as value-added tax. Other services refer to advice that is not Profit before tax 612 – 409 – attributable to any of the aforementioned categories of services. Tax at applicable tax rate –135 –22.0 –90 –22.0 Tax effects of: 7 PAYROLL EXPENSES Non-deductible expenses –1 –0.1 –1 –0.2 Non-taxable income 115 18.8 87 21.3 Salaries and remuneration totalled SEK –63.7 million (–53.3), and Adjustment of tax in social charges were SEK –32.6 million (–30.4), whereof SEK –14.1 million respect of prior (–12.9) refers to pension costs. Pension costs of SEK –1.9 million (–1.8) years 0 0.0 3 0.8 refer to the CEO. The company’s outstanding pension obligations for Foreign taxes –32 –5.2 –24 –5.5 the CEO are SEK 4.6 million (0.1). Total tax –53 –8.6 –23 –5.8 Read more about the average number of employees, salaries and remuneration, including incentives, in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. The company’s effective tax rate of 8.6 per cent (5.8) in 2018 differs from the nominal tax rate in Sweden, which is primarily an effect of a ­dividend received from Gränges Aluminium (Shanghai) Ltd. This 8 FINANCIAL INCOME AND COSTS income is also included in the basis for non-taxable income. Foreign taxes mainly relates to paid tax in China on the received dividend. SEK million 2018 2017 Deferred tax SEK million 2018 2017 Interest income from Group companies 130 115 External interest income 1 2 Buildings and land improvements –1 –1 Net foreign exchange gain 5 – Endowment insurance 1 1 Total financial income 135 117 Tax loss carry forwards – 10 Total deferred tax asset (+) / liability (–) 0 10 External interest expense –105 –81 Interest expense, pensions –1 –1 Net foreign exchange losses – –11 Other financial expenses –12 –10 Total financial costs –117 –103 Total financial income and costs 18 13 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 101 NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Intellectual Total intanIntellectual Total intangiSEK million property IT gible assets SEK million property IT ble assets Carrying amount at 1 January 2018 153 6 159 Carrying amount at 1 January 2017 164 6 170 Acquisitions – 2 2 Acquisitions – – – Sales –143 – –143 Sales – – – Amortization –10 –1 –11 Amortization –11 –1 –12 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 – 7 7 Carrying amount at 31 December 2017 153 6 159 Cost at 31 December 2018 – 8 8 Cost at 31 December 2017 168 6 174 Accumulated amortization and impairAccumulated amortization and impairment charges – –1 –1 ment charges –15 –1 –16 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 – 7 7 Carrying amount at 31 December 2017 153 6 159 Intellectual property related to the operation in the US has been sold to Gränges Americas Inc. during 2018. The consideration of SEK 148 million resulted in a net profit of SEK 5 million. The IT mainly relates to capital development expenses for an ERP implementation. 11 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Land, land improveMachinery and Fixtures, Assets under Total property, plant SEK million ments and buildings equipment vehicles, etc. ­construction and ­equipment Carrying amount at 1 January 2018 192 7 6 11 217 Acquisitions – – – 6 6 Sales 0 – –1 – –1 Transferred assets, fixed assets under c ­ onstruction 6 – 7 –13 – Depreciations and impairment charges –11 –1 –3 – –15 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 187 5 10 3 206 Cost at 31 December 2018 430 120 24 3 578 Accumulated depreciation and impairment charges –242 –115 –14 – –372 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 187 5 10 3 206 Carrying amount at 1 January 2017 197 4 8 5 214 Acquisitions – – – 16 16 Sales – – – – – Transferred assets, fixed assets under c ­ onstruction 7 4 – –11 – Depreciations and impairment charges –11 –1 –2 – –15 Carrying amount at 31 December 2017 192 7 6 11 217 Cost at 31 December 2017 424 120 19 11 574 Accumulated depreciation and impairment charges –231 –114 –13 – –358 Carrying amount at 31 December 2017 192 7 6 11 217 12 PARTICIPATIONS IN GROUP COMPANIES Share of capital Carrying amount, SEK million Reg. no Registered office No. of shares and votes, % SEK million Swedish Group companies Gränges Sweden AB 556002-6113 Finspång 300,000 100/100 164 Gränges Skultuna AB 556913-7358 Skultuna 50,000 100/100 0 Total 164 Foreign Group companies Gränges Americas Inc. – Delaware, USA – 100/100 671 Gränges Aluminium (Shanghai) Ltd – Shanghai, China – 100/100 256 Gränges International Inc. – Delaware, USA – 100/100 67 Gränges Japan Ltd – Tokyo, Japan – 100/100 3 Total 996 Total participations in Group companies 1,160 102 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13 SHARE CAPITAL 2018 2017 The articles of association for Gränges AB state that the share capital shall be not less than SEK 80,000,000 and not more than SEK Opening numbers of shares 75,517,386 75,155,386 320,000,000. The number of shares shall be not less than 32,000,000 Rights issue – 362,000 and not more than 128,000,000. Closing numbers of shares 75,517,386 75,517,386 Due to the exercise of options within the Group’s prior incentive program new shares were issued during 2017. The rights issue SEK million 2018 2017 increased equity by SEK 16 million, whereof share capital by SEK 0 Share capital, opening balance 101 101 million and number of shares with 362,000. The share capital comprises a single class of share and amounts to Rights issue – 0 SEK 101 million as of 31 December 2018. Share capital is divided into Share capital, closing balance 101 101 75,517,386 shares, each with a quota value of SEK 1.339775. Earnings per share and dilutive effect is presented in the Group’s Note 16. 14 PROVISION  FOR PENSIONS AND SIMILAR O ­ BLIGATIONS SEK million 2018 2017 Actuarial bases for calculating the capital value pursuant to the Pension Obligations Vesting Act are defined by the Swedish Financial Provision under Pension Obligations Vesting Act Regulatory Authority. Application of the Pension Obligations Vesting – FPG/PRI pensions 22 22 Act is a condition for the right to make tax deductions. Excluding cost Pension obligation secured through endowfor pension premiums, fees paid to PRI and premiums paid to FPG, the ment insurance 5 pension cost for the year is distributed as follows: Pension obligation secured through transfer of funds to pension trust – 0 SEK million 2018 2017 Total provision for pensions and similar Pensions paid during the year –1 –2 obligations 27 22 Increase/decrease in capital value –6 0 Less interest portion in PRI 1 1 Specification of change in pension liability ­recognized in the ­balance Total operating expense –6 –1 sheet. Interest expense –1 –1 SEK million 2018 2017 Total –7 –2 Liability at beginning of year related to p ­ ension obligations 22 22 Cost recognized in income statement 7 2 Pension payments –1 –2 Liability at the end of year related to pension obligations 27 22 15 INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITES Gränges’ interest bearing debt consists mainly of USD term loans December 2018. Gränges also has a revolving credit facility of SEK amounting to USD 170 million and SEK term loans of SEK 200 million. 1,200 million, with a remaining time to maturity of two years. The Interest bearing debt also includes corporate bonds of SEK 600 milrevolving credit facility was unutilized at 31 December 2018. The loan lion, issued under the MTN program established during the year. facilities are subject to covenants, which are Net Debt/EBITDA and Gränges commercial paper was utilized to SEK 250 million at 31 Interest coverage ratio. 16 ACCRUED EXPENSES AND DEFERRED INCOME SEK million 2018 2017 Accrued salaries, holiday pay and social-security contributions 48 34 Other accrued expenses and deferred income 8 16 Total accrued expenses and deferred income 55 50 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 103 NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17 PLEDGED ASSETS SEK million 2018 2017 Gränges has, in connection with signing the new credit facility described in Note 15, entered into a customary undertaking to not For own liabilities and provisions: pledge assets or in a similar manner use its property to give creditors a – Property mortgages – 15 better right than the banks that are providing the credit facility. Total pledged assets – 15 18 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES SEK million 2018 2017 Disputes The company is not a party to any dispute. As long as the company Other contingent liabilities 106 279 does not have any legal or formal obligation as a result of a past event, – of which, for subsidiaries 106 108 and it is uncertain whether an outflow of economic resources will be – of which, for joint venture 0 170 required to settle a future obligation, nothing is recognized in the income statement or balance sheet. 19 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS No board member or senior executive of Gränges AB or its subsid­i­aries has independently or through a company or related party had any direct involvement in a business transaction concluded by Gränges AB that was or is of an unusual character or subject to ­unusual terms and conditions. 2018 2017 SEK million Subsidiaries Associates Subsidiaries Associates Sales and purchases during the year: Sales of assets to related parties 148 – – – Sales to related parties 172 – 197 – Purchases from related parties 57 – 20 3 Interest income on receivables from related parties 126 – 115 1 Interest expenses on liabilities to related parties 1 – – – Outstanding intermediary size at year end: Interest-bearing receivables from related parties 2,016 – 1,810 33 Non-interest-bearing receivables from related parties 713 – 681 – Non-interest-bearing liabilities to related parties 29 – – – 20 PROPOSED APPROPRIATION OF RETAINED EARNINGS The Board of Directors proposes that the retained earnings of: The proposed dividend of SEK 242 million, or SEK 3.20 per ­share, represents 35 per cent of the Group’s profit for 2018. In preparing its SEK dividend ­proposal the Board of Directors has taken account of the company’s financial position, cash flow and outlook. Profits carried forward 939,786,604 Change in fund for development expenditure –1,385,622 Profit for the year 559,836,262 Non-restricted equity 1,498,237,244 Be appropriated as follows: Dividend to shareholders of 3.20 SEK per share 241,655,635 Carried forward 1,256,581,609 Total 1,498,237,244 104 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 DEFINITIONS DEFINITIONS Adjusted EBITDA Capital employed Net debt Adjusted operating profit before Total assets less cash and cash equivaCash and cash equivalents and interest-­ ­depreciation and impairment charges. lents and interest-bearing receivables, bearing ­receivables minus interest-bearing minus non-interest bearing ­liabilities. liabilities, including pensions. Adjusted cash flow before financing activities Earnings per share Operating profit Cash flow before financing activities Profit for the period divided by the total Profit before net financial items and tax. excluding cash flow from expansion ­number of shares. investments and acquisitions. Return on capital employed Equity to Assets Adjusted operating profit divided by Adjusted operating profit Equity divided by total assets. ­average capital employed ­during the past Operating profit excluding items affecting 12-month period. ­comparability. Items affecting comparability Non-recurring income and expenses. Return on equity Adjusted operating profit per tonne Profit for the period divided by average Adjusted operating profit divided by sales ktonnes equity ­during the past 12-month period. volume. Volume expressed in thousands of metric tonnes. Sales volume Average number of employees Volumes sold in metric tonnes. The average number of employees Cash flow before financing activities ­converted to full-time positions. Cash flow from o­ perating activities plus cash flow from investing activities. Cash conversion Adjusted cash flow before financing activities divided by adjusted operating profit. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 105 FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY SEK million 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Sales volume, ktonnes 375.0 373.0 239.1 163.9 160.0 Income statement Net sales 12,910 11,435 7,207 5,494 4,748 Adjusted EBITDA1) 1,357 1,303 952 749 664 Adjusted operating profit1) 1,005 933 687 541 463 Operating profit 940 917 559 538 422 Profit for the year 688 652 498 379 319 Adjusted EBITDA margin 10.5 11.4 13.2 13.6 14.0 Adjusted operating margin 7.8 8.2 9.5 9.8 9.7 Operating margin 7.3 8.0 7.8 9.8 8.9 Net margin 5.3 5.7 6.9 6.9 6.7 Balance sheet Non-current assets 4,489 3,827 4,071 1,800 1,829 Current assets 4,285 4,179 3,878 2,601 2,631 Equity 3,873 3,322 2,942 2,499 2,137 Non-current liabilities 2,522 2,555 3,209 989 1,071 Current liabilities 2,378 2,128 1,799 914 1,253 Cash flow Operating activities 1,351 968 686 725 678 Investing activities –819 –396 –2,732 –125 –81 Cash flow before financing activities 532 572 –2,046 600 597 Financing activities –825 –650 2,245 –647 –941 Cash flow for the year –294 –79 198 –47 –344 1) Adjusted for items affecting comparability (see Note 12 in the notes to the consolidated accounts). Capital structure, return indicators and employees Capital employed 6,367 5,615 5,664 2,775 2,901 Net debt 2,494 2,292 2,722 275 765 Equity/assets ratio, % 44.2 41.5 37.0 56.8 47.9 Net debt/Adjusted EBITDA, multiple 1.8x 1.8x 2.1x2) 0.4x 1.2x Capital employed (rolling 12 month average) 6,098 5,581 3,930 2,982 2,837 Return on capital employed, % 16.5 16.7 17.5 18.1 16.3 Equity (rolling 12 month average) 3,633 3,093 2,636 2,385 2,755 Return on equity, % 18.9 21.1 18.9 15.9 11.6 Average number of employees 1,699 1,568 1,136 964 952 2) Calculated on a rolling 12-month basis, including estimated adjusted EBITDA on a stand alone basis for the acquired business in the US. 106 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Data per share, SEK Earnings per share, basic 9.11 8.65 6.66 5.07 4.27 Earnings per share, diluted 9.11 8.64 6.64 5.07 4.27 Equity1) 51.29 44.04 39.27 33.45 28.63 Cash flow from operating activities1) 17.89 12.82 9.15 9.70 9.08 Dividend 3.202) 3.00 2.40 2.00 1.50 Dividend yield, % 3.98 3.56 2.79 2.86 2.94 Share price at year-end 80.5 84.25 86.00 70.00 51.00 Weighted outstanding ordinary shares, basic in thousands 75,517.4 75,370.6 74,703.9 74,639.4 74,639.4 Weighted outstanding ordinary shares, diluted in thousands 75,517.4 75,440.7 74,913.9 74,719.4 74,639.4 Sales volume by region, ktonnes Asia 86.2 86.3 80.8 75.5 78.3 Europe 65.4 65.6 63.7 62.7 58.6 Americas 223.3 221.1 94.6 25.8 23.1 Total 375.0 373.0 239.1 163.9 160.0 Net sales by region, SEK million Asia 3,004 2,911 2,623 2,637 2,378 Europe 2,424 2,230 1,933 1,978 1,679 Americas 7,482 6,294 2,651 880 691 Total 12,910 11,435 7,207 5,494 4,748 1) Calculated on weighted outstanding ordinary shares, diluted. 2) Cash dividend for 2019 as proposed. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 107 PROPOSED APPROPRIATION OF RETAINED EARNINGS PROPOSED APPROPRIATION OF RETAINED EARNINGS The Board of Directors proposes that the retained earnings of: The proposed dividend of SEK 242 million, or SEK 3.20 per ­share, represents 35 per cent of the Group’s profit for 2018. In preparing its SEK dividend ­proposal the Board of Directors has taken account of the company’s financial position, cash flow and outlook. Profits carried forward 939,786,604 The undersigned certify that the consolidated accounts and the Change in fund for development expenses –1,385,622 annual report have been prepared in accordance with the InternaProfit for the year 559,836,262 tional Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), as adopted for use in Non-restricted equity 1,498,237,244 the EU, and generally accepted accounting principles respectively, and give a true and fair view of the financial positions and results of Be appropriated as follows: the Group and the Company and describes substantial risks and uncertainties that the Group companies faces. Dividend to shareholders of 3.20 SEK per share 241,655,635 Carried forward 1,256,581,609 Total 1,498,237,244 Stockholm 7 March 2019 The Board of Directors of Gränges AB (publ) Anders G. Carlberg Johan Menckel Chairman of the Board Chief Executive Officer Carina Andersson Peter Carlsson Katarina Lindström Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Hans Porat Ragnhild Wiborg Mats Backman Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Öystein Larsen Konny Svensson Employee representative Employee representative We submitted our audit report on 11 March 2019 Ernst & Young AB Erik Sandström Authorized Public Accountant This information is such that Gränges must disclose pursuant to the Swedish Securities Market Act and/or the Swedish Financial Instruments Trading Act. The information was submitted for publication on Thursday, 14 March 2019. 108 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 AUDITOR’S REPORT AUDITOR’S REPORT To the general meeting of the shareholders of Gränges AB (publ), corporate identity number 556001-6122 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Basis for Opinions Opinions We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Gränges AB (publ) except for the corporate governance statement on Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further pages 55–65 for the year 2018. The annual accounts and consolidated described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independaccounts of the company are included on pages 52–108 in this docuent of the parent company and the group in accordance with profesment. sional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordour ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. ance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material This includes that, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no respects, the financial position of the parent company as of 31 prohibited services referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) December 2018 and its financial performance and cash flow for the Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited company or, where appliyear then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The cable, its parent company or its controlled companies within the EU. consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. financial position of the group as of 31 December 2018 and their financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance Key Audit Matters with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our profesby the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. Our opinions do not cover the sional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual corporate governance statement on pages 55–65. The statutory accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. These administration report is consistent with the other parts of the annual matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming accounts and consolidated accounts. our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent comFor each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the pany and the group. matter is provided in that context. Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report that responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our has been submitted to the parent company’s audit committee in report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. included the performance of procedures designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements. The results of our audit procedures, including the procedures performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the accompanying financial statements Valuation of finished goods and work-in-process products Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter As described in Note 19 for the consolidated financial statements, inventoIn our audit for the financial year we have assessed the Company’s routines ries of finished goods and work-in-process products are recorded at 1 372 for accounting for finished goods and work-in-process products, and MSEK in the consolidated balance sheet per the 31st of December 2018, whether the Company’s accounting principles for inventory is compliant equivalent to 16 % of the Company’s total assets. Inventories are valued at with applicable standards. the lowest of acquisition cost and net realizable value. We have also performed procedures to verify calculation models and The acquisition cost of inventories is based on the cost of production less assessed the reasonableness of applied prices, consumption rates and obsolescence write-downs, if applicable. The valuation at production cost is assumptions regarding the allocation of indirect production costs. We have performed using inventory valuation models where direct and indirect producalso performed procedures on metal hedging related to inventory. tion-related costs are allocated to products. Incorrect assumptions and calcuFinally, we have also reviewed the disclosures provided in the annual lations related to direct and indirect production costs affect the valuation of report. goods produced which affects recorded inventory and the cost of goods sold. For this reason we have determined that this is a key audit matter. A description of the Company’s inventory valuation method for finished goods and work-in-process products is presented in the accounting principles in Note 4 under the notes to the consolidated financial statements. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 109 AUDITOR’S REPORT Property, plant and equipment Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter The Company’s property, plant and equipment is recorded at 3 651 MSEK in Depreciation the consolidated balance sheet, equivalent to 42 % of the Company’s total In our audit for the financial year we have assessed the reasonableness of assets. Property, plant and equipment is recorded at acquisition cost net of the assumptions for useful life which the Company has applied during the accumulated depreciation and write-downs, if applicable. Depreciation is year. These procedures have included an assessment of the Company’s recorded over the estimated useful life of components. Accounting principles method for determining useful life periods, comparisons to historical actufor property, plant and equipment is presented in Note 4, significant estimates als and business plans, as well as comparisons with the estimated useful and judgments are presented in Note 5 and disclosures regarding property, lives used by other comparable companies. plant and equipment is presented in Note 18. The valuation and accounting treatment of property, plant and equipment is a key audit matter due to the Impairment significance of the recorded amounts in relation to the total assets in the conIn our audit for the financial year we have analyzed and assessed the solidated balance sheet, and because changes in estimates and judgments assumptions and estimates made by the Company regarding potential could have a significant effect on the value. indicators of impairment compared to current and expected future cash flows from affected assets. We have also reviewed the disclosures provided Depreciation in the annual report. Depreciation is recorded over the estimated useful life of components. A Finally, we have also reviewed the disclosures provided in the annual change in the estimated useful life of components would result in different report. recorded values. Impairment In case an indicator of impairment is identified, the recorded value is tested through comparison to the estimated recoverable amount for the asset. Based on current and expected future financial development the Company has determined that there was no indication of impairment for the financial year 2018. Other Information than the annual accounts and consolidated Auditor’s responsibility accounts Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the This document also contains other information than the annual annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1–51 and material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an 112–128. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a responsible for this other information. high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in does not cover this other information and we do not express any form Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. of assurance conclusion regarding this other information. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered mateIn connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolirial if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be dated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the above and consider whether the information is materially inconsistent basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this proceAs part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise profesdure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in sional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the the audit and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be audit. We also: materially misstated. • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other informaor error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those tion, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to this regard. provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omisThe Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for sions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts • Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control relevant and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual to our audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordin the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the ion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control as • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material mismade by the Board of Directors and the Managing Director. statement, whether due to fraud or error. • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis of accounting in Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We also assessment of the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, as to going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going whether any material uncertainty exists related to events or condiconcern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going tions that may cast significant doubt on the company’s and the concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a Directors and the Managing Director intends to liquidate the company, material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the annual accounts The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Direcand consolidated accounts or, if such disclosures are inadequate, tor’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee to modify our opinion about the annual accounts and consolidated the company’s financial reporting process. accounts. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence 110 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 AUDITOR’S REPORT obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future Auditor’s responsibility events or conditions may cause a company and a group to cease to Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby continue as a going concern. our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the discloof the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material sures, and whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts respect: represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can achieves fair presentation. give rise to liability to the company, or • Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, financial information of the entities or business activities within the the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. group to express an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of group audit. We remain solely responsible for our opinions. the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, the in accordance with the Companies Act. planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of signifiReasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a cant audit findings during our audit, including any significant deficienguarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally cies in internal control that we identified. accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement that omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the prowe have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding indeposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordpendence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other ance with the Companies Act. matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing and where applicable, related safeguards. standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and mainFrom the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we tain professional skepticism throughout the audit. The examination of determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the administration and the proposed appropriations of the company’s the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the most profit or loss is based primarily on the audit of the accounts. Addiimportant assessed risks for material misstatement, and are theretional audit procedures performed are based on our professional fore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s judgment with starting point in risk and materiality. This means that report unless law or regulation precludes disclosure about the matter. we focus the examination on such actions, areas and relationships that are material for the operations and where deviations and violaReport on other legal and regulatory requirements tions would have particular importance for the company’s situation. Opinions We examine and test decisions undertaken, support for decisions, In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated actions taken and other circumstances that are relevant to our opinion accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of concerning discharge from liability. As a basis for our opinion on the Directors and the Managing Director of Gränges AB (publ) for the year Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or 2018 and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. loss we examined the Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and a We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the selection of supporting evidence in order to be able to assess whether profit be appropriated (loss be dealt with) in accordance with the prothe proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. posal in the statutory administration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director be discharged from The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance statement liability for the financial year. The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate governance statement on pages 55–65 has been prepared in accordance Basis for opinions with the Annual Accounts Act. We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing Our examination of the corporate governance statement is constandards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are ducted in accordance with FAR´s auditing standard RevU 16 The audifurther described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are indetor´s examination of the corporate governance statement. This means pendent of the parent company and the group in accordance with prothat our examination of the corporate governance statement is differfessional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled ent and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordour ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. ance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations 2–6 of the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes paragraph the same law are consistent with the other parts of the an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and are in accordance requirements which the company’s and the group’s type of operations, with the Annual Accounts Act. size and risks place on the size of the parent company’s and the group’s Ernst & Young AB, Jakobsbergsgatan 24, 111 44, Stockholm, was equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in general. appointed auditor of Gränges AB by the general meeting of the shareThe Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organizaholders on the 3 May 2018 and has been the company’s auditor since tion and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes the 10 May 2007. among other things continuous assessment of the company’s and the group’s financial situation and ensuring that the company’s organization is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and Stockholm 11 March 2019 the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassurErnst & Young AB ing manner. The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing administration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among other matters take measures that are necessary to Erik Sandström fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle Authorized Public Accountant the management of assets in a reassuring manner. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 111 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES SUSTAINABILITY NOTES ABOUT GRÄNGES’ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The sustainability information in this report has been prepared in Gränges has published a sustainability report each year since 2015. accordance with GRI Standards: Core option and constitutes Gränges’ The company’s last sustainability report was published on 13 March Communication on Progress in line with UN Global Compact guide2018. Gränges intends to continue to publish a report annually. lines. The report and its contents have not been externally assured. GRI’s guidance on the reporting principles of materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context, and completeness, has been For more information, please contact: used to define the content of the report. Sofia Hedevåg, VP Sustainability The statutory sustainability report in accordance with the Swedish sofia.hedevag@granges.com Annual Accounts Act has been issued by Gränges’ Board of Directors. +46 733 03 79 79 See details on page 53. The report relates to the financial year 2018 and covers all fully owned operations of the Group at the start of 2018, as listed on page 102.1) 1) T  he sustainability report does not cover operations that are not fully owned by Gränges, for example the jointly owned production company Getek GmbH which was partly acquired by Gränges in October 2017. SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE Gränges sustainability efforts are led by Group Management and the vision and strategy. The team also reviews and monitors sustainability VP Sustainability, who coordinates, facilitates and drives the global performance against sustainability targets, as well as makes decisustainability strategy, long-term targets and sustainability related sions related to global sustainability priorities. policies. The VP Sustainability also communicates on sustainability As illustrated below, each sustainability pillar is governed by performance and progress to different stakeholders and coordinates one member of Group Management. This individual proposes global a continuous stakeholder dialogue. sustainability priorities and coordinates with Gränges’ regional Gränges’ CEO regularly presents global sustainability performance to teams to implement local sustainability activities within a specific the Board of Directors, who in turn reviews and monitors performance sustainability pillar. against the company’s targets. The Board of Directors is the body which The regions in turn ensure that a local sustainability strategy, longapproves the company’s global sustainability strategy, long-term targets term targets and policies are in place and aligned with the global and policies, and adopts the annual sustainability report. strategy and the needs of the local business. They also report on local Group Management ensures that Gränges’ global sustainability sustainability performance and progress. strategy, long-term targets and policies are aligned with the company’s GRÄNGES’ SUSTAINABILITY ORGANIZATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS GROUP MANAGEMENT CEO GROUP SUSTAINABILITY FUNCTION VP Sustainability GRÄNGES SECURE ETHICAL ENSURE RUN BUILD DIVERSE DEVELOP ASIA BUSINESS RESPONSIBLE AND SUSTAINABLE AND HIGHSUSTAINABLE PROCESSES SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS PERFORMING PRODUCT SOURCING TEAMS OFFERINGS GRÄNGES EUROPE SVP Process SVP Technology Engineering General & Business & Operational SVP Human SVP Research GRÄNGES Counsel Development development Resources & Innovation AMERICAS 112 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE Gränges seeks to establish long-term and transparent dialogues with their expectations. Additionally, as part of the sustainability reporting stakeholders. The key issues raised in the stakeholder dialogue conprocess, Gränges engages selected stakeholders in a structured diastitute the main parts of the company’s materiality assessment and logue to identify key sustainability topics and reporting content. Based reporting. on the nature of the company’s operations, Gränges in 2016 identified Stakeholder inclusiveness is a priority for Gränges and the company five main stakeholder groups to include in the stakeholder dialogue: maintains an ongoing dialogue with its stakeholders to ensure it meets customers, employees, investors, society and suppliers. Stakeholder group Dialogue forum Key sustainability topics for stakeholders Page Customers • Customer survey • Customer satisfaction 43 • Fairs, seminars • Energy and emissions 36–37, 118–119 • Ongoing dialogue • Health and safety 38–39, 120 • Questionnaires from customers • Product life-cycle performance 43, 122 • Stakeholder surveys and in-depth interviews • Recycled aluminium and material handling 33–35, 117–118 • Supplier assessment 33, 117 Employees • Annual performance reviews • Diversity and equality 41, 122 • Employee surveys every two years • Emissions to air and water 37–38, 119–120 • Internal training • Ethics and anti-corruption 32, 117 • Intranet communication • Gränges as a workplace 38–42, 120–122 • Stakeholder surveys and in-depth interviews • Health and safety 38–39, 120 • Workplace meetings • Product life-cycle performance 43, 122 • Supplier assessment 33, 117 Investors • Annual general meeting • Customer satisfaction 43 • Annual and quarterly reports • Economic performance 1, 66-107 • Capital markets days every two years • Energy and emissions 36–37, 118–119 • Quarterly conference calls • Ethics and anti-corruption 32, 117 • Investor and analyst meetings • Gränges as a workplace 38–42, 120–122 • Press releases • Recycled aluminium 33–35, 117–118 • Stakeholder surveys and in-depth interviews • Supplier assessment 33, 117 • Sustainability questionnaires from ESG data providers • Website Society • Local cooperation, ongoing dialogue • Energy and emissions 36–37, 118–119 • Interns and student dissertations • Gränges in the local community www.granges.com/sustainability • Participation in networks and working groups • Health and safety 38–39, 120 • Stakeholder surveys and in-depth interviews Suppliers • Ongoing dialogue • Customer satisfaction 43 • Stakeholder surveys and in-depth interviews • Economic performance 1, 66-107 • Supplier Code of Conduct • Ethics and anti-corruption 32, 117 • Supplier assessments • Health and safety 38-39, 120 • Recycled aluminium 33–35, 117–118 • Purchasing processes 33, 117 In 2016, Gränges conducted its first structured stakeholder dialogue via respond to its web-based survey. In total, the company received 71 a web-based survey which aimed to help identify which sustainability responses. In-depth interviews were also carried out with representatopics were most important to Gränges’ stakeholders. Topics included tives from each stakeholder group in Sweden, China, and the US to in the survey were identified through analysis of industry standards, ensure that Gränges’ sustainability reporting is in line with stakesustainability reporting frameworks, and issues previously raised by holder expectations. stakeholders. Respondents could also raise additional sustainability In December 2017, as part of updating its sustainability framework, issues in the survey. In total, 323 respondents from different stakeGränges sent out a new web-based sustainability survey to 46 senior holder groups responded to the survey and provided input to Gränges’ executives internally, both participants of group and regional managemateriality analysis. Gränges also conducted interviews with a selecment teams as well as sustainability experts. The aim was to collect tion of stakeholders to understand more about their expectations. quantitative input on which of the sustainability topics were assessed In June 2017, after it had acquired operations in the US, Gränges to have the highest impact on Gränges’ long-term competitiveness complemented its stakeholder dialogue by inviting US employees and and success, and the topics’ broader impact on society, the environselected representatives from other stakeholder groups in the US to ment and the economy. The response rate was 85 per cent. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 113 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES MATERIALITY ANALYSIS AND TOPIC BOUNDARIES In line with the principle of materiality, Gränges in 2018 validated its with a clearly assigned internal ownership. The two topics customer materiality analysis and choice of material topics using input from the satisfaction and economic performance were assessed to be the result three stakeholder surveys and the in-depth interviews. Combined of the other topics and so not defined as material. results from the surveys were presented to and assessed by Group Compared with the materiality analysis carried out in 2017, the folManagement who qualitatively discussed and validated the materiality lowing were added to the list of material topics: employee wellbeing; of each topic. The discussion led to a decision of twelve material topics, career and leadership development; eco-responsible innovation; and which were re-articulated and clustered into five sustainability pillars product life-cycle sustainability performance. Gränges’ material topics and their boundaries Impact occurs in/at Gränges’ Gränges’ sustainability pillar Gränges’ material topics Corresponding GRI Standards topic Supply chain Operations Customers Page Secure ethical business Ethics and anti-corruption Anti-corruption x x x 32, 117 practices Supplier environmental ­assessment Responsible sourcing x 33, 117 Ensure responsible Supplier social assessment and sustainable sourcing Sourced recycled aluminium Materials x x x 34–35, 118 Emissions and climate impact Emissions x x x 37, 119 Run sustainable Energy Energy x x 35–36, 118 operations Water management Water x 38, 120 Workplace safety Occupational health x 38–39, 120 Employee wellbeing and safety x 42, 122 Build diverse and Diversity and equality Diversity and equal opportunity x 41, 122 high-performing teams Career and leadership development Training and education x 40, 121 Eco-responsible innovation – x x 43 Develop sustainable product offering Product life-cycle sustainability Materials stewardship1) x x x 43, 122 performance 1) GRI G4 Mining and Metals Sector Supplement. 114 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES EXTERNAL INITIATIVES AND MEMBERSHIPS Gränges participates in the following industry initiatives: Aluminium Gränges supports international standards on human rights, labour Association, Aluminium Stewardship Initiative1), China Nonferrous Metals conditions, the environment and anti-corruption, the UN Global ComIndustry Association, Confederation of Swedish Enterprise in Europe, pact, UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the OECD GuideEuropean Aluminium, European Aluminium Foil Association, Global Alulines for Multinational Corporations. minium Foil Roller Initiative, Nonferrous metals Society of Shanghai, Gränges also helps to fulfil the 2030 Agenda and UN Sustainable Shanghai Aluminium Trade Association and Svenskt Aluminium. Gränges Development Goals (SDGs). In the table below, those ten SDGs that Europe is also a member of the local Finspång associations Näringslivshave been identified as most relevant for Gränges’ business and rådet, Vision East Sweden, and Östsvenska Handels­kammaren, as there where the company has its largest contributions, are outlined. is a strategic interest at local level related to areas such as recruitment, infrastructure and influence in important political topics. UN SDG UN SDG number UN SDG name subtargets Gränges’ contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals Gränges’ material topic Gender equality 5.1 Gränges works to promote equal opportunities, diversity and gender • Diversity and equality 5.5 ­equality and has articulated a 2025 target to have at least 30 per cent women in senior management. Clean water 6.5 Gränges works to implement water management plans in all sites. • Water management and ­sanitation Affordable and 7.2 Gränges has initiated efforts to increase the share of renewable energy in its • Energy clean energy 7.3 operations and to promote the topic in its supply chain. Gränges also works to improve energy intensity and has a target to reduce by 17 per cent to 2025­ ­compared with 2017. Decent work 8.4 Gränges works to improve resource efficiency in its operations, ensures full • Career and leadership development and ­economic 8.5 employment and decent work with equal pay, and works to ensure safe • Diversity and equality growth 8.8 working environments towards an injury free workplace. • Employee wellbeing • Sourced recycled aluminium • Workplace safety Industry, 9.4 Gränges’ light-weighting aluminium products enable customers to achieve • Eco-responsible ­innovation innovation significant savings in energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions • Product life-cycle sustainability and infra­ – both in customers’ production process and for the end users. Gränges’ performance structure products are mainly used in the automotive and HVAC industries. Reduced 10.3 Gränges works to ensure equal opportunities and to eliminate dis• Diversity and equality inequalities crimination among its workforce. This is followed up by for example employee surveys every second year. Responsible 12.2 Gränges works to improve material efficiency and recycling rates, ­integrate • Product life-cycle sustainability consumption 12.6 sustainability information into its reporting cycle, and ensure sustainable performance and production procurement practices. Gränges also aims to create value along the value • Sourced recycled aluminium chain by improving its products’ life-cycle sustainability performance. • Responsible sourcing Climate action 13.1 Gränges works to counteract climate change. The company has conducted • Emissions and climate impact 13.3 a carbon footprint study to better understand its climate impacts. Results from the study were used to formulate the 2025 target of reducing direct and energy indirect carbon emissions intensity by 25 per cent versus 2017. Peace, justice 16.5 Gränges has zero tolerance for bribery and other types of corruption • Ethics and anti-­corruption and strong in its operations, and has set a 2025 target that all applicable institutions employees2) are trained each year. Partnerships 17.16 Gränges has been a signatory of the UN Global Compact since 2016, – for the goals and works through industry associations and local community networks to support and enhance the partnership for sustainable development. 1) The membership in Aluminium Stewardship Initiative was formalized on 7 January, 2019. 2) Employees working in sales, purchasing and senior executives who have external contacts. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 115 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Target 2025 2018 2017 2016 Note Secure ethical business practices Share of employees annually trained in Gränges’ Code of Conduct, % 100 99 – – 1 Share of applicable employees1) annually trained in anti-corruption, % 100 – – – 1 Number of incidents related to corruption – 0 0 0 1 Ensure responsible and sustainable sourcing Number of significant suppliers2) – 143 116 – 2 Share of purchase value from significant suppliers committed to Gränges’ Supplier Code of Conduct or equivalent standard, % 100 98 – – 2 Number of supplier audits – 10 – – 2 Share of sourced recycled aluminium of total sourced metal inputs, % 20 16.7 11.5 13.9 3 Share of sourced renewable energy, % Increase6) 9 9 9 4 Indirect carbon emissions intensity from purchased materials and services (scope 3), tonnes CO2e/tonne product Reduce6) 11.2 11.9 12.2 5 Run sustainable operations Environmental indicators Total energy use, GWh – 1,231.4 1,236.0 1,200.8 4 Energy intensity, MWh/tonne product –17%6) 3.3 3.3 3.4 4 Direct and energy indirect carbon emissions intensity (scope 1+2), tonnes CO2e/tonne product –25%6) 0.76 0.81 0.83 5 Water withdrawal, million m3 – 3.5 3.3 3.5 6 Number of sites with a local water management plan All sites 0/5 0/5 0/5 6 Workplace safety indicators Number of recordable workplace accidents – 23 28 14 7 Number of lost workday cases – 14 14 9 7 Number of fatalities – 0 0 0 7 Total Recordable Rate, number of recordable accidents per million hours worked 3.0 6.1 7.8 6.2 7 Severity Rate, number of lost workdays per million hours worked 50 165 112 – 7 Build diverse and high-performing teams Average number of employees3) – 1,699 1,568 1,136 – Number of employees at year end4) – 1,803 1,637 – 8 Employees with permanent contract, % – 95 – – 8 Employees with temporary contract, % – 5 – – 8 Full-time employees, % – 100 – – 8 Part-time employees, % – 0 – – 8 White-collar employees, % – 30 31 – 8 Blue-collar employees, % – 70 69 – 8 Share of employees having annual performance and development discussion, % 100 99 – – 9 Share of women in Board of Directors/Group Management4), % – 43/13 50/13 57/13 10 Share of women among senior management4) 5), % 30 20 20 – 10 Share of women in total workforce4), % – 14 14 – 10 Employee engagement index, % 85 78 – – 11 Sick-leave3), % – 1.6 2.0 2.2 11 Employee turnover3), % – 9.1 7.4 3.4 11 Share of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements, % – 70 70 – – Develop sustainable product offering Products with verified sustainability information available, % 80 – – – 12 1) Employees working in sales, purchasing and senior executives who have external contacts. 2) Suppliers with a purchase value above 5 MSEK, 5 MCNY or 0.5 MUSD. 3) E  xpressed as full-time positions. For 2016, average number of employees include Gränges’ operations in the US from 22 August, while sick-leave and employee turnover exclude operations in the US. 4) Expressed as headcount on Dec 31. 5) Employees eligible to participate in Gränges' long-term incentive (LTI) programme. 6) Versus baseline 2017. 116 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES NOTES 1 ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION Code of Conduct training, including anti-corruption Reporting principles and definitions: Data for Code of Conduct training participation is c­ ollected and consolidated annually via the e-learning Share of employees trained system used for online training. Data from Gränges AB is included in the in Code of Conduct, % 2018 2017 2016 data for Gränges Europe. Comparable data for 2016 and 2017 are not Asia 100 – – available. Data for Code of Conduct training includes employees in duty Europe 98 – – and is adjusted for long-term sick-leave, parental leave, resignations and employees off duty for a longer period. Americas 100 – – Gränges total 99 – – Applicable employees are defined as employees working in sales, ­purchasing and senior executives who have external contacts. Incidents of corruption Governance and policies: The topic is managed by Gränges’ General Counsel and the regional Legal representatives. The governing policy Number 2018 2017 2016 is Gränges’ Code of Conduct which is updated annually and applicable Incidents of corruption 0 0 0 for all employees and board members in entities owned by Gränges. It Incidents of terminated business also applies to independent contractors and consultants or others contracts due to corruption 0 0 0 acting on behalf of Gränges. Also, Gränges Anti-corruption Policy defines, explains and expands on what Gränges means by corruption. Comment: In 2018, Gränges updated its Code of Conduct with the Long-term target: Gränges’ 2025 target is that 100 per cent of its focus to make it more modern and user-friendly. In connection to the employees are annually trained in the Code of Conduct, and that 100 launch, the company for the first time conducted a group-wide Code per cent of applicable employees are annually trained in anti-­ of Conduct e-learning. All employees, except for blue-collar employcorruption. ees in Gränges Americas who had classroom training, were invited to complete the training. Total training participation ended at 99 per cent, with 100 per cent in Gränges Asia and Gränges Americas and 98 per cent in Gränges Europe. Anti-corruption was included in the training. No corruption incidents were detected during 2018. During 2019, Gränges plans to implement a specific anti-corruption training for applicable employees. 2 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Significant suppliers Comment: In 2018, Gränges rolled out its updated Supplier Code of Conduct to its significant suppliers. In total, 137 suppliers, correNumber of significant suppliers 2018 2017 2016 sponding to 98 per cent of the total purchase value from significant Asia 18 19 – suppliers, signed the Supplier Code of Conduct or were – via an internal escalation process – assessed to have equivalent standards in place Europe 35 32 – which are in line with Gränges’ sustainability requirements. In Gränges Americas 90 65 – Asia and Gränges Europe, Gränges conducted in total ten supplier Gränges total 143 116 – audits in 2018, of which one was a new supplier. Such audits are conducted periodically depending on suppliers’ strategic importance and results from supplier performance assessments. Supplier Code of Conduct commitment Reporting principles and definitions: Data is reported at a regional Share of purchase value from level by the purchasing organizations and consolidated annually at ­significant suppliers committed to Gränges’ Supplier Code of Conduct group level using common definitions and principles. Data from or equivalent standard, % 2018 2017 2016 Gränges AB is included in the data for Gränges Europe. Comparable data for 2016 and for one indicator also 2017 is not available. Asia 94 – – Europe 97 – – Significant supplier is defined as a supplier with a total purchase value Americas 100 – – above 5 MSEK, 5 MCNY or 0.5 MUSD. Local purchase value has been Gränges total 98 – – converted to SEK using average currency rates for 2018. Governance and policies: The topic is managed by SVP Technology & Business Development and the regional purchasing representatives. Supplier audits The governing policy is Gränges’ Code of Conduct which states that Number of audits conducted among the Supplier Code of Conduct, which in turn outlines Gränges’ requiresignificant suppliers 2018 2017 2016 ments on suppliers’ commitment to sustainability principles, should be included as part of the supplier contract. Asia 5 5 – Europe 5 4 – Long-term target: Gränges’ 2025 target is that 100 per cent of the Americas 0 0 – purchase value from significant suppliers should be committed to Gränges total 10 9 – Gränges’ Supplier Code of Conduct or equivalent standard. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 117 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES 3 SOURCED RECYCLED ALUMINIUM Weight of sourced recycled aluminium Comment: The use of sourced recycled aluminium increased significantly in 2018, driven by Gränges Americas where volumes more than ktonnes 2018 2017 2016 doubled compared to 2017. The result was mainly achieved through Asia 3.1 5.5 3.8 expanded sourcing of recycled aluminium through commodity traders. It was also positively affected by expanded customer recycling proEurope 14.0 15.3 16.8 grams. The result in Gränges Americas was slightly offset by a decline Americas 53.3 26.0 37.1 in sourced recycled aluminium in Gränges Asia and Gränges Europe Gränges total 70.4 46.7 57.6 compared to 2017, due to fluctuations in availability of recycled material which has sufficient quality. Share of sourced recycled aluminium Reporting principles and definitions: Data is reported at regional level and consolidated annually at group level using common definiShare of sourced recycled alumintions and principles. Data for 2016 includes operations in the US. ium of total sourced metal inputs, % 2018 2017 2016 Asia 2.7 4.4 3.2 Sourced recycled aluminium is defined as sourced recycled aluminium Europe 13.5 16.0 18.1 used as input materials [tonnes] divided by total sourced metal input materials [tonnes]. Americas 26.5 13.8 18.2 Gränges total 16.7 11.5 13.9 Governance and policies: The topic is managed by SVP Technology & Note: Data for Gränges Asia and Gränges Americas has been restated compared to Business Development and the regional purchasing representatives. data presented in the Annual report 2017, due to an update of the parameter definition The governing policy is Gränges’ EHS Policy, which is reviewed annuto only include third-party recycled aluminium. The previously stated data also included third-party processed recycled aluminium from Gränges’ operations. ally and applies to all employees working at Gränges. Long-term target: Gränges’ 2025 target is that 20 per cent of the total sourced metal inputs should be sourced recycled aluminium. 4 ENERGY Total energy use unchanged at 9 per cent (9). In Gränges Europe, the share was 2 percentage points lower compared to 2017 due to a slightly higher share GWh 2018 2017 2016 of nuclear power in the purchased electricity mix, which replaced Natural gas 764.6 773.4 747.6 renewable energy sources. The share of nuclear power was slightly higher also in the purchased electricity mix in Gränges Americas, Electricity 407.4 403.2 394.8 replacing non-renewable fossil energy sources. Liquefied petroleum gas 46.2 48.2 46.1 Diesel 8.2 8.5 9.4 Reporting principles and definitions: Data is reported at regional District heating 4.1 2.7 2.8 level and consolidated annually at group level using common definiPetrol 0.9 0.1 0.1 tions and principles. Data for 2016 includes operations in the US. Gränges total 1,231.4 1,236 .0 1,200.8 Energy intensity is defined as total energy use [MWh] divided by the total packed products [tonnes]. Energy intensity Renewable energy sources are defined as wind, solar, hydro, geothermal, MWh/tonne product 2018 2017 2016 tidal and biomass. The share of renewable energy is calculated as renewable energy sourced [MWh] divided by the total energy used Asia 2.3 2.3 2.4 [MWh] using total energy use per source and the supplier-specific mix Europe 2.1 2.2 2.3 for delivered electricity and heating. Americas 4.3 4.4 4.3 Regulations: Gränges adheres to applicable energy regulations in the Gränges total 3.3 3.3 3.4 countries of operations; Gränges Asia under the Shanghai Energy Reduction versus prior year, % –1 Conservation Regulations and Gränges Europe under the Energy ­Efficiency Directive. Currently Gränges Americas does not have any energy related regulations affecting its operations. Share of renewable energy sourced Governance and policies: The topic energy use and intensity is man% 2018 2017 2016 aged by SVP Process Engineering & Operational Development and the Asia 10 10 10 regional representatives from operations. The topic sourced renewaEurope 36 38 37 ble energy is managed by SVP Technology & Business Development and the regional purchasing representatives. The governing policy is Americas 2 2 2 Gränges’ EHS Policy, which is reviewed annually and applies to all Gränges total 9 9 9 employees working at Gränges. The production site of Gränges Europe is certified in accordance with the energy management standard ISO Comment: The energy intensity in Gränges Americas and Gränges 50001, while Gränges Americas and Gränges Asia have initiated Europe was reduced in 2018, resulting in a 1 per cent total improvepre-studies to implement an energy management system. ment compared to the 2017 level. The improvement is a result of different energy efficiency measures at the production facilities. The use Long-term target: Gränges’ 2025 target is to reduce energy intensity of district heating in Gränges Europe increased compared to previous by 17 per cent versus 2017, and to increase the share of sourced years due to unusually cold weather until April, which led to a need for renewable energy (electricity, heat, fuels). additional heating. Gränges’ total share of renewable energy was 118 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES 5 EMISSIONS AND CLIMATE IMPACT Total emissions of greenhouse gases Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 ktonnes CO2e 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 Asia 27.5 28.6 28.5 61.1 63.8 63.5 2,200 2,400 2,300 Europe 11.3 11.2 11.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 600 500 500 Americas 128.7 129.9 124.3 56.0 68.9 67.2 1,400 1,500 1,600 Gränges total 167.5 169.7 164.3 117.1 132.7 130.7 4,200 4,500 4,400 Note: Data for Gränges Americas’ 2017 scope 3 emissions has been restated due to updated data for primary aluminium use. Carbon intensity Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Tonnes CO2e/tonne product 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 Asia 0.28 0.28 0.30 0.63 0.62 0.67 23.1 23.5 24.3 Europe 0.12 0.13 0.14 0.00 0.00 0.00 6.5 6.1 6.2 Americas 0.68 0.69 0.68 0.30 0.37 0.37 7.4 8.2 8.6 Gränges total 0.44 0.45 0.46 0.31 0.35 0.37 11.2 11.9 12.2 Note: Data for Gränges Americas’ 2017 scope 3 emissions has been restated due to updated data for primary aluminium use. Data for Gränges’ total 2016 scope 3 carbon intensity has been corrected due to a calculation error. Emissions by category (scope 3) Other emissions to air – dust Share of total scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions, % 2018 2017 2016 Tonnes 2018 2017 2016 Purchased goods and services 97.4 97.5 97.5 Asia 3.6 3.8 3.6 Fuel and energy-related activities 1.4 1.3 1.3 Europe 0.2 0.2 0.3 Transportation incl. business travel 1.3 1.2 1.2 Americas 7.3 7.5 7.2 Gränges total 100 100 100 Gränges total 11.1 11.5 11.0 Note: Data for Gränges Americas’ dust emissions have been restated compared to data presented in the Annual report 2017, due to an update of the emission factors used. Comment: The direct and energy indirect carbon intensity (scope 1+2) Carbon intensity is defined as total emissions of greenhouses gases decreased by 6 per cent compared to 2017, driven by improved energy [tonnes CO2e] divided by the total packed products [tonnes]. intensity and by a higher share of low carbon nuclear electricity, which replaced fossil fuel-based electricity in Gränges Americas. The carbon Dust emissions are calculated either using local emission factors or intensity for other indirect emissions (scope 3) decreased by 6 per based on continual measurements. cent compared to 2017, mainly driven by increased use of recycled aluminium replacing primary aluminium in Gränges Americas, and Other emissions such as nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide, oil and VOC by improved material efficiency in Gränges Asia. Emissions of dust are not reported as methods and data collection procedures for these decreased compared to 2017 due to lower consumption of natural gas. emissions are currently being harmonized across the organization. Gränges aims to start reporting these emissions next year. Reporting principles and definitions: Data is reported at regional level and consolidated annually at group level using common definiRegulations: Gränges observes all applicable local and international tions and principles. Data for 2016 includes operations in the US. laws and regulations for environmental impact. Emission limits in Europe are based on requirements from the Industry Emissions DirecGreenhouse gas emissions are presented as carbon dioxide equivative (IED). In Asia, limits are linked to Regulations of Shanghai Municilents. In accordance with the GHG Protocol, the definitions of the pality on the Prevention and Control of Atmospheric Pollution, and in respective scopes are the following. the US the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NA AQS) provides Scope 1 is defined as direct emissions from Gränges’ operations, which the relevant legal framework. Local authorities continually monitor include production facilities, office buildings and company owned vehicompliance to ensure that emissions are within limits. Emissions regcles. Emissions are calculated based on fuel consumption and emission ulated by legislation include nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide, dust, factors. volatile organic compounds (VOC) and, in some regions, oil emissions. Scope 2 is defined as energy indirect emissions from the generation of purchased electricity and heat consumed by Gränges, in production Governance and policies: The topic is managed by SVP Process Engifacilities and office buildings. Emissions are calculated using specific neering & Operational Development (direct emissions), SVP Technology data from Gränges’ electricity and heat suppliers. & Business Development (energy and other indirect emissions), and the Scope 3 is defined as other indirect emissions. These include emisregional operational and purchasing representatives. The governing sions from extraction, production and processing of main purchased policy is Gränges’ EHS Policy, which is reviewed annually and applies to materials, fuel and energy related activities (not included in scope 1 or all employees working at Gränges. The production sites of Gränges Asia scope 2), upstream and downstream goods transportation as well as and Gränges Europe are certified in accordance with the environmental business travel. Fuel and energy related activities include production management standard ISO 14001, while Gränges Americas has initiated of fuels used in Gränges’ operations and in generation of purchased a pre-study to implement an environmental management system. electricity. Emissions from producing primary aluminium are based on Emissions are monitored and managed as part of daily operations. regional industry averages, and supplier data is used for purchased Compliance is a prerequisite for Gränges’ continued license to operate. slabs and recycled aluminium. Emissions from producing fuels are based on regional industry data and emissions from transportation Long-term target: Gränges’ 2025 target is to reduce direct and energy and business travel are based on specific data from Gränges’ transindirect carbon emissions intensity (scope 1+2) by 25 per cent versus port routes. 2017. The company has also set a long-term target to reduce indirect carbon emissions intensity from purchased materials and services (scope 3) versus the 2017 baseline. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 119 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES 6 WATER MANAGEMENT Water withdrawal, by source Comment: In 2018, total water withdrawal increased compared to 2017, to the same level as in 2016. The withdrawal of surface water Million m3 2018 2017 2016 increased in the Finspång facility in Gränges Europe due to unusually Surface water 2.6 2.0 2.1 warm weather from June to August, which led to increased need for cooling water. The increase in Gränges Europe was however offset by Ground water 0.6 0.8 0.9 improvements in Gränges Americas, where replacement of cooling Municipal water 0.3 0.5 0.6 tower units in the Huntingdon facility significantly reduced the water Gränges total 3.5 3.3 3.5 withdrawal. In 2019, Gränges will initiate work to develop local water management plans in all sites. Water withdrawal, by region Reporting principles and definitions: Data is reported at regional level and consolidated annually at group level using common definiMillion m3 2018 2017 2016 tions and principles. Data for 2016 includes operations in the US. Asia 0.2 0.2 0.2 Water withdrawal is defined as water used in the production facility Europe 2.6 2.0 2.1 withdrawn from wetlands, rivers, lakes, own wells, waste water from Americas 0.7 1.2 1.3 other organizations, municipal water suppliers or from other public or Gränges total 3.5 3.3 3.5 private water utilities [m3]. Regulations: The water use and management for Gränges Asia is Water intensity regulated via permits and by legislation such as Water Pollution Prevention and Control Law of the People’s Republic of China, Water m3/tonne product 2018 2017 2016 Law of the People’s Republic of China, and Management in Shanghai Drainage Ordinance. Asia 1.6 1.5 1.6 Europe 28.9 23.3 25.7 Governance and policies: The topic is managed by SVP Process EngiAmericas 3.7 6.3 6.9 neering & Operational Development, and the regional representatives Gränges total 9.2 8.9 9.7 from operations. The governing policy is Gränges’ EHS Policy, which is reviewed annually and applies to all employees working at Gränges. Long-term target: Gränges’ 2025 target is to implement water ­management plans in all sites. 7 WORKPLACE SAFETY Total Recordable Rate (TRR) Contracted workers, defined as i­ ndividuals working onsite or offsite on behalf of Gränges, are included in the safety data. Number of recordable accidents per million hours worked 2018 2017 2016 Recordable accident is defined as as medical treatment cases, Asia 2.8 6.3 3.5 restricted work cases and lost workday cases. Europe 9.6 11.7 12.3 Total Recordable Rate (TRR) is defined as total number of recordable Americas 7.3 7.2 5.7 accidents per million hours worked. Gränges total 6.1 7.8 6.2 Lost workday cases are defined as number of recordable accidents resulting in absence from work. Severity Rate Lost workdays are defined as the sum of workdays by employees being Number of lost workdays per million hours worked 2018 2017 2016 absent from work due to a recordable accident. Asia 162 163 – Severity Rate is defined as total number of lost workdays per million Europe 87 128 – hours worked. Americas 212 48 – Serious injury is defined as an irreversible injury such as an amputated Gränges total 165 112 – finger or lost eyesight, or a reversible injury causing prolonged periods of pain or suffering for the employee, or an accident with an absence Comment: In 2018, the Total Recordable Rate (TRR) reached 6.1 (7.8), longer than 15 days. an improvement by more than 20 per cent. The Severity Rate however deteriorated because of two accidents that resulted in long recovery Governance and policies: The topic is managed by SVP Process Engiof the injured individuals. neering & Operational Development and the regional safety representatives. The governing policy is Gränges’ EHS Policy, which is Reporting principles and definitions: All incidents and accidents are reviewed annually and applies to all employees working at Gränges. registered and categorized in incident reporting systems. Events The production site of Gränges Asia is certified in accordance with the reported in the incident reporting systems are followed weekly and occupational health and safety standard OHSAS 18001 while Gränges monthly. Data is reported at regional level and consolidated monthly Americas and Gränges Europe have initiated pre-studies to implement at group level using common definitions and principles. Data for TRR an occupational health and safety management system in accordance 2016 includes operations in the US. Comparable data for Severity Rate with OHSAS 18001 or ISO 45001. 2016 is not available. Long-term target: Gränges’ 2025 target is to have a Total Recordable Rate of 3.0 and a Severity Rate of 50. 120 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES 8 TOTAL EMPLOYEES Total number of employees by category Comment: Total number of employees increased to 1,803 (1,637) in 2018, mainly driven by the expansion plans in Gränges Americas to Number 2018 2017 2016 expand the production plant in Huntingdon and restart production at Blue-collar 1,256 1,128 – the Newport plant. White-collar 547 509 – Reporting principles and definitions: Data is reported at a regional Gränges total 1,803 1,637 – level and consolidated annually at group level using common definitions and principles. Data for Gränges AB is included in the data for Gränges Europe. Data is based on headcount on 31 December 2017 Employment contract and type, by gender and region and 2018. Comparable data for 2016 is not available. Region Gender Permanent contract is defined as a contract for an indeterminate Number of employees Asia Europe Americas Women Men period. Permanent contract 476 497 736 232 1,477 Temporary contract is defined as a contract of limited duration. Temporary contract 51 40 3 18 76 Gränges total 527 537 739 250 1,553 Full-time employee is defined according to national legislation and practice regarding working time, such as employees working a ­minimum of nine months per year and 30 hours per week. Gender Number of employees Women Men Part-time employee is defined as employees working less than a full-time employee. Full-time 244 1,550 Part-time 6 3 Governance and policies: Not applicable as this is a general Gränges total 250 1,553 ­disclosure. Long-term target: Not applicable as this is a general disclosure. 9 CAREER AND LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT Performance and development discussion Comment: In total, 99 per cent of Gränges’ employees received a performance and development discussion in 2018. By gender, 100 of all % 2018 2017 2016 men and 99 per cent of all women received a performance and develAsia 100 – – opment discussion. By category, 100 per cent of white-collar employees and 99 per cent of blue-collar employees received a performance Europe 98 – – and development discussion. A few individuals in Gränges Europe did Americas 100 – – not receive a performance and development discussion since they Gränges total 99 – – were absent during the period when the annual performance and development discussions were conducted. Reporting principles and definitions: Data is reported at a regional level and consolidated annually at group level using common definitions and principles. Data for Gränges AB is included in the data for Gränges Europe. Comparable data for 2016 and 2017 is not available. Data covers employees in duty adjusted for new employees who did not have a performance and development discussion as they started their employment after the period when the annual performance and development discussions were conducted. Governance and policies: The topic is managed by SVP Human Resources and the regional human resources representatives. Long-term target: Gränges’ 2025 target is that 100 per cent of all employees annually receive a performance and development discussion. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 121 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES 10 DIVERSITY AND EQUALITY Gender balance by region Comment: The share of women in the total workforce remained at 14 per cent (14) in 2018 with a small decline in Gränges Americas due to Share of women the high number of men among new recruits to support the expansion in total workforce, % 2018 2017 2016 of the Huntingdon plant and restart production at the Newport plant. Asia 11 11 – The share of women among senior management was unchanged at 20 Europe 20 20 – per cent (20) with a small increase Gränges Americas who increased the number of women in the regional management team. Americas 11 12 – Gränges total 14 14 – Reporting principles and definitions: Data is reported at a regional level and consolidated annually at group level using common definitions and principles. Data for Gränges AB is included in the data for Share of women among senior management, % 2018 2017 2016 Gränges Europe. Data is based on headcount on 31 December 2018 and 2017. Comparable data for 2016 is not available. Asia 20 20 – Europe 15 16 – Senior management is defined as employees eligible to participate in Americas 29 25 – Gränges’ long-term incentive (LTI) programme. Gränges total 20 20 – Governance and policies: The topic is managed by SVP Human Resources and the regional human resources representatives. The Gender balance and age structure 2018 ­governing policy is the Diversity Policy, which is reviewed annually and applies to all employees working at Gränges. <30 30–50 >50 % Women Men years years years Long-term target: Gränges’ 2025 target is to have at least 30 per cent Board of Directors 43 57 0 29 71 women among senior management. Group Management 13 88 0 50 50 Senior management 20 80 0 66 34 White-collar 28 72 5 64 31 Blue-collar 8 92 16 58 26 Gränges total 14 86 13 60 28 11 EMPLOYEE WELLBEING % 2018 2017 2016 Data for employee engagement comes from Gränges’ employee ­survey. Results for 2018 include Gränges Asia and Gränges Europe. Sick-leave 1.6 2.0 2.2 Gränges Americas plans to conduct an employee survey in the first Employee turnover 9.1 7.4 3.4 half of 2019. Comparable data for 2016 and 2017 is not available. Employee engagement index 78 – – Sick-leave is defined as all absent hours for sickness within a year divided by total annual working hours (as applicable in local standards). Excludes Comment: Total sick-leave during the year ended at 1.6 per cent (2.0). permitted leave absences such as holidays, study and parental leave. Total employee turnover increased to 9.1 per cent (7.4) as a result of low unemployment rates and strong employment market in the US as Employee turnover is defined as number of employees who leave the well as a high number of new employees in Gränges Americas and organization (voluntarily or due to dismissal, retirement, or death in Gränges Europe to support the company’s expansion plans. Some of service) during the reporting period divided by total number of the new employees ended their employment during the first time employees converted to full-time positions. period at Gränges. Employee engagement index for 2018 was 78. Employee engagement index is a calculated mean from a number of Reporting principles and definitions: Data is reported at a regional ­questions in Gränges’ employee survey related to energy and clarity, level and consolidated annually at group level using common definitions two important dimensions of employee engagement. The mean is and principles. Data for Gränges AB is included in the data for Gränges ­converted to an index 0–100. Europe. Governance and policies: The topic is managed by SVP Human Data for sick-leave and employee turnover is based on average Resources and the regional human resources representatives. ­number of employees during 2018 (expressed as present full-time positions). Data for 2016 does not include operations in the US. Long-term target: Gränges’ 2025 target is that Employee engagement index should reach 85. 12 PRODUCT LIFE-CYCLE SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Comment: Detailed results for this indicator will be presented once Governance and policies: The topic is managed by SVP Research & Gränges has put in place and started to measure the share of its Innovation in cooperation with the regional sales and product ­products having verified sustainability information available. ­development representatives. Reporting principles and definitions: Reporting principles and definiLong-term target: Gränges’ 2025 target is that 80 per cent of its tions will be presented once Gränges has established a foundation for ­products should have verified sustainability information available. how the company will assess and communicate the sustainability performance for its products from a life-cycle perspective. 122 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GRI INDEX GRI INDEX GENERAL DISCLOSURES Disclosure UNGC GRI Standard number Disclosure title Principles Page reference Omissions GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organization 52 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 22–24 102-3 Location of headquarters 3, 52 102-4 Location of operations 3, 52 102-5 Ownership and legal form 48–50, 53–54, 57 102-6 Markets served 3, 14–18 102-7 Scale of the organization 1–3, 16–17, 40, 69 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 116, 121 102-9 Supply chain 10 30, 33–35 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 26–27, 33–35, 48–50 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 7 46 102-12 External initiatives 115 102-13 Membership of associations 115 STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6–7 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 44–47 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 32, 40–42 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 32, 117 GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure 55–61, 112, 117–122 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 113 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 3 116 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 113 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 113 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 113 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 102 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 114 102-47 List of material topics 114 102-48 Restatements of information 118, 119 102-49 Changes in reporting 114 102-50 Reporting period 112 102-51 Date of most recent report 112 102-52 Reporting cycle 52, 112 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 112 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 112 102-55 GRI index 123–125 102-56 External assurance 112 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 123 GRI INDEX MATERIAL TOPICS Disclosure UNGC GRI Standard number Disclosure title Principles Page reference Omissions Economic standards ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 32, 114, 117 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 32, 117 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 32, 117 GRI 205: 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 32, 116–117 Anti-corruption 2016 and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 32, 116–117 Environmental standards MATERIALS 7, 8, 9 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 33–35, 114, 118 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 33–35, 118 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 33–35, 118 GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-2 Recycled input materials used 33–35, 116, 118 ENERGY 7, 8, 9 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 35–37, 114, 118 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 35–37, 118 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 35–37, 118 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 36–37, 116, 118 302-3 Energy intensity 36–37, 116, 118 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 36–37, 116, 118 WATER 7, 8 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 38, 114, 120 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 38, 120 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 38, 120 GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 38, 120 EMISSIONS 7, 8, 9 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 35, 37, 114, 119 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 37, 119 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 35, 37, 119 GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (scope 1) GHG emissions 36–37, 116, 119 2016 305-2 Energy indirect (scope 2) GHG emissions 35–37, 116, 119 305-3 Other indirect (scope 3) GHG emissions 35, 37, 116, 119 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 36–37, 116, 119 305-5 GHG emissions reductions 35, 119 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulphur oxides (SOX), and other signifi119 Data only includes dust cant air emissions emissions. Other emissions such as nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and VOC are not reported as methods and data collection procedures for these emissions are currently being harmonized across the organization. Gränges aims to start reporting these emissions next year. SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 7, 8, 9 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 33–35, 114, 117 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 33–35, 117 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 33–35, 117 GRI 308: Supplier 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 33, 117 Environmental Assessment 2016 Social standards OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 38–39, 114, 120, 122 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 38–39, 120, 122 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 38–39, 120, 122 124 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GRI INDEX Disclosure UNGC GRI Standard number Disclosure title Principles Page reference Omissions GRI 403: Occupational 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost 38–39, 116, Contracted workers such Health and Safety 2016 days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 120, 122 as maintenance workers managed by Gränges are included in the safety data but not sick-leave. The reporting is aligned with Gränges’ internal procedures. TRAINING AND EDUCATION GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 40, 114, 121 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 40, 121 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 40, 121 GRI 404: Training and Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 40, 116, 121 Education 2016 404-3 career development reviews DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 1, 2, 6 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 41, 114, 122 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 41, 122 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 41, 122 GRI 405: Diversity and 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 41, 116, 122 Equal Opportunity 2016 SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 33–34, 114, 117 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 33–34, 117 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 33–34, 117 GRI 414: Supplier Social 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 33–117 Assessment 2016 THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Human rights Environment Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to of internationally proclaimed human rights; and environmental challenges; Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental abuses. responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environLabour mentally friendly technologies. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Anti-corruption Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its labour; forms, including extortion and bribery. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of ­employment and occupation. AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE STATUTORY SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT To the general meeting of the shareholders of Gränges AB, corporate identity number 556001-6122 Engagement and responsibility and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainthe examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. ability statement for the year 2018, as defined in the board of directors report on page 53, and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Opinions Annual Accounts Act. A statutory sustainability statement has been prepared. The scope of the audit Stockholm 11 March 2019 Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing Ernst & Young AB standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability statement. This means that our examination of the corporate govErik Sandström ernance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an Authorized Public Accountant audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 125 GLOSSARY GLOSSARY Active brazing Foil Brazing technology where fluxing agents are built into the braze A flat rolled product with a thickness less than 0.2 mm. alloy. TRILLIUM® material is categorized under Active brazing. Heat exchanger Alloy A device for transforming heat from one medium to another. Material composed of one metal with additions of other metals and/ or elements. HVAC Abbreviation for Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning system Aluminium ingot including heat exchangers. Sometimes used to define the stationary A small block of aluminium, typically used as input material for heat exchanger market. re-melting. LME Aluminium strip London Metal Exchange. Rolled aluminium in coil form. Plate Annealing A flat rolled product with a thickness above 6 mm. Heat treatment to partially or fully remove work hardening in the material after cold rolling. Rolled aluminium Aluminium that has been hot and/or cold rolled to desired gauge. Brazing Joining of metals through melting and solidification. Sheet A flat rolled product with a thickness between 0.2 mm and 6 mm cut Casting to length. Method to convert molten metal to a desired solid form. SHFE Cladding Shanghai Futures Exchange. A layer of metal bonded to a dissimilar metal or alloy. Slab Electric vehicles Input material to the rolling process that is produced by casting. Light vehicles that are powered entirely or partly by electricity. They are often divided into Battery Electric Vehicles (BEV) and Hybrid ElecSpray-forming tric Vehicles (HEV), and in some cases Plug-in Hybrid Vehicles (PHEV). Deposition of semi solid sprayed droplets on to a substrate. Flux TRILLIUM® A substance used to disrupt surface oxides to enable brazing. A reactive malleable metal matrix ­composite material that can be used to produce aluminium brazed joints without the need for adding a fluxing agent. 126 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2019 Gränges’ Annual General Meeting 2019 will take place on Wednesday, 8 May, 2019, at 4 p.m CEST at Näringslivets Hus in Stockholm. Registration begins at 3 p.m CEST. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT Gränges’ Annual report is available on the Participation company’s website, www.granges.com, in Swedish Shareholders wishing to attend the Annual General Meeting must be and English. The Annual report is also available registered as shareholders in the share register maintained by Euroin printed format and can be ordered at ­ clear Sweden AB as of Friday, 26 April, 2019, and have notifed the reports@granges.com. company of their intention to attend no later than ­Friday, 26 April, 2019. Registration of participation must be ­provided in writing to Gränges AB, Juridik, Box 5505, 114 85 Stockholm, Sweden; on the company’s GRÄNGES FINANCIAL website, www.granges.com; or by telephone at +46 732 07 42 52 on CALENDAR 2019 weekdays between 9 a.m and 4 p.m CET ­during the period 27 March– Interim report, 26 April. January–March 2019 26 April 2019 When registering, shareholders must state their name, personal ID Annual General Meeting 2019 8 May 2019 or company registration number, address and daytime telephone number and representatives. The information provided is only used for Half-year report, Gränges annual general meeting. January–June 2019 18 July 2019 Interim report, Nominee-registered shares January–September 2019 24 October 2019 Shareholders whose shares are registered with a nominee must, to have the right to attend the Annual General Meeting, have their shares temporarily reregistered with Euroclear Sweden AB. A request for reregistration should be submitted to the nominee well in advance of the Annual G ­ eneral Meeting. Notice convening the Annual General Meeting Gränges’ notice convening the Annual General Meeting 2019 will be published on or about Wednesday, 27 March 2019 by a press release and on the company’s website. Information about other decision points will be available on the company’s website. Printed information can be ordered via reports@granges.com. Dividend The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 3.20 (3.00) per share for the 2018 fiscal year, in total SEK 242 million (227). The proposed record date for the dividend is Friday, 10 May, 2019. If the Annual General Meeting resolves in accordance with the proposal, the dividend is expected to be ­distributed through Euroclear Sweden AB on Wednesday, 15 May, 2019. For further information, please contact: Niclas Nelson General Counsel niclas.nelson@granges.com Tel: +46 8 459 59 00 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 127 HISTORY HISTORY The foundation for today’s Gränges was laid in 1896 in Grängesberg. A key milestone came in 1996, when Gränges established a global Thereafter, several different industrial enterprises became part of the presence by opening a production plant in Shanghai. In 1997 Gränges Group, including Grängesberg mines, the TGOJ rail business, was listed on the Stock Exchange in Stockholm and in 2000 Gränges Oxelösund ironworks, and a shipping business. In 1969, the Group changed name to Sapa. In 2005 Sapa was acquired and delisted after acquired Svenska Metallverken, which included an aluminium Orkla ASA made a bid for the company. At that time Sapa had two lines ­products business, an operation that would later evolve into Gränges. of business: rolled aluminium products and extruded aluminium In 1972, work began on the development and ­production of aluminium ­profiles. In 2013 the rolled ­products business took back the name of heat ex­changer strips in Finspång. Gränges and in 2014 Orkla decided to list Gränges on the Nasdaq After the Gränges Group was acquired by Electrolux in 1980, a numStockholm Stock Exchange. ber of structural changes were implemented, resulting in the sale of In 2016, Gränges acquired Noranda’s downstream operations in most of Gränges’ businesses. What remained was the production of the United States. ­aluminium products. 1896 1972 1997 2013 2016 The industrial Production of materials Gränges is listed on Gränges becomes a Acquisition of Noranda’s group is formed in for brazed aluminium the stock exchange in stand-alone company downstream operations Grängesberg heat exchangers starts Stockholm and takes back its in the US old name 1922 1996 2005 2014 Production of Gränges establishes a Orkla buys out Gränges is listed on aluminium products production plant in Sapa (Gränges) through Nasdaq Stockholm starts at the plant in Shanghai a public bid and delists Finspång the company 128 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ADDRESSES HEAD OFFICE GRÄNGES EUROPE GRÄNGES ASIA GRÄNGES AMERICAS Gränges AB Gränges Sweden AB Gränges Aluminium Gränges Americas Inc Box 5505 SE-612 81 Finspång (Shanghai) Co., Ltd 501 Corporate Centre SE-114 85 Stockholm Sweden 1111 Jiatang Highway Drive, Suite 280 Sweden Phone: +46 122 838 00 201807 Shanghai Franklin, Tennessee 37067 Phone: +46 8 459 59 00 China USA Phone: +86 215 954 1111 Phone: +1 615 778 2000 VISITING ADDRESS VISITING ADDRESS Linnégatan 18 Slottsvägen 1–3 SE-114 47 Stockholm SE-612 31 Finspång Sweden Sweden www.granges.com Corp. identity no. 556001-6122 Concept, text and production: Solberg in cooperation with Gränges. Photographers: Dan Coleman, Superstudio, Erik Hagman, Magdalena Denker, Peter Jordan, Volvo Cars, Gränges among others. Print: Göteborgstryckeriet. A GLOBAL LEADER IN ALUMINIUM ENGINEERING, MANUFACTURING AND INNOVATION
