GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS LABELCO A/S LABELCO A/S Samsøvej 38 8382 Hinnerup Denmark Sector: Packaging and Labelling industry Membership date: 12 July 2012 Number of employees: 40 Ole Dam Administrative Director +45 8698 8088 Author: Tania Nielsen Date: September 23th 2019 Page 1 of 6 Author: Tania Nielsen Date: September 23th 2019 Page 2 of 6 Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals To show commitment to the UN Global Compact, and as a way of communicating it to our employees, Labelco A/S has in the past three years sponsored vulnerable children in Denmark by sponsoring the vacation camps of ” Ungdommens Røde Kors”, where the children go on holiday and in that way have an experience comparable to their schoolmates. Our support to vulnerable children in Denmark is communicated to all employees at the communication board in the cafeteria. Since June 2014 Labelco A/S has also sponsored SOS Boernebyerne by supporting the same 3 children in need all the years. The 3 SOS-children got the same amount as the year before plus a birthday present and a Christmas present. Since November 2018 Labelco A/S has sponsored one more child in need. The new SOS-child gets the same amount and a birthday present and a Christmas present as the other 3 SOS-children. We have pictures of the 4 children and letters from the children on our communication board in the cafeteria. The logo of SOS Boernebyerne is also on the front page of our website. By sponsoring the 4 SOS-children and vulnerable children in Denmark, we not only support the children in question to get a brighter future, but we also bring attention to the organizations itself, as well as children in need. Additionally, LABELCO A/S still has its human rights policies manifested in the employee’s manual. LABELCO A/S recognizes its responsibility to meet, follow and respect human rights. Furthermore, LABELCO A/S obeys to the rules of Denmark and of the EU. Both of these require by law that we as a company follow and respect the human rights. Additionally, it should be mentioned that customers and suppliers of LABELCO A/S are all located within the EU, and not in developing countries. Implementation Sponsoring of vulnerable children in Denmark is communicated to all employees at Labelcos communication board in the cafeteria, as mentioned ealier. As mentioned earlier the letters from the children are on our communication board in the cafeteria. All employees are further urged to read letters from the children, so the employees “know” the children. Measurement of outcomes To monitor and measure the outcomes of the goal, LABELCO A/S has created a table listing the following entities: Goal, Strategy, Tactics, Operational, Follow-up 1 and a Final Author: Tania Nielsen Date: September 23th 2019 Page 3 of 6 Follow-up. The goal and the status at each follow-up is presented to all employees on our communication board. Our goal with regards to human rights this year was: We will sponsor vulnerable children in Denmark. Labour Rights Assessment, policy and goals To show commitment to the UN Global Compact, and as a way of communicating it to our employees, we have in the past year worked towards the goal of reducing the average sick days to less than 5 days. LABELCO A/S wanted to facilitate the psychical environment by making 2 social events similar to those of the year before, because the employees have been very pleased with the events. Furthermore, LABELCO A/S continuously guarantees that all employees can form and join a labour union of their own choice without fear of intimidation or attempt of revenge. This is according to national law. LABELCO A/S is also a member of the Employer’s Association of Graphics which demands that the company only hires printers with a printer’s education. Their education consists of a 4-year long course that requires professional experience as well as study at a vocational school. The Danish public sector assesses health and safety methods at our company. We informs about the intentions of the company to respect the UN Global Compact on our homepage. LABELCO A/S does not use, is not involved in and does not obtain any benefits from forced labour, hereunder slavery and child labour. LABELCO A/S makes sure that its suppliers and their suppliers are not using, involved in or receives benefits from forced labour by requiring that they, through questionnaires, confirm that they and all their suppliers in the value chain are not involved in and does not obtain any benefits from forced labour. LABELCO A/S disassociates from the use of child labour. Because the suppliers and customers of LABELCO A/S only are located within Scandinavia and the EU, the company has not reacted with policies and procedures for countries, regions, sectors and economic activities where there is a higher risk for child labour. Child labour is, according to EU law, prohibited, and it can be assumed that companies within the border of Scandinavia and EU obey to this law. Should it happen that LABELCO A/S starts a new partnership with a company outside of the EU, LABELCO A/S will be proactive when it comes to making sure the company in question does not have, is not involved in and does not gain benefit from child labour. Author: Tania Nielsen Date: September 23th 2019 Page 4 of 6 Implementation LABELCO A/S has arranged 2 social events this year: A summer party and a Christmas Party. The employees have been very pleased with the events this year too. Measurement of outcomes To monitor and measure the outcomes of the goal, LABELCO A/S has created a table listing the following entities: Goal, Strategy, Tactics, Operational, Follow-up 1and a Final Follow-up. Our goal with regards to labour rights this year was: To reduce the average sick days to less than 5 days per person. The goal was reached. The goal and the follow-ups were presented to all employees on the communication board. Environment Assessment, policy and goals To show commitment to the UN Global Compact, we have in the past year worked towards the goal of energy efficiency by using only LED-lights in the production and administration. The goal this year was to find suppliers of LED-lights in the production and administration. We have several suppliers into play. LABELCO A/S has a waste sorting system in which paper, cardboard, light sources, inks and other chemical waste are sorted out and handled safely and according to the requirements of the law. Recyclable waste is recycled according to the requirements of the law. Implementation We reached the goal, we have several suppliers into play. The next step is to select the ultimate supplier. Measurement of outcomes To monitor and measure the outcomes of the goal, LABELCO A/S has created a table listing the following entities: Goal, Strategy, Tactics, Operational, Follow-up 1and Final Follow-up. Our goal with regards to environment this year was: Energy efficiency. Anti-corruption Assessment, policy and goals To show our commitment to the UN Global Compact, we have in the past years worked to keep and maintain the anti-corruption goal of a gift-registry where all employees and managers must register gifts, above an amount limit, they receive professionally. Hereby the gift-registry makes an overview of gifts above the amount limit. Author: Tania Nielsen Date: September 23th 2019 Page 5 of 6 LABELCO A/S has an anti-corruption policy that states no-tolerance when it comes to corruption in all of its forms. This anti-corruption policy and its behaviour codex include all employees. The purpose of the anti-corruption policy is to ensure and support behaviour and a work-ethic that is characterized by the highest standard for personal and organisational integrity. The anti-corruption policy offers a guide in how employees shall react if they are faced with corruption and corrupt behaviour, and at the same time marks out guidelines for the work in preventing corruption. Implementation To reach the goal, the gift-registry is still published on our communication board for everyone to see. During the year, especially at Christmas time, the gift registry was brought up several times, but because the gifts were less than the amount limit no gifts were registered. Measurement of outcomes To monitor and measure the outcomes of the goal, LABELCO A/S has created a table listing the following entities: Goal, Strategy, Tactics, Operational, Follow-up 1 and Final Follow-up. Our goal with regards to anti-corruption this year was: To keep and maintain the system of anticorruption, including the gift-registry. Author: Tania Nielsen Date: September 23th 2019 Page 6 of 6
