Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 1 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Corporate responsibility at Credit Suisse As one of the world’s leading banks, we are committed to delivering our financial experience and expertise to corporate, institutional and government clients and to ultra-high-net-worth individuals worldwide, in addition to affluent and retail clients in Switzerland. Responsibility Responsibility Responsibility Responsibility in banking in the economy as an for the Founded in 1856, Credit Suisse today has a global reach and society employer environment with operations in around 50 countries. We believe that our responsible approach to business and the dedication and Capitalization Supplier of capital Workforce Employee training expertise of our over 45,000 employees are key factors that determine our long-term success. We have a broad underOver CHF 12.6% 160 billion 45,680 480 standing of our duties as a financial services provider, member of society, and employer. This approach is also reflected in our efforts to protect the environment. The following key figures show the diverse nature of our activities in the area CET1 capital ratio at end-2018. was Credit Suisse’s volume of individuals from 180 different hours of training on environof corporate responsibility in 2018: loans outstanding in Switzerland countries work at Credit Suisse. mental management and health at end-2018. and safety were provided to 11,200 participants. Risk management Employee engagement Internal mobility Renewable energy Go to contents 942 18,694 48% 79% transactions or client relationof our employees around the of our leadership roles were of the electricity we consumed ships were assessed for world volunteered their time to filled internally. globally was generated using potential environmental and help charitable causes. renewable energy sources. social risks. Go to chapter 1 Go to chapter 2 Go to chapter 3 Go to chapter 4 2 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Contents Responsibility in banking 11 Trust and expertise 12 Risk management and sustainability 18 Sustainable and impact investment products and services 24 Responsibility in the economy and society 30 Our role in the economy and society 31 Our social commitments 36 Responsibility as an employer 41 Overview 2 Responsibility as an employer 42 Foreword 4 Responsibility for the environment 50 Responsibility for the environment 51 Our understanding 6 of Corporate Reporting on Corporate Responsibility 57 Responsibility For the purposes of this report, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Credit Suisse Group”, “Credit Suisse”, the “Group”, “we”, “us” and “our” mean Credit Suisse Group AG and its consolidated subsidiaries. The business of Credit Suisse AG, the direct bank subsidiary of the Group, is substantially similar to the Group, and we use these terms to refer to both when the subject is the same or substantially similar. We use the term the “bank” when we are referring only to Credit Suisse AG and its consolidated subsidiaries. Go to foreword 3 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Foreword Dear Reader Maintaining the trust of stakeholders is more important than ever during periods of profound change. At Credit Suisse, we were mindful of this throughout the three-year restructuring that we launched at the end of 2015 to increase the Group’s resilience. As part of that restructuring, we defined three main objectives: First, we wanted to achieve sustainable, compliant and profitable growth – shifting our focus to wealth management and right-sizing our Global Markets activities. Second, we needed to reduce both risks and costs, as well as to strengthen our capital base. Our third goal was to significantly upgrade our risk and compliance capabilities and improve our culture. Thanks to the hard work and dedication of our employees and the support of our clients and shareholders, we achieved these objectives by the end of 2018. Credit Suisse is today a very different bank to when we began this journey in 2015. In line with our strategy to be a leading wealth manager with strong investment banking capabilities, we strive to be a professional and reliable partner to our clients – offering expert service and advice to individuals, corporations and institutions around the globe. We believe that successful client relationships are not defined by performance alone: Integrity and ethical conduct are essential to inspire long-term confidence in our bank. This is why our 45,680 employees as well as the members of the Board of Directors are obligated to uphold our Code of Conduct. Our six Conduct and Ethics Standards are also key to promoting a shared understanding and expectations in respect of our culture and conduct. Since the end of 2015, Compliance has been set up as a stand-alone Executive Board-level function that oversees compliance matters across the Group, further underscoring the high level of importance that we assign to this topic. Urs Rohner, Chairman of the Board of Directors (left) and Tidjane Thiam, Chief Executive Officer (right) Read on 4 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Being responsive to the rapidly evolving needs of our clients is essential to At Credit Suisse, we believe that our responsibilities go beyond banking, and securing their trust and maintaining a long-term relationship. For example, we we want to make a meaningful contribution to addressing social challenges recognise that investment products in the sustainable and impact investment across the different regions in which we operate. Working with selected partner space have grown in importance in recent years – especially for millennials organisations, we support initiatives that seek to generate a positive economic and the next generation of investors. In 2017, we established our Impact or social impact. 2018 marked the tenth anniversary of our global initiatives in Advisory and Finance (IAF) department, which aims to facilitate projects and the areas of financial inclusion and financial education. In addition to providing initiatives that have a positive economic and social impact while delivering a funding to our partners, we encourage our employees to leverage their skills financial return for clients. The IAF department generated significant momenand expertise for the benefit of their communities. Employees can, among tum across both wealth management and corporate and investment banking other things, devote up to four days per year to supporting social projects run in 2018, its first full year of operation. by our partners. A total of 18,694 Credit Suisse employees around the world dedicated more than 187,900 hours to volunteering in 2018. We also desigCredit Suisse is playing an active part in codifying the relatively new but rapidly nate Charities of the Year for four different regions and conduct a wide range growing sustainable finance sector – including participating in an advisory of employee and corporate fundraising campaigns to support them. capacity in the launch of the International Finance Corporation’s Principles for Impact Management at the International Monetary Fund meeting in October Our business works on the basis of trust. One important way for Credit Suisse 2018 and becoming a founding member of the U.S. Alliance for Sustainable to build trust is by communicating transparently with all our stakeholders and Finance in December 2018. listening to their views and expectations. This dialogue encompasses a broad spectrum of topics – depending on whether we are engaging with clients, We recognise the importance of upholding international standards and best employees or shareholders, regulators or policymakers, the media or nonpractices that promote responsible business conduct, such as the UN Global governmental organisations – as evidenced by the scope of this publication. Compact with its Ten Principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, This Corporate Responsibility Report is designed to be part of a continuous, environmental protection and anti-corruption efforts. We also strive to make a constructive conversation between Credit Suisse and these different stakemeaningful contribution to the realisation of the UN Sustainable Development holders. In this spirit of dialogue, we welcome your comments on any of the Goals, which form a core element of the UN Agenda 2030 for sustainable subjects discussed in this publication. development. We believe, for example, that there is a pressing need to protect the climate and environment for future generations. In addition to our Best regards efforts in the sustainable and impact investment space, we apply internal policies and guidelines for certain sensitive industries when assessing potential transactions and client relationships and we are working with other banks to develop methodologies for the alignment of credit portfolios with the Paris Climate Agreement. At an operational level, we strive to make more efficient use of natural resources within our organisation and to reduce the direct Urs Rohner Tidjane Thiam impacts of our activities on the environment and the climate through our Chairman of the Board of Directors Chief Executive Officer global environmental management system. We have also been operating on a greenhouse gas neutral basis globally since 2010. March 2019 Go to Chapter 1 5 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Our understanding Our understanding of of Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility at Credit Suisse Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility at Credit Suisse Structure of the report materiality assessment For Credit Suisse, corporate responsibility is about creating The Corporate Responsibility Report is structured in accorsustainable value for our clients, shareholders, employees and dance with the four areas outlined on the next page: our other stakeholders. We strive to comply with the values and responsibilities in banking and in the economy and society, our Engaging with standards set out in our Code of Conduct and our Conduct role as an employer and our responsibility for the environment. stakeholders and Ethics Standards in every aspect of our work – including Our reporting on corporate responsibility reflects the GRI in our relationship with our stakeholders. We do so based on Standards for sustainability reporting while also providing our broad understanding of our duties as a financial services information on the progress we have made in implementing the provider and employer and as an integral part of the economy Ten Principles of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact, as and society. Our approach also reflects our commitment to well as examples of how we can contribute to the realization of protecting the environment. the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Further information and our disclosure according to the GRI Standards Our primary focus as a global bank is on running our business is available online at: responsibly and successfully. We are aware of the high standards expected of us and we endeavor to engage in an credit-suisse.com/gri open dialogue with our various stakeholders. This enables us to actively identify their needs and interests, to develop appropriate solutions and to take account of key challenges when evolving our strategy. We believe that this dialogue and our responsible approach to business are key factors in determining our long-term success, and that they help to promote an understanding of the important role we play in the economy and society. credit-suisse.com/responsibility 6 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Our understanding Our understanding of Corporate Responsibility of Corporate Responsibility Responsibility Responsibility in banking in the economy and society Corporate Responsibility at  Trust and expertise  Our role in the economy and society Credit Suisse  Risk management and sustainability  Our social commitments  Sustainable and impact investment products and services  Sponsorship Credit Suisse Our main responsibility is to ensure that we run our company As a global bank, we see ourselves as an integral part of the materiality assessment successfully on a long-term basis for the benefit of our clients, economy and society. We therefore aim to run our business shareholders, employees and society as a whole. We believe in a way that creates value for all our stakeholders. Through competence, client focus, compliance, diligence and responsible our role as a financial intermediary, we support entrepreneurconduct are key to the success of our business. This includes ship and economic growth, and we make an economic Engaging with taking account of social and environmental aspects when contribution as an employer, taxpayer and contractual partner. stakeholders conducting our activities. We also support various humanitarian and charitable organizations and projects as well as cultural and sporting events. Credit Suisse Code of Conduct Responsibility Responsibility as an employer for the environment  Credit Suisse as an employer  Climate and biodiversity  Diversity and inclusion  Environmental management Qualified and motivated employees are a vital success factor. We We are committed to conducting our business with a want to be an employer of choice worldwide and therefore offer long-term view to supporting environmental sustainability. We our people progressive working conditions and varied career believe important pillars of this approach include our support opportunities in a multicultural environment in our efforts to attract for the transition to a low-carbon and climate-resilient the best talent. economy as well as the protection of biodiversity. We therefore strive to promote the efficient use of resources and address sustainability issues when managing risks. 7 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Our understanding Credit Suisse materiality assessment of Corporate Material issues Importance Definition and scope of terms See pages Responsibility (high to very high) Compliance with laws and regulations / prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing / anti-corruption / 12 – 17, Corporate Culture of compliance and 1 conduct combating financial market crime (e. g. fraud, anti-competitive practices) / sanctions compliance / tax compliance / corporate culture 18 – 23, Responsibility at 42 – 45 Credit Suisse Business strategy / financial results / share price / dividends / capital, liquidity and funding position / stability of the company / 12 – 17, Company performance and 2 strategy operational risk (incl. business continuity management, technology risks) / cost efficiency / cost reductions 31– 35, 49 Environmental and social Environmental management system / assessment of sustainability risks in transactions / policies for sensitive industries / 18 – 23, Credit Suisse 3 risk management impacts on ecosystems and landscapes (incl. biodiversity, agriculture and forestry) / responsible supply chain management 51 – 56 materiality assessment Financial and political Systemic risk / capital and liquidity / total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC) / legal entity structure / resolvability / 12 – 17, 4 system stability political and economic stability / negative interest rates 31– 35 Operational structure / governance framework / management team / voting rights 12 – 17 Engaging with 5 Corporate governance stakeholders Blockchain / fintech / digital transformation / big data, automation 14, 27 6 Digitalization / fintech Consumer and investor Suitability and appropriateness / data security / privacy / transparency of fees 12 – 17 7 protection Reducing the carbon footprint of own operations / greenhouse gas neutrality / managing climate risks / facilitating 18 – 23, 8 Climate change transition to a low-carbon and climate-resilient economy through product offering / climate-related disclosure 51 – 56 Incentives and Responsible approach to compensation / executive compensation / criteria for incentives / deferrals, claw-backs 49 9 compensation policy Advisory process, relationship managers / range and quality of products and services / expertise (e. g. research, advisory) / 15 – 17, Quality and range of 10 services and advice performance and pricing of products and services / technology 24 – 29, 38, 42 – 45 Human resources and Diversity and inclusion / non-discrimination / training and skills management / attracting and retaining talent / health and safety 42 – 49 11 talent management / work-life balance / employees over 50 years of age Sustainable products and services / impact investing (incl. microfinance, conservation finance) / integration of environmental, 24 – 29, 12 Responsible investments social and governance (ESG) criteria in products and services / Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) 51 – 53, 56 Fair working conditions; no child labor, no forced labor / human rights aspects in supply chain and business relations / 18 – 23 13 Human rights indigenous peoples’ rights / positive contribution to the realization of human rights Contribution to the Purchasing, sourcing / tax contribution / lending to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and start-ups 31 – 35 14 economy Philanthropy / supporting social and humanitarian projects / employee engagement, including skills-based volunteering / “militia” 27, 33 – 40 15 Social commitments system of politics in our Swiss home market Relevance to stakeholders (average) Detailed information on Credit Suisse Group’s financial performance, Impact on Credit Suisse corporate governance and compen­sation practices can be found in Range of external stakeholder views the Annual Report 2018. 8 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Our understanding Credit Suisse materiality assessment of Corporate We aim to focus our corporate responsibility reporting activities NO ZERO GOOD HEALTH QUALITY GENDER CLEAN WATER POVERTY HUNGER AND WELL-BEING EDUCATION EQUALITY AND SANITATION on topics that are relevant to our business and our stakeholdResponsibility ers. We therefore regularly undertake a materiality assessment in order to identify critical economic, environmental and social Corporate issues that may either have a significant impact on the AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE REDUCED INEQUALITIES SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION Responsibility at company’s business performance or substantively influence AND PRODUCTION Credit Suisse the assessments and decisions of our stakeholders. We believe that doing so will help us to identify new trends and evolve our strategy accordingly, as well as tailor our reporting CLIMATE ACTION LIFE BELOW WATER LIFE ON LAND PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS Credit Suisse to align it with the interests and needs of our business and our INSTITUTIONS materiality assessment stakeholders. The materiality assessment is based on our ongoing dialogue Engaging with with stakeholders across all parts of our business. We strive to Developed in collaboration with | TheGlobalGoals@trollback.com | +1.212.529.1010 For queries on usage, contact: dpicampaigns@un.org Credit Suisse and the Sustainable Development Goals stakeholders ensure that the list of material issues identified in the past remains relevant and that important new topics are addressed. The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations in 2015 Having reached out to a larger number and broader range of form a core element of the UN Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development. As the SDGs stakeholders through a structured survey in 2017, we revised are based on a participatory process, responsibility for achieving them will be shared among states, the private sector, the scientific community and civil society. Credit Suisse and updated the list of material issues in 2018 in a process contributes to the realization of the SDGs in various ways, including in our role as a that included the analysis of information from monitoring tools, financial intermediary and employer. Further examples include our sustainable and impact a dedicated media review, as well as the views of internal investment products and services as well as our global initiatives in education and financial experts who participate in an ongoing dialogue with relevant inclusion, whose tenth anniversary we celebrated in 2018 (see pages 24−29 and 39). At stakeholder groups. This allowed us to take into account the the same time, our focus on sustainability risk management can help us to reduce potential negative impacts that certain business activities might have on the realization of perspective of clients, investors and analysts, policymakers, the SDGs (see pages 18 − 23). non-governmental organizations (NGOs), employees and other stakeholders. Based on the results of this analysis, we credit-suisse.com/sdg updated and adjusted our materiality assessment for 2018, taking account of the changing relative importance assigned to the issues identified. The findings reflect average values of importance based on the assessment methodology. The materiality assessment is also available online at: credit-suisse.com/materialityassessment 9 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Our understanding Engaging with stakeholders Our stakeholders of Corporate Our business works on the basis of trust: Our long-term success depends to a significant extent on our ability to inspire Responsibility confidence in our stakeholders. In the ongoing challenging aly sts Po regulatory environment and in view of the developments in the an d an Credit Suisse We cultivate a lic ym ak rs er Corporate area of financial market policy, it is essential that we take e st o strives to engage in an dialogue with s, re nv open dialogue with clients, policymakers, legislators g Responsibility at steps to safeguard and maintain trust in our company. We s, er i shareholders, investors and and regulators, as well as ul at Credit Suisse therefore regularly engage in a dialogue with clients, shareanalysts to identify their needs members of the business ld or ho sa re and interests and to provide them community and other stakeholder nd holders, investors and employees as well as with regulators ,s ha with timely and relevant information groups. We contribute our expertise me and policymakers, NGOs and other stakeholders. This nt s about our company, our strategy to discussions about economic, dia C lie and performance as well as political and social issues Credit Suisse dialogue – combined with the insights we gain through our our investment expertise. through our involvement in So materiality assessment participation in initiatives, associations, forums and proke t So c initiatives, associations and Ma ors cia ie ty forums. fessional bodies, as well as the findings of surveys – strengthens r fa ct l tors our understanding of the different, and sometimes conflicting, Econom fac Engaging with perspectives of our stakeholders. This encourages us to ic Credit stakeholders identify their interests and expectations at an early stage, to We are committed to Suisse We maintain a dialogue an open dialogue with with NGOs, intergovernoffer our own perspective and to help develop solutions to our employees, trade En mental organizations t r s en address current challenges wherever possible. At the same unions and suppliers. To viro Wo or (IGOs), local organizations pl n m e ntal fact nm ir o k this end, we regularly ac and other stakeholders to time, this exchange allows us to develop a more detailed e E nv conduct internal employee understand their concerns understanding of our corporate responsibilities. surveys, and work with and to address social and organizations that represent our environmental issues. We contribute ie s ni t employees’ concerns and interests. to the public debate on these topics mu Em Further information plo We also engage in a dialogue with through our publications, initiatives om suppliers and service providers and events. Working with partner lc Information about our engagement with stakeholders, as ye es about our requirements for organizations, we strive to ca lo an well as our range of publications designed to contribute to t ra responsible social and contribute to economic and s, O d de G environmental social development. /I un Os the public debate, can be found online at: ion s conduct. N G ,s up p lie rs credit-suisse.com/responsibility/dialogue 10 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility in banking 1.1 Trust and expertise 12 1.2 Risk management and sustainability 18 1.3 Sustainable and impact investment 24 products and services 11 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility Trust and expertise in banking We strive to conduct our business responsibly and efficiently – offering clients high-quality service and advice, supporting 1.1 efforts to increase financial stability, and maintaining a rigorous Trust and expertise compliance and control culture to inspire trust in our bank. 1.2 Risk management and sustainability Credit Suisse is committed to operating professionally and The continued growth of our Wealth Management businesses with integrity to gain and maintain the trust of our stakeremained a key focus during the year, as demonstrated by holders. Our strategy is to be a leading wealth manager the CHF 34.4 billion of Wealth Management net new assets 1.3 with strong investment banking capabilities. We aim to we attracted in 2018, bringing the total generated over three Sustainable and capture the opportunities available to us as a provider of years to more than CHF 100 billion. Credit Suisse has today impact investment integrated solutions that address the private wealth and established itself as a leading wealth manager with strong products and services business needs of ultra-high-net-worth (UHNW) individuals investment banking capabilities. As a result, we believe that and successful entrepreneurs around the globe. To achieve we are well positioned to take advantage of a number of this, we are taking a balanced approach between mature macro trends that we expect to remain supportive over the and emerging markets. We believe that our strategy will long term. generate significant value for our shareholders and benefit our clients, employees and other stakeholders. Wealth Management¹ net new assets (in CHF billion) 2018 was the final year of the three-year restructuring we launched at the end of 2015 with the aim of making the 34.4 100.9 bank more resilient in challenging times by reducing risks, cutting costs and strengthening our capital base. We also aimed to grow our Wealth Management-related revenues 37.2 and relatively stable income streams and to return to profitable, compliant and quality growth. At the same time, we wanted to right-size our Global Markets activities and deal 29.3 resolutely with our largest legacy issues. These objectives were broadly achieved by the end of 2018. We delivered on our goal of profitable growth with Group 2016 2017 2018 Total reported pre-tax income of CHF 3.37 billion in 2018, an increase of 88% compared to 2017. Net income attribut¹ Relating to Swiss Universal Bank Private Clients, International Wealth Management Private able to shareholders totaled CHF 2.02 billion in 2018, Banking and Asia Pacific Private Banking within Wealth Management & Connected representing our first annual post-tax profit since 2014. 12 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility Our capital position has been significantly strengthened over been working consistently with regulators, international in banking the same period. As a result, we reported a common equity tier 1 (CET1) ratio of 12.6% and a tier 1 leverage ratio of standard-setting bodies and the finance industry for a number of years to help address legislation and regula5.2% at end-2018. The transformation of our capital position tions for systemically important banks. We have also has allowed us to allocate more resources to our historically adjusted our legal entity structure over the years in this 1.1 more stable and capital-efficient businesses and away from context. In addition, we maintain resolution plans that Trust and our more volatile market-dependent activities. For 2019, the demonstrate our resolvability. Credit Suisse has built up its expertise Board of Directors of Credit Suisse Group AG approved a total loss-absorbing capacity in line with stringent Swiss share buyback program of Group ordinary shares of up to regulations. This includes the issuance of so-called bail-in CHF 1.5 billion, reflecting the strength of our capital position. bonds (gone-concern capital), which could be used by the 1.2 We expect to buy back at least CHF 1.0 billion in 2019, authorities to stabilize the bank and support the execution Risk management subject to market and economic conditions. of our resolution plans, which include the stabilization and and sustainability financial restructuring of large parts of the Group, the conCredit Suisse’s cost base has been transformed over the past tinuation of Credit Suisse (Schweiz) AG, and the wind-down three years, providing greater operational leverage across key of certain trading businesses. As of December 31, 2018, 1.3 businesses. At end-2018, we surpassed our target of less Credit Suisse reported CHF 37.9 billion of gone-concern Sustainable and than CHF 17 billion for our adjusted operating cost base. capital on a look-through basis. impact investment products and services Through the Strategic Resolution Unit, which we closed on An objective of regulatory reform is to strengthen banks while schedule at end-2018, we have dealt effectively with key continuing to strengthen markets. In response to regulatory legacy issues. We also made great progress in strengthening initiatives focused on derivatives, Credit Suisse has implerisk management, our controls and our compliance framework mented mandatory clearing of over-the-counter derivatives in to ensure that the bank can focus on supporting and delivering line with the rest of the market. Authorities are also working high-quality financial solutions to clients around the globe and to make markets more efficient and fair, as seen with the EU on achieving sustainable, compliant and profitable growth. Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II (MiFID II), which became effective on January 3, 2018. In the EU and other Detailed information on our strategy and financial performance is provided in impacted jurisdictions, we implemented new provisions that the Annual Report 2018 of Credit Suisse Group AG increase investor protection and market transparency. We continue to invest in the development and implementation of Adapting to the new regulatory landscape robust anti-money laundering (AML) and know-your-customer The global implementation of extensive regulatory reforms (KYC) rules and controls in order to enhance transparency continued in 2018 with the aim of further reinforcing the and help identify and prevent financial crime. stability and integrity of the global financial system. Reforms in prudential regulation are intended to make banks less likely In the second half of 2017 and throughout 2018, Credit Suisse to fail as well as easier to resolve if the point of non-viability mobilized a central team to coordinate analysis and delivery is reached. The effect of these reforms is that banks have of public attestations to the industry codes and standards generally increased capital, augmented liquidity, improved published by bodies such as the Bank of International Settlegovernance and controls, and adapted their legal entity ments (attestation: May 2018), Fixed Income, Currencies and structures to help ensure resolvability. Commodities Market Standards Board (FMSB) (attestation: January and June 2018), London Bullion Market Association At Credit Suisse, we consider it important to actively help (attestation: May 2018), and the Bank of England (attestation: shape new regulatory standards. For example, we have 13 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility September 2018). All publications refer to generally recognized internal best practices for continued compliant growth. Since in banking best practice standards in areas such as ethics, governance, execution, risk and compliance, information sharing, and operathe launch of our six Conduct and Ethics (C&E) Standards in 2017, Credit Suisse has focused on confirming that the C&E tions and settlements. We are continuing to focus on new Standards are firmly embedded in our processes throughout publications issued by the FMSB and are supporting ongoing the bank and reinforced by a strong emphasis from senior Further 1.1 compliance in our business-as-usual activities. management. The six C&E Standards – Client Focus, Meritinformation: see p. 42 Trust and ocracy, Stakeholder Management, Accountability, Partner and expertise Financial integrity Transparency – set the values and conduct expectations for Compliance operates as an independent Executive Board-level employees. C&E is a core part of everything we do – from function, underscoring the high level of importance that Credit recruitment to performance management and our disciplinary 1.2 Suisse assigns to this topic. The function’s mandate is to process. Through comprehensive, top-down, consistent Risk management oversee compliance matters for Credit Suisse, and it includes communications, we have sought to create awareness across and sustainability being a proactive, independent function that partners with the the bank regarding C&E. businesses by continuously challenging and supporting them to effectively manage compliance risk. In addition, to reflect Credit Suisse has a company-wide Business Continuity 1.3 the growing significance of our relationship with regulators Management (BCM) Program in place to support the mainteSustainable and worldwide, the Regulatory Affairs function was separated nance of critical business processes in the event of a major impact investment from the Compliance organization and integrated into the CEO internal or external incident. The aim of the BCM Program is products and services Office in the first quarter of 2019. The Internal Audit departto exercise a duty of care to employees, protect client and ment forms an integral part of corporate governance at Credit company assets and minimize the financial, regulatory, Suisse by regularly and independently assessing the risk reputational and strategic impact of such incidents. exposure of our various business activities, taking into account industry trends, strategic and organizational decisions, best practice and regulatory matters. Internal Audit uses a sysCapturing the potential of digitalization tematic and disciplined approach that is designed to provide independent and objective assurance with the goal of adding Digitalization is fundamentally altering the finance industry and is therefore an important value by enhancing the effectiveness of Credit Suisse’s risk topic for Credit Suisse. For example, the evolving digital landscape is one of several management, control and governance processes. Internal factors transforming the way clients interact with their bank. We recognize that innovative concepts are essential to ensure we can continue to offer clients excellent products and Audit regularly benchmarks its methods and tools against services in the future via the channels they prefer. those of its peers. Reflecting our efforts to expand our range of digital products and services along the client Recognizing the critical role of employees in helping to prelifecycle, Credit Suisse launched a number of digital, client-centric initiatives across different serve financial integrity, we aim for the highest standards of geographies in 2018. At the same time, we recognize the potential of digital solutions to drive cost efficiencies across our organization and to support labor-intensive processes. personal accountability and ethical conduct from each member Going forward, we expect that the use of digital technology will help the Group to further of our workforce. Credit Suisse employees at all levels of the increase efficiency, strengthen client loyalty, simplify global access to our offering, and organization, as well as the members of the Board of Directors, address reputational and conduct risks at an early stage. One of our most important are obligated to adhere to our Code of Conduct. To ensure we initiatives in this context is the establishment of our Compliance Labs. In these design, process re-engineering and analytics centers, we have developed numerous state-of-the-art are continuously informed of the latest regulations and industry applications that actively contribute to mitigating employee and client risk. In 2019, we standards, our employees are required to participate in an intend to expand the Compliance Labs to serve the rest of the Group in executing highannual targeted and tailored training curriculum. It includes, but priority deliverables such as the re-engineering of credit processes, and credit and market is not limited to, developments in the finance industry and risk analytics. 14 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility We believe that protecting the integrity of the financial system report concerns of potential legal, regulatory or ethical misconin banking is a core responsibility of banks. At Credit Suisse, we are committed to complying with all applicable financial crime laws duct in a timely manner – in the first instance to their line managers or to Compliance. Employees worldwide also have the and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. We option of calling our Integrity Hotline, where they can report have established global policies and procedures in an effort such issues anonymously, where permitted by local law. 1.1 to achieve more robust and consistent standards of compliTrust and ance, including in relation to politically exposed persons (PEP), Commitment to client tax compliance expertise the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, Credit Suisse policies mandate that we do not accept or bribery and corruption, as well as the adherence to applicable manage client assets if we know or become aware of informaeconomic and trade sanctions laws. We are committed to only tion that would support a suspicion of tax non-compliance. 1.2 doing business with clients and third parties who meet and To address the regulatory and reputational risks associated Risk management adhere to our standards. We have a wide range of policies, with undeclared assets held by private clients, Credit Suisse and sustainability procedures and internal controls, with requirements such as has, over the last several years, carried out comprehensive the evaluation of third parties who conduct business for or on client tax programs and reviews covering clients in essentially behalf of Credit Suisse and dedicated controls related to gifts all of our major markets. In addition, we have a Client Tax 1.3 and entertainment, employment opportunities, and charitable Compliance Policy that underpins our zero tolerance approach Sustainable and contributions. Credit Suisse maintains active participation in to tax evasion or the facilitation of tax evasion either by impact investment the Wolfsberg Group, a reflection of our continued commitemployees or third parties. products and services ment to understand the latest financial crime risks and controls, while also staying abreast of important regulatory and market developments. We expect threats related to the global Spotlight on client satisfaction financial system to grow and change, and we are actively developing and implementing risk management capabilities to The Credit Suisse Global Service Monitor Program measures client satisfaction and combat financial crime. In addition, employees must ensure benchmarks it against the client satisfaction metrics of our main peers. Feedback Further that transactions that may affect the reputation of Credit from existing and prospective clients provides insights into how we can improve our information: service and advice. The results of the 2018 survey, which was conducted in selected Suisse undergo our bank-wide standardized Reputational Risk markets, reveal consistently strong levels of satisfaction among our clients. For example, see p.18 – 20 Review Process. client satisfaction has increased in Switzerland, with 94% of private clients satisfied and 59% very satisfied with Credit Suisse. Credit Suisse manages improper employee behavior and employee breaches through global disciplinary and escalation 94% 6% 59% processes across three lines of defense. Our disciplinary process provides a structure that is designed to confirm that the bank’s standards of professional conduct (including our C&E Standards and Code of Conduct), policies and procedures, and of our private clients in Switzerland are external laws, rules, regulations, standards and principles are satisfied with our services. adhered to and enforced on an ongoing basis, subject to local differences. Our Conduct and Ethics Boards provide an Very satisfied independent review of disciplinary matters and, where necesSatisfied Not satisfied sary, participate in or challenge disciplinary recommendations that may impact employee compensation and promotion 35% opportunities. Additionally, employees have a responsibility to 15 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility Credit Suisse fully adheres to its obligations as a financial instistandards. We are currently reviewing existing processes in banking tution to collect information regarding the tax classification of clients in order to assist in the sharing of information by tax and procedures in light of the draft ordinance for the FFSA published in October 2018. The goal is to maintain and authorities. Credit Suisse participates in, and complies with, strengthen the high standard of investor protection within the requirements of the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act Credit Suisse while having a consistent and transparent 1.1 and the Automatic Exchange of Information regime – meaframework throughout the bank by enhancing the existing Trust and sures designed and introduced by governments to combat tax implementation wherever required in order to increase expertise evasion. the quality of services provided to our clients. Governments’ focus on client tax matters is now turning 1.2 towards tax avoidance, most recently with the EU introRisk management ducing measures in the new EU Directive (DAC 6) to require This chapter addresses the following issues: and sustainability the exchange of information on certain arrangements that 1 Culture of compliance and conduct Further might encompass an element of aggressive tax planning. 2 Company performance and strategy information: see p. 8 Credit Suisse is currently assessing the impact and require4 Financial and political system stability 1.3 ments of the EU’s rules in this area. 5 Corporate governance Sustainable and 6 Digitalization / fintech impact investment High-quality service and advice 7 Consumer and investor protection products and services When providing advice to our clients, we assess its suitability 10 Quality and range of services and advice to help ensure that our clients have the requisite knowledge and experience to understand the associated risks and to make sure that our advice is in line with their risk profile and credit-suisse.com/responsibility/banking investment objectives. When executing orders on behalf of our clients, we assess the appropriateness of the transaction for them and address potential mismatches. The Credit Suisse advisory process helps us to understand our clients’ circumstances, their risk profile and their financial needs and plans, and it incorporates sophisticated analytical tools that can identify counterparty risks and simulate potential returns in different scenarios to provide an objective basis for client investment decisions. Credit Suisse has been committed to strengthening investor protection for a number of years and has invested in the related systems, processes and employee training – including a mandatory certification program for relationship managers. Credit Suisse is fully dedicated to complying with the continuously evolving regulatory demands. In June 2018, the Swiss parliament adopted the Federal Financial Services Act (FFSA), which is part of a larger legislative effort to create uniform competitive conditions for financial service providers, improve client protection and bring Swiss legislation in line with new or emerging international 16 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility in banking Challenges and responses Challenge: The Paris Agreement is considered a milestone in the Challenge: The definitive Basel III regulations were finalized in global effort to mitigate the effects of climate change. It aims to December 2017. The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 1.1 limit the rise in global temperature to well below 2° Celsius above foresees their entry into force in 2022, with transitional periods Trust and pre-industrial levels and has put in place a structure through which for certain sectors. The consistent implementation of the agreed expertise countries have committed to implement transition plans to lower standard across different jurisdictions will be crucial to achieve the their respective greenhouse gas emissions. Since the agreement objective of the capital reforms and to ensure a level playing field. entered into force in 2016, climate change has continued to be What steps did Credit Suisse take to help tackle this challenge? 1.2 an important issue in both the public and private sectors. How is Risk management Credit Suisse addressing the challenge of climate change? Response: In 2018, Credit Suisse – together with other relevant stakeholdand sustainability ers – launched a constructive high-level dialogue with Swiss regulators and Response: At Credit Suisse, we believe that our role as a financial policymakers regarding the implementation of the new Basel III standard in intermediary is to act as a reliable partner in the transition to a world that is Switzerland. As part of these efforts, Credit Suisse has actively contributed 1.3 less dependent on fossil fuels and to a low-carbon and climate-resilient to the development of the implementation process in Switzerland. One of Sustainable and economy. In addition to operating on a greenhouse gas neutral basis at the priorities discussed so far is the objective of harmonized implementation impact investment all our locations around the globe since 2010, we have continuously with other comparable financial centers, from both a content and timing products and services strengthened our activities in the area of green finance (see page 29). perspective. With regard to the implementation in other jurisdictions, Credit Suisse has – together with key policymakers – strongly emphasized Our principles and our approach to climate protection are set out in the importance of a harmonized implementation approach and level playing our Statement on Climate Change, and they are also reflected in our field. Through trade associations and direct contacts, Credit Suisse has Group-wide, standardized Reputational Risk Review Process. Within made the case against the fragmentation of global standards, including by that process, we evaluate factors such as a company’s greenhouse means of a high-level conference in Brussels with key officials that included gas footprint or its energy efficiency targets, while some of our policies fact-based reports and analysis on the risks and costs of such an approach. and guidelines require clients to have a plan in place to deal with climate change risks. Furthermore, our sector policies and guidelines include restrictions on the financing of new mining projects to extract thermal coal and of new coal-fired power plants. In 2018, we established a climate change program with the overall goal of addressing the recommendations of the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). In that context, we have worked to formalize climate-related governance and definitions in our key policies and risk taxonomy and to define the principles for climate risk strategy and management. We expect our TCFD adoption efforts to provide us with further guidance for the transition to a world that progressively minimizes its dependency on fossil fuels. Moreover, we are working with other banks to develop methodologies for the alignment of credit portfolios with the Paris Agreement. 17 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility Risk management in banking and sustainability 1.1 Trust and To achieve long-term success, it is essential that we pursue expertise a responsible approach to business. We expect our employees to act professionally, with integrity and in compliance with 1.2 applicable laws, regulations, due diligence requirements and Risk management and sustainability industry standards. We also take sustainability issues into account as an integral part of our risk review process. 1.3 Sustainable and impact investment products and services We consider it vital to operate responsibly and demonstrate a Reputational Risk Review Process high degree of risk awareness in all our business activities. Prudent risk-taking in line with our strategic priorities is Reflecting this commitment, all our employees globally and the fundamental to our business. Credit Suisse uses a wide range members of our Board of Directors are obligated to adhere to of risk management practices to address the variety of risks Credit Suisse’s Code of Conduct. In addition, our Conduct and that arise from our business activities. Reputational risk is Ethics Standards are designed to ensure that people throughamong the key risk types considered in that process. Potential out Credit Suisse share the same understanding and expectareputational risks may arise from various sources, including, tions in terms of our culture and conduct. Appropriate riskbut not limited to, the nature or purpose of a proposed taking, ensuring sustainability and acting responsibly towards transaction or service, the identity or activities of a potential society are key elements of these standards. client, the regulatory or political context in which the business will be transacted, and any potentially controversial environSustainability as an integral part of our business mental or social impacts of a transaction. Our Statement on Sustainability defines the objectives and principles underpinning our approach to environmental and Reputational risk potentially arising from proposed business social issues in our business activities. It refers to international transactions and client activity is assessed in the Reputational agreements that Credit Suisse has voluntarily pledged to Risk Review Process. The Group’s global policy on reputational uphold, such as the UN Global Compact with its Ten Principles risk requires employees to be conservative when assessing in the areas of human rights, labor standards, environmental potential reputational impact and, where certain indicators give protection and anti-corruption efforts. More information on our rise to potential reputational risk, the relevant business proposal sustainability commitments is available at: or service must undergo the Reputational Risk Review Process. credit-suisse.com/sustainabilitycommitments 18 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility Environmental and social risks are some of the aspects Assessment of sustainability risks within the Reputational Risk Review Process in banking considered in that process. For example, companies operating in sensitive industries frequently play a key economic role in the global supply of energy and commodities. They may also be a major employer in economically weak regions. At the 1. Risk classification and responsibility 1.1 same time, we recognize that the activities of these companies Trust and can, in some cases, have a significant impact on the climate, Potential environmental or social risks Other potential risks expertise biodiversity, water resources or local communities. To assess environmental and social risks, our internal specialist Internal specialist unit Sustainability Various specialist units 1.2 unit, Sustainability Affairs, evaluates whether the potential Affairs Risk management client’s activities are consistent with the relevant industry and sustainability standards and whether the transaction is compatible with Credit Suisse’s policies and guidelines for sensitive sectors. Based on the outcome of this analysis, Sustainability Affairs 2. Assessment and recommendation 1.3 submits its assessment to a Reputational Risk Approver, Sustainable and who is a senior manager independent from the area of Aspects to be checked according to internal policies and guidelines impact investment business in question, or to the respective Reputational Risk Nature of transaction products and services Committees. They have the authority to approve, reject or impose conditions on our participation in a transaction or the Identity and activities of the potential client establishment of a client relationship. In cases of particularly complex or cross-divisional transactions, the decision may Regulatory and political context be referred to the Reputational Risk Sustainability Committee (RRSC) or escalated to the Global Reputational Risk Approver. Environmental and social aspects Various risk-specific aspects of client operations The RRSC, chaired by the Group’s Chief Risk Officer, is the most senior governing body responsible for the oversight and active discussion of reputational risks and sustainability issues. At Board of Directors level, the Risk Committee and Audit 3. Review and decision Committee jointly assist the Board in fulfilling its reputational risk oversight responsibilities by reviewing and approving Decision by Reputational Risk Approver or Committee (approval / approval with conditions / rejection) the Group’s risk appetite framework as well as assessing the adequacy of the management of reputational risks. More information on this process is available at: credit-suisse.com/riskmanagement Optional escalation Decision by Reputational Risk Sustainability Committee or Global Reputational Risk Approver (approval / approval with conditions / rejection) Sector policies and guidelines Certain industries are particularly sensitive from a social or environmental perspective. They include oil and gas, mining, power generation, and forestry and agribusiness, which covers 19 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility pulp and paper as well as palm oil production. To assess Transactions assessed on the basis of potential environmental in banking potential transactions with clients in these industries, we have defined specific global policies and guidelines, taking account and social risks in 2018 of standards developed by international organizations such as the UN and the World Bank. Topics covered by our sector 1.1 policies and guidelines include: Compliance with industry74% approved Trust and specific, internationally recognized standards on the environ942 8% approved with conditions expertise ment and human rights; measures to assess and reduce the transactions 8% rejected or not pursued environmental impact of operations; the protection of the assessed 10% pending¹ health and safety of company employees and surrounding 1.2 communities; and respect for the human rights of the local Risk management population. and sustainability Our policies and guidelines also describe business areas and These statistics exclude potential transactions that were not formally reviewed as part operational processes that Credit Suisse will not finance. of the risk review process because they were immediately identified by the relationship 1.3 For example, we apply restrictions on the financing of new manager as being non-compliant with the Group's requirements and guidelines. Sustainable and mining projects to extract thermal coal and of new coal-fired ¹ As of February 28, 2019. impact investment power plants. Our sector policies and guidelines are regularly products and services reviewed and updated to reflect the latest developments and challenges. A summary of our sector policies and guideSustainability risk assessments by sector in 2018 lines can be found at: Transactions assessed¹ 2018 2017 credit-suisse.com/sectorpolicies Metals and mining 190 162 Credit Suisse has also adopted the Equator Principles. This Forestry and agribusiness 84 58 framework for the management of environmental and social Oil and gas 242 199 risks is based on standards defined by the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and is applied by more than 90 Power generation and transmission 89 68 financial institutions for specific types of finance for industrial Chemicals 32 31 and infrastructure projects. 2018 marked the 15th anniversary Defense 22 32 of the Equator Principles, which have had a strong impact on the project finance market. In the same year, the Equator Infrastructure and transportation 53 48 Principles institutions launched a process to update the Finance 35 34 Principles, and Credit Suisse actively contributed to these discussions. We also continued our active role on the Other 195 174 Steering Committee of the Equator Principles and served Total 942 806 as the regional representative for Europe within the Equator Principles Association. ¹ Including Equator Principles (EP) transactions. For a comprehensive disclosure in accordance with EP requirements, see: We are also a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm credit-suisse.com/riskmanagement Oil (RSPO) in the “Banks and Investors” sector. The RSPO is 20 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility the leading certification standard for palm oil and promotes Implementing the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related in banking the cultivation and use of sustainable palm oil products through global standards and the engagement of stakeholder Financial Disclosures groups throughout the supply chain. Consequently, our In 2017, the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial DisclosForestry and Agribusiness Policy includes requirements ures (TCFD) published its final report with recommendations for the voluntary reporting 1.1 regarding RSPO membership and RSPO certification that on material risks and opportunities arising from climate change. The implementation of the TCFD recommendations by companies is expected to take several years but is likely Trust and we expect our clients to observe. to result in more informed investment, credit and insurance underwriting decisions. expertise Respecting human rights Credit Suisse has publicly expressed its support for the TCFD recommendations. Within We strive to assume our responsibilities in the area of human the regulatory framework established by the Paris Agreement, we expect the outcome 1.2 rights in accordance with the International Bill of Human Rights of our TCFD adoption to provide us with further guidance for the transition to a world that is progressively minimizing its dependency on fossil fuels. Risk management as well as the corresponding principles on human and labor and sustainability rights set out in the UN Global Compact. We take account of In response to the TCFD recommendations, which are grouped in the four categories these principles in our own policies and business activities. Governance, Strategy, Risk Management, and Metrics and Targets, Credit Suisse has Our Statement on Human Rights describes the basis of our established a climate change program with the overall goal to address recommendations 1.3 responsibility to respect human rights and the approaches, related to external disclosures of climate-linked risks and opportunities. The program team has worked to formalize climate-related governance and definitions in key policies Sustainable and processes and tools we use to implement it. Equally, we expect and our risk taxonomy, and to define the principles for climate risk strategy and manageimpact investment our business partners to recognize and uphold human rights. ment. With regard to Strategy, we have identified several key risks and opportunities, products and services originating from either the physical or transition effects of climate change, and defined a We also take into account the UN “Protect, Respect and 2° Celsius and a 4° Celsius climate scenario. We subsequently conducted a preliminary analysis of the impact of these scenarios on our business. In terms of risk management, Remedy” framework and the UN Guiding Principles on we aim to leverage established risk management processes for the management of Business and Human Rights. To promote a better underclimate risk exposures by mapping the underlying climate risks to existing risk types such standing of what the Guiding Principles mean for the as credit risk, market risk, reputational risk, strategy risk and operational risk. Risk banking sector, Credit Suisse co-initiated the Thun Group management of climate change exposure from our financial relationships presents a together with other banks in 2011. Since its inception, challenge owing to the long-term nature of the climate impacts versus the relatively shorter-term nature of banking portfolios. With regard to metrics and targets, we assess the Thun Group has worked on providing guidance for the and provide information on the volume of greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1, 2, 3) from practical implementation of the Guiding Principles in the our in-house operations on the basis of an ISO 14001certified environmental managedevelopment or structuring of banking products and services. ment system (see pages 53 – 56). We are also developing an initial set of internal metrics The 2018 meeting of the Thun Group focused on topics to assess our climate risk-related financial exposures. To share experiences on the path such as the OECD Responsible Business Conduct guidetowards TCFD adoption, we have joined a working group convened by the Institute of International Finance. lines, human trafficking and modern slavery, as well as current challenges in the context of effective due diligence and grievance mechanisms. Information on Credit Suisse’s TCFD implementation efforts can also be found in our 2018 Annual Report. Further We consider human rights issues in our risk management information: processes and are aware of our responsibilities as an empsee p. 42 – 49 loyer. Furthermore, our Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Transparency Statement sets out the steps that Credit Suisse is taking to prevent the occurrence of modern slavery and human trafficking in our business operations and within our supply chain. Further information on the topic of human 21 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility rights, including our Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Supplier Code of Conduct and Third Party Risk Management (TPRM) in banking Transparency Statement, can be found at: Credit Suisse works with numerous suppliers and service providers from a broad range credit-suisse.com/humanrights of sectors. We expect these partners to address risks responsibly and to conduct their business in a socially and environmentally responsible manner. Our Supplier Code of 1.1 Conduct aims to ensure that our external business partners respect human rights, labor rights, employment laws and environmental regulations. To manage financial, operational Trust and Dialogue, knowledge-sharing and training and reputational risks and to meet the increasing regulatory requirements governing expertise Credit Suisse engages in an ongoing dialogue with a range business relationships with third parties, Credit Suisse introduced the Third Party Risk of stakeholders on sustainability issues. This includes our Management (TPRM) framework in 2016. Through TPRM, we assess potential environmental, social and labor law-related risks, among others, in connection with third parties. continued active participation in industry initiatives such as 1.2 the Equator Principles and the Thun Group. We are also a The framework also allows Credit Suisse to continuously monitor these relationships, to raise and track issues, and to demand actions for improvement from suppliers and Risk management member of the multi-stakeholder Advisory Group to the OECD service providers. More information is available at: and sustainability Responsible Business Conduct in the Financial Sector project, which aims to contribute to the development of best practices credit-suisse.com/suppliers for human rights and environmental due diligence based 1.3 on the provisions of the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Sustainable and Enterprises. impact investment products and services In 2018, we also discussed regulatory developments, climate risks and opportunities at a meeting in Frankfurt between banks and representatives of civil society. Furthermore, for the eighth consecutive year we organized a roundtable in London to engage with other global banks on environmental and social risk management practices in investment banking. To ensure that the expertise required to address environmental and human rights risks is firmly embedded within Credit Suisse, we provided more than 600 employees in client-facing roles or relevant specialist units with training in sustainability risk management in 2018. Further This chapter addresses the following issues: information: 1 Culture of compliance and conduct see p. 8 3 Environmental and social risk management 8 Climate change 13 Human rights credit-suisse.com/responsibility/banking 22 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility in banking Challenge and response Challenge: 2018 marked the 70th anniversary of the Universal aspects such as the protection of the health and safety of company Declaration of Human Rights that was adopted by the United employees and surrounding communities as well as a commitment to 1.1 Nations in 1948. An important point of reference in this area is the respect the human rights of local populations. Furthermore, to take account Trust and UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, which of differing viewpoints, we engage in an ongoing dialogue with NGOs expertise marked a milestone in the clarification of corporate responsibility and other key stakeholders. For example, our participation in the Advisory for human rights when they were introduced in 2011. What is Group to the OECD Responsible Business Conduct in the Financial Sector Credit Suisse’s approach to potential human rights issues in its project contributes to the development of best practices for human rights 1.2 business activities and client relationships? and environmental due diligence. Risk management and sustainability Response: We strive to assume our responsibilities in the area of human rights in accordance with the International Bill of Human Rights. We are a member of the UN Global Compact, and we actively participate in the 1.3 Thun Group that focuses on the integration of the UN Guiding Principles Sustainable and on Business and Human Rights into the policies and practices of banking impact investment institutions. Our Statement on Human Rights describes the basis of our products and services responsibility to respect human rights and the approaches, processes and tools we use to address this responsibility. Equally, we expect our business partners to recognize and uphold human rights, as stated in our Supplier Code of Conduct. Credit Suisse’s most direct link to human rights issues is in our working relationship with our employees, and this is consequently the area in which we believe we can exercise the greatest influence. In addition, the provision Erklärung: siehe XX of certain financial services may– XX be linked to negative human rights impacts. While companies operating in sensitive sectors frequently play a key economic role in the global supply of energy and commodities and as an employer, the activities of these companies can, in some cases, have a significant impact on local or indigenous communities. In that context, the rights of indigenous communities may not be sufficiently protected by a state’s laws and practices. We apply particular scrutiny when there is credible evidence that the proceeds of a transaction are used for activities which may negatively impact an area used or traditionally claimed by local or indigenous communities. Using our Reputational Risk Review Process, we perform detailed reviews of business activities and transactions that are sensitive from a human rights perspective. We apply our internal sector-specific policies that include 23 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility Sustainable and in banking impact investment products and services 1.1 Trust and expertise 1.2 Client demand for sustainable and impact investment opportunities Risk management and sustainability has grown significantly in recent years. At Credit Suisse, we strive to create and facilitate investment products and services 1.3 that generate environmental and social benefits as well as Sustainable and financial returns. impact investment products and services Sustainable investments have more than doubled in volume Return first versus impact first over the last five years, and the volume of impact investments At Credit Suisse, we differentiate between “return first” has increased at an even faster pace. Credit Suisse has been and “impact first” investments in the sustainable and impact active in this investment space for more than 16 years and, investing space. In the case of return-first investments, as a pioneer, continues to contribute substantially to the investors primarily seek to achieve financial returns that are development of this market. Through our activities in this area, consistent with the traditional returns for a given asset we also aim to support the realization of the UN’s Sustainable class – combined with risk mitigation and portfolio diversifiDevelopment Goals (SDGs). We have seen an especially cation – while also taking account of environmental, social strong rise in demand for sustainable and impact investment and governance (ESG) as well as impact criteria. In contrast, opportunities from institutional investors. In addition, private impact-first investments are focused primarily on generating clients – particularly high-net-worth individuals, next-generation environmental or social benefits and may produce concesinvestors and millennials – are increasingly expressing their sionary (below-market) financial returns. desire to use their capital to have a positive impact on the world. At the same time, charitable foundations are looking Impact Advisory and Finance for ways to align their investments with their mission. These Our Impact Advisory and Finance (IAF) department was different client segments are all seeking ways to combine the established in 2017 and combines all of Credit Suisse’s achievement of financial returns with the generation of positive sustainable and impact investing efforts around the globe social and/or environmental impacts – whether the client’s within one organization, reporting directly to the CEO. The IAF primary focus is on purpose or profit. department aims to facilitate investable projects and initiatives that have a positive economic and social impact while focusing primarily on generating a financial return for clients. 24 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility Its mandate is to define, guide and coordinate all of the personal values. For example, our Private Banking Greater in banking Group’s activities in this sector for the benefit of institutional, corporate and wealth management clients. Its remit covers China team executed a USD 440 million fixed-income ESG mandate for a regional institutional client in 2018, and sustainable investments and impact investments where the Investment Solutions and Products in Switzerland launched a primary focus is on generating a financial return. discretionary multi-asset solution that aims to allow clients 1.1 to invest sustainably and with impact. We also provide strategic Trust and Sustainable investing advice and portfolio ESG screenings as well as investment expertise Credit Suisse’s sustainable investment offering comprises advice based on sustainability criteria to clients. In addition, we portfolio solutions and products across a range of asset produce individual sustainability portfolio reports and organize classes, including equities, fixed income, real estate, alternaevents with clients and other stakeholders on the topic of 1.2 tive investments, thematic investments and index solutions. sustainable investment. Risk management We offer sustainable single and multi-asset solutions to private and sustainability and professional clients across different regions, constantly Our sustainable investment strategy considers ESG aspects in broadening and aligning them more and more closely with the addition to traditional financial criteria. For single securities, SDGs. Our solutions are designed to generate market rate we use a multi-strategy framework that allows our clients to 1.3 returns in line with traditional portfolios while reflecting clients’ translate their personal values into investment decisions. Sustainable and impact investment products and services The spectrum from environmental, social and governance (ESG) investments to philanthropy Impact Advisory and Finance Department General Responsible / Impact investing Impact investing Venture Philanthropic investments sustainable “Return first” “Impact first” philanthropy donations investing Market returns Concessionary returns No financial returns  Conventional equity and  Portfolio screening T  hematic impact funds S ocial impact bonds  Seed capital donations C haritable donations bond instruments  Listed ESG equity and and notes O utcomes-driven loans debt funds G  reen bonds and loans  Sustainable thematic  Impact private equity funds Investment Grant Pure profit Pure social 25 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility This new framework was created by a group of Credit Suisse ency across climate-related financial risks and opportunities, in banking specialists with expertise in the fields of sustainability, portfolio management and asset management, as well as by the office and drive more capital to sustainable investments. of the Chief Investment Officer and the IAF department. This Impact investing group also regularly reviews the framework and suggests Compared to sustainable investing, which excludes non1.1 recommendations to align our approach with the latest industry sustainable areas or promotes leaders in ESG criteria, impact Trust and developments. investing explicitly seeks to make a positive social or environexpertise mental impact in addition to generating a financial return. Assets invested according to sustainability criteria at Credit What sets impact investing apart from other sustainable Suisse rose to over CHF 25 billion by the end of 2018, investment practices is the intentionality of social and environ1.2 reflecting continued growth in this area. In Asia, we surpassed mental impact and the measurement of these outcomes. Risk management the USD 1 billion mark for assets under management invested Credit Suisse’s impact investing business includes more than and sustainability according to sustainability criteria. Reflecting our efforts to USD 7 billion of assets under administration¹ and over expand sustainable investing opportunities that generate a USD 2 billion in client holdings. Impact investing activities at financial return for investors in Asia, Credit Suisse partnered Credit Suisse include investments in small and medium-sized 1.3 with RobecoSAM in 2018 to launch the RobecoSAM Smart businesses with a social or environmental mission and the Sustainable and Mobility Strategy, which focuses on the electric vehicles value development of financial products, such as those designed to impact investment chain. support smallholder farmers and high-potential students in products and services developing countries. As part of our efforts in the area of sustainable investing, Credit Suisse is a signatory to the Principles for Responsible Education is one area of focus of our impact investing activiInvestment (PRI), a voluntary, investor-led framework that ties. Our six Higher Education solutions, the last two of which promotes a better understanding of the implications of were launched in 2017, are an example of this focus. sustainability and the incorporation of ESG information into In 2018, we partnered with PG Impact Investments to launch investment decisions. We also support the Green Bond an offering that aims to improve the lives of underserved Principles, and we are a partner to the Climate Bonds Initiaindividuals by addressing societal challenges while generating tive. Credit Suisse is involved in organizations such as Swiss financial returns, with a global strategy that focuses on Sustainable Finance (SSF) and Sustainable Finance Geneva. emerging markets in particular. We also act as the impact These organizations pursue the goal of strengthening Switzeradvisor to the Asia Impact Investment Fund I L.P., which land’s position in the global marketplace for sustainable invests in fast-growing businesses that address social chalfinance by informing, educating and catalyzing growth. lenges across Asia. Furthermore, we contribute to the dialogue on developments In the area of financial inclusion, investments are designed to in the sustainable investment space. For example, we consulprovide economically disadvantaged people – especially those ted with the International Finance Corporation to launch the in emerging markets and developing countries – with access Principles for Impact Management at the International Monetary to financial services. Our activities in this area benefited over Fund meeting in October 2018. We are also a founding mem3.1 million people in 2018. We provide a range of advisory ber of the U.S. Alliance for Sustainable Finance (USASF), services and capital market transactions, as well as offering which was launched in 2018 with the aim of providing the several global microfinance solutions, structured products and resources and expertise needed to identify and streamline existing climate finance initiatives, encourage greater transpar¹ Assets in investment funds and vehicles administered by Credit Suisse. 26 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility a private equity fund of funds. We are a member (and have We are continuing to expand our activities in the area of in banking a seat on the Boards) of the European Microfinance Platform, a network of about 130 organizations, as well as the Swiss conservation finance, a fast-growing environmental finance market focusing on the generation of long-term and diversified Capacity Building Facility, a public-private partnership between sources of revenue that can play a major role in ensuring the Swiss financial sector and the Swiss Agency for Developbiodiversity conservation and the health of natural ecosystems. 1.1 ment Collaboration (SDC). In addition, our Financial Inclusion In 2018, we held the fifth Annual Conservation Finance Trust and Initiative (FII; formerly the Microfinance Capacity Building Investor Conference in New York City as well as our first expertise Initiative) helps to drive market development and innovation in Impact Roundtable in Lisbon that centered on marine conserthis sector. The initiative aims to strengthen the ability of vation and the Blue Economy, whose aim is to create investfinancial services providers to serve the increasingly diverse ment opportunities in this space. This provided a platform for a 1.2 financial needs of people at the base of the income pyramid. selected group of ultra-high-net-worth (UHNW) clients to Risk management To this end, we support the development of new products engage in a discussion with leading global experts in this field. and sustainability and services focusing on education, agriculture and gender Furthermore, we have expanded our role as advisor to UHNW diversity, among other themes. We also make the expertise of clients in conservation finance, and we are one of the founding our employees available to our financial inclusion and impact members of the cross-sectoral Coalition for Private Investment 1.3 investing partners through several volunteering programs, and in Conservation (CPIC), which aims to bring more private Sustainable and we invest in early-stage innovation and financial technology capital into this space. impact investment (fintech) through our partnership with Accion’s financial products and services technology accelerator Venture Lab. We are also a co-sponsor We conduct a range of activities in green finance to achieve a of the Global Impact Investment Network (GIIN), which seeks positive impact on the environment while, at the same time, to accelerate the industry's development through focused creating financial value for our clients. For example, in 2018 leadership and collective action, by facilitating knowledge we successfully executed green bond transactions for GCL exchange, by highlighting innovative investment approaches, New Energy, Paprec Group, the North American Development by building the evidence base for the industry, and by producBank, Xcel Energy, Terna and ING. We are also active in the ing tools and resources. sustainability lending market and during 2018 we participated in a total of over USD 14 billion worth of sustainability-linked loans from a range of European borrowers. Through our Global Markets team, we launched our own Green Bond Index to complement our existing suite of corporate credit Philanthropy Services indices, reflecting the importance of the green bond product In the area of philanthropy, Credit Suisse works with clients to help them incorporate their for buyside clients. In addition, we offer green finance products Further personal values and objectives into their philanthropic engagements. We provide a set and services across a wide range of asset classes in wealth information: of tools designed to contribute to making a measurable impact and help tackle social or management and investment banking. see p. 29 environmental challenges through philanthropy. We can also create subfoundations for clients under one of Credit Suisse’s umbrella charitable foundations – Accentus, Empiris and Symphasis in Switzerland or SymAsia in Singapore. Since they were established, Renewable energy project finance the Swiss umbrella foundations have distributed a total of more than CHF 128 million to Our Investment Banking & Capital Markets division and our over 2,800 charitable initiatives worldwide, and in 2018 they carried out 260 projects Global Markets division serve clients through a range of in developing countries and in Switzerland. In Asia, SymAsia has received around products and services, including advisory services related to USD 104 million of donor-advised funds and has gifted around USD 71 million since it was established in 2010. mergers and acquisitions, restructurings and spin-offs, as well as debt and equity underwriting of public offerings and private placements. Our expertise is diversified in renewable energy 27 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility areas such as solar, wind, geothermal, biomass, biofuels, fuel publishes original research on topics ranging from economics in banking cells and energy efficiency. In 2018, Credit Suisse served as structuring agent and bookrunner on Vivint Solar’s inaugural and monetary policy to gender equality and consumer behavior. USD 466 million solar securitization (the largest transaction of In investment research, we publish global economic assessits kind completed in the solar asset-backed securities market ments and market outlooks in a range of reports. In 2018, 1.1 to date), Sunrun’s USD 379 million solar securitization, Sunnowe revised one of our core research publications for clients, Trust and va’s USD 263 million solar securitization, and CleanFund’s originally published in 2017, which examined the role of expertise inaugural USD 104 million commercial property-assessed corporate governance in family-owned companies. Previously, clean energy (PACE) securitization. In total, throughout 2018, we also conducted assessments of the important role gender Credit Suisse participated in transactions with a total volume diversity plays in corporate performance and published the 1.2 of over USD 1.4 billion of asset-backed securities issuance findings in our Gender 3000 study. Risk management related to distributed generation solar and commercial PACE and sustainability assets. In addition, we put in place over USD 1 billion in solar Credit Suisse also addresses ESG topics through thematic and energy-efficiency asset-backed warehouse capacity. research. Credit Suisse Global Markets Equity Research has developed a method to calculate the probabilities of achieving 1.3 Over the past decade, a total of around USD 3.5 billion of implied returns in infrastructure investments. In our Global Sustainable and capital has been committed to 24 renewable energy opportuMarkets division, Credit Suisse HOLT, a team focused on impact investment nities as a result of the collaboration between our Strategic corporate performance and the valuation of listed companies, products and services Transactions Group and our Debt Capital Markets Solutions offers a governance framework that systematically scores team. A milestone transaction in 2018 was the launch of a 2,500 incentive plans based on their alignment with residential solar fund with Sunrun that finances residential wealth-creating principles and pay-for-performance best solar panels across the US with a total capacity of 93 megawatts. practices. Credit Suisse’s HOLT team is incorporating data on carbon emissions into its equity research platform, with the Research aim of allowing investors to assess carbon intensity and Throughout 2018, we conducted sustainability-related carbon-adjusted returns in conjunction with operating perforresearch across our divisions. Investment Strategy & Research mance. The framework is being extended to cover water within Investment Solutions and Products – a division in withdrawal and waste production. In addition, tools are being International Wealth Management – published several research developed to model the impact of environmental factors on updates on sustainability topics. In June 2018, our Equity equity valuation across different scenarios. Research Zurich team published an extensive update on its research into themes called supertrends, including new data on the incipient boom in clean vehicles as part of the “millenniThis chapter addresses the following issues: Further als” supertrend. In October 2018, Equity Research Australia 10 Quality and range of services and advice information: see p. 8 published “The Age of Plastic”, a study that examined the 12 Responsible investments environmental impact of plastics and looked at different actors in the value chain. credit-suisse.com/responsibility/banking The Credit Suisse Research Institute (CSRI) is Credit Suisse’s in-house think-tank. It studies long-term economic developments that have a global impact within and beyond the financial services sector or may do so in the future. The CSRI 28 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility in banking Challenge and response Challenge: There is a clear need to access new sources of energy, Challenge: The coming decade is expected to see a wealth transfer of raw materials, and clean technologies to make more balanced and around USD 30 trillion, with millennials set to inherit a large portion 1.1 sustainable use of the world’s natural resources. Investments that of this amount. This next generation of investors has been found to Trust and support environmentally sustainable development – a sector known assign greater importance to the alignment of their investment expertise as green finance – are thus growing in importance and scale. How portfolio with their personal values and ESG considerations. How is does Credit Suisse contribute to green finance? Credit Suisse addressing this shift of focus? 1.2 Response: Our green finance solutions cover a wide range of asset classes Response: At Credit Suisse, we want to be close to our current and future Risk management designed to positively impact the transition to a low-carbon and climateclients and fulfill their needs. According to our research, more than 9 in 10 and sustainability resilient economy, drawing upon the expertise of various specialist departmillennials state that social impact is key to their investment decisions. We ments across our divisions. Our offering in the area of wealth management, therefore offer a broad range of products and services that give our clients for example, comprises a number of funds focused on sustainability, green the option to align their investments with their values. We strive to consis1.3 bond investments and sustainable real estate as well as products and tently expand our offering in this space and find ways to strengthen the Sustainable and services in conservation finance. In investment banking, we provide advice infrastructure of the market for sustainable and impact investment products impact investment for buyside and sellside clients in mergers and acquisitions, project and and services. As an example of our efforts to create new products and services products and services corporate finance, as well as debt and equity underwriting of public offerthat aim to help younger investors reach this goal, we partnered with PG Impact ings and private placements. Credit Suisse actively supports clean and Investments in 2018 to launch an offering that aims to improve the lives of renewable energy businesses and, until the end of 2018, had been underserved individuals by addressing societal challenges while generating involved in over 110 transactions in this field with a value of more than financial returns, with a global strategy that focuses on emerging markets in USD 94 billion since 2010. Furthermore, we supported clients on a number particular. In Asia, our partnership with RobecoSAM saw the launch of the of green bond issuances in 2018. In our Global Markets division, Credit RobecoSAM Smart Mobility Strategy, which focuses on the electric vehicles Suisse’s HOLT team is working on incorporating data on carbon emissions value chain. Furthermore, we hosted our first impact roundtable on marine into its equity research platform, with the aim of allowing investors to assess conservation and partnered with the One Young World Summit, where carbon intensity and carbon-adjusted returns in conjunction with operating young leaders meet to develop solutions to the world’s most pressing performance. Furthermore, Credit Suisse Global Real Estate takes account issues. of sustainability criteria in the management and development of the properties within our various real estate products (see page 52). Finally, Credit Suisse Energy Infrastructure Partners, an investment manager specialized in investments in the European energy sector, focuses on direct investments in the capital-intensive elements of the value chain, such as energy transmission, generation, storage and efficiency. 29 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility in the economy and society 2.1 Our role in the economy 31 and society 2.2 Our social commitments 36 30 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility Our role in the in the economy and society economy and society 2.1 We strive to conduct our business responsibly and efficiently Our role in the economy to create value for our clients and shareholders. We also and society aim to make an important contribution to the functioning of the economy and to play a constructive role in society 2.2 through our activities. Our social commitments Our primary function as a global bank is to be a reliable and Swiss home market. As the “Bank for Entrepreneurs”, we professional partner to our clients around the world, offering are dedicated to serving private, corporate and institutional them a range of financial products and services to meet their clients in Switzerland. We provide a broad spectrum of individual needs. In this context, Credit Suisse also performs products and services – ranging, for example, from bundled functions that are viewed as systemically relevant, including product solutions for daily banking needs to more complex deposit-taking and lending. We play an important role as business succession planning or international business a financial intermediary, bringing together borrowers and transactions. In addition, we offer our entire expertise from lenders of capital globally – from companies and public sector across investment banking and wealth management to serve bodies to private individuals and institutions. We supply busiboth the corporate and private financial needs of entreprenesses with the capital resources they need to expand their neurs. activities and finance innovation, thus helping to drive economic growth and job creation. By assuming market and credit Credit Suisse is a trusted financial partner to more than risks, banks make an important contribution to the efficient 100,000 companies or around 1 in 3 businesses in Switzerfunctioning of the economic system. Effective risk manageland. The majority of Credit Suisse’s corporate clients are ment is a significant part of this process. In the credit busismall and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) that generally ness, for example, we analyze, measure and monitor credit have no direct access to the capital markets and are thererisk exposures and charge appropriate interest rates on loans. fore often reliant on bank loans to fund working capital and/ Our capital policy is intended to ensure that we are capable or investments. One of our goals is to support these compaof absorbing potential credit losses in a variety of stress nies with a fair, competitive and risk-adjusted lending policy. scenarios. We are committed to providing our Swiss corporate clients with individual advice and the best possible support to help Supporting growth and partnering with entrepreneurs them run their businesses effectively, and we offer advice on The importance of banks for the continued development and strategic decision-making. In total, Credit Suisse had more growth of the economy is demonstrated by our activities in our than CHF 160 billion of loans outstanding in Switzerland at 31 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility the end of 2018, including mortgages and loans to private Credit Suisse is subject to further taxes unrelated to income, in the economy companies, the public sector and private clients. Besides serving Switzerland’s SMEs, Credit Suisse is also a longwhich totaled around CHF 0.3 billion in 2018 alone. and society term strategic financial partner to a number of multinational We also make a contribution as a client and contractual companies that are domiciled in Switzerland, providing them partner. Credit Suisse purchased about CHF 5.4 billion of with a broad range of financial services and access to capital goods, services and licenses from suppliers around the globe 2.1 markets. In this way, we help to strengthen Switzerland’s in 2018. Suppliers are required to meet strict standards in Our role in position as an attractive business location. areas such as business ethics and integrity, employee health the economy and safety, and environmental protection, as defined in Credit and society An integral part of the economy and society Suisse’s Supplier Code of Conduct. The establishment of We make a direct contribution to the economy and society in reliable relationships with these external partners helps to Further a variety of ways, including in our capacity as a taxpayer. ensure the quality and value of the products and services information: 2.2 Over the past five years, Credit Suisse has paid an annual we source. In addition, our Third Party Risk Management see p. 22 Our social average of CHF 0.6 billion in corporate income tax worldwide. (TPRM) Framework is embedded in day-to-day sourcing commitments Risk capital for growth and innovation Credit Suisse Entrepreneur Capital AG: Key figures for 2010 – 2018 Credit Suisse Entrepreneur Capital AG (formerly SVC – Ltd. for Risk Capital for SMEs) was founded by Credit Suisse and the Swiss Venture Club in 2010. This Credit Suisse subsidiary invests venture capital in innovative small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) Number of financing Total sum invested to date: requests considered: 3,000 127 million and, since 2018, also in financial technology firms with growth potential. For eight years, CHF Credit Suisse Entrepreneur Capital AG has helped to support and strengthen Swiss companies. It has provided a total of CHF 127 million of venture capital to 52 companies during this time to help create or preserve jobs in order to sustainably strengthen Switzerland as a center of industry. Capital returned since 2010: Recent success stories include its investment in the fintech firm Assetmax AG, one of the 29 74 million CHF fastest growing IT platforms in Switzerland for independent asset managers and banks, as well as the medical technology company Ava AG, which provides physiological parameters for women to monitor their fertility and their health in general using an associated mobile app. Investments were also made in two innovative new drone producers, Wingtra and Perspective Robotics. firms are included in the portfolio In February 2019, Credit Suisse announced plans to inject a further 300 2,690 Over A total of CHF 70 million of capital into its venture capital vehicle, bringing its total amount of capital to CHF 200 million. More information is available at: patents are held by portfolio companies, people have been employed by all credit-suisse.com/entrepreneurcapital underscoring their innovative strength the portfolio companies to date 32 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility and vendor management processes to assess risks when survey revealed that retirement provision ranks as the main in the economy conducting business with suppliers. Credit Suisse also plays an important role as an employer, offering progressive worry among Swiss voters, followed by health care/health insurance. In addition, we commission studies from indepenand society working conditions, competitive compensation and interesting dent research institutions on a range of topics. In 2018, career opportunities across a range of businesses to a total we also carried out our eighth Youth Barometer survey of of 45,680 employees in around 50 countries worldwide. around 1,000 young people aged between 16 and 25 in the 2.1 Around 15,840 members of our global workforce are based US, Brazil, Singapore and Switzerland to provide an insight Our role in in Switzerland – making us one of the largest employers in into the lifestyle, problems and attitudes of the younger the economy our home market. generation. More information on our publications is available at: and society Maintaining a constructive dialogue credit-suisse.com/financialcenterstudy Credit Suisse considers it important to engage in discussions credit-suisse.com/gwr 2.2 with various stakeholders – from clients, employees and credit-suisse.com/worrybarometer Our social investors to policymakers, legislators, regulators and represencredit-suisse.com/youthbarometer commitments tatives of the business community and society – in order to understand the issues that are important to them and to help find constructive solutions to current challenges. This Broader social commitments exchange of views and ideas has grown increasingly imporCredit Suisse views itself as an integral part of society and tant in recent years in view of international developments engages in a range of social initiatives across different regions and discussions surrounding the role of the finance industry to promote social cohesion and stability. These commitments in the global economy. Reflecting our commitment to dialogue, take various forms – from our collaboration with selected we are a member of a number of industry associations, partner organizations to the volunteer work of Credit Suisse umbrella organizations and think-tanks. More information employees around the globe. Sponsorship, which has been about our membership of industry bodies is available at: an integral part of our corporate strategy and culture for more than four decades, is a further example of our social commitcredit-suisse.com/network ments. We sponsor activities that focus on the areas of sports and culture, with particular importance being assigned to the We also contribute to the public debate by producing publipromotion of young talent. More information about our cations, analyses and specialist articles on economic, political sponsorship commitments is available at: and social topics. One example is our study “Swiss Financial Center 2018 – From crisis to growth” whose aim is to contribcredit-suisse.com/sponsoring ute constructively to the discussion, as well as formulate specific proposals, about how various actors can jointly support the competitiveness of the Swiss banking sector. Another is This chapter addresses the following issues Further the Global Wealth Report published by the Credit Suisse 2 Company performance and strategy information: see p. 8 Research Institute, which provides comprehensive information 4 Financial and political system stability on the development of global household wealth each year. 14 Contribution to the economy For four decades, we have published the Credit Suisse Worry 15 Social commitments Barometer in Switzerland based on the findings of a representative survey of Swiss citizens to identify the issues that are credit-suisse.com/responsibility/society of greatest concern to the public. The findings of the 2018 33 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility Supporting the political system in Switzerland and beyond in the economy In our Swiss home market, we not only engage in an open dialogue with policymakers that and society involves the regular exchange of information and ideas but also actively support the functioning of the Swiss “militia” system of politics, where Swiss citizens assume roles in political bodies at federal, cantonal or community level alongside their regular professions. Consequently, most 2.1 members of the Swiss Parliament are not professional politicians and parties do not receive state funding. Our role in the economy Credit Suisse helps to strengthen this system of politics by making financial contributions available to political parties at the federal level that request funding, irrespective of their political and society agenda and position. This financial support does not give rise to any obligations for the political parties that receive it. The only factor that influences the support given by Credit Suisse is the number of parliamentary mandates held by each party at the federal level and in the cantons: 2.2 To be eligible, a party must have at least five seats in the Federal Assembly (Swiss Parliament). Our social This transparent approach – based on objective criteria – enables Credit Suisse to make a politically neutral contribution to support the work of the parties in performing the functions of commitments the state. Credit Suisse makes a maximum of CHF 1 million of financial support available each year for this purpose. This support is exclusive to Credit Suisse’s home market. In the European Union, Credit Suisse does not make any financial contributions to political candidates or parties. The bank constructively engages with EU policymakers on relevant financial services topics through legislative consultation processes and other channels. It discloses EU-related advocacy spend on an annual basis in the European Commission’s transparency register and abides by the EU’s Code of Conduct. Holders of public office In the US, Credit Suisse does not itself make any direct financial contributions to candidates or In Switzerland, Credit Suisse offers working time arrangements to employees who hold an political parties. However, like many other companies and organizations in the US, it offers elected public office alongside their role at the bank. These employees can devote up to 20% employees the option of making their own voluntary private donations through a Political Action of their working hours to a public role while receiving their full salary from the bank – irrespecCommittee (PAC). Employees can support candidates running for US Congress but not tive of their party affiliation and views. Each year, Credit Suisse’s Public Affairs and Policy presidential candidates or specific political parties. These PAC donations take the form of a department organizes a meeting for the more than 300 employees who hold an elected public general contribution to the political system. The PAC then distributes the combined employee office. This annual event enables them to learn more about current policy issues that may be donations to members of relevant committees or districts, ensuring that the funds are shared relevant to their day-to-day work as well as to their activities as elected representatives. It also evenly between Democratic and Republican candidates. gives them an opportunity to engage in discussions with their colleagues and Credit Suisse’s top management. In 2018, the event centered on the “aging society” supertrend. After a welcome speech by Alexandre Zeller, who then served as Chairman of the Board of Directors of Credit Suisse (Schweiz) AG, two keynote speeches and a panel discussion with subject matter experts and policymakers gave participants an insight into different aspects of the main theme of the event. 34 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility in the economy Challenge and response and society Challenge: How does Credit Suisse help to tackle social challenges such as youth unemployment? 2.1 Response: Credit Suisse is a financial partner of the umbrella association Our role in Check Your Chance, which we launched in 2015 together with the SVC the economy Foundation for Entrepreneurship and six Swiss non-profit organizations. and society Check Your Chance, which is also supported by the Swiss State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO), is continuing the successful work of Credit Suisse’s Youth Unemployment Initiative and is an important partner for 2.2 our bank in the area of youth development. Our social commitments In 2018, Check Your Chance welcomed two new members and now represents a total of 13 non-profit organizations. During the year, they provided assistance to around 3,100 young adults who were unable to find first-time employment after completing an apprenticeship or finishing a degree or who had not yet obtained initial professional training. Check Your Chance intervenes at an early stage to offer them targeted support – including providing advice on choosing a career or completing job applications. In this way, the association can help young people to avoid the financial and social challenges of long-term unemployment. Check Your Chance also offers 0800 GO4JOB, the first national helpline for young people who are finding it difficult to enter the world of work. Parents, teachers and other individuals who want to help these young people can also obtain support from 0800 GO4JOB / 0800 464 562. More information is available at: check-your-chance.ch 35 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility Our social commitments in the economy Credit Suisse and our clients and employees have, for many and society years, been committed to fostering inclusive growth by addressing socioeconomic challenges. Together we support 2.1 selected partner organizations by providing funding and Our role in the economy professional expertise to enable social and humanitarian and society projects around the world. 2.2 Our social commitments Companies can only achieve long-term success if they operate Education in an economically stable and socially cohesive environment. To create a sustainable impact, we have established strategic Education drives economic empowerment and social mobility. This is why Credit Suisse is partnerships that seek to contribute to the achievement of the committed to enabling access to education through our regional education programs. For example, we support the KIPP Foundation in the US, City Year UK in the UK, and Teach United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) For All in several countries in their efforts to provide new opportunities to disadvantaged through our global and regional initiatives. We seek to make young people. effective use of our social and financial capital to have a positive impact not only on society but also on employees and Moreover, we also support financial education and life skills programs for girls through our core business. our Global Education Initiative. Partners in our global Financial Education for Girls signature program are Aflatoun International, Plan International and Room to Read. As a global financial institution, we see first-hand the importance of financial skills in allowing people to Education and access to financial services for actively participate in the economy and society. The Financial Education for Girls program inclusive growth aimed to improve the financial education and life skills of over 100,000 adolescent girls in We regard education and access to financial services as key Brazil, China, India, Rwanda, Sri Lanka and Tanzania, and it is aligned with both the drivers of growth and an effective means of empowering Financial Inclusion Initiative and the core business of Credit Suisse. More information is available at: people to help themselves. We also have the potential to increase our impact beyond the funding of long-term partnercredit-suisse.com/responsibility/education ships with selected organizations through our most valuable asset – our employees. In addition to employee engagement, Global Education Initiative – spotlight on financial education 2014 – 2018 our social commitments therefore focus on the areas of financial inclusion (enabling access to formal financial services) and education. 1,544 schools have benefited from our support. 122,100 adolescent girls worldwide have benefited from financial Employees: expertise, development, commitment education and life skills classes. Our employees play an integral part in our social commitments, dedicating over 187,900 hours of their time and expertise in 2018. As part of the Group’s Human Capital 3,620 teachers have been trained. Strategy, we allow each employee to devote up to four days 36 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility Further per year to support social projects run by our partners in the Increasing impact through our core business, clients in the economy information: communities where we live and work. In 2018, we continued and partners see p. 38 to place an emphasis on volunteering programs that promote Our Corporate Citizenship teams work closely with internal and society the transfer of skills and knowledge between employees and specialist units to provide philanthropic advice and services to partners. This enables our employees to use their expertise to our clients and develop impact investing products to further make a difference and gives them the opportunity to enhance increase our combined social impact. Through impact investing, Further 2.1 their own skills and professional development. In 2018, our we give clients access to sustainable investments that are information: see p. 26 – 27 Our role in employees around the world dedicated 58,687 hours to intended not only to generate a financial return but also to prothe economy skills-based volunteering. Our employees' volunteering efforts duce a positive social and/or environmental impact – including and society also help to strengthen the Group’s corporate culture and in the areas of financial inclusion and education. Moreover, we foster cross-team and cross-cultural collaboration. In addition, are increasingly involving our clients in the development and our internal surveys have shown that employee participation in delivery of volunteering, events and awareness-raising pro2.2 volunteering programs results in higher levels of employee grams. In Switzerland, clients and employees also have the Our social satisfaction at work. option of supporting selected partner organizations through commitments Our global skills-based volunteering programs Through our skills-based volunteering programs, we offer our employees around the world Board Connect numerous opportunities to use their expertise to build capacity among our grant partners and Our activities in the area of non-profit board service were launched in the US in 2009 to simultaneously enhance their own skills and professional development. Our signature and rolled out globally in 2015. In 2018, we continued these activities under one global programs include the Global Citizens Program, Board Connect and our virtual volunteering program, “Board Connect”. It connects Credit Suisse employees who serve or are activities. looking to serve on non-profit boards with training, placement support, networks and other resources. Not only does non-profit board service add value to non-profit organizations Global Citizens Program (NPOs) and the community but our analysis has shown that serving on the board of The Global Citizens Program (GCP) is Credit Suisse’s flagship international skills-based an NPO helps employees improve their leadership, strategy and persuasion skills and volunteering program. Designed to promote the transfer of skills and expertise between enhances their ability to work under circumstances different from the ones they may employees and social organizations, the GCP is building the capacity of our financial inclusion encounter in the workplace. In 2018, over 820 employees participated in our program, and education partners. Assignments in this leadership development program last from one and 549 of them received training. week to three months and have become an important component of the Group’s learning and development offering. They focus on the implementation of best practices in various fields, Virtual Volunteering from specific assignments in the area of financial services – such as risk management, Virtual Volunteering enables a greater number of interested employees to utilize their credit assessments and client research – to more general organizational topics such as IT expertise and enthusiasm to support our partner organizations without having to take infrastructure or the improvement of HR or operational effectiveness. Since its launch in 2010, extended leave from personal or professional commitments. The program, which was Credit Suisse employees have completed over 350 assignments in more than 50 countries originally developed in 2011 in conjunction with Accion’s Center for Financial Inclusion across the globe. (CFI), now includes a number of our regional and global partners across different topics. The partner organizations benefit from the support of highly qualified Credit Suisse More information is available at: credit-suisse.com/responsibility/gcp employees who have a wide variety of skills (e.g. in project management, writing or research). In return, participating employees gain the opportunity to work alongside leading experts in the respective areas, to contribute to the end product, and to establish contact with colleagues from other divisions of the Group. 37 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility Micro-Donations, where payments made by credit or debit Financial inclusion in the economy card can be rounded up by a pre-defined amount. This amount, or the interest earned on their bank account, is Credit Suisse is a leader in the field of financial inclusion and microfinance and, at and society donated to selected aid organizations and charitable instituend-2018, had around USD 2.6 billion of assets under administration¹ used for the financing of microfinance institutions. In addition to capital, microfinance institutions and tions among our partners. fintechs also need talent and know-how to be able to scale up their activities responsibly 2.1 with diverse products and services. Our Financial Inclusion Initiative is designed to strengthen the capacity of these institutions so that they can serve the financial needs of Our role in Further This chapter addresses the following issues: clients at the bottom of the income pyramid as effectively as possible. Here, the focus is the economy information: 10 Quality and range of services and advice on developing financial products and services in areas such as financing for agriculture and see p. 8 smallholder farmers, the construction and improvement of homes, and the funding of and society 15 Social commitments education, as well as the provision of financial services tailored specifically to women. credit-suisse.com/responsibility/society In 2018, Credit Suisse also joined the Consultative Group to Assist the Poor (CGAP) that 2.2 was set up by the World Bank in order to develop best practices in the area of financial inclusion and to establish global standards to improve the scalability of solutions that are Our social More information on our initiatives in the areas of financial designed to provide more people with access to energy. More information can be found at: commitments inclusion, education and employee engagement is available at: credit-suisse.com/financialinclusion credit-suisse.com/responsibility/initiatives Selected figures for 2018 122 microfinance institutions and fintech start-ups have benefited from our support. Employee engagement Volunteering worldwide – selected figures for 2018 1,106 local employees of microfinance institutions have been trained.² 18,694 Over 226,300 people have access to new or improved products and services. volunteers Through its investments our partner Accion Venture Lab generated an additional USD 97 190 48 million for financially inclusive fintechs. Opportunity International’s Education Finance team enabled USD 2.76 million³ education loans for affordable quality education. partners received both countries in which our partners funding and skills-based are active. ¹ Assets in investment funds and vehicles administered by Credit Suisse volunteering support. ² Due to a change in measurement, 2018 numbers include only the number of trainers trained through our programs instead of employees trained by these trainers as in previous years. A comparison between the figures from 2017 and 2018 is thus not possible. ³ Accumulated and outstanding in 2018 38 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility Milestones and awards in 2018 in the economy In 2018, Credit Suisse celebrated a number of anniversaries, awards and Challenge and response and society milestones relating to our social commitments. For example, 2018 marked the tenth anniversaries of our two global initiatives in the areas of financial inclusion and education. Challenge: How does Credit Suisse ensure that its social commitments reflect evolving social needs and changes within These initiatives are designed to promote inclusive growth and social development the financial services industry? 2.1 through partnerships with non-profit organizations. The combination of financial support from Credit Suisse and skills-based volunteering by our employees allows our partners Our role in to generate greater impact. Response: In our rapidly changing society and industry, we not only the economy adapt to evolving requirements but also aim to play an active role in The Credit Suisse EMEA Foundation also celebrated its tenth anniversary in 2018. It aims and society shaping them at an operational level and through specific programs. to help young people from disadvantaged backgrounds within the region improve their educational attainment and employability, and aspire to more ambitious goals. Since it was For example, this means identifying trends and concerns at an early founded in 2008, a total of 91 organizations across 30 countries have not only received stage, designing our programs accordingly and fostering thought 2.2 a total of GBP 15 million of financial support but have also benefited from the skills and leadership on key topics such as financial expertise. Our social knowledge of Credit Suisse employees. Further, the Foundation has assisted more than 20,000 teachers and two million young people in the EMEA region. To mark its anniversary, commitments In 2018, we completed a thought leadership research project as part of the Foundation strengthened its role as a key driver of efforts to support early-stage organizations and launched the UK Small Grants Program to identify and assist the next our Financial Education for Girls program in order to better understand generation of innovative organizations. and articulate the contribution that financial education makes to girls’ economic empowerment and how to design more effective training The establishment of a Credit Suisse Foundation for the Asia Pacific region, which was programs. The project included a global review of the impact that approved by the Executive Board in 2018, represents another milestone. The foundation financial education has on girls’ economic empowerment, and was aims to pilot a pre-tax income funding model and launch it by 2020. In 2018, Credit Suisse also received numerous awards and wide recognition for our social commitments, accompanied by four country case studies that helped us to understand including being named “Best Private Bank – Corporate Social Responsibility by the and address how to be fully effective in empowering girls economically magazine Asian Private Banker in January 2018 and receiving the “Tiger Award” from in different contexts. Our findings also allowed us to further strengthen Teach For All for our ten-year partnership relating to our Global Education Initiative. Our our programs and to advance knowledge-sharing in this area. Together Financial Inclusion Initiative also received an award in connection with the tenth anniversary with the Asian Development Bank, we published the research report of the establishment of Accion‘s CFI, a think tank that promotes financial inclusion globally and of which Credit Suisse is the founding partner. In addition, Credit Suisse was honored “Inclusive Business Financing” that examines opportunities to finance by Big Brothers Big Sisters of New York City for its longstanding partnership. In 2018, sustainable companies in developing countries and emerging markets. Credit Suisse was also recognized for its longstanding support of the Henry Street By establishing local value chains, inclusive businesses in these counSettlement, which has been a Credit Suisse Americas Foundation partner for over 20 tries can help to create long-term solutions to a series of interrelated years. problems such as poverty and a lack of financial inclusion. These milestones and awards demonstrate the value of the long-term partnerships we have established with charitable organizations around the globe, thereby also contributing At an operational level, we expanded the regional Corporate Citizenship to the realization of the UN SDGs. In particular, this includes Goal 17, which states that team in the US in 2018 to our location in Raleigh, North Carolina, in growth and development can only be achieved through a strong commitment to global order to better support its work. Since November 2018, we have offered partnerships and international cooperation. our employees in Switzerland the opportunity to support charities and launch their own fundraising campaigns through the crowdfunding platform Copalana – Credit Suisse’s new employee-designed portal to collect donations. 39 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility in the economy Selected projects 2018¹ Our regional teams concentrate on topics relating to education, financial inclusion and employee engagement, thus making a positive contribution towards and society overcoming challenges in the communities in which we live and work. They also provide support through philanthropic grants and skills-based volunteering. 2.1 Skills-based volunteering in Asia Pacific In 2018, 30 Credit Suisse employees spent two days in Hanoi to assist our partner organization REACH, which offers professional education and employOur role in ment opportunities for disadvantaged young people in Vietnam. The volunteers brainstormed on how REACH could improve its financial sustainability through the economy a cost-recovery model and strategic fundraising initiatives, and they practiced job interviews with around 70 REACH students. In Singapore and Hong Kong, and society Credit Suisse employees were also engaged in a series of mentorship programs for underprivileged young people, research projects, legal clinics for foreign domestic workers, financial analysis for a social enterprise in the Philippines and capacity building workshops for our partners. 2.2 Our social Employee response in the Americas when disaster strikes commitments In addition to our focus on education, we have helped to provide disaster relief around the globe for over a decade. What began in 2005 with a group of employees who wanted to provide “boots on the ground” support to victims of the Asian tsunami has since developed into a tradition. Through the Disaster Relief Corps, employees now regularly travel to crisis-stricken areas to provide aid. In 2018, the Group’s financial support was bolstered by employee volunteers from across the Americas who supported disaster relief efforts in areas impacted by Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Maria, which had a particularly devastating effect in Houston and Puerto Rico. Our Disaster Relief Corps embodies the spirit of our philanthropy, which in 2018 engaged over 90% of our workforce in the Americas. Support for disadvantaged children and young people in the UK We believe that an individual’s social background should not lessen his or her chances of receiving an education and finding a job. Consequently, the Credit Suisse EMEA Foundation, which celebrated its tenth anniversary in 2018 (see box on page 39), lends its support to the charitable organization Frontline, of which it is a founding partner. Frontline runs a two-year program to recruit and train high-potential university graduates to become social workers. It also deploys a series of measures such as raising the profile of careers in social work, developing the leadership skills of social workers, and establishing a community to provide support for people from disadvantaged backgrounds. In 2018, we extended our partnership with Frontline for two years. Credit Suisse also supports the organization through the Global Citizens Program. For example, in 2018 we helped to establish a governance and risk framework for Frontline. Through our support, the organization has already been able to assist 48,000 families. Strategic partnerships in Switzerland In Switzerland, we work with over 100 charitable organizations. Through various skills-based programs, we are continuing our efforts to combat youth unemployment and to educate children and young people about finances and debt prevention. Examples include projects with our strategic partners Pro Juventute and the Swiss Red Cross, and with our education partners such as Ernst Schmidheiny Stiftung, Young Enterprise Switzerland, and the University of St. Gallen (HSG), as well as the umbrella association Check Your Chance. We were also able to donate more than CHF 120,000 to the 2018 Swiss Charity of the Year, Children’s Aid Foundation Sternschnuppe, thanks to a wide range of employee and corporate fundraising campaigns. These included the road cycling “Tour de Credit Suisse”, the Credit Suisse Interbranch & Inclusion Football Tournament, client-related corporate donations, as well as the “Birdies for Good” initiative as part of the bank’s golf sponsoring engagements. In 2018, we also strengthened our cooperation with Swiss Solidarity, extending its capacity to receive donation pledges on campaign days by routing calls to our Customer Service Center. As a result, close to CHF 1 million of donation pledges were received during several volunteering events. ¹ For a list of additional regional projects in 2018, see: credit-suisse.com/responsibility/projects 40 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility as an employer 3.1 Responsibility as an employer 42 41 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility Responsibility as an employer as an employer 3.1 Responsibility Our ability to inspire trust and generate client satisfaction is a as an employer basic prerequisite for our long-term success. We can only achieve this if we have skilled, responsible and motivated employees. The success of our company ultimately depends on the skills, sponsored by the Board of Directors and the Executive Board experience and conduct of our employees. For our business to of Credit Suisse, which underscores their strategic importance perform well, we must offer our clients best-in-class financial to the bank. solutions and banking services. This goal can only be realized if we can attract and retain the most talented professionals in While continuing to reinforce the behavior we expect from our role as an employer of choice. employees, we achieved a solid baseline of awareness and understanding of the Conduct and Ethics Standards in 2018 At Credit Suisse, we offer exciting careers, progressive as a result of consistent, sustained communication – both on employment conditions and wide-ranging training and developa top-down basis from the Executive Board and through ment opportunities. As a result, our employees benefit from divisional and functional face-to-face dialogue. Our Conduct attractive long-term career prospects in an international and Ethics Standards are an integral part of our core HR working environment, helping us to retain their knowledge and processes, including recruitment, onboarding and performance experience within the bank and to derive maximum benefit management. While reinforcing and strengthening the way from it in the interests of our clients. we reward positive conduct and commitment, as demonstrated by the Credit Suisse Employee Awards, we also continue to Conduct and Ethics Standards address negative behavior through our repositioned and With the introduction of a set of six Conduct and Ethics targeted disciplinary process. Further Standards across the bank in 2017, we have sought to ensure information: a common understanding and consistent expectations in Additionally, in 2018 we appointed a conduct and ethics see p. 14 ombudsperson within Credit Suisse who serves as an immedirespect of our culture and conduct. The Conduct and Ethics Standards are underpinned by a governance framework ate point of escalation for any potential sexual harassment consisting of a Group Conduct and Ethics Board (CEB) issues. This ensures appropriate senior management awarechaired by two of the Group’s Executive Board members, as ness and will have a direct impact on our ability to promote well as dedicated divisional CEBs and a joint CEB for our a culture of equal opportunity and fair treatment within the Corporate Functions. Our Conduct and Ethics Standards are organization. 42 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility A culture of performance and development Leadership development as an employer Our employees’ performance objectives are aligned with the Group’s strategy, which places clients at the center of all that We remain committed to investing in our future leadership at Credit Suisse. In 2018, we continued to run the Management we do. We measure our employees’ performance based on Excellence Program and the Leadership Development their contribution to the achievement of our business goals curriculum to actively train and support the development of 3.1 and against our Conduct and Ethics Standards to ensure that Credit Suisse leaders at various stages of their careers. All Responsibility the Group’s expectations in respect of conduct and cultural programs are based on the Conduct and Ethics Standards as an employer behavior are reflected and embedded in our daily work. Our and our Credit Suisse-specific leadership model. In 2018, globally consistent performance management process enables a total of 4,040 Credit Suisse managers participated in these line managers to assess the performance, behavior and programs. During the year, we launched the Senior Talent development potential of employees throughout the year. Program (STP), which is designed to further enhance the The setting of clear objectives at the beginning of the year, potential of our most talented senior leaders. The STP aims to followed by a mid-year and a year-end review, allows line accelerate the development of leadership skills and to prepare managers to perform a comprehensive individual performance the next generation of Credit Suisse leaders. Participants evaluation supported by global process standards and guideenroll in three modules to learn about the challenges of the lines. Line managers complete various training courses in future, to deepen their understanding of all Credit Suisse which they learn how to support team members in achieving businesses and to gain continuous exposure to the most their professional objectives. Furthermore, the performance senior leaders of our bank. Additionally, the program fosters assessment process allows us to identify the potential of our personal development based on feedback from diverse employees in order to effectively manage our pool of talent sources as well as executive mentoring and coaching. and support individual development. We offer our employees market-driven and competitive rates of pay based on performance-related compensation Talent development in 2018 structures. In doing so, we not only take account of employee interests but also consider our obligations towards our shareholders as well as regulatory expectations. Our compen70,700 participants in instructor-led courses sation plans are aligned with our strategic ambitions and developed in close consultation with shareholders and in accordance with regulatory requirements. 51,000 classroom-delivered training days 650 classroom leadership training sessions 14 hours of training per employee (average) 81% level of satisfaction among course participants (average) 655,300 participants in e-learning courses 43 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility Client skills and compliance Number of employees as an employer Our training and development programs enable us to further improve the quality of our service and advisory offering, and Full-time equivalents as of December 31, 2018 to continuously adapt our business to evolving market and By division client needs. Our One Curriculum training program provides 3.1 a comprehensive onboarding plan for employees in our Swiss 11,950 Swiss Universal Bank Responsibility Universal Bank and International Wealth Management divi10,210 International Wealth Management as an employer sions, delivering information and training about specific 7,440 Asia Pacific products, solutions and advisory offerings, as well as giving Total: 11,350 Global Markets insights into compliance and risk. Our Conduct and Ethics 45,680 3,100 Investment Banking & employees¹ Capital Markets Standards are also an integral part of this onboarding program. Since 2017, our client-facing employees have been required ¹ Including 310 positions in the Corporate Center to complete the Swiss Association for Quality (SAQ) certificaand 1,320 positions in the Strategic Resolution Unit. tion. This further increases the cooperation between Swiss Excluding fixed-term contracts. banks and institutions in the area of professional development. To date, around 2,300 client-facing Credit Suisse employees have obtained SAQ certification and more than 500 candiEmployee age structure dates are currently going through the SAQ certification process. Credit Suisse offers employees a wide range of training 1.4% < 20 years (apprentices) programs involving traditional classroom instruction, e-learning, 20.4% from 20 to 29 years video-based courses and online learning communities. 36.9% from 30 to 39 years Additionally, employees can complete short training programs 25.6% from 40 to 49 years on their mobile devices, enhancing the user experience. Each 13.8% from 50 to 59 years 1.9% > 59 years employee completed at least four mandatory training modules in the course of the year, depending on his or her area of responsibility. In 2018, we launched over 60 new mandatory e-learning programs on regulatory topics such as financial crime, cyber security and information awareness, as well as compliance with our Conduct and Ethics Standards. Our Employee turnover client-facing employees complete courses on cross-border activities and on EU requirements such as the EU Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II (MiFID II). In addition, a new 2018: 2017: course on general data protection was conducted to train all relevant personnel before the new General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) came into force in May 2018. 11.4% voluntary turnover 11.1% voluntary turnover 5.0% involuntary turnover 5.1% involuntary turnover 44 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility Employee facts and figures Diversity and inclusion as an employer as of December 31, 2018 The diversity of our workforce, including the different skills, mindsets, knowledge and experience of our employees, gives us a better understanding of our clients’ expectations, cultural 45,680 employees with permanent contracts (full-time equivalents) backgrounds and regional markets. Credit Suisse today employs 3.1 people from 180 different countries. We are committed to Responsibility providing and promoting equal opportunities, regardless of as an employer 36% proportion of female employees (full-time equivalents) ethnicity, nationality, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, age, civil or marital status, pregnancy, disability, or any other characteristics protected by law. 38.5% proportion of female employees (number of employees) Our internal experts work closely with our businesses across the globe to ensure that a diversity and inclusion framework is firmly 21% proportion of women in senior management positions (Managing Directors and Directors) embedded in our corporate culture. They partner with managers on the planning and implementation of initiatives to promote an inclusive working environment. We also consider it important to Part-time work engage in a dialogue with external partners in the area of Female Male diversity and inclusion. In January 2019, Credit Suisse was 19.5% 5% once again awarded first place among participating institutions in the Diversity Index published by the Lucerne University of Applied Sciences and Arts. This underscores the Group’s continuous commitment to diversity and inclusion in the workplace. Further information, including a list of the organizations, initiatives and events we supported in 2018, can be found at: credit-suisse.com/responsibility/partnerships 2018 marked the fifth year of Real Returns, an initiative launched in 2014 in the US and then extended to the UK, Part-time Switzerland and Asia Pacific, that gives talented and experiFull-time enced professionals who have taken an extended career break the opportunity to transition back into the workplace through a Proportion of women: Board of Directors/Executive Board¹ structured program. Real Returns enables participants to leverage their professional skills and networking capabilities 3 of 13 members of the Board of Directors through a program that combines challenging project work, training, mentoring and new networking opportunities. The program runs for approximately 12 weeks, and has seen the 3 of 12 members of the Executive Board participation of 295 professionals in 17 classes since its launch. Over 60% of participants subsequently obtained a ¹ As per the changes announced on February 26, 2019. permanent position at Credit Suisse. 45 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility Advancement of women full-time employment. We are also committed to promoting as an employer Recognizing the positive impact of gender diversity on the performance of teams and the business as a whole, we want diversity within our campus programs. One example is our award-winning Steps to Success program, now in its sixth to ensure appropriate female representation in management intake, which offers university scholarship funding for UK and positions. We offer special programs to support the development US students from underprivileged and underrepresented 3.1 of talented female professionals within and outside the organizabackgrounds. Responsibility tion. In February 2019, the Board of Directors approved the as an employer appointment of two more women to the Group Executive Board. Credit Suisse collaborates with leading universities around the These changes reflect the quality of the talent available at world to source graduate talent. For instance, we deliver Credit Suisse and the diversity of backgrounds and experiences university courses in India, including Financial Risk Analytics among our leaders. Moreover, Credit Suisse signed the Women and Business Management classes at BITS Pilani, as well as in Finance Charter in June 2016 – a pledge to support the Developer Skills classes at the College of Engineering in progression of women into senior roles across our UK legal Pune. We run interactive webinars, such as case studies on entities. More information is available at: impact investing and sustainability investments delivered by experts from our Asia Pacific division, to prospective campus credit-suisse.com/responsibility/mentoring recruits studying at universities globally. In Switzerland, we offer a course on private banking at the University of Zurich Internal mobility At Credit Suisse, our emphasis on internal mobility enables Internal mobility: key figures for 2018 our employees to benefit from interesting and varied career paths. We focus on building transferable skills and encourage our employees to continue advancing in their careers by 3,270 gaining expertise across businesses and locations. Through this culture of sharing, we create opportunities for them to expand their skills, knowledge and networks across the bank, and to also enhance connectivity and collaboration employees moved into a across business lines. different role internally. Our programs to support internal mobility include Internals First, an initiative that involves a proactive approach to contacting employees about internal opportunities, matching 893 employees were hired through Internals their skill sets to open roles across the organization. Career First – our internal recruitment initiative. forums are also held regularly, providing insights into different business areas and career paths. Investing in Young Talent We provide a wide range of attractive opportunities for young professionals and graduates who are interested in pursuing a 48% of our leadership roles (Managing career at Credit Suisse. Junior hires receive specific training, Directors and Directors) were filled internally. mentoring and career advice, aiding their transition to 46 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility Population of Young Talents and campus recruits in our Swiss home market in 2018 In 2018, Credit Suisse ran coding competitions around the as an employer globe to encourage the best developers to embark on a career 305 students in a Career Start Program in the fintech space. In our Swiss home market, where Credit Suisse is one of the country’s biggest employers, we offer opportunities for a large number of students and undergrad­ 3.1 286 internships (from 12 weeks to six months) uates who are interested in entering a career in banking. Responsibility For example, we recently introduced our Diversity Internship 583 as an employer Young Talents¹ (commercial and IT apprentices, Program aimed at offering internship opportunities to students HMS and Junior Bankers) out of which from various academic backgrounds, supporting our diversity ambitions. Credit Suisse has long been committed to fostering 61 high school graduates young talent: 2018 marked the 30th anniversary of our Career Start Program, which offers a combination of practical 486 commercial and IT apprentices¹ experience and structured onand off-the-job training for graduates over a period of 12 to 24 months. Our Career Start 36 HMS/WMS trainees Programs and internships cover 12 different job functions across all divisions and business areas. in total 1,174 young people in education benefited from a structured training program.² Attractive working environment and flexible working At Credit Suisse, we consider it important to offer our employ¹ Including Neue Aargauer Bank. ees modern and flexible working models. Our office environ² Including Career Starter, internships, Junior Bankers and apprenticeships. ment, which has been designed according to the Smart Working concept in many locations, allows employees to choose their workspace based on their needs at a specific and partner with the University of St. Gallen (HSG) in offering point in time. Approximately 17,000 employees now work a seminar where students analyze current business challenges. in Smart Working environments in our offices worldwide. In addition, we provide lectures on various investment banking topics at several universities globally, showing students the We also consider employee health and safety to be of the range of opportunities available to them as they plan their utmost importance, and we have internal policies in place to careers. We harness technology and social media to ensure help guarantee a safe office environment. Subject matter the visibility of our programs through webinars, Facebook live experts ensure that continuous safety improvements are made chats and virtual career fairs, helping us to reach the most in line with local legal requirements. In 2011, Credit Suisse promising students and future professionals. became the first Swiss financial services provider to be awarded OHSAS 18001 certification (Occupational Health and Safety We also develop and support our youngest employees. In Assessment Series) for its operations in Switzerland. We Switzerland, Credit Suisse contributes to the dual education successfully renewed this certification in 2018. system and offers commercial and IT vocational training. Our apprentices went on assignments to Wroclaw, London The Corporate Health Round Table initiates and coordinates and New York in 2018 to work on various projects and all measures within the framework of Credit Suisse’s corporate increase their multicultural competencies. We continue to health management in Switzerland. In collaboration with invest in our apprentices after graduation: in 2018, 73% various specialist units, we run events aimed at maintaining were offered a permanent position at Credit Suisse. and promoting employee health at a national level across 47 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility all divisions. Furthermore, in 2016, Credit Suisse in SwitzerOur experienced employees in Switzerland as an employer land was awarded the “Friendly Work Space” label from Health Promotion Switzerland (Gesundheitsförderung The employment landscape is rapidly changing due to digitalization of work processes and Schweiz), demonstrating the successful implementation demographic shifts. At Credit Suisse, we are committed to offering tailored support to of Corporate Health Management. Recertification is planned employees in a later stage of their career to maintain a skill set that can respond to market 3.1 in 2019. needs, adapt to new environments and stay employable on the labor market. Responsibility We offer a comprehensive set of learning opportunities, including: as an employer In consultation with various specialist units, we have developed  the “VEP (Very Experienced Professionals) Network 45+”: This Diversity and Inclusion several offerings that help our employees to combine their proemployee network offers tailored learning events and workshops and facilitates fessional and private commitments as effectively as possible. a dialogue between the generations. Topics range from the newest technology trends to scientific research on how the human brain works; In order to promote a dialogue that takes into account the  the “Generational Mentoring” program: In this reverse approach, more senior employees collective interests of our employees, Credit Suisse has worked engage in an exchange with their younger colleagues about how they handle their closely with organizations such as the European Works current work environment, which communication channels they prefer, and how they Council and the Credit Suisse Staff Council in Switzerland for manage their daily challenges;  and the external training program “Skills 4.0” provided by the “Challenge Your Potential” many years. More information is available at: (CYP) learning organization: This program focuses on the new skills and the mindset required for the digital age, including self-assessment and personal coaching. credit-suisse.com/responsibility/flexibilityhealth Furthermore, for our more senior managers over the age of 50 and with at least ten years of service, we offer an 80%-paid sabbatical of three months. We encourage them to take a break from daily business in order to focus on their personal and professional developFurther This chapter addresses the following issues: ment. We believe that fully committed employees with the right set of skills and a good Information: 1 Culture of compliance and conduct grasp of technology over the entire employee lifecycle are key success factors for the see p. 8 9 Incentives and compensation policy bank. 10 Quality and range of services and advice 11 Human resources and talent management credit-suisse.com/responsibility/employer Challenge and response Challenge: Ensuring continuous commitment and engagement of the workforce throughout the restructuring phase. Response: We continued our effort within each division and function to lead an ongoing dialogue with our employees, focused on our strategy, the Conduct and Ethics Standards and the way we interact with internal and external stakeholders. In addition, we evolved our survey effort to regularly measure employee engagement, resulting in an encouraging engagement score of 90% positive responses in 2018. 48 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility Impact of cost reduction measures heard, we announced a number of changes in our 2017 Compensation Report to address as an employer When we outlined our new strategy in October 2015, we announced our strategic cost some key themes on compensation design for the Executive Board and Board of Directors (Board) raised by shareholders during this process. The consultative vote on the 2017 transformation program with the aim of reducing our adjusted operating cost base, Compensation Report received 81% of votes in favor at our 2018 AGM, a material measured at constant 2015 foreign exchange rates, to below CHF 17 billion in order to year-on-year increase. We are of course conscious that there remains room for improve3.1 achieve net savings of more than CHF 4.2 billion. We successfully completed the program at the end of 2018, surpassing our original target. These cost savings have been realized ment. With this in mind, we continued to engage with key shareholders and external stakeholders during 2018, both to listen to their views on the changes made in 2018, and to Responsibility through various workforce strategy initiatives, the reduction of business complexity and the understand any thoughts they had on areas of focus for the Compensation Committee in as an employer exiting of activities that are not in line with our strategy. With the successful completion of future years. Going forward, shareholder engagement will remain a key pillar of our annual our ambitious three-year restructuring plan, we intend to continue with a disciplined compensation design process, with discussions on potential future changes in the third approach to cost management across the Group, focusing on continuous productivity quarter, further consultation towards the end of the year, and communication of the improvements that can release resources for growth investments while maintaining a compensation framework and proposals in the lead up to the AGM. strong operating leverage. During 2018, the Compensation Committee conducted its annual review of the overall When carrying out any headcount reductions, we work closely with organizations that compensation framework at Credit Suisse to ensure that it remains fit for purpose and represent employee interests, such as the Credit Suisse Staff Council in Switzerland, to aligned with the objectives of our compensation strategy. In particular, the Compensation support individuals who are affected by these measures. We have a comprehensive Committee assessed the extent to which the framework (i) aligns pay and performance, process in place to assist these individuals in their search for new positions, and we strive (ii) supports a performance culture based on merit, (iii) attracts, retains, rewards and to minimize the impact of the reduction in employee numbers through internal transfers motivates the talented individuals needed for our long-term success as a client-focused and by taking advantage of natural employee turnover. The Credit Suisse Staff Council has and capital-efficient business, (iv) recognizes and rewards excellent shortand long-term confirmed that we are assuming our social responsibility and offering a good package of performance, and (v) aligns with the Group’s values. In addition, the Compensation measures to assist affected employees. Committee reviewed market developments to assess whether current practices remain appropriately competitive. As a result of this review, it determined that the overall compensation framework continues to be appropriate for 2019. Responsible approach to compensation The Group’s key financial and strategic achievements and overall performance during 2018 were taken into consideration by the Board in its approval of the following compenThe objectives of the Group’s compensation policy include attracting and retaining employees, sation decisions for the Group and the Executive Board. In addition to the Group’s financial and motivating them to achieve sustainable results with integrity and fairness. The key performance in 2018, the Board considered a range of other factors in determining the elements of the compensation framework for Group employees comprise fixed compensation Group’s variable incentive compensation pool. These included progress made against (base salary, pension and other benefits) and variable incentive compensation, which is strategic objectives, relative performance, market position and market trends,as well as determined based on the Group’s performance as well as individual performance evaluations. control, risk, compliance and ethical considerations. Market conditions in the second Variable incentive compensation is deferred for persons with a total compensation of half of 2018 became more challenging for the financial services industry, with a significant CHF/USD 250,000 or higher, mainly in the form of share-based awards or Contingent drop in client activity resulting from a combination of factors including increasing trade Capital Awards (CCA). All deferred compensation awards contain provisions that enable tensions, rising US interest rates and greater geopolitical uncertainty. Against the backdrop the Group to reduce or cancel the awards prior to settlement under certain circumstances. of these conditions, the Compensation Committee decided to keep the Group variable For the Executive Board, variable incentive compensation comprises short-term incentive incentive compensation pool stable to the previous year, notwithstanding an increase in (STI) awards, which are linked to the achievement of performance objectives for the prior adjusted income before taxes of 52% over the same period, to protect returns and year, and long-term incentive (LTI) awards, which are based on future performance profitability in light of downward pressure on revenues during the second half of the year. outcomes measured against predetermined performance targets over a period of three years. Maximum STI and LTI opportunity levels are determined for each Executive Board In terms of the 2018 compensation outcomes for the Group, total variable incentive member and are each expressed as a multiple of base salary. At the end of the respective compensation awarded was CHF 3.2 billion, stable compared with 2017. In accordance performance cycles, the maximum payout level for each award is capped at 100% of with Swiss law, the Group will submit proposals on Board and Executive Board compenthe opportunity level. sation for binding shareholder approval at the AGM in 2019. Comprehensive information on the Group, Executive Board and Board compensation can be found in the 2018 During 2017, we undertook several rounds of consultation to listen to shareholders and Compensation Report. receive feedback on our compensation arrangements. Taking on board the views that we 49 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility for the environment 4.1 Responsibility for the environment 51 50 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility for Responsibility the environment for the environment 4.1 Responsibility for We take environmental impacts into account when conducting the environment our business by developing sustainable products and services and addressing sustainability issues in our risk management. The implementation of various operational measures helps us to improve our environmental performance. Credit Suisse believes that it is in the interests of both our financial resources and reduce our own environmental organization and our clients for us to develop and support footprint. measures that contribute to a more environmentally sustainable economy. Our commitments in this area are based on our The transition to a low-carbon and climate-resilient economy Code of Conduct and our Statement on Sustainability, which will require significant amounts of capital. Credit Suisse explains how we aim to address environmental and social therefore actively supports green finance solutions and Further Further issues when performing our activities as a bank. The UN renewable energy businesses, drawing upon the expertise information: information: see p. 27 – 29 Global Compact and the UN Sustainable Development Goals of various specialist departments across our divisions. see p. 58 − 59 (SDGs) are other important points of reference in this area. We also follow a sustainable investment approach for our real estate investment portfolio (see box on page 52). Climate change The Paris Agreement to strengthen the global response to the In addition to our activities in the area of green finance, we threat of climate change entered into force in 2016. Its overcontinue to focus on climate issues in our risk management arching objective is to limit the rise in the global temperature to processes. To assess whether projects or client activities well below 2° Celsius above pre-industrial levels. Based on may pose a major risk to the environment, the climate or the agreement, countries have committed to implement transition biodiversity, we apply our Reputational Risk Review Process. plans to lower their respective greenhouse gas emissions. Our sector policies and guidelines govern the responsible As a global financial institution, we recognize our share of responprovision of financial services to clients and define the relevant Further sibilities in combating climate change by supporting the environmental and social aspects to be considered when information: see p. 18 – 20 transition to a low-carbon and climate-resilient global economy. assessing individual transactions. Our principles and our approach to climate protection are set out in our Statement on Climate Change, which describes In 2017, the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climatehow we intend to address climate-related risks, mobilize related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) published its final 51 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility for recommendations for voluntary reporting on material risks and Global Real Estate the environment opportunities arising from climate change. Credit Suisse publicly expressed its support for the TCFD recommendations The International Energy Agency (IEA) estimates that buildings and the construction sector Further and established a climate change program with the overall goal are responsible for a little over one-third of global final energy consumption and nearly information: 40% of total direct and indirect CO2 emissions. Improving the energy efficiency of of addressing the recommendations related to external 4.1 see p. 21 disclosures of climate-linked risks and opportunities. buildings and taking account of various other sustainability considerations in real estate investment decisions are important components of global efforts to tackle climate change. Responsibility for the environment In 2018, Credit Suisse continued to participate in the dialogue We regard sustainability as an essential requirement in the management and development about the development of strategies for sustainable, climateof the properties within our various real estate products. Credit Suisse Global Real Estate had over CHF 47.3 billion of assets under management as of end-2018 and a portfolio of friendly business practices. For example, we hosted the launch around 1,300 properties across 20 countries. Global Real Estate’s commitment to event for WWF Hong Kong’s publication “Climate Primer for sustainable real estate is reflected in its investment solutions and its sustainable investInstitutional Investors”, which updates investors and investment ment approach to the whole portfolio. managers on the science, policy, risks and opportunities associated with global climate change. To establish a comparable standard for all new buildings, Global Real Estate relies on the Credit Suisse greenproperty quality seal that has been applied to more than 120 properties across the portfolio. Other industry standards such as LEED, BREEAM, DGNB or In June 2018, we hosted a Climate Forum of the Principles Minergie are also applied. for Responsible Investment (PRI) in New York that focused on the TCFD recommendations and the transition to a low-carbon To complement this approach, and to assess the energy and CO2 performance of its economy. In Switzerland, we have, for a number of years, portfolio, all managed properties are monitored and controlled by the building technology hosted the Lifefair Forum event series that explores topics company Siemens Switzerland AG with the aim of ensuring transparency across the lifecycle of each property. As a result of Global Real Estate’s systematic approach, the such as climate-related issues. At these events in 2018, portfolio’s CO2 emissions have been reduced by 12.5% globally since 2010. experts from the business community, the political arena and NGOs engaged in discussions about multi-stakeholder To comprehensively assess its sustainability or ESG performance, Global Real Estate has partnerships in sustainable food chains and the circular participated in the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) since 2013. economy, amongst other things. GRESB allows for the measurement of the ESG performance of each property portfolio, illustrates the potential for improvements, and benchmarks companies’ performance against peer groups and across the industry. Today, more than 900 real estate companies Further information on climate-related topics and our Staterepresenting USD 3.7 trillion of assets under management across 64 countries benchmark ment on Climate Change are available at: their real estate assets through the GRESB platform to evaluate their sustainability performance. Institutional investors use ESG data and GRESB’s analytical tools to improve www.credit-suisse.com/climate the sustainability performance of their investment portfolios, engage with investment managers and prepare for increasingly rigorous ESG obligations. Biodiversity and natural capital At Credit Suisse, we view the protection of biodiversity as an integral part of our sustainability commitments. BiodiversityFurther related issues are considered in our risk management proinformation: cesses, and we cover this topic in our sector-specific policies see p. 18 − 21 and guidelines. We also address the issue of environmental sustainability and sustainable land use in our dialogue with stakeholders. 52 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility for In March 2018, for example, we contributed to a regional This conference aimed to promote the debate about the the environment policy dialogue in Bangkok with government representatives, development agencies and the private sector. Organized by state of the world’s oceans and brought together marine conservation experts and practitioners, leading philanthropists The Center for People and Forests, it focused on ways of and investors from around the globe. mobilizing opportunities for forest landscape restoration in 4.1 South Asia. We contributed to the publication “Connecting More information is available at: Responsibility for Finance and Natural Capital: Supplement to the Natural www.credit-suisse.com/conservationfinance the environment Capital Protocol” – and took part in its official launch in April 2018. This gave us the opportunity to share examples of how we address natural capital risks in our transactions while Environmental management creating opportunities in this space through our products Credit Suisse strives to make more efficient use of natural and services. resources and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We focus our efforts on energy management because energy consumpWe have acted as a technical advisor to the Zoological Society tion is the area in which our operations have a direct impact on of London’s Sustainable Palm Oil Transparency Toolkit (SPOTT) the environment. In order to reduce environmental impacts and since its inception, and in 2018 we joined the Technical lower costs, we continuously implement a variety of measures Advisory Group for the newly launched SPOTT Timber, Pulp through our environmental management system. In that and Paper (TPP) tool. It currently assesses 50 timber and context, we developed new environmental strategy concepts pulp producers on the public disclosure of their policies, in 2018 that focus on utility strategy and procurement, as well operations and commitments to environmental, social and as on operational environmental and sustainability targets. governance (ESG) best practice. We also supported the needs analysis for the expansion of the SPOTT platform, which Furthermore, we continued to concentrate on improving energy was completed in 2018, while being involved in the planning efficiency and on reducing the consumption of electricity and work to further expand the platform to include the natural fossil fuels. Through our energy and water efficiency program in rubber sector in 2019. Switzerland, for example, we were again able to lower our CO2 emissions by around 1.7 gigawatt hours (GWh) in comparison Credit Suisse has long been a pioneer in the conservation finance space. Conservation finance focuses on the creation of new, long-term and diversified sources of revenue that Raising employee awareness of environmental issues can play a major role in ensuring biodiversity conservation and the health of natural ecosystems. For six years, we have We give employees the opportunity to make a personal contribution to environmental hosted the Credit Suisse Annual Conservation Finance protection, and we inform them about environmental issues. In this context, around 3,700 employees worldwide had signed up to our regional Sustainability Networks as of Conference in New York, where specialists discuss solutions end-2018. In addition, Credit Suisse once again took part in the symbolic Earth Hour for further developing the conservation finance sector. climate campaign in 2018, with the lights at 38 Credit Suisse offices around the world being switched off for one hour on March 24, 2018. To increase awareness of environOne aspect of conservation finance is marine conservation, mental management as well as health and safety topics, we provided 480 hours of training which is addressed through the “Blue Economy”. Here, the to 11,200 participants together with various service providers in 2018. Credit Suisse participated in the “bike to work” campaign for the eleventh time in 2018, with 101 teams focus is on business models that have a positive, long-term of employees in Switzerland cycling to work in May and June, covering a distance of over impact on the health of oceans. Recognizing the depth of 144,000 kilometers – which is equivalent to circumventing the globe more than three interest in this topic, we organized the first Credit Suisse times. Impact Roundtable on Marine Conservation in Lisbon in 2018. 53 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility for to the previous year. Furthermore, our water consumption Global greenhouse gas neutrality – our four-pillar strategy the environment decreased by around 9,900 m³. Globally, we achieved approximately 2.4 GWh of energy savings in 2018 through the ongoing virtualization of our server infrastructure across all our Credit Suisse has been greenhouse gas neutral globally since 2010. We systematically Enterprise Data Centers. pursue our four-pillar strategy based on operational efficiency improvements, energy4.1 saving investments, the substitution of existing energy sources through climate-friendly energy and RECs, and finally by compensating for the remaining emissions through the Responsibility for Our environmental management system is certified globally in purchase of ERCs. As a result of the various measures taken across the first three pillars the environment accordance with the ISO 14001:2015 standard. In 2018, of our strategy, our net global greenhouse gas emissions decreased by around 38% to we once again passed the corresponding recertification audit 129,100 metric tons of CO2 equivalents in 2018 compared to the year 2016. carried out by the external certification company SGS. We also actively involve external service providers and suppliers in our Four-pillar strategy continuous efforts to improve our environmental management measures where appropriate. 1. Optimizing 2. Investments 3. Substitution 4. Compensation operations By systematically pursuing our four-pillar strategy to achieve Efficiency gains Reduction of Use of climatePurchase of greenhouse gas neutrality, we reduced our net global greenand reduction of energy consumpfriendly energy emissions reduction house gas emissions by around 38% compared to 2016. energy consumption through sources (2018: certificates (ERCs) This achievement is based on continued energy efficiency tion through the energy-saving A total of 315 (60% of ERCs measures across our premises. Furthermore, we purchased optimization of investments gigawatt hours or meet the Gold installations 79% of electricity Standard) renewable energy certificates (RECs) for selected Credit consumed globally Suisse offices in Italy, Poland, the UK and the US, Hong Kong were generated and India to increase our use of climate-friendly energy using renewable sources. In Switzerland, we have been able to cover our entire resources) electricity consumption with RECs from hydropower. As a result, 79% of our global electricity consumption in 2018 was Reduction of own material and Reduction of certified as renewable. Finally, by compensating for the energy consumption greenhouse gas remaining emissions through emissions reduction certificates emissions each (ERCs), we again achieved global greenhouse gas neutrality time energy in 2018. is consumed Business travel continues to pose a challenge for Credit Suisse Reduction of own greenhouse Compensation due to the global nature of our business. It is often essential gas emissions of remaining to maintain direct contact with clients, which is why business greenhouse gas air travel accounts for around 37% of our global greenhouse emissions gas emissions. To reduce the number of flights taken, we encourage employees to travel by train when covering shorter Greenhouse gas neutrality distances, and to use telephone and video conferencing whenever possible. Consequently, the use of videoconferencing (desktop-based and in videoconferencing rooms) amounted to approximately 184,200 hours in 2018. 54 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility for Credit Suisse’s greenhouse gas emissions in 2018 Portfolio of purchased emissions reduction Greenhouse gas emissions the environment certificates (ERCs) 2018¹ Overview of scope 1− 3 emissions (rounded net figures; CO2 equivalents in metric tons) 4.1 Directly through burning fuels and losses Responsibility for 17,200 from coolants and fire extinguishers (scope 1)² the environment Total: 129,100 42,700 Indirectly from energy production metric tons (scope 2 market-based)² 152,400 Indirectly from energy production (scope 2 location-based)² 53% Energy use of buildings 40% Wind 39% Business travel 20% Biomass/biogas power Indirectly through sources such as energy 8% Paper, waste, water, extinguishing agent losses and coolant losses 20% 20% Photovoltaic power Geothermal power 69,200 precombustion, business travel, paper, waste and water (scope 3)² ¹ 60% of ERCs meet the Gold Standard. Global key performance indicators for environmental management¹ 2018 2017³ 2016³ Absolute Per FTE4 Absolute Per FTE4 Absolute Per FTE4 Greenhouse gas emissions (CO2 equivalents in metric tons)5 129,100 2.8 141,500 3.0 207,100 4.3 Energy (MWh) 483,500 10.5 511,100 10.8 526,500 11.0 Business travel (km) 417,700,000 9,070 418,900,000 8,850 432,100,000 9,100 Paper (t) 2,700 0.06 2,700 0.06 3,700 0.08 Water (m3) 753,100 16 943,700 20 904,200 19 Waste (t) 7,700 0.17 12,700 0.27 11,500 0.24 ¹ According to VfU standard 2015 (rounded figures) 3 Minor adjustments made to 2017 and 2016 basic data sets 2 For details of scope 1, scope 2 and scope 3 emissions, see environmental performance data for in-house 4 As of December 31 of the reporting year; employees (full-time equivalents) operations at credit-suisse.com/crr 5 Net greenhouse gas emissions (excluding scope 2 location-based) Further information on environmental management and examples of Detailed information on Credit Suisse’s four-pillar strategy is measures taken globally and in all our regions are available at: available online at: credit-suisse.com/environmentalmanagement credit-suisse.com/4pillarstrategy 55 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility for For air travel, we purchase greenhouse gas neutral tickets This chapter addresses the following issues: Further the environment that offset all the emissions from our flights through ERCs. 3 Environmental and social risk management information: see p. 8 In 2018,this amounted to around 47,500 metric tons of CO2 8 Climate change equivalents. 12 Responsible investments 4.1 Finally, we reduced our environmental footprint through the credit-suisse.com/responsibility/environment Responsibility for use of certified paper produced from forests that are managed the environment sustainably in line with, for example, the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) criteria; this accounted for 78% of paper consumption in 2018. Flexible working models that enable our employees to work from home from time to time can also help to reduce local emissions from regional commuter traffic. Challenge and response Challenge: The preservation of the world’s natural habitats is a vital tions of financing activities related to High Conservation Value Forests as challenge. The UN Sustainable Development Goal 15 (“life on land”) well as provisions for the particular scrutiny of peatland operations and aims to protect, restore and promote the sustainable use of terresthe prohibition of financial services for operations in protected areas such trial ecosystems, while SDG 14 (“life below water”) focuses on as UNESCO World Heritage sites. We continue to engage with key conserving and sustainably using the oceans, seas and marine stakeholders on defining ways for the financial industry to contribute to resources. How does Credit Suisse contribute to the achievement preserving biodiversity and the world’s natural habitats (see pages 52 – 53). of these goals? Recognizing the need for capital in conserving ecosystems, we have been Response: Credit Suisse addresses the issues of environmental sustain­ active in the conservation finance space, which focuses on the creation ability and sustainable land use in a variety of ways. In order to consider of new, long-term and diversified sources of revenue that can play a role biodiversity-related aspects in our risk management processes, we have in ensuring terrestrial as well as marine biodiversity conservation and the incorporated this topic into our sector-specific policies and guidelines. Our health of natural ecosystems. For example, in 2018 we once again hosted policy requirements for the forestry and agribusiness industry are aligned the Credit Suisse Annual Conservation Finance Conference in New York. with relevant sustainability initiatives such as the Roundtable on Sustainable On the topic of marine conservation, which is addressed through the Palm Oil (RSPO) – of which we are a member – and the Forest Steward“Blue Economy”, we organized the first Credit Suisse Roundtable on Marine ship Council (FSC). To promote good forestry and agribusiness practices Conservation in Lisbon. Furthermore, we included SDG 14 (“life below and to discourage net forest conversion, our policies also include re­stricwater”) in our own green bond framework that we launched in 2018. 56 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Reporting on Reporting on corporate responsibility Corporate Responsibility GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards Achievements Through our reporting on corporate responsibility, we inform GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards and objectives in our stakeholders openly and transparently about the ways in Our reporting on corporate responsibility addresses the banking which we address economic, environmental and social growing importance of non-financial reporting and the increaschallenges in our daily business activities, as well as about ing stakeholder demand for relevant information in this area. the principles that guide us in our work. These principles are The GRI Standards provide a framework for voluntary sustainAchievements set out in our Code of Conduct and in our Conduct and Ethics ability reporting and help to increase transparency and and objectives in Standards. They apply to all our activities and to our relationcomparability in this area. In line with the GRI Standards, economy and society ship with our stakeholders. Further guidance is provided by Credit Suisse regularly conducts a materiality assessment the Group-wide Statement on Sustainability. in order to better understand the views and interests of our stakeholders. This report focuses on issues classified Further Achievements See also: credit-suisse.com/sustainabilitycommitments as particularly important in the context of the materiality information: and objectives as see p. 8 – 9 assessment. an employer Scope of the report This report forms an integral part of our Annual Reporting Credit Suisse’s 2018 reporting documents on corporate Suite and focuses on the financial year 2018. It explains how responsibility reflect the GRI Standards for sustainability Achievements our commitments and aspirations in the area of corporate reporting (core option). Selected indicators of our GRI-based and objectives in responsibility are put into practice as a key component of disclosure on corporate responsibility will be externally environment our operations, and it provides an overview of our principal assessed and independently assured by SGS. Our Corporate activities and milestones in 2018. It also documents the Responsibility Report 2018 will be reported voluntarily to progress we have made in implementing the Ten Principles the SIX Swiss Exchange in accordance with the opting-in of the UN Global Compact, as well the measures we have regulation for companies issuing sustainability reports. put in place to contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. Further details regarding our GRI indicators and the external review are available at: The contents of the report, along with additional information about our efforts relating to corporate responsibility, are also credit-suisse.com/gri available at: credit-suisse.com/responsibility 57 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Reporting on Implementation of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Over 9,900 businesses from around 160 countries have pledged to uphold the principles relating to human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption efforts corporate defined in the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. Credit Suisse has been a signatory to this leading international initiative since its inception in 2000, and we are an active member in the Global Compact Network Switzerland. Through our Corporate Responsibility Report, we communicate annually on the progress we have made in implementing responsibility the Ten Principles. WE SUPPORT The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Implementation at Credit Suisse See pages GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards Human rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection ƁƁ Participation in the Thun Group to promote a better understanding of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and 21 of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Human Rights for the banking sector ƁƁ Statement on Human Rights 21– 23 Achievements Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights ƁƁ Sustainability risk management 18 – 23 and objectives in abuses. ƁƁ Sector-specific policies and guidelines 19 – 20 banking Labor Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association ƁƁ Credit Suisse Staff Council in Switzerland (internal employee representation) 48 – 49 Achievements and the effective recognition of the right to collective ƁƁ European Works Council 48 bargaining; and objectives in economy and society Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory ƁƁ Credit Suisse Supplier Code of Conduct and Third Party Risk Management (TPRM) Framework 22 labor; ƁƁ Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Transparency Statement 21– 22 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and ƁƁ Sector-specific policies and guidelines 19 – 20 ƁƁ Credit Suisse Supplier Code of Conduct and Third Party Risk Management (TPRM) Framework 22 Achievements and objectives as Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of ƁƁ Diversity and inclusion 45 employment and occupation. an employer Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach ƁƁ Statement on Climate Change 51 – 52 Achievements to environmental challenges; ƁƁ Sustainability risk management 18 – 23 and objectives in ƁƁ Sector-specific policies and guidelines 19 – 20 ƁƁ Signatory to the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) 26 environment ƁƁ Seek to address the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (FSB TCFD) 17, 21 recommendations Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental ƁƁ Global greenhouse gas neutrality since 2010 51– 56 responsibility; and ƁƁ ISO 14001-certified environmental management system 53 – 56 ƁƁ Activities in the area of conservation finance 27, 29, 53 ƁƁ Impact Advisory and Finance Department (IAF) 24 – 25 Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of ƁƁ Use of climate-friendly energy sources for our operations 53 – 56 environmentally friendly technologies. ƁƁ Green finance 27, 29 ƁƁ Renewable energy project financing 27– 28 ƁƁ Green real estate 52 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its ƁƁ Member of the Wolfsberg Group 15 forms, including extortion and bribery. ƁƁ Internal standards and training for employees 14 – 16, 42 – 44 ƁƁ Integrity Hotline 15 58 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Our contribution to the realization of the Sustainable Development Goals Sustainable development is a key aspect of our corporate responsibility. Since the introduction of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by the UN in 2015, we have been pursuing activities designed to contribute to the realization of the SDGs in our role as a global financial institution. In consultation with our stakeholders, we also identified ways to support the post-2015 development agenda of the UN. The following table provides an overview of our wide-ranging activities relating to selected objectives. Reporting on corporate Objective Our contribution See pages responsibility Goal 4: Quality education Ensure inclusive and equitable quality ƁƁ We promote access to education and help to improve the quality of education through our Global Education Initiative 36 education and promote lifelong learning ƁƁ We run a financial education program for girls in Brazil, China, India, Rwanda, Sri Lanka and Tanzania 36 opportunities for all. ƁƁ We support regional education programs in collaboration with partner organizations 36, 39 – 40 GRI Sustainability Goal 5: Gender equality Reporting Standards Achieve gender equality and empower all ƁƁ We foster diversity and inclusion within our organization 45 – 46 women and girls. ƁƁ We take measures to increase the proportion of women in management positions within our organization 46 ƁƁ We promote access to financial services for women in developing countries and emerging markets through our financial inclusion 36 – 39 activities and run a financial education program for girls Achievements Goal 7: Affordable and clean energy and objectives in Ensure access to affordable, reliable, ƁƁ We provide renewable energy financing 27– 28 banking sustainable and modern energy for all. ƁƁ We use climate-friendly energy sources for our business premises and have buildings certified according to energy efficiency standards 53 – 56 ƁƁ We run an ISO 14001-certified environmental management system 53 – 56 Goal 8: Decent work and economic growth Achievements Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainƁƁ We offer progressive working conditions for our employees 42 – 49 and objectives in able economic growth, full and productive ƁƁ We support economic growth and entrepreneurship through our role as a lender and financial intermediary 31 – 35 economy and society employment and decent work for all. ƁƁ We are an integral part of the economy and society in our role as an employer, client, contractual partner and taxpayer 31 – 35 ƁƁ We support an initiative to combat youth unemployment in Switzerland 35 ƁƁ We help to strengthen local economies in developing countries and emerging markets through our activities in the area 26 – 27, of financial inclusion 36 – 39 Achievements and objectives as Goal 9: Industry, innovation and infrastructure an employer Build resilient infrastructure, promote ƁƁ We supply risk capital to support growth and innovation, including through Credit Suisse Entrepreneur Capital AG in Switzerland 32 inclusive and sustainable industrialization ƁƁ We help to strengthen local economies in developing countries and emerging markets through our activities in the area of 26 – 27, and foster innovation. financial inclusion 36 – 39 ƁƁ We provide renewable energy financing 28 Achievements ƁƁ We focus on sustainability risk management and have sector-specific policies and guidelines in place 18 – 23 and objectives in Goal 11: Sustainable cities and communities environment Make cities and human settlements ƁƁ We invest in sustainable real estate 52 inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. ƁƁ We are committed to continuously improving the ESG performance (environmental, social and governance performance), 52 energy efficiency and carbon footprint of our real estate investment portfolio Goal 13: Climate action Take urgent action to combat climate ƁƁ We are greenhouse gas neutral across all our operations globally 51 – 56 change and its impacts. ƁƁ We offer a range of green finance products and services for our clients 27, 29 ƁƁ We focus on sustainability risk management and have sector-specific policies and guidelines in place 18 – 23 ƁƁ We seek to address the recommendations of the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial 17, 21 Disclosures (FSB TCFD) Goal 15: Life on land Protect, restore and promote sustainable ƁƁ We are active in the area of conservation finance 27, 53 use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably ƁƁ We have an ongoing advisory role to the Sustainable Palm Oil Transparency Toolkit (SPOTT) and joined the Technical Advisory Group 53 manage forests, combat desertification, and for the SPOTT Timber, Paper and Pulp tool development halt and reverse land degradation and halt ƁƁ We focus on sustainability risk management and have sector-specific policies and guidelines in place 18 – 23 biodiversity loss. 59 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Reporting on Sustainability indices and ratings assigned to Credit Suisse in 2018 corporate Indices Brief description Credit Suisse responsibility Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (DJSI World) Global best-in-class approach: The top 10% of the 2,500 largest companies in the S&P Global Broad Market IndexSM that lead the field in terms of sustainability. Credit Suisse has been a constituent of the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index since it was launched in 1999. Dow Jones Sustainability European best-in-class approach: The top 20% of the 600 largest European Credit Suisse has been a constituent of the European Index of the Dow Jones GRI Sustainability Europe Index (DJSI Europe) companies in the S&P Global Broad Market IndexSM that lead the field in terms Sustainability Indices since it was launched in 2001. Reporting Standards of sustainability. FTSE4Good Index Companies that meet globally recognized corporate responsibility standards. Credit Suisse has been a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series since it was launched in 2001. Achievements and objectives in banking Ratings Brief description Credit Suisse CDP CDP represents institutional investors with invested assets of over C (rating scale: D– to A) USD 90 trillion; its aim is to offer transparent guidance to investors on climate-related opportunities and risks for companies. Achievements MSCI ESG Rating MSCI ESG Ratings assess a company’s performance based on environmental, BBB (rating scale: AAA to CCC) and objectives in social and governance (ESG) themes, focusing on key ESG issues identified for economy and society the industry. RobecoSAM As part of its Corporate Sustainability Assessment, RobecoSAM analyzes the Overall company score: 69 (rating scale: 1 to 100) (94th percentile) sustainability performance of over 4,500 listed companies every year. This Economic dimension score: 55; Environmental dimension score: 90; involves assessing companies on the basis of environmental, social and economic Social dimension score: 73 Achievements criteria. and objectives as Sustainalytics The sustainability research carried out by Sustainalytics focuses on 63 points (rating scale: 1 to 100) an employer environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria. (80th percentile; rated 43 out of 211)¹ ¹ 2017 results Achievements and objectives in Sustainability networks and initiatives environment Credit Suisse actively participates in a number of sustainability networks and initiatives worldwide. Climate Bonds Initiative Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) Equator Principles Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) UN Environment Programme Finance Green Bond Principles Initiative (UNEP FI) Oebu – Swiss Business Council for UN Global Compact Sustainable Development WE SUPPORT Further information can be found online at: credit-suisse.com/agreements 60 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Reporting on corporate Banking responsibility Objectives 2018 Achievements 2018 ƁƁ Our main priority in 2018 is to maintain strong business momentum while completing ƁƁ We completed our three-year restructuring program, broadly achieving our main strategic objectives by our restructuring. Our objectives include: the end of the year. In particular, we: GRI Sustainability − Driving growth and working towards the 2018 profit targets defined for − Returned to profitable and compliant growth, delivering an 88% increase in Group annual reported pre-tax Reporting Standards each of our divisions. income to CHF 3.37 billion and posting our first annual post-tax profit since 2014 of CHF 2.02 billion. − Further strengthening collaboration between our wealth management − Achieved continued revenue growth in our Wealth Management-related businesses and attracted and investment banking businesses. CHF 34.4 billion of Wealth Management net new assets, bringing the total generated over three years to − Reducing our adjusted operating cost base at constant FX rates to below more than CHF 100 billion. Achievements CHF 17 billion by end-2018 while continuing to selectively invest in the Group − Further increased collaboration between our wealth management and investment banking businesses, and in measures to improve efficiency and grow the franchise. e.g. through our International Trading Solutions business. and objectives in − Maintained a strong capital position, reporting a CET1 ratio of 12.6% and a tier 1 leverage ratio of 5.2% − Maintaining a strong capital position, with a CET1 ratio of over 12.5%. banking − Completing the wind-down of the Strategic Resolution Unit (SRU) by end-2018, at end-2018. earlier than originally planned. − Reduced our adjusted operating cost base, surpassing the end-2018 target of less than CHF 17 billion. We did so while making selective investments in the business − including in our risk management and compliance functions. Achievements − Successfully closed the SRU, outperforming our end-state targets. and objectives in ƁƁ Launch a cross-functional project to start implementing the recommendations ƁƁ In 2018, Credit Suisse initiated a program with the overall goal of addressing the TCFD recommendations economy and society released by the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial related to external disclosures of climate-linked risks and opportunities. In that context, we updated key Disclosures (FSB TCFD) in various workstreams throughout 2018 and 2019 and policies to incorporate important elements of climate risk management. We established an inventory of our share experiences in the Forum on Implementation of TCFD Recommendations climate risks and opportunities and started a pilot phase to define climate scenarios and impact pathways. launched by the Institute of International Finance. We also joined a working group convened by the Institute of International Finance. Achievements and objectives as ƁƁ Roll out and test the recently developed approach to transaction reviews with clients ƁƁ We developed sustainability risk guidance for corporate banking relationships in sectors with medium active in sectors with medium sustainability risks. sustainability risks, including a set of sustainability questionnaires to evaluate the relevant environmental an employer and social risks. Achievements Objectives 2019 and objectives in ƁƁ Continue our efforts to drive a robust compliance and control culture throughout the bank through targeted measures that take account of the changing operating environment. environment ƁƁ Take steps to address the implications of the UK’s decision to leave the EU in order to minimize disruption to the business and to clients. ƁƁ Focus on generating capital in order to return it to shareholders; our long-term objective is to distribute around 50% of profits to shareholders for 2019 and 2020. ƁƁ Develop methodologies and tools for the alignment of credit portfolios with the Paris Climate Agreement, working with other banks. ƁƁ Launch pilot phase to define internal climate risk terminology and measure certain sector exposures against defined climate scenarios. ƁƁ Review and further develop Credit Suisse’s sector policies and guidelines for sensitive industries. ƁƁ Continue to engage with peers and industry groups for the development of environmental and social (E&S) due diligence approaches and the improvement of E&S disclosure. ¹ For further information on our cost savings, see page 49. 61 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Reporting on corporate Economy and society responsibility Objectives 2018 Achievements 2018 ƁƁ Contribute to the future development of financial market regulation by providing ƁƁ Credit Suisse contributed to a high-level dialogue with Swiss regulators and policymakers in 2018 regarding thought leadership and engaging in a constructive dialogue with stakeholders. the introduction of the new Basel III regulations in Switzerland. In particular, we engaged with key policyGRI Sustainability makers and underscored the importance of ensuring that implementation is harmonized with the approach in Reporting Standards other comparable financial centers to ensure a level playing field. We also published the fourth edition of our study on the Swiss financial center. At the international level, we advocated regulatory cooperation to avoid fragmentation of global standards – both through our work in industry associations and through direct interventions. This included holding a conference in Brussels with key officials that included a fact-based report Achievements and analysis on the risks and costs of such an approach. and objectives in ƁƁ We aim to make a lasting, meaningful contribution to society and to continue contribƁƁ We further deepened our cooperation with non-profit organizations (NPOs), governments, employees and banking uting to the UN Sustainable Development Goals in key areas. To address the most clients in order to address major social challenges and work together to contribute to the SDGs. With regard pressing issues facing society, we utilize the bank’s capital – its financial resources, to SDG 4 (Quality Education), more than 2,330 employees dedicated their time and expertise to mentorproducts and services as well as the skills of our employees and our broad network ing, teaching and tutoring activities benefiting children and young people. In addition, through our regional of public and private partners. We aim to develop solutions that benefit society, our education programs, we have reached more than 184,400 registered school children and young people and Achievements employees and Credit Suisse. These efforts include our two global initiatives in the helped train more than 4,200 teachers. Moreover, we have engaged in issues such as access to financial areas of education and financial inclusion, whose tenth anniversaries took place in services for women, financing humanitarian aid or supporting fintech innovation in developing countries in and objectives in 2018. the context of our Financial Inclusion Initiative. To mark the tenth anniversary of our global initiatives to proeconomy and society mote education and financial inclusion, we held three roundtable events in Zurich, London and New York. At these events, we discussed the successes and challenges of the last decade together with our partner organizations and talked about best practice approaches to achieving profound societal changes in the future based on long-term commitments and partnerships. Achievements and objectives as an employer Objectives 2019 ƁƁ Continue to engage in an active dialogue with policymakers and regulators in order to ensure the competitiveness and resilience of the financial sector. Achievements ƁƁ After the success of our global initiatives over the last decade and based on our long-running regional efforts, we want to build on our strengths and continuously adapt to changing needs within and objectives in society. In 2019, we want to further develop our strategy and processes in the area of corporate citizenship in order to identify trends and issues at an early stage and to align our programs with them as effectively as possible. At the same time, we will strive to further optimize our internal resources. environment 62 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Reporting on corporate Employer responsibility Objectives 2018 Achievements 2018 ƁƁ Further strengthen leadership capabilities at Credit Suisse. ƁƁ In 2018, we reached a 90% completion rate in our Mandatory Management Excellence Program for new managers and have successfully rolled out our first Senior Talent Program for senior leaders at Credit GRI Sustainability Suisse. Reporting Standards ƁƁ Continue to embed the Conduct and Ethics Standards to ensure a common underƁƁ One year after the introduction of the Conduct and Ethics Standards, we have established a solid baseline standing of our expectations at Credit Suisse regarding culture and conduct. of awareness among our employees regarding our expectations in terms of conduct and behavior. The move to a single behavioral framework has allowed us to embed those standards in our core employee lifecycle processes, thus reinforcing the importance of positive conduct for Credit Suisse. A measurement framework Achievements has also been developed and will enable each of our divisional and function heads to effectively self-assess and objectives in their Conduct and Ethics environment, ensuring continuous improvement. Additionally, in 2018 we appointed banking a conduct and ethics ombudsperson within Credit Suisse who serves as an immediate point of escalation for any potential sexual harassment issues. Achievements Objectives 2019 and objectives in ƁƁ Strengthen systematic nurturing and development of diverse talent at Credit Suisse. economy and society ƁƁ Continue to foster collaboration and development of our leaders. Achievements and objectives as an employer Achievements and objectives in environment 63 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Reporting on corporate Environment responsibility Objectives 2018 Achievements 2018 ƁƁ Successful completion of the audit of our certified environmental management ƁƁ We successfully passed the recertification audits according to the new ISO 14001:2015 Standard under system in the framework of the transition to the new ISO 14001:2015 standard. the direction of the certification company SGS. GRI Sustainability Successful global re-certification in compliance with the new ISO 14001 standard. Reporting Standards ƁƁ Continued global greenhouse gas neutrality. ƁƁ In 2018, we achieved global greenhouse gas neutrality for the ninth year in succession. In that context, we were able to further reduce our global greenhouse gas emissions from operating activities by 5% to 129,100 metric tons of CO2 equivalents compared to the previous year – thanks to ongoing energy-related Achievements optimizations of our properties, the further consolidation of our building portfolio, with a focus on properties with high energy efficiency, as well as through the use of state-of-the-art IT infrastructure and an increase and objectives in in climate-friendly energy sources. Thanks to the substitution of existing energy sources through renewable banking energy certificates (RECs), we were able to further increase the share of electricity from renewable energy sources to 79%. ƁƁ Develop and implement a framework for long-term objectives aiming to reduce our ƁƁ We comprehensively reviewed our sustainability strategy for our operational processes and revised it, taking greenhouse gas emissions and to contribute to the overarching goal of the Paris into account international efforts in the fight against climate change as well as best-practice developments Achievements Agreement, which is to limit the rise in the global temperature to well below 2º Celsius for target-setting in environmental management. and objectives in above pre-industrial levels. economy and society ƁƁ Further expand engagement and advisory services related to sustainable land use. ƁƁ We continued our engagement with the Zoological Society of London on soft commodities by contributing to the review of the rubber sector standards and the development of a roadmap. Achievements and objectives as Objectives 2019 an employer ƁƁ Continue support for sustainable soft commodities, including industry standards, peer collaboration, client advisory and disclosure. ƁƁ Maintenance and further development of our ISO 14001 Environmental Management System (EMS) including continous improvements in our environmental performance. Achievements and objectives in ƁƁ Ensure a successful global ISO 14001 control audit under the direction of the certification company SGS. environment ƁƁ Continue to increase the green power share of electricity consumed in our operations. ƁƁ Further strengthen the strategy for managing the Group’s operational footprint, including consideration of multi-year environmental targets. 64 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Disclaimer/ Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information This report contains statements that constitute forward-looking statements. In addition, ƁƁ the risk of cyberattacks, information or security breaches or technology failures on our business or operations; inquiries in the future we, and others on our behalf, may make statements that constitute ƁƁ the adverse resolution of litigation, regulatory proceedings, and other contingencies; forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements may include, without ƁƁ actions taken by regulators with respect to our business and practices and possible limitation, statements relating to the following: resulting changes to our business organization, practices and policies in countries in which we conduct our operations; ƁƁ our plans, targets or goals; ƁƁ the effects of changes in laws, regulations or accounting or tax standards, policies or ƁƁ our future economic performance or prospects; practices in countries in which we conduct our operations; ƁƁ the potential effect on our future performance of certain contingencies; and ƁƁ the potential effects of changes in our legal entity structure; ƁƁ assumptions underlying any such statements. ƁƁ competition or changes in our competitive position in geographic and business areas Words such as “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends” and “plans” and similar in which we conduct our operations; expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive ƁƁ the ability to retain and recruit qualified personnel; means of identifying such statements. We do not intend to update these forward-looking ƁƁ the ability to maintain our reputation and promote our brand; statements. ƁƁ the ability to increase market share and control expenses; ƁƁ technological changes; By their very nature, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties, ƁƁ the timely development and acceptance of our new products and services and the both general and specific, and risks exist that predictions, forecasts, projections and perceived overall value of these products and services by users; other outcomes described or implied in forward-looking statements will not be achieved. ƁƁ acquisitions, including the ability to integrate acquired businesses successfully, and We caution you that a number of important factors could cause results to differ materially from the plans, targets, goals, expectations, estimates and intentions expressed in such divestitures, including the ability to sell non-core assets; and forward-looking statements. ƁƁ other unforeseen or unexpected events and our success at managing these and the risks involved in the foregoing. These factors include: ƁƁ the ability to maintain sufficient liquidity and access capital markets; We caution you that the foregoing list of important factors is not exclusive. When ƁƁ market volatility and interest rate fluctuations and developments affecting interest evaluating forward-looking statements, you should carefully consider the foregoing factors and other uncertainties and events, including the information set forth in rate levels; “Risk factors” in I – Information on the company in our Annual Report 2018. ƁƁ the strength of the global economy in general and the strength of the economies of the countries in which we conduct our operations, in particular the risk of continued slow economic recovery or downturn in the EU, the US or other developed countries or in emerging markets in 2019 and beyond; ƁƁ the direct and indirect impacts of deterioration or slow recovery in residential and commercial real estate markets; ƁƁ adverse rating actions by credit rating agencies in respect of us, sovereign issuers, structured credit products or other credit-related exposures; ƁƁ the ability to achieve our strategic goals, including those related to our targets and financial goals; ƁƁ the ability of counterparties to meet their obligations to us; ƁƁ the effects of, and changes in, fiscal, monetary, exchange rate, trade and tax policies, as well as currency fluctuations; ƁƁ political and social developments, including war, civil unrest or terrorist activity; ƁƁ the possibility of foreign exchange controls, expropriation, nationalization or confiscation of assets in countries in which we conduct our operations; ƁƁ operational factors such as systems failure, human error, or the failure to implement procedures properly; 65 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Disclaimer/ Important information about this publication Information referenced in this Corporate Responsibility Report, whether via website links inquiries or otherwise, is not incorporated into this Corporate Responsibility Report. Inquiries Credit Suisse is subject to the Basel III framework, as implemented in Switzerland, as well as Swiss legislation and regulations for systemically important banks (Swiss Credit Suisse Corporate Communications requirements), which include capital, liquidity, leverage and large exposure requirements and rules for emergency plans designed to maintain systemically relevant functions Tel. +41 844 33 88 44 in the event of threatened insolvency. media.relations@credit-suisse.com As of January 1, 2015, the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) leverage ratio framework, as issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, was implemented Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility & Stakeholder Communications in Switzerland by FINMA. Tel. +41 44 334 54 26 Unless otherwise noted, leverage exposure is based on the BIS leverage ratio framework responsibility.corporate@credit-suisse.com and consists of period-end balance sheet assets and prescribed regulatory adjustments. The BIS tier 1 leverage ratio and CET1 leverage ratio are calculated as BIS tier 1 capital and CET1 capital, respectively, divided by period-end leverage exposure. Photography We may not achieve all of the expected benefits of our strategic initiatives. Factors Credit Suisse (1, 3, 4, 40), Keystone (11, 34), Getty Images (30, 41, 50) beyond our control, including but not limited to the market and economic conditions, changes in laws, rules or regulations and other challenges discussed in our public filings, could limit our ability to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of these initiatives. Design SOURCE Associates AG References to Wealth Management mean Private Clients within Swiss Universal Bank, Private Banking within International Wealth Management, and Private Banking within Wealth Management & Connected in Asia Pacific or their combined results. References to Wealth Management-related businesses mean Swiss Universal Bank, International Wealth Management and Asia Pacific Wealth Management & Connected or their combined results. 66 Credit Suisse Corporate Responsibility Report 2018
