United Nations Global Compact 2018 Communication on Progress. Contents. 01. General Information 3 02. Human Rights Principles 4 2.1 Assessment, policy and goals 4 2.2 Implementation 4 2.3 Measurement of outcomes 5 03. Labour Principles 6 3.1 Assessment, policy and goals 6 3.2 Implementation 6 3.3 Measurement of outcomes 7 04. Environmental Principles 8 4.1 Assessment, policy and goals 8 4.2 Implementation 8 4.3 Measurement of outcomes 8 05. Anti-Corruption Principles 9 5.1 Assessment, policy and goals 9 5.2 Implementation 9 5.3 Measurement of outcomes 10 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2018 2 General Information. 01. 7 February 2019 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm ME reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In our 2018 Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Jamie McPhee Chief Executive Officer UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2018 3 Human Rights Principles. 02. 2.1 Assessment, policy and goals 1. Celebrate ME – celebrating and promoting diversity within the bank by: ME is committed to upholding the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and all other • celebrating cultural and affinity festivals international standards relating to the protection of • participating in and promoting charity events these rights. In addition to the measures in place to linked to different groups protect the human rights of its people relating to labour (see Labour Rights section of this document), • partnering with sponsor organisations ME abides by all legislation relating to human rights committed to increasing the awareness, health protection in Australia, where ME conducts all of and wellbeing of under-served or underits business. ME is also committed to ensuring represented communities. it partners with suppliers which demonstrate a 2. Educate ME – raising awareness and providing considered approach to economic, social and education by: environmental responsibility. • holding campaigns to raise awareness of the value and importance of diversity and inclusion 2.2 Implementation • leveraging the bank’s data to understand the challenges, gaps and strengths for diversity and United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment inclusion at ME ME is a signatory to the United Nations Principles • building empathy for the challenges of for Responsible Investment. As a professional different interest groups and the barriers services partner signatory, ME acknowledges the they face to inclusion relevance of environmental, social and governance issues within the investment sector, including the • providing tools and training for leaders and protection of human rights. ME’s participation individuals to champion diversity and inclusion in in this initiative represents a commitment to their roles. providing and promoting services which support 3. Hire ME – ensuring that talent acquisition, selection the implementation of the principles by those and talent management processes are transparent within its business network, primarily its industry and equitable to foster an environment where superannuation fund shareholders. qualified candidates from a diverse range of backgrounds have the opportunity to apply and be Performance and Conduct at Work Policy considered for opportunities. ME’s Performance and Conduct at Work Policy 4. Support ME – working with all groups across ME combines the previous Dignity at Work Policy and to identify specific measures that can increase Misconduct Policy. Under its newly merged title, diversity and overcome barriers to inclusion. the policy gives the bank a framework to guide It also includes actively supporting employee its decisions, actions and approach in relation to affinity groups, including the two below that were unacceptable performance and/or behaviour at ME. established in the last 18 months: ME aims for a workplace free from unacceptable behaviour, such as misconduct, discrimination, sexual • ProudlyME – affinity group recognising and harassment, bullying and victimisation. In order to connecting LGBTIQ+ employees. ProudlyME achieve the objectives of this policy, ME has developed championed the ‘yes’ marriage equality vote in processes to manage performances and behaviour 2017 and have since grown to provide awareness where employees are not meeting expectations. and support for the bank’s LGBTIQ+ community. • Women at ME – affinity group supporting gender Diversity and inclusion diversity and connecting women. ME rolled out a new diversity and inclusion policy in 2018 centred on the four pillars to the right: UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2018 4 In June 2018, ME also started working with Talent ProudlyME has grown exponentially since its formation RISE, the philanthropic arm of global recruitment firm in late 2017 to provide awareness and support for the Talent which was founded in 2014 to help solve the bank’s LGBTIQA+ community. ProudlyME’s work in youth unemployment crisis. ME’s talent acquisition LGBTIQA+ advocacy and awareness has directly led to: team works closely with its service excellence team • the creation of a gender neutral field in the – where ME’s National Customer Contact Centre bank’s human resources management software (NCCC) sits – to identify appropriate opportunities for Workday, ‘I identify another way’, and removal of Talent RISE graduates. the salutation (Mr/Mrs/Ms etc) In addition to the formation of Women at ME, • the bank formalising its company-wide diversity the bank also started working with Work180 – a and inclusion policy and becoming a member of recruitment job board focused on promoting the Diversity Council of Australia opportunities for women – to boost its representation of women at all levels. Work180 requires employers • a Diversity Disco mixer held across business units to pass a pre-screen to see where they stand on pay to celebrate the launch of the company’s first equity, flexible working, paid parental leave, equal diversity and inclusion policy, which featured opportunities and a range of other criteria which are performances by two drag queens who are then made transparent to applicants via the Work180 employees within the bank – proving that ME’s website. ME began recruiting women via this channel LGBTIQA+ community feel like they can bring in August 2018. their full selves into work ME uses its employee engagement survey HowÜDoin? • a partnership between ME and Thorne Harbour to measure the broad reach and impact of its diversity Health (formerly Victorian AIDS Council) that saw and inclusion strategies and initiatives across the ME staff volunteering to prepare safe sex packs, organisation. sort and store volunteer t-shirts, and package AIDS awareness ribbons ahead of World AIDS The bank also uses quantitative turnover data coupled Day on 1 December 2018 with qualitative insights gained through exit surveys to monitor attrition trends across demographic factors • off-site peer meet-ups where employees can and ensure it understands the drivers of voluntary discreetly connect with a ProudlyME member turnover and take action if required. at the same place, same date and same time each month. ME regularly reports to the board, executive and external agencies on its continued progression in • an internal event called ‘Queer Ask Me Anything’ regard to pay parity in remuneration, promotions open to all ME employees who can ask LGBTIQA+ and rewards. It regularly reviews and reports female related questions on the bank’s social network site representation at management and board levels, • ME joining Pride in Diversity, an employer support which it publishes publicly via its Annual Review. program that will enable ME to participate in the annual Australian Workplace Equality Index, and Supply chain LGBTI Interbank Forum. ME works closely with a wide range of suppliers ProudlyME’s formation, purpose and budget were in the day-to-day operation of its business. In line unanimously supported by each executive in the with its commitment to corporate responsibility, it business. The network group continues to grow from chooses to partner with suppliers which demonstrate strength to strength as it increasingly spearheads a a considered approach to economic, social and greater number of diversity and inclusion initiatives environmental responsibility. within the bank and provides a safe, vibrant and When sourcing new suppliers, ME regularly close-knit community for the bank’s LGBTIQA+ assesses performance across a range of corporate employees. ProudlyME is a corporate finalist in the responsibility indicators. 2019 Australian LGBTI Awards, results of which will be announced in March 2019. 2.3 Measurement of outcomes During the reporting period, ME has complied with all its obligations under the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment. It has also complied with all Australian legislation relating to human rights protection. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2018 5 Labour Principles. 03. 3.1 Assessment, policy and goals ME also continues to actively listen to the needs of its employees through the annual HowÜDoin? employee ME is committed to upholding the principles of engagement survey. the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) core instruments in all its operations. As a wholly Health, Safety and Wellbeing Policy Australian-owned and operated company, ME complies with Australian laws and regulations relating ME employees, contractors and visitors expect and to labour rights. deserve a safe and healthy workplace. People are the focus of ME’s business and the wellbeing of all ME was the first Australian banking organisation workers – including employees, contractors and to enter into a formal partnership with a union students – is a non-negotiable. to work collaboratively to solve business issues. ME’s partnership with the Finance Sector Union ME is committed to providing and maintaining the (FSU), forged in 2011, recognises that management, safety and wellbeing of all its employees. To achieve employees and the union have a mutual interest in the this, it ensures its business and work practices are ongoing success of the business and use collaboration created and conducted safely, and that hazards to as an important means of achieving its business health, safety and wellbeing are either identified and objectives while improving employee satisfaction and removed, or minimised and controlled. engagement. The partnership is a more sophisticated The bank develops, implements and maintains its way to engage on business issues such as change, occupational health and safety management system, modernisation, productivity, and employment terms Keep ME Safe Management System, to comply with and conditions. It hinges on a shared understanding all current legal requirements. ME is committed to of, and works towards, agreed business objectives. establishing measurable objectives and targets to ME’s workplace agreement contains a range of ensure continued improvement of health and safety facilitative provisions – including recognition of the performance aimed at eliminating work-related injury role of union delegates as critical to building union and illness. capability. ME provides financial assistance towards ME communicates information and consults with an FSU membership or a professional association fee. and educates its employees on health, safety and Employees receive a contribution to a professional wellbeing matters in the workplace. membership to receive ongoing professional development, a contribution to an FSU membership ME actively supports the physical and mental health for support or training purposes, or a contribution and wellbeing of its employees through the provision to an association useful for the development of of a health and wellbeing program called Mindfully working relationships. ME, with a company-wide Wellbeing and Benefits Expo scheduled for February 2019. ME also actively participates in work-related and 3.2 Implementation non-work related return-to-work of injured employees and supports injury management and rehabilitation Remuneration Policy processes to achieve positive return-to-work outcomes. ME aims to provide rewards that attract, motivate and retain employees to fulfill ME’s core purpose of Employee Assistance Program helping all Australians get ahead and meet its overall ME offers an Employee Assistance Program (EAP) to objectives, while encouraging employees to act support employees and immediate family members responsibly within its risk appetite and risk framework. in dealing with issues at home or work. The EAP is a ME uses a range of different remuneration elements voluntary, professional and confidential counselling to effectively reward employees, which are described service. EAP counsellors are all experienced in the bank’s reward framework. Any variable pay and psychologists or social workers who have extensive performance-based components of remuneration training and experience in counselling and workplace are designed to encourage behaviour that supports consulting, and hold peak industry body accreditations. the bank’s long-term financial soundness and its risk management framework. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2018 6 Manager Assistance Program Supply chain ME offers a Manager Assistance Program (MAP) to When partnering with new suppliers, particularly identify, explore and help people leaders manage a those who conduct activities outside of Australia, ME range of issues through a solution-focused approach. asks them to demonstrate their approach to a range All Australian-based people managers at ME can of corporate responsibility indicators. discuss a wide range of issues – from employee behaviour to organisational development, in addition to accessing coaching, tools, psycho-education and 3.3 Measurement of outcomes other resources. Workplace profile Collective bargaining At the end of June 2018, ME had 1,167 permanent ME’s workplace agreement covers all ME employees employees and 140 contractors. The bank’s 12and provides the cornerstone for ME and its month rolling average workplace turnover for the employees to create a workplace culture in accordance year was 19.9%. with the bank’s commitments to labour rights. Work, health and safety ME worked closely with the FSU in negotiating its most recent ME Workplace Agreement, guided by A common health and safety benchmark is lost time its partnership principles and a shared commitment injury frequency rate (LTIFR) which measures the to common business objectives. All ME employees number of lost time injuries per million hours worked. had the opportunity to contribute to creating the ME’s LTIFR in FY18 was 1.19. agreement by submitting ideas and feedback. Following a successful employee vote, the ME Diversity metrics Workplace Agreement was approved by the Fair ME’s gender diversity profile and the number of Work Commission effective from 12 January 2018 with employees utilising parental leave in FY18 are shown a nominal expiry date of 30 June 2020. in the tables below. The agreement covers: • employment categories • hours of work GENDER DIVERSITY IN FY18* • job grading and remuneration Non-managerial employees Female 50% • performance development and reward Male 50% • leave Business leaders • workers’ compensation and make-up pay Female 34% • redundancy, redeployment and retrenchment Male 66% Executive (including CEO) • termination of employment Female 37% • workplace diversity and flexibility Male 63% • ME/FSU partnership Board (including Chairman) Female 43% • workplace change Male 57% • dispute resolution • work, health and safety UTILISATION OF PARENTAL LEAVE IN FY18* • training and development. Primary carer’s leave Female 23 Male 4 Secondary carer’s leave Female 8 Male 32 * From the 2017–18 public report form submitted by Members Equity Bank Limited to the Workplace Gender Equality Agency UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2018 7 Environmental Principles. 04. 4.1 Assessment, policy and goals 4.3 Measurement of outcomes ME is committed to upholding the principles of In FY18, ME produced 1,830 tonnes of greenhouse environmental stewardship. It understands that gas (GHG) emissions from its operations, including its environmental impact extends beyond its own electricity use in offices, vehicle fleet usage and operations to include the products and services that employee air travel – a decrease of nearly 10% from it provides and procures as well as the investment the previous year. decisions it makes. The largest source of GHG emissions for ME is In FY18, ME maintained its public position made in electricity use in its offices, which accounted for 63% FY17 to not invest in fossil fuels, coal mining, coal of the bank’s total emissions in FY18. In FY18, ME ports, coal power, gas power and liquid natural reduced its electricity usage by 37.7 tonnes carbon gas plants. dioxide equivalent (CO2-e) and vehicle fleet usage by 80.6 tonnes CO2-e. ME prefers to partner with suppliers who demonstrate a considered approach to economic, social and ME’s overall paper consumption dropped slightly environmental responsibility. The bank’s expectations from 18.8 tonnes in FY17 to 18.4 tonnes in FY18. of, and how it works with, its suppliers with regard This slight reduction is part of inroads the bank has to environmental management is outlined in ME’s made towards greater automation and technological Procurement Policy. efficiencies in the space of customer billing, customer onboarding and office equipment. 4.2 Implementation All the paper which ME uses carries the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC), and meets the Forest Stewardship Council’s (FSC) Resource reduction national carbon neutral certified offset standard as ME has measured the environmental impact of its well as the NoCo2’s carbon neutral accreditations. operations – its major impacts are in electricity use in More details about ME’s resource use over the past offices and paper use. ME has initiatives underway to year can be found in its 2018 Annual Review available reduce its consumption in these areas. at mebank.com.au ME’s head office in Melbourne, where the majority of its people are located, has a five-star ‘Green Star Supply chain – Office Interiors v1.1’ rating. The building that ME In FY18, ME again requested information on sits in has a five-star assisted NABERS Water Rating. all potential suppliers’ economic, social and The bank’s green-star accommodation has provided environmental impacts and incorporated this significant environmental benefits, including reduced information into its decision-making process when electricity consumption largely due to improved selecting suppliers. It also incorporated an assessment heating, cooling and lighting efficiencies. of the sustainability and environmental policies and performance of its existing business critical and Supply chain material suppliers as part of its regular due ME’s Procurement Policy details how the bank is diligence process. committed to understanding and managing the social and environmental impacts of its procurement activities. Suppliers are expected to adhere to a code of conduct whereby at a minimum, they comply with all relevant laws and regulations regarding corporate governance and ethnics, workplace health and safety, environmental management, employment practices, diversity and risk management. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2018 8 Anti-Corruption Principles. 05. 5.1 Assessment, policy and goals The board ME is committed to the protection of its employees ME’s directors have a duty to not place themselves and customers, and to maintaining the integrity of in a position which gives rise to a real or substantial the bank’s operations and reputation. To this end, it possibility of conflict of interest or duty in relation to has policies and systems in place to protect against any matter which is or is likely to be brought before corruption, fraud, crime or serious misconduct within the board. All directors are required to disclose any the organisation. actual, potential or perceived conflicts of interest prior to their appointment and on an ongoing basis. ME is committed to complying with all relevant Directors are required to keep these disclosures to the Australian legislation and codes to prevent corruption. board up-to-date through formal standing notices. ME complies with Australia’s Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing Act 2006. The bank’s Conflicts of Interest Policy, board disclosure of interests and handling conflicts of ME has a number of policies and procedures to interest procedures set out disclosure obligations and prevent instances of corruption and these are procedures to be followed by directors in the event of reviewed and updated every year. a conflict or a potential conflict of interest or duty. Code of Conduct 5.2 Implementation ME recognises the importance of being an inclusive Conflicts of Interest Policy employer and the value of a safe, fair and respectful workplace where there is no room for intolerance. The staff ME is a place where teamwork is valued and diversity The bank’s Conflicts of Interest Policy is responsible is celebrated. The bank is committed to embracing for ensuring the bank’s conflict of interest systems diversity and creating an environment where everyone and controls are appropriately designed and can reach their full potential across the organisation. effectively implemented across the bank’s ME has a Code of Conduct which provides an ethical management and employees. and legal framework for all directors, employees and As part of managing actual, perceived or potential contractors. The Code of Conduct sets out a number conflicts of interest, the Conflicts of Interest Policy of overarching principles of ethical behaviour set out also provides guidance for the acceptance, nonunder the following headings: acceptance and reporting of gifts and benefits by ME • Integrity employees. The policy is intended to reduce the actual or perceived risk that the acceptance of a gift or • Respect benefit might influence or appear to influence • Be Your Best an employee. • Live Our Values. Specific exclusions to this include the giving of gifts to employees from other employees or management Training about the Code of Conduct is part of the to mark occasions – such as birthdays, retirements, induction process for all new ME employees. It is also resignations, promotions and the celebrations of a requirement that ME employees complete annual successes – or token branded items such as pens, online refresher training about the Code of Conduct. golf balls or umbrellas. As a values-based organisation, ME believes in free This policy forms part of the ME Risk Management and open communication on even the most difficult of Framework and is applicable to all ME employees issues. ME’s values of Love Monday, Have a Swing, Ride and contractors. Breaches of its requirements will be the Subway, Stay Hungry and Go for the Moon – which subject to appropriate consequence management and were formulated in FY15 – allow for all employees outcomes of non-compliance may include disciplinary to feel confident that they may, in good faith, raise action, such as termination. concerns internally. The bank’s Code of Conduct provides a mechanism to enable employees to report actual or suspected misconduct or unlawful activity. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2018 9 ‘Speak Up’ Policy ‘Speak Up’ is ME’s whistleblower policy and operates in addition to the Code of Conduct. It supports all ME employees – both current and former, and including contractors, officers, suppliers, brokers and third parties – to raise concerns of suspected or actual misconduct or unlawful activity with the knowledge that retaliation will not be tolerated. This type of actual or suspected inappropriate conduct includes things such as corruption, bribery, abuse of authority, wilful breaching of legislation, questionable accounting or auditing practices, unsafe work practices and health risks, bullying and harassment, and wilful breaching of internal policies, among other things. The policy covers instances where the employee is reluctant to, or it would be inappropriate to, follow a standard notification process or if the person wishes to make the report anonymously. The processes within the policy aim to protect those who speak up by making sure that anyone who reports wrongdoing feels safe doing so, while at the same time, effectively investigating and managing concerns. 5.3 Measurement of outcomes In FY18, ME complied with both the Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Terrorism Financing Act and with the suspicious matter reporting requirements of the Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Centre. In the 2018 calendar year, ME also undertook 17 internal fraud investigations, but not all investigations were related to hardcore fraud or a monetary dollar loss. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2018 10 Brought to you by... 215852/0118
