Our Sustainable Journey 2018 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Sustainable Our Sustainable Our Sustainable Journey is Journey is Journey is IMPACTFUL MEANINGFUL SCALABLE 2,128 268,000 We have increased our energy-efficiency tons of waste volunteer hours target by almost diverted from landfills in 2018 by our employees in 2018 for such causes as Habitat for Humanity, Consulado da 50% compared to our Mulher and Care Counts 10-year average In This Report Approach..............................................................1 About This Report | CEO Message | Our People................................................ 39 People Strategy | Workforce Development | Our Approach to Sustainability | Diversity and Inclusion | Environmental, Our Commitments | Validating Our Strategy | Health and Safety | Global Supply Chain | Awards Community Relations ESG Performance Scorecard....................... 18 Governance.............................................. 60 Sustainable Plants......................................... 21 Board Oversight Board Composition Plant Strategy | Our Performance | Our Initiatives: 2018 Highlights Additional Financial Information............................................... 63 Sustainable Products............................... 30 Forward-Looking Statements | Market Risk | Product Strategy | Our Performance | Free Cash Flow | Ongoing Earnings Per Share Our Initiatives: 2018 Highlights GRI............................................................ 67 Approach In this section: • About This Report • Whirlpool At-A-Glance • CEO Message • Our Approach to Sustainability • Our Commitments • Validating Our Strategy • Awards Whirlpool Corporation is the world’s leading manufacturer of major home appliances* headquartered in Benton Harbor, Michigan, USA, with approximately $21 billion in annual sales, 92,000 employees and 65 manufacturing and technology research centers in 2018. The company markets Whirlpool, KitchenAid, Maytag, Consul, Brastemp, Amana, Bauknecht, JennAir, Indesit and other major brand names in nearly every country throughout the world. About This Report This report covers the 2018 operational year, inclusive from January 1 to December 31, for the Whirlpool Corporation home appliances operation, excluding the Embraco compressor business, which publishes its own sustainability report. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Option. The Whirlpool Corporation organizational profile and our previous annual sustainability reports can be found at whirlpoolcorp.com/environmental-sustainability/ For more information: media@whirlpool.com * Based on most recently available publicly reported annual revenues. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 2 APPROACH Whirlpool At-A-Glance OUR PERFORMANCE 6 BRANDS WITH $1 BILLION + IN SALES North America 54% Sales by 68 Million Europe, Middle East, Africa 22% Region Latin America 17% Asia 7% PRODUCTS SOLD 65 MANUFACTURING AND TECHNOLOGY Refrigerators RESEARCH CENTERS Sales by & Freezers 29% Product Laundry 28% 92,000 Category Cooking Appliances 19% Other 24% EMPLOYEES Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 3 APPROACH CEO Message from Marc Bitzer Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer A consistent focus on sustainability is part of Whirlpool Corporation’s heritage of innovative, efficient products and our long-term commitment to our communities. This work is guided by a clear sense of purpose to create value for all our stakeholders. It’s a commitment that is brought to life through the choices and investments we make in the safety and well-being of our employees, in the environmental efficiency of our products and our operations, and in our support for the communities we call home. Our experience and results prove sound corporate citizenship and environmental performance are good business. We know that a more sustainable Whirlpool Corporation is also a more competitive Whirlpool — an organization better positioned for long-term success. It starts with our product portfolio. In 2018, we continued to reduce the amount of water and energy used by our products. We also took more strides in our journey to reduce the amount of natural resources required in manufacturing our appliances by increasing the use of recycled materials. Making our product portfolio more efficient from an energy, water and resource perspective enables consumers to lessen their environmental impacts without compromising the innovation and performance Whirlpool products have long been recognized for. Throughout Whirlpool’s operations we have “ We know that a more sustainable Whirlpool accelerated our progress toward the goal of zero waste to landfill across the enterprise, with Corporation is also a more competitive manufacturing facilities in multiple regions already Whirlpool — an organization better achieving zero-waste status. We have strengthened positioned for long-term success. “ our commitment to renewable energy, and expanded our on-site wind generation by adding Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 4 APPROACH “ At Whirlpool, we believe there’s no right way to do a wrong thing. “ three turbines at our manufacturing facility in Greenville, Ohio. Among Fortune 500 companies, Whirlpool is one of the largest producers of on-site wind energy in the U.S. Our reliance on renewables will contribute to our goal of achieving an absolute reduction in GHG emissions of 30 percent, compared to 2005 levels. Successful and vibrant communities are the foundation of a great business. That’s why Whirlpool is committed to maintaining strong connections in our communities and being a leader in social responsibility and volunteerism. We’re focused on community needs like health and wellness, affordable housing, and youth development and education, and I’m pleased at the positive change we’re bringing about through collaboration with Habitat for Humanity International, United Way and Instituto Consulado da Mulher®. At Whirlpool, we believe in doing the right things the right way, because, “There’s no right way to do a wrong thing.” Doing the right thing compels us to embrace sustainability in all its dimensions, to remain focused on strengthening our environmental, social and economic performance across our organization, and to deliver positive results for all our stakeholders. That work continues, and we are pleased to share it with you in this year’s report. Marc Bitzer Chairman of the Board andChief Executive Officer Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 5 APPROACH Whirlpool Corporation’s commitment to sustainability began nearly half a century ago. Today we are accelerating our progress by delivering on our commitments to improve the environmental efficiency of plants and products while making a positive impact on people and the planet. Our sustainability agenda encompasses stakeholder engagement, executive accountability and science-based methodology to focus on actions that drive absolute and positive environmental and social impact. By embracing sustainability throughout our global organization, we’re demonstrating that sound corporate citizenship and environmental stewardship are also good business. Our Approach to Sustainability Guided by a strong sense of purpose, we are committed to taking action to address climate change and the current, unsustainable rate of resource depletion. By driving product efficiency, reducing GHG emissions and improving efficiency throughout operations and our supply chain, we can make a meaningful contribution in addressing these profound global environmental challenges. We recognize that this commitment must be embedded in our standard business practices everywhere we operate in order to achieve the necessary scale of response. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 6 APPROACH OUR PRODUCTS For generations, Whirlpool has produced high-performing, high-quality appliances that have freed millions of people from laborious tasks, enabling more time for family, friends and personal pursuits. Those social benefits are joined by environmental ones as well: offering products with dramatically reduced energy and water requirements that also increase capacity and improve performance. We are digitizing our products to create new levels of performance and efficiency and offer new services and innovations. Our work at the ReNEWW House, a world-class research laboratory and sustainable living showcase, explores improvements that go beyond the appliance itself. This research seeks to determine how appliances, other systems in the home, the consumer and the electrical grid can interact in ways that are much more energy and resource efficient. Our emphasis on resource efficiency has led us to develop Design for Environment tools to deliver more sustainable products that use more recycled content. These capabilities will help us fulfill our commitment to use 100 percent recycled content on major plastic components in our European products by 2025, as well as to use a majority of recycled-content steel. We are also increasing transparency by offering insight into all the substances of concern. A new full materials transparency system was piloted in 2018 and will go into full launch in 2019, beginning in our EMEA region. OUR PLANTS Whirlpool has always viewed the social and economic prosperity of communities in which we operate, and where our more than 90,000 employees live, as central to our success. We want each of our global facilities to be not only good neighbors to their nearby communities – we want them to be models of efficiency and environmental stewardship, and to be strong partners in addressing community needs. We are maximizing our renewable energy deployed on-site, which has, on average, doubled each year for the last three years in accordance with our goal. Going forward, that commitment will continue to grow, aligned with aggressive internal targets. After achieving our energy and water intensity goals three years early, we continue to focus on energy and water efficiency measures, which are now integrated in our new Whirlpool Production System, based on World Class Manufacturing (WCM) principles. In fact, we have also increased our energy-efficiency target by almost 50 percent compared to our 10-year average. Whirlpool is also committed to a zero-waste-to-landfill future, and eight of our global facilities have achieved zero-waste status. Additionally, we We have increased continue to make progress on our nonproduction facilities as well, having our energy-efficiency 14 of them at zero waste in 2018. From a social perspective, our partnerships target by almost with respected nonprofits such as Habitat for Humanity International are 50% compared to our addressing needs like affordable housing. Over the last two decades more than 100,000 families worldwide have benefited from our philanthropic and volunteer efforts on behalf of Habitat for Humanity programs. 10-year average OUR PRACTICES Integrating sustainability considerations into every aspect of how we design, source, manufacture, distribute, market and manage end-of-life for our products is a foremost objective for Whirlpool in 2019. We have restructured our approach to improve connections within our key internal teams, assigning executive owners for each of our six key initiatives in our plants, products and practices strategy. The aim is to not only continuously improve our process and execution, but also to invest in breakthrough performance. Whirlpool firmly believes sustainability is an avenue for continued growth, and we are determined to discover new ways to address the world’s pressing environmental challenges as we become a more efficient and effective organization. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 7 APPROACH WHIRLPOOL SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Sustainable Sustainable PLANTS PRODUCTS The infrastructure and businessHigh-performance goods and related activities by which we services that take less from deliver products efﬁciently the earth and are better for and responsibly people and the planet Sustainable PRACTICES The forward-looking processes, tools and expertise integrated into the Whirlpool business strategy Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 8 APPROACH OUR SCIENCE-BASED APPROACH 30 Percent Reduction in Emissions From Products and Operations by 2025 Against a 2005 Baseline After achieving our energyand water-intensity goals three years early, Whirlpool is working toward significant new science-based greenhouse gas emissions (GHG)-reduction goals. These targets aim to exceed the reduction targets of the original U.S. commitments to the Paris Accord. In addition to our absolute emissions target, we set new global and regionally specific targets to reduce the energy and water intensity of our operations. Significantly Reducing Emissions While Improving the Efficiency of our Products Scope 1 + 2 Plant Emissions Scope 3 Products in Use (metric tons of CO2eq in thousands) (lifetime metric tons of CO2eq in millions) 1,000 910 200 833 809 753 155.5 750 633 150 500 100 79.2 78.5 76.2 new target in progress 250 50 0 0 2005 2016 2017 2018 2025 2005 2016 2017 2018 2025 In 2017, after reaching our 2020 energy and water efficiency Whirlpool has developed a new Global Emissions Management reduction targets three years early, we set more ambitious goals System to determine our global footprint in all regions and models, related to GHG emissions in our operations and products: tying over 12 unique systems into one global reporting capability to By 2025, a 30 percent reduction in Scope 1 & 2 emissions improve transparency and accuracy. This system is able to track from our 2005 baseline. data from a baseline year of 2016 in a systematic way. The system uses energy and water label usage and consumer usage data to calculate lifetime product-in-use emissions. In 2019 we will be updating our goal using the Science Based Target initiative (SBTi) methodology, as our data shows we have improved over 50 percent from 2005 calculations. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 9 APPROACH Our Commitments Our commitments align with regional and global initiatives for sustainable development: • United Nations Global Compact (We are participating in Brazil, Argentina and Colombia) www.unglobalcompact.org/ • WEPs — Women’s Empowerment Principles (Brazil) www.empowerwomen.org/en/weps/about • GHG Protocol Program (Brazil) www.ghgprotocolbrasil.com.br/ • World Business Council for Sustainable Development (Global) www.wbcsd.org/ • Product Sustainability Roundtable (Europe) www.anthesisgroup.com/leadership-framework • Sodalitas and CSR Manager Network (Europe) www.sodalitas.it/ www.csrmanagernetwork.it/ • U.S. Chamber of Commerce Resource Efficiency Task Force Co-Chair (U.S.) www.uschamber.com/resource-efficiency-sustainability-task-force Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 10 APPROACH Validating Our Strategy Our sustainability strategy was guided by an external expert, using a multiple stakeholder sustainability materiality process that was completed in late 2016. This was followed by quarterly internal executive steering committee reviews on strategy and progress. The process included competitive benchmarking, stakeholder interviews and online surveys. The resulting matrix was finalized by a cross-functional team representing key internal stakeholders. We subsequently updated our Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) strategy with an ISO 26000 review undertaken in 2017. We plan to revise our sustainability materiality matrix in 2019 based upon additional engagement with stakeholders. The objectives of our sustainability materiality processes are two-fold: • Inform/validate sustainability • Provide the foundation for subsequent strategy, programs and initiatives sustainability reporting that will be prepared following the GRI Standards Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 11 APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY MATERIALITY MATRIX Compliance Product Quality and Safety Product Innovation Occupational Health and Safety Restricted, Controversial and Toxic Materials Customer Environmental Issues IMPORTANCE Energy Consumption End-of-Life Responsible Sourcing Community Investment Climate Change BUSINESS PERFORMANCE The use of “material” or “materiality” in this report is not related to or intended to convey matters or facts that could be deemed “material” under U.S. securities laws or similar requirements of other jurisdictions. Our materiality matrix is the result of a sustainability materiality assessment with internal and external stakeholders. They were asked to define their point of view in terms of key items to be considered, their interpretation of relative “importance” of those items to our company and their interpretation of our company’s relative “performance” for those items. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 12 APPROACH PROGRESS AGAINST SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES In 2018, we made significant progress to address our top 10 sustainability priorities. OUR PRODUCTS OUR PROGRESS Product Quality and Safety At Whirlpool Corporation, we believe in an unwavering commitment to product safety and quality. Our product safety system is one of the industry’s leading systems; the system includes a set of policies, procedures and guidelines to ensure safety is prioritized and designed throughout the entire product development process. All products must meet industry standards, be certified by a third party and meet Whirlpool product safety standards. Whirlpool also has in place a robust process for monitoring the field for potential safety hazards, conducting field safety investigations, performing analysis and reporting of potential safety hazards to safety authorities as required by statute. Our product quality system is being continually refined to ensure we achieve best-in-class quality. In 2018 and across all regions, Product Quality achieved even lower failure rates when compared to previous years, as a result of our focus on continuous improvement. Innovation With the changing competitive landscape, it is more important than ever to lead with innovative, leading-edge products that meet consumer needs. In 2018, our global platform approach allowed us to reduce complexity and leverage global scale in our innovation and product design. In 2018, Whirlpool’s innovation pipeline delivered approximately 100 new products largely focused on our kitchen and laundry portfolio. End of Life In 2018, in our EMEA operations, through industry-related collective thirdparty consortiums, at the products end-of-life, we collected over 280,000 metric tons of materials, that is equivalent to more than 4.6 million appliances being recycled. In the U.S., Whirlpool recycles appliances we receive as part of a haul-away service when we deliver products that are ordered through our employee product purchase program, Whirlpool Inside Pass. When new products are delivered to a consumer, the consumer has the option to have the delivery service haul away their old unit. We also recycle obsolete products. In 2018 in the U.S., the company collected and recycled over 230,000 major appliances. In our Latin America region (LAR), Whirlpool led the initiative to form ABREE — Association for Brazilian Recycling of Electrical and Electronic Appliances, an industry-funded organization that is working on policy for driving a national recycling program in Brazil. ABREE acts at a national level to establish an effective reverse logistics operation for the entire industry. Restricted, Controversial In 2018, we continued our efforts to track chemicals throughout our and Toxic Materials supply chain, progressing toward the global rollout of the product steward system. The third-party system is capable of collecting, assessing and documenting material composition to the chemical level for all materials and parts. A regional pilot in Europe concluded at the end of the year, and plans were finalized for the EMEA launch during Q1 2019. To learn more, go to page 38. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 13 APPROACH PROGRESS AGAINST SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES Responsible Sourcing We emphasized audits of top-tier suppliers with a specific focus on China suppliers in response to the China Air Pollution Action Plan, in which we accelerated our suppliers’ actions to reduce the amount of air, water and noise pollution. Whirlpool’s Supplier Code of Conduct formalizes the key principles under which suppliers to Whirlpool and our global subsidiaries operate. The principles in the Code, which was updated in 2018, describe Whirlpool’s expectation for its suppliers in regard to identified business practices. To learn more about our Supplier Code of Conduct, please go to page 51. Climate Change In 2017, we set absolute, science-based, carbon emission-reduction goals to achieve a 30 percent reduction by 2025 from 2005 levels. To improve transparency, we have developed a new global emissions management system to determine our global footprint in all regions and all models, unifying over 12 unique systems into one global reporting capability. This system is able to track data from a baseline year of 2016 data in a systematic way, greatly improving our ability to act strategically to lower the footprint of our product portfolio. We anticipate the significantly improved system will lead to potential improved science-based goal setting in 2019. As part of our new focused strategy and programs, Whirlpool has established a program dedicated to carbon management to drive improvements and opportunities in addressing climate change and current and future carbon regulations. OUR PLANTS OUR PROGRESS Environment, Health In 2018, Whirlpool implemented our first global EHS IT solution. This global and Safety (EHS) cloud-based software platform improves data management, enables easier tracking for regulatory compliance, better maintains a safe workplace through the monitoring of open actions and risks, and protects the health of employees and the public. Training, communication, data migration and project change management activities began in Q2 of 2018 and will be ongoing in 2019. The software was successfully implemented across all four regions, including all China sites, between October and December of 2018. Energy Conservation We advanced against our energy efficiency intensity targets internally and simultaneously decreased both plant emissions and costs. We now collect data on a monthly basis to drive improvements and we are also providing specific plant and regional dashboards to our regional and site EHS representatives. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 14 APPROACH PROGRESS AGAINST SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES OUR PEOPLE OUR PROGRESS Compliance In early 2019, Whirlpool Corporation launched its refreshed Code of Ethics (“Our Integrity Manual”). Our Integrity Manual was developed at the direction of our CEO and with input from every region and function, to be a practical, active leadership tool, focused on our “Right Way” guiding principles. This new Integrity Manual includes a set of 18 ethicaland values-based principles, focused on doing what is right for consumers, right for our people, right for our Company and doing business the “Right Way.” It is designed with specific examples and practical applications in order to guide day-to-day actions and behaviors. Additionally, it provides interactive tools on issues like ethical decision making, and detailed information as to how to find additional resources. The rollout of the new Integrity Manual began with a commitment session with the entire top global leadership of the Company. These sessions and training, along with other engagement activities will ramp up significantly throughout 2019. At the regional level, in Latin America we prioritized strengthening systematic communication with middle management and manufacturing employees, focusing on promoting the discussion over respect, diversity and safety in the workplace. Community Investment In 2018, Whirlpool Corporation continued to work with organizations to strategically create better communities and focus our collective resources to make the biggest impact. We worked with more than 1,000 organizations globally and our employees contributed 268,000 volunteer hours. Altogether, 1.6 million individuals benefited from Whirlpool Corporation contributions. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 15 APPROACH Awards GLOBAL World’s Most Admired Companies FORTUNE magazine (8th consecutive year) 2018 World’s Most Ethical Companies® The Ethisphere Institute Whirlpool Corporation was recognized by the Ethisphere Institute, a global leader in defining and advancing the standards of ethical business practices, as one of the 2018 World’s Most Ethical Companies. NORTH AMERICA REGION EPA SmartWay® Excellence Award, Shipper Category Digital Edge 50 Award – IDG’s CIO Three 2018 CES Innovation Awards Smart Home Category • Whirlpool Smart Appliances in Fingerprint Resistant Stainless Steel • Whirlpool Smart Over the Range Microwave with Scan-to-Cook Technology Software and Mobile Apps Category • Yummly 2.0 ingredient recognition and connected recipes LATIN AMERICA REGION — MEXICO Nuevo León, México, Whirlpool plants were recognized by PROFEPA (The Federal Attorney for Environmental Protection) for “Environmental Commitment,” as well as for being the “First Clean Industry Park” in Mexico. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 16 APPROACH EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, AFRICA Web Marketing Festival and Slovakia CSR Practice of the Year: Italy and Slovakia Moments Not to Be Wasted In 2018, Whirlpool EMEA won the Web Marketing Festival award in the category “Digital Food” for its Moments Not to Be Wasted project, the edutainment program within primary schools in Europe, aiming to raise awareness of the social and environmental value of food and the importance of not wasting it. The program also earned Slovakia’s CSR Practice of the Year, the nation’s most important CSR-related award. Biblioteca Bilancio Sociale: Italy Whirlpool EMEA was included among Biblioteca Bilancio Sociale’s top companies in Italy for Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability. Great Place to Work® Best Workplace: Italy, Spain and Portugal In three EMEA countries, Whirlpool was certified as a Best Workplace. Top Employer: Europe Whirlpool EMEA was awarded Top Employers Europe 2018 certification by the Top Employers Institute for its excellence in employee conditions. LATIN AMERICA REGION – BRAZIL Great Place to Work – GPTW Women In 2018, Whirlpool was recognized as one of the best companies for women to work. The award also highlighted the company in the Inclusion category. Exame Magazine Whirlpool was named one of the Most Sustainable Companies in the Electronics category and Best Company in the Sustainability Governance category. Exame award is one of the most recognized and respected awards for sustainability in Brazil. Expressão de Ecologia Award Whirlpool was honored in the Environmental Management category, recognizing initiatives related to WCM. LATIN AMERICA REGION – ARGENTINA Whirlpool received a special mention by CEADS (Consejo Empresario para el Desarrollo Sostenible) for the project “Reciclando Hogares Urbanos” (Recycling Urban Homes) with Habitat for Humanity. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 17 APPROACH ESG Performance Scorecard FINANCIAL SCORECARD* $21B $15.16 $853M in net sales, a decrease ongoing business free cash flow generation, of 0.3% excluding currency earnings per or 4.1% of net sales diluted share * See Additional Financial Information section at the end of this report for the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures. ENVIRONMENTAL SCORECARD > 96% < 3.5% < 0.5% of our waste goes of our waste goes of our waste goes to recycling to landfill to incineration Greenhouse Gas Energy Intensity Water Intensity Emissions Intensity (megajoules/product) (m3/product) Scope 1 & 2 (metric tons of CO2eq) 156.1 148.2 144.7 145.4 0.1049 0.0979 0.1016 0.0958 0.0154 0.0142 0.0139 0.0139 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 Waste Intensity Waste to Landﬁll Intensity (kg/product) (kg/product) 5.97 6.39 6.65 6.55 0.2809 0.2823 0.2685 0.2436 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 19 ESG PERFORMANCE SCORECARD SOCIAL SCORECARD 4,845 people directly and Whirlpool raised more than To date, Maytag brand has indirectly benefited by income $3 million for the United Way donated more than $7 million generated through the program, in 2018. to help enable young people and 485 small businesses were most in need to achieve great advised by Consulado da Mulher futures as productive, caring, responsible citizens Raised more than $10.7 million 104,000+ families directly Installed across 18 cities in since 2001 with Cook for the Cure® impacted around the world 87 schools Thousands of Whirlpool Over 85 percent of high-risk employees who volunteer with elementary school students Habitat for Humanity® annually increased their attendance $107 million – Value of during the program Whirlpool Corporation’s Nearly 40 percent of participating current commitment students were no longer at risk Almost 200,000 appliances for chronic absenteeism donated High-risk students attended nearly 10 more days of school during the program Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 20 ESG PERFORMANCE SCORECARD Sustainable Plants In this section: • Plant Strategy • Our Performance • Our Initiatives: 2018 Highlights Achieving excellence in manufacturing offers many benefits – better product quality, lower costs, safer workplaces and reduced waste, energy consumption and emissions. It creates an enterprise that is both more competitive and more environmentally responsible. As Whirlpool continues to strengthen our capabilities and performance in manufacturing, the environmental benefits are front and center of our decisions on capital investments, process improvements and how best to engage and train our employees. Plant Strategy The Whirlpool Production System (WPS) is our uniform Reducing the energy and water intensity of our operations global platform to drive manufacturing excellence and achieving zero waste to landfill at all our facilities throughout our 41 plants in four global regions. Today is a multiyear journey. As we pursue our goals, we will we are embedding world class manufacturing (WCM) continue to remain committed to renewables to help principles into our WPS (including the Environmental power our plants, to energy efficiency improvements and Energy Pillars) which calls upon us to identify and at every step of the manufacturing process, and to implement ways to conserve energy and water, as well best practices and improved technologies that reduce as reducing waste and emissions. emissions, conserve water and reduce waste. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 22 SUSTAINABLE PLANTS Our Performance OUR PLANTS: KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS In 2018, Whirlpool Corporation took significant strides to reduce our total energy consumption, our Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions and the amount of waste to landfill, while improving our water efficiency. This performance is the result of a wide range of sustainability and efficiency initiatives implemented across our operational footprint in every global region. Energy Consumption (Total energy in gigajoules) 8,809,544 8,694,868 9,000,000 8,426,585 8,060,536 8,000,000 7,000,000 2015 2016 2017 2018 Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 23 SUSTAINABLE PLANTS GHG Emissions (metric tons of CO2eq) 871,141 900,000 832,630 808,956 800,000 753,572 700,000 641,342 591,405 613,682 574,713 600,000 500,000 400,000 300,000 229,799 241,226 195,274 178,859 200,000 100,000 2015 2016 2017 2018 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 1 + 2 Materials and Wastes Total Waste Total Waste to Landﬁll (metric tons) (metric tons) 336,666 374,702 387,352 363,271 15,856 16,557 15,633 13,503 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total Hazardous Waste Total Nonhazardous Waste (metric tons) (metric tons) 5,853 5,073 5,332 7,877 330,814 369,629 382,021 356,169 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 24 SUSTAINABLE PLANTS Water Consumption Water (m3) 2015 2016 2017 2018 Municipal water 3,311,042 3,434,835 3,551,366 3,567,821 Groundwater 2,491,571 2,188,307 2,059,707 1,496,679 Surface water 83,058 91,648 280,240 222,192 Rainwater 35,495 26,233 22,326 22,464 Recycled water 201,880 203,494 164,376 164,717 Water Discharge Destination (m3) 2015 2016 2017 2018 Wastewater on-site chemical physical 1,006,161 946,399 1,003,784 999,861 treatment Wastewater on-site 547,438 252,287 290,927 291,320 biological treatment Wastewater off-site 2,076,284 1,809,129 1,844,708 1,888,074 treatment Wastewater land 39,633 0 0 0 application Wastewater surface water 471,661 523,648 496,855 500,636 Wastewater evaporation 215,968 116,846 97,783 131,001 Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 25 SUSTAINABLE PLANTS Our Initiatives: 2018 Highlights ENERGY AND RENEWABLES Whirlpool is a leader in deploying on-site renewable energy systems, and in 2018 that leadership continued to grow. At four of our North America manufacturing facilities, creates one $5,000 Megawatt Scholarship, which is wind turbines are installed to significantly reduce each awarded each year the turbine is in operation. The facility’s electric consumption from the grid. These scholarships are targeted to support local students highly efficient generation systems produce zero GHG as they pursue twoor four-year college degrees in emissions. Our newest installation is comprised of three STEM fields, preparing them for the technologies wind turbines at our Greenville, Ohio, manufacturing and industries of the future. facility, where they are expected to offset an estimated Manufacturing is inherently energy-intensive, and there 70 percent of the plant’s electricity consumption. That is are abundant opportunities to save energy and drive generation capacity equivalent to the electricity required efficiency by implementing new practices and better to power 1,200 residences. The Greenville project brings technologies. At our Manaus, Brazil, plant, the local Whirlpool Corporation’s total on-site renewable energy team identified a more energy-efficient alternative for program in the U.S. to nine wind turbines at four Ohio operating the biological water treatment facility. Converting plants: Findlay, Marion, Ottawa and Greenville, with total from a conventional motor to a new compressed air generation capacity equivalent to powering 3,500 homes. system reduced energy costs by 80 percent. At the We magnify the beneficial community impact of our same plant, replacing traditional forklifts with electric renewable fleet with an accompanying program to pallet lifters reduced costs and eliminated about 13 tons support STEM education. For each turbine, Whirlpool of CO2eq emissions annually. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 26 SUSTAINABLE PLANTS WCM: A DRIVER OF CONTINUED PROGRESS Whirlpool has been manufacturing products for 108 years, and continuous improvement has always contributed to our success. But underway today is a manufacturing renaissance – supported by the deployment of Whirlpool Production System (WPS), now embedded with WCM principles. It’s a great opportunity in our history that we have had a truly globally aligned manufacturing strategy that is being executed in precisely the same manner across all of our regions. The adoption of WCM is a multiyear journey – and we anticipate a host of benefits in safety, cost, quality, energy efficiency and environmental performance as this multidimensional, holistic production system takes hold across the enterprise. ENERGY WCM is built upon 10 managerial pillars and 10 technical Compressed Air), to provide similarly detailed energy pillars, one of which is Environment (which also includes consumption information with subsequent efficiency Energy). Identifying how energy is being used, and improvements. The project will also leverage these best where it can be saved, is fundamental to improved practices to the other plants Whirlpool has in Europe. operations. We’re adding energy monitoring equipment Plastic injection machinery – which uses heat to vacuum and submetering, down to the individual machine level, form plastic blanks for appliance interiors – presents a to provide a much more granular picture of energy major opportunity to reduce energy use and cost. Today usage throughout the workday. At our Joinville, Brazil, we are purchasing new process equipment with better facility, a Power Monitoring Expert energy control controls that can be up to 40 percent more energy system and an additional 100 energy meters have been efficient. We’re also taking measures to improve the installed, providing detailed data on manufacturing efficiency of legacy systems. In Brazil, WCM teams processes and reducing energy consumption by noticed that the plastics injection process was consuming 750,000 kWh per year. more energy than expected because of heat loss. Thermal At our five manufacturing facilities in Italy, we have blankets were applied to the injectors to conserve heat, deployed more than 400 energy meters for all energy and frequency inverters were added. Combined, these types (Electricity, Natural Gas, Thermal Energy and improvements save nearly 1 million kWh per year. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 27 SUSTAINABLE PLANTS WASTE At several global locations we have adopted a new, cost-effective way to manage our waste disposal and recyclable processing. Responsible waste management expands beyond our industrial sites as well. At our North America campus and Global Headquarters in Michigan, waste and recyclables are collected in separate bins that are in centrally located areas in our buildings – as a practice, we have been adopting and expanding to various locations. This reduced the resource consumption individual waste bins can create and encourages employees to reuse or recycle before tossing something away. At our plant in Rio Claro, Brazil, members of the facility’s On Whirlpool’s journey to zero waste to landfill, many environmental team hosted residents of the local small actions add up to big progress. Companywide we community for a presentation on waste management have now reached a recycling rate exceeding 96 percent, and how proper practices can help protect local water with our EMEA region leading the way, recycling more sources. More than 100 attendees participated and took than 97 percent of waste materials. Eight of our global part in planting native tree seedlings in a preserved area. manufacturing facilities have achieved zero-waste status, including three in EMEA, two in India and three These initiatives contribute to both cost savings and in Brazil. Among our nonmanufacturing facilities, a improved efficiency by generating more recyclables total of 14, including 13 in EMEA and one in Brazil, have and less waste to landfill. achieved zero-waste level. These improvements reflect not only robust waste diversion processes, but also increased awareness and sharing of information among Whirlpool employees. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 28 SUSTAINABLE PLANTS FACILITIES Constructing, managing and retrofitting our facilities to achieve a high level of environmental performance is an important way we continue to become a more energy-, wasteand waterefficient organization. In February 2018 we certified as LEED Silver our new 1.1 million squarefoot Whirlpool regional distribution center in New Kingston, Pennsylvania. The facility’s features include an HVAC system controlled by a fully automated building management system, as well as robust humidity and environmental control systems. LOGISTICS Ensuring that the more than 68 million products we manufacture and sell annually reach their destination in the most energyand environmentally efficient manner possible is the job of Whirlpool’s Integrated Supply Chain organization. In the U.S., their strong performance was again recognized in 2018 as they earned a fourth consecutive U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) SmartWay® Excellence Award. The EPA SmartWay program is dedicated to helping companies advance supply chain sustainability by tracking and improving clean, efficient freight transportation. The program recognizes just 1 percent of the EPA’s more than 3,700 top freight supply-chain partners. Whirlpool was one of only 12 shippers to receive the Excellence Award in 2018 and was recognized in the large shipper category, which represents companies that move products more than 500 million miles annually. Whirlpool requires its contracted carriers to be registered with SmartWay, with 99.58 percent of North American shipments moved annually by SmartWay carriers. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 29 SUSTAINABLE PLANTS Sustainable Products In this section: • Product Strategy • Our Performance • Our Initiatives: 2018 Highlights Product Strategy Across our global regions, Whirlpool leads with innovations that enable our products to operate with greater environmental efficiency. We are also focused on manufacturing our products in continuously more efficient ways, as well as restricting or eliminating harmful substances. Increasing the connectivity of our products to make them smarter allows consumers to control and monitor performance in ways that are more environmentally responsible. Features like adaptable use allow consumers to choose different modes and settings when operating the appliance — to reduce overall energy, water and detergent demand while increasing performance. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 31 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS Our Performance OUR PRODUCTS: KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 68.4 Million total units sold in 2018 Units by Region Product Categories as Percentage of Net Sales North America 27.7 Million Refrigerators & Freezers 29% EMEA 20.1 Million Laundry 28% Latin America 11.8 Million Cooking Appliances 19% Asia 8.8 Million Other 24% Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 32 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS Our Initiatives: 2018 Highlights ENERGY CONSUMPTION: PRODUCTS IN USE Whirlpool’s legacy of innovation in efficiency and in emerging markets where growth is toward larger performance has shown significant gains, driving a appliances. With that said, in our new Global Emissions nearly 50 percent reduction in emissions in the last Management System, our data now shows we have decade, while providing high-quality and high-performing exceeded our 30 percent reduction goals from 2005 products. We have driven these efficiency improvements levels, a recognition of the significant work and while improving capacity and innovative features and innovation we have driven in our products around the functions. However, as improvements in efficiency globe. As we work in 2019, we will analyze ways to set and regulation drive down our Scope 3 emissions in science-based absolute targets, to drive and integrate use, volume growth and consumer preference can them into our pipeline of innovation. impact absolute emissions reductions, particularly EXPANDING OUR COMMITMENT TO CIRCULAR ECONOMY An important way we’re making products more Whirlpool is working with our suppliers to ensure the sustainable is by increasing the quantity of recycled adoption of recycled material for 100 percent of major materials utilized in their manufacture, thereby reducing plastic components in our EMEA product portfolio, inputs of virgin natural resources. Whirlpool EMEA is including components of washing machines, refrigerators taking part in the European Commission’s voluntary and dishwashers. We will implement these changes pledge campaign to reduce plastic waste and increase over the next seven years. Our commitment will result the use of recycled plastics. in more than 44,000 tons of recycled plastic being used in our European products by 2025. The pledge includes The EU initiative is part of a broader plastics strategy the use of recycled polypropylene with mineral filler promoting a more circular economy and protecting and polystyrene, in compliance with RoHS and the environment from plastic pollution, while fostering REACH regulations. growth and innovation. The objective is to ensure that, by 2025, 10 million tons of recycled plastics find their way into new products in the EU. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 33 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS HERE TODAY: SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS THAT BREAK NEW GROUND The year 2018 saw the introduction of numerous products incorporating features that deliver greater environmental efficiency. Among them: Hotpoint Active Washing Machine In the EMEA region in 2018, Whirlpool’s laundry product which uses just the right amount of water and time for portfolio was enhanced by the introduction of the each wash. The model offers a wide range of cycles Hotpoint Active Washing Machine. Its innovative to make it easier for users to choose the way they want ActiveCare system includes Active Load technology, to care for their laundry. Features for time or resource savings are easy to select, thanks to dedicated buttons: for faster laundry, the Rapid option can reduce time by up to 50 percent, while the Eco option reduces energy consumption by up to 20 percent for better environmental performance. With this wealth of innovative technologies and availability of economical and powerful cycles, the new Active washing machine offers an excellent combination of superior cleaning and efficiency with an A+++ energy rating, the EU’s highest ranking for energy efficiency. Hotpoint 45cm Dishwasher Another new Whirlpool EMEA product that earned an A++ energy efficiency rating, the Hotpoint 45cm Dishwasher features ActiveEco technology. Its superior performance is made possible by an innovative system, which automatically opens the dishwasher’s door during the drying phase. It allows natural air to freely enter the machine for enhanced drying performance with minimal energy use. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 34 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS Brastemp Double Wash In the Latin America region, Brastemp now offers the only washer in Brazil with two independent baskets that can operate at the same time. The Brastemp Double Wash’s exclusive technology allows different fabrics and colors to be washed with different soaps, softener and water. And when there is not a full load of clothes to be laundered, the smaller basket can be used to save water. Zera Food Recycler Coming to consumers in the North America region, the Zera Food Recycler is a state-of-the-art kitchen appliance that turns today’s food waste into tomorrow’s fertilizer. The Zera system — developed by WLabs, Whirlpool Corporation’s innovation incubator — is the first indoor recycler in the United States that converts a week’s worth of food waste into ready-to-use homemade fertilizer in as little as 1 24 hours. The Zera food recycler brings purposeful innovation to consumer kitchens and aligns with the increasing demand for more environmentally driven solutions for the home. 1 Based on estimated 3.5 kg household food waste for average U.S. family. Additive required and sold separately. Hotpoint Active Quattro Consul Split Air Freezer with Conditioners Active Defrosting Another Whirlpool brand serving Brazilian This addition to our EMEA cooling consumers, Consul introduced a new air offering provides maximum efficiency conditioning product line that has two for consistent freezer performance with main features: the Maxi Refrigeração energy savings. Thanks to innovative chills the environment two times faster, sensor technology, the freezer’s highly and Maxi Economia improves heat effective adaptive defrosting function is exchange efficiency, saving 5 percent activated only when necessary, thereby more energy when compared to similar ensuring reduced energy requirements. products in the marketplace. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 35 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS COLLABORATIVE RESEARCH TO DRIVE INNOVATION To continue to drive innovation and environmental efficiency, Whirlpool invests in “out-of-the-box” thinking through initiatives that seek to explore and redefine the role our products can play in living more sustainably. ReNEWW House: Purdue University On the campus of Purdue University in West Lafayette, Indiana, ReNEWW house continues to develop both our talent and innovation pipeline, driving ecosystem development across our products and the home. The house is a live-in research laboratory for exciting new ideas on how consumers, their homes, systems, appliances and the grid can all work together to operate in a more environmentally responsible fashion. ReStart4Smart Project: Solar Decathlon Middle East 2018 In EMEA, Whirlpool and other partners collaborated in the ReStart4Smart project developed by La Sapienza University in Rome to compete in the Solar Decathlon Middle East 2018. Held in Dubai in the United Arab Emirates, the project’s goal was to create the best “Solar House” prototype. Whirlpool leveraged our latest innovations in design and home automation. The kitchen and laundry rooms in the house of the future were furnished with Whirlpool technologies, and the suite of home appliances was equipped with 6TH SENSE LIVE technology that redefines the way people interact with their household appliances, making it simple, enjoyable and energy efficient. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 36 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS CRITICAL MATERIALS It’s an approach that arms our engineers and designers with robust data to influence sustainable, healthy and MANAGEMENT comprehensive design and decision-making from the At Whirlpool Corporation, we recognize that our products very beginning of the design process. live in two high-traffic spaces of the home — the kitchen A regional pilot of the online tool concluded at the end and the laundry room. For this reason, it is vital that we of 2018, and plans were finalized for an EMEA launch ensure neither our products nor our manufacturing in Q1 2019. plants introduce harmful substances to our employees, our consumers or our planet. Our global Critical Materials Management (CMM) team coordinates and monitors the Whirlpool Restricted LIFE MATHER FOR Material’s List, assessing and mapping the list contents STRONGER COMPLIANCE within our manufacturing plants and supply base. Suppliers are requested to adhere to our Restricted Compliance applications and global compliance Material List and report on banned, restricted and programs can be costly. Last year the CMM team monitored substances of concern. The Restricted was the recipient of a Life Environment and Resource Material List is woven into supplier contracts and part Efficiency grant in partnership with National Technical approval processes and is updated annually to reflect University of Athens and T2i, an Italian nonprofit new legislation and customer requirements. agency. The grant funds support the Full Material Disclosure program and Compliance System rollout in Whirlpool’s European facilities. This project, called LIFE MATHER, began in July 2017 and will run through 2020. A NEW ONLINE TOOL DRIVES PROGRESS The LIFE MATHER project explores the link between the compliance system and a life cycle analysis (LCA) tool In 2018, we advanced efforts to track chemicals outputting environmental and health impact targets, throughout our complex supply chain, working demonstrating how chemical monitoring data can drive toward the global rollout of an integrated online tool for proactive compliance. The design phase, identification exchanging, processing, mapping and storing chemical of users and technical requirements are now complete. composition data. The global inventory drives our The MATHER data management tool will be tested and dematerialization efforts, alternative material sourcing validated involving various Whirlpool products in the plans, and chemical and material phase-out strategies. EMEA rollout, which began Q1 2019. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 37 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS LOOKING AHEAD As we continue to strengthen our CMM processes and capabilities, we are mindful of two considerations: 1 2 Our mission extends well beyond the collection of Our global supply base are our collaborators in this material composition data — using that data to make process, and we need to work together to identify and better and safer design decisions. replace chemicals and materials of concern. We are proud to be working toward a goal of 100 percent knowledge of chemicals and materials of concern. We will continue to raise the bar on disclosure requirements by requesting full material disclosure from 100 percent of our global suppliers by 2020. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 38 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS Our People In this section: • People Strategy • Workforce Development • Diversity and Inclusion • Environment, Health and Safety • Global Supply Chain • Community Relations Attracting a diverse and talented workforce, engaging them in rewarding work, protecting their health and safety and investing in their success are fundamental priorities at Whirlpool. People Strategy We’ve become industry leaders by attracting, always been Whirlpool’s greatest asset and remain developing and retaining talented employees who our ultimate differentiator. As we unleash individual and believe in improving lives and making a difference. collective talents within a winning culture, employees Our global team reflects our diverse consumer base, feel empowered to do their best work. That, in turn, and our gender representation outpaces industry strengthens our competitiveness and positions benchmarks.* It’s our belief that people have Whirlpool for long-term, sustainable success. * Industry benchmark is from Women in the Workplace study: Aggregate results from Industry Benchmark (12 companies in Automotive and Industrial Manufacturing industry) Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 40 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS OUR PEOPLE 2018 WORKFORCE DEMOGRAPHICS Global Employees by Gender 39% 61% 91,870 35,890 55,980 Total Total Females Total Males Employees EMEA NAR 34% 66% 38% 62% 8,145 15,686 7,952 13,115 Total: 23,831 Total: 21,067 LAR 39% 61% Asia 11,257 17,784 Total: 29,041 48% 52% 8,536 9,395 Total: 17,931 Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 41 PRODUCTS OUR SUSTAINABLE PEOPLE 2018 WORKFORCE DEMOGRAPHICS Global Employees by Gender and Job Category Blue Collar White Collar Overall Male 64% Male 55% Male 61% Female 36% Female 45% Female 39% Employees by Minority and Job Category — U.S. Only Blue Collar White Collar Overall Nonminority 76% Nonminority 76% Nonminority 76% Minority 23% Minority 19% Minority 22% Undeclared 1% Undeclared 5% Undeclared 2% Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 42 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS OUR PEOPLE Workforce Development INVESTING IN SUCCESS At Whirlpool we believe that all our employees need high-quality tools and training to do their best work. We provide a wide variety of flexible learning opportunities around the globe to enable our employees to develop and grow in their careers, and to prepare them to pursue new opportunities and take on additional responsibility. Our employees have access to Whirlpool University, categories: business performance, strategic/project our resource for professional development and building impact, organization and talent, and my leadership and best-in-class knowledge and skills. It provides access values. To drive results, formal reviews at midyear and to instructor-led and self-led courses and learning year-end are supplemented with continuous coaching content aligned with Whirlpool’s strategic imperatives. and feedback from people leaders and cross-functional It is designed to create robust and personalized learning partners. Our approximately 20,000 global white collar plans for our employees. employees participate in Every Day Performance Excellence. Performance management processes for Whirlpool’s performance management process, our blue collar workforce vary by geography, and they Every Day Performance Excellence, focuses on both incorporate various manufacturing plant metrics for the “what” and the “how” of performance. Employees performance measurement. create objectives in each of four performance Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 43 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS OUR PEOPLE Our approach to diversity and inclusion is straightforward: we value all people, regardless of gender, race, ethnicity, nationality, age, sexual orientation, religious beliefs, physical ability or any other visible or invisible disability. In fact, it is these differences, and our unique backgrounds and experiences, that provide the diversity of thought, great ideas and innovation needed to grow our business. That is why we strive to create an inclusive culture that celebrates and values diversity and maximizes the difference it can make for our employees, our consumers and our communities. Diversity and Inclusion SETTING A HIGHER STANDARD FOR GENDER EQUALITY In 2018 Whirlpool Corporation CEO Marc Bitzer made an organizational and personal commitment to the Catalyst® CEO Champions for Change. This new pledge is a public commitment to increase Whirlpool Corporation’s female representation in executive and senior-level positions. It will help ensure accelerated inclusion of women, including women of color, in senior roles during the next five years. ERGs: EXPANDING THEIR VITAL ROLE Valuing our differences allows everyone to contribute to their fullest potential. Our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) are essential to attracting, engaging and retaining a diverse workforce and creating an inclusive workplace. Originating at our North American and Global headquarters in Michigan, Whirlpool’s eight ERGs are quickly expanding around the globe. They include: • The Whirlpool Asian Community: Cultivates Asian culture and infuses its vast benefits into our business and communities. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 44 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS OUR PEOPLE • Awareness of Visible and Invisible Disabilities (AVID): The AVID Employee Resource Group is dedicated to providing Whirlpool professionals and consumers with disabilities opportunities to reach their full potential. • The FOCUS Network: This African-American network is working hard to build a culture of excellence within our local community and our overall corporation through professional development, coaching and advancement. • Hispanic & Latino Network: Members come together to share work experiences, provide career development opportunities for members and support local communities. • Pride Network: Whirlpool has become known as a great workplace for LGBT employees. Our in-house Pride Network aligns our values of Integrity, Respect, Diversity and Inclusion, Teamwork and a Spirit of Winning. • Whirlpool Veterans Association: Recruits, trains and retains veteran talent and involves their families. • The Whirlpool Women’s Network: Empowers and engages women at all levels within our corporation and community to ensure that all voices are heard. Activities like Coffee Chats, sponsorship programs and career compass workshops provide exposure to leadership and promotes career success. • Young Professionals Network: People of all ages join the YP! to achieve extraordinary results within their career and community. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 45 PRODUCTS OUR SUSTAINABLE PEOPLE EARNING RECOGNITION AS AN INCLUSIVE ORGANIZATION Whirlpool has earned recognition from well-respected organizations for our leadership in diversity and inclusion. We have attained a perfect score from the Human Rights Campaign’s U.S. Corporate Equality Index for 15 consecutive years. NOTEWORTHY Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 46 PRODUCTS OUR SUSTAINABLE PEOPLE Environment, Health and Safety At Whirlpool we believe it is not acceptable to put an individual or our environment at risk. We continue to fortify an organizational culture that integrates occupational health and safety through a focused emphasis on: • A zero-risk mindset that recognizes unsafe conditions and unsafe acts; • Operational discipline in the management of health and safety in our plants and offices; and • Our belief that people are the center of our business. In 2018 we took significant strides to strengthen our EHS analysis process that provides a standard framework processes and performance, including the deployment for assessing risk at all global locations and a common of our first global EHS IT solution. We also revamped our global language concerning occupational risk; as well EHS and Sustainability policy, a revision that was signed as a global cloud-based software solution to manage by our CEO, Marc Bitzer. the EHS work effectively, improve regulatory compliance, maintain a safe workplace and protect the health of The implementation of WCM methodology across employees, contractors and the public. The new cloudour global sites has enabled increased focus and based platform vastly reduces manual processes. It accountability for safe workplace practices. WCM also enhances our ability to go beyond compliance to methodology leverages the involvement of all employees achieve increased EHS&S performance and, ultimately, to continuously improve environment, health and safety transformative change. performance. As our sites have progressed in their level of WCM maturity, we have seen a significant improvement in employee involvement in EHS management, a reduction in the number of incidents, unsafe acts and unsafe conditions, and a marked improvement in the quality of risk assessments in our model areas. To strengthen our commitment to Environmental, Health, Safety & Sustainability (EHS&S) excellence, global standardization and a proactive safety culture, in 2018 the EHS&S team delivered several global procedures and a global data management system. Enhancements included an updated global procedure that establishes the minimum requirements for locking and tagging out energy sources to protect individuals from injury; a risk Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 47 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS OUR PEOPLE Total Environmental Protection Expenditures Health and Safety KPIs and Environmental KPIs Environmental Protection Expenditures (U.S.$ in millions) Recordable Case Rate .93 .89 34.9 31.5 28.0 .71 .72 23.2 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 67% Lost-time Incident Rate Sites ISO 14001 certified (% total) .26 .26 .18 .21 67% 2015 2016 2017 2018 Sites ISO 18001 certified (% total) U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration accidents reported x 200,000 hours/total hours worked 9% Sites ISO 50001 certified (% total) Environmental Protection Expenditures do not include remediation costs Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 48 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS OUR PEOPLE Global Supply Chain The Whirlpool Corporation Supplier Code of Conduct (“Code”) establishes the key principles under which suppliers to Whirlpool Corporation and our global subsidiaries are required to operate. The Code, (available at www.WhirlpoolCorp.com/supplier-code-of-conduct) is aligned with our values and is strongly supported by senior management. Whirlpool’s Supplier Code of Conduct is not optional — and export laws, and inclusion of the Ethics Hotline, it is a requirement for suppliers doing business with available when suppliers do not wish to utilize standard Whirlpool. We seek business relationships with communication channels to report concerns. reputable business partners who are committed to The Code is designed to help measure and control ethical standards and business practices compatible business risk. Scheduled audits allow Whirlpool to with our own. We strongly encourage suppliers to exceed measure the number and severity of noncompliant the requirements of this Code and promote best events by supplier. In 2018 the scope of our audit practices and continuous improvement throughout program was expanded in China with a specific focus on their operations. environmental management and compliance, to be in In 2018 we refreshed the Code to expand its requirements. step with China’s increased attention to environmental Included among the changes was an expansion and matters. Some 136 of these new environmental audits retitling of the Human Trafficking and Forced Labor were performed during 2018, and the program was section, an expansion of the Corruption section to include coupled with a training program to educate China the U.K. Bribery Act, a new International Purchases suppliers and their employees on issues of air, water section to specify compliance with all customs, trade and waste pollution. Our environmental audits will continue in China in 2019. Audits Performed by Region Year NAR EMEA LAR ASIA-N ASIA-S Total 2016 17 10 31 114 12 184 2017 21 9 19 116 12 177 2018 27 21 14 70+136* 9 277 * 2018 specific environmental audits conducted in our suppliers located in China. During the year, two audit reports achieved 100 percent compliance. Of the noncompliant audits, 70 percent of the proposed corrective action plans have been addressed. The remaining 30 percent noncompliant audits are ongoing with specific action plans conducted by the suppliers with Whirlpool’s support. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 49 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS OUR PEOPLE Community Relations Whirlpool Corporation is proud to be a part of the communities in which we do business. At the very core of our Culture of Responsibility is the recognition our company and volunteer efforts should be in constant pursuit, even if in a small way, to help improve the lives of others so they may fully pursue their own dreams and passions. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 50 PRODUCTS OUR SUSTAINABLE PEOPLE A CULTURE OF RESPONSIBILITY Our holistic approach is to assist organizations that strive to improve the basic human need of health and wellness for citizens and community alike. Individuals with access to the health and wellness support they need are best able to invest in themselves to be a part of a growing community. Once the foundation of meeting the needs for health and wellness is firmly in place, we focus on safe and affordable housing for everyone and not just a few. Housing creates a safe environment conducive to learning that results in young people with better tools to succeed and the ability to become a vital part of a community that gives back. This chain of caring creates stable neighborhoods that offer the employment and quality of life amenities that are the bedrock of inclusive and thriving communities. We are committed to maintaining strong, lasting connections in these communities. We share in the responsibility of working with partner organizations to focus on the unique needs that fall within our Collective Impact Model to best create individual growth and shared opportunities that are at the very core of good communities. GLOBAL HEALTH & WELLNESS HOUSING COLLECTIVE • Cook For The Cure • Habitat for Humanity IMPACT • Pope’s Laundry • Homes for our Troops U.S. Project, EMEA • International Red Cross focused • Fresh Thinking for areas of Forgotten Food EMEA THRIVING COMMUNITIES giving • Moments not to be • United Way U.S. Wasted EMEA • Disaster Relief • Harbor Shores Working with community project, U.S. organizations to EDUCATION • PlasticLess EMEA strategically • Local Public Education • Instituto Consulado create better • First Robotics da Mulher LAR communities • Boys & Girls Clubs • EMEA Community Day and focus of America our collective • Lego UK resources. • Care Counts Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 51 PRODUCTS OUR SUSTAINABLE PEOPLE HEALTH & WELLNESS Cook for the Cure® A partnership between KitchenAid and the Susan G. Komen Foundation, Cook for the Cure® provides an avenue for KitchenAid consumers to raise funds and awareness in the fight against breast cancer. Pink products, celebrity chef auctions and homebased fundraising events have helped KitchenAid leverage the passion of our consumers and Moments Not to Be Wasted raise more than $10.7 million over Moments Not to Be Wasted is the Whirlpool EMEA edutainment project the past 15 years. designed to raise awareness of the problem of food waste and the need for responsible and informed consumption. In 2018 we launched the second edition of the program involving more than 900 schools and 640,000 students, teachers and families in Italy, Poland and Slovakia. The initiative is centered in primary schools. We provide a dedicated educational kit that includes guidelines and materials designed to stimulate students’ creativity and get them thinking about antiwaste action. Schools “virtuously” compete in an educational contest by presenting photos, videos and drawings of their best ideas. In conjunction with the initiative, Whirlpool EMEA also made a donation to ActionAid to support projects combating hunger, poverty and social inequality worldwide. Fresh Thinking for Forgotten Food In 2018 Hotpoint in EMEA launched the Fresh Thinking the home. Featuring British chef and restaurateur for Forgotten Food campaign to encourage better food Jamie Oliver, the Fresh Thinking campaign employs habits. In Europe 88 million tons of food goes to waste advertising, social media engagement and live events each year — and more than half of that waste occurs in to demonstrate how individuals and communities can take action to reduce food waste. Techniques include turning ‘forgotten’ food into delicious dishes, as well as making simple changes throughout the daily food journey, from purchase to prepping, preservation and recycling. As part of the campaign Hotpoint launched the Fresh Thinking Café in London, serving delicious dishes inspired by the most commonly wasted foods in European households. All proceeds are donated to FoodCycle, a charity fighting food waste, food poverty and loneliness. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 52 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS OUR PEOPLE HOUSING Habitat for Humanity® Whirlpool supports the work of Habitat for Humanity In August 2018, Whirlpool provided approximately around the world through product donations, financial 75 volunteers, as well as financial support, for the Habitat contributions and volunteerism. During our more than for Humanity International Jimmy & Rosalynn Carter 19 years of partnership with Habitat, Whirlpool has Work Project held in Mishawaka, Indiana. The project, developed active programs in more than 45 countries, just a few miles from our Benton Harbor, Michigan, with total cash and in-kind donations totaling more global headquarters, built nearly 30 homes in a single than $107 million. In the United States and Canada, the week. In advance of the project, Whirlpool hosted a company has donated more than 197,300 ranges and celebratory dinner to welcome home the families who refrigerators to new Habitat homes serving more than would soon be moving into the houses under construction. 104,000 families. Additionally, Whirlpool has donated In the Latin America region, Whirlpool Argentina supports more than 42,000 products to Habitat ReStore retail Habitat for Humanity International’s Recycling Urban outlets. We have engaged thousands of employee Homes Project, which addresses the needs of families volunteers, sponsored nearly 190 homes and donated living in extreme poverty in the inner city of Buenos products to more than 76,000 Habitat families in Europe, Aires. Many of these families are headed by women, Middle East and Africa. including immigrants from neighboring countries and the poorer provinces of Argentina, and are unable to rent because of a lack of viable housing options. The Habitat project rehabilitates abandoned buildings into affordable apartments that match the city’s urban fabric. The buildings are purchased and developed with a mix of loans and grants. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 53 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS OUR PEOPLE EDUCATION Boys & Girls Clubs of America Nearly a decade ago Maytag brand began to team up with Boys & Girls Clubs of America as part of a commitment to youth and communities. The partnership recognizes and promotes the values of dependability among youth served in Clubs through the creation of the Maytag Dependable Leader Awards. The program supports the Clubs in their work of helping young people succeed for life. To date, Maytag brand has donated more than $7 million to help enable young people who are in the greatest need achieve great futures as productive, caring, responsible citizens. First® Robotics At our global headquarters, Whirlpool Corporation is a proud sponsor of FIRST® Robotics, providing local teams with challenge grants, materials and supplies, including Gladiator GarageWorks tool chests. Our employees spend thousands of volunteer hours coaching and mentoring high school youth to encourage their interest in science, technology, engineering and math, as well as careers in manufacturing. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 54 PRODUCTS OUR SUSTAINABLE PEOPLE Care Counts Program For too many children, a lack of access to clean clothing can be a significant barrier to school attendance and, ultimately, their educational achievement. Often, teachers and school administrators step forward to help students by laundering and purchasing clothing for them. In 2016 Whirlpool brand launched an initiative to address this complex issue. The concept for the Whirlpool Care Counts program is to reduce excessive absenteeism by installing washers and dryers in select schools in underserved areas in the United States. Administrators and teachers washed laundry for children in need. The initial pilot found a strong correlation between laundry usage and student attendance rates. In fact, the most at-risk participants in the Care Counts program averaged almost two more weeks of school attendance than in their previous year, and attendance improved for more than 90 percent of participants. Based on the positive results of the initial program, Whirlpool brand expanded the program into additional school districts in 2017 and 2018. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 55 PRODUCTS OUR SUSTAINABLE PEOPLE THRIVING COMMUNITIES Instituto Consulado da Mulher In 2002, Brazil’s Consul brand founded the Instituto Consulado da Mulher to improve and empower the lives of socially vulnerable women in Brazil. The program leverages our global presence to help eradicate poverty and promote gender equality. Our reach and resources are used to support small business cooperatives designed to develop the entrepreneurial and employment skills of low-income women, while also providing their families with a steady income. To date, more than 35,000 women have benefited from the program. In 2018 we directly or indirectly assisted 4,845 people. To address the substantial migration of refugees to the city of Manaus, Consulado da Mulher and the United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) jointly conducted the first round of talks on the theme “Principles of Entrepreneurship” in May 2018. The discussion was attended by 20 women, with the objective to spotlight the role female entrepreneurship can play in the labor market. Subsequently a 12-month project is being developed in which Consulado da Mulher is assisting five refugees who are already producing food products and selling in the streets of Manaus. They are being trained on principles of financial management, how to access the Brazilian market and how to align with local customer preferences, as well as receiving seed capital to invest in their business. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 56 PRODUCTS OUR SUSTAINABLE PEOPLE #PlasticLess and a New Plastic-Free Commitment During 2018 Whirlpool EMEA joined #PlasticLess, an ambitious project to reduce marine plastic pollution promoted by LifeGate, the main platform for sustainability issues in Italy. Ocean plastic waste represents an emergency: 731 tons of plastic waste are dumped into the Mediterranean every day, an amount which could double by 2025. The project aims to collect plastic waste from Italian seas using innovative devices installed in the waters of ports and marinas. The program also promotes a circular economy model designed to reduce, reuse and recycle waste. Whirlpool EMEA has purchased and installed in Italian ports our first two Seabins — innovative devices designed to collect plastic from ocean waters. The Seabins work around the clock, 365 days a year, to collect over 500 kilograms of waste annually. The devices capture material ranging in size from plastic bottles to microplastics measuring only 2 millimeters in diameter to microfibers so small they are invisible to the naked eye. Our commitment to reducing plastic pollution goes farther: in 2018 when we went plastic-free in our EMEA headquarters and Portugal office, removing any form of single-use plastic. We evaluated alternative solutions that are more eco-efficient, such as biodegradable plastics like polylactic acid (PLA) and pulp, as well as durable materials. New, enhanced water dispensers help us prevent over 3,000 kilograms of waste production and about 5,000 kilograms of CO2eq emissions every year. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 57 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS OUR PEOPLE United Way Partnering With Instituto Alcoa Whirlpool partners with United Way across the U.S. to In 2018 Instituto Consulado da Mulher established fund hundreds of organizations and causes within our a partnership with Instituto Alcoa, the largest mining communities that focus on education, income, health company in Brazil, which donated $100,000 to support and basic needs. Our current and retired employees local teams in São Luis do Maranhão to implement a participate every year in raising funds for local United program with local “nano” entrepreneurs. São Luis, Way campaigns in their respective locations. The located in northeastern Brazil, in 2016 was the state Whirlpool Foundation offers a dollar-for-dollar match with the largest number of residents in extreme poverty. on contributions made to these campaigns. In 2018 To date the project has benefited more than 60 entrethe campaign raised more than $3 million and provided preneurs from rural areas, building capacity to manage hundreds of volunteers who seek to change lives and their businesses. The top 10 entrepreneurs will also strengthen communities through service, collaboration have access to investment to improve their enterprises. and impact. EMEA Community Day In 2018 Whirlpool EMEA organized the first-ever EMEA Community Day to take volunteerism to a whole new level. More than 500 employees from 10 countries in EMEA, (Belgium, UAE, France, Italy, Morocco, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Spain and the U.K.), dedicated a working day to support the communities where we operate. More than 4,000 hours of volunteer time were contributed to more than 25 local nonprofit organizations to support activities such as providing food assistance, supporting the disabled and engaging with children and the elderly. As part of their volunteer actions, Whirlpool employees cleaned houses and rooms, collected and packed food, played with children and helped older people with their daily activities. Waste Diversion in Brazil As part of the renovation of our plant in São Paulo, Brazil, in 2018 we partnered with AAPAIS, an Environment Pact and Social Inclusion Association, to dispose of old furniture in an environmentally responsible manner. Whirlpool donated more than 850 items, including cabinets, tables, chairs, roof tiles, sofas and appliances. AAPAIS organized a craft workshop to refurbish and reuse most of the items, creating new furniture to sell and raise money for their programs. More than 20,000 Brazilian Reals ($5,270 USD) was raised by this initiative. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 58 SUSTAINABLE OURPRODUCTS PEOPLE Hershey’s and Gerando Falcões Gerando Falcões is a nongovernmental organization created to provide professional training to people in the most vulnerable areas of São Paulo State, in Brazil. In 2018 Consulado da Mulher partnered with Gerando Falcões and Hershey’s brand to build and equip a kitchen where 20 men and women from the city of Poá would be trained in cooking and food preparation using chocolate. Of those participating, 12 decided to create a business, selling the products they learned how to prepare during the program. Consulado da Mulher worked with each new business owner to guide them on product pricing, managing their finances and how Univille to market their products. Univille is the leading university in Joinville, home to Whirlpool’s largest manufacturing site in Brazil. Consulado da Mulher was invited by the university’s design professors to participate in a project where each student would “adopt” a nano entrepreneur to help develop their branding and product packaging. Third-year students spent an entire semester getting to know the entrepreneur and their business. The project has benefitted 25 women, who have been able to market their businesses in a more professional and successful way. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 59 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS OUR PEOPLE Governance In this section: • Board Oversight • Board Composition Board Oversight Whirlpool Corporation is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance. Whirlpool’s Board of Directors is comprised of twelve independent directors and one employee director, who is Marc Bitzer, our Chief Executive Officer. Each Board committee is comprised solely of independent directors who meet the independence standards under the NYSE listing standards. Director Attendance Risk Management During 2018, our Board met seven times and had four Our Board is responsible for overseeing Whirlpool’s risk committees — Audit, Human Resources, Corporate management. The Board focuses on Whirlpool’s general Governance and Nominating, and Finance. Each director risk management strategy and the most significant attended at least 75 percent of the total number of risks facing Whirlpool, including cybersecurity risk, meetings of the Board and the Board committees on and ensures that appropriate risk mitigation policies which he or she served. and procedures are implemented by management. Whirlpool’s management is responsible for day-to-day risk management. Board Leadership On January 1, 2019, Mr. Bitzer became Chairman of the Board. Our Board believes that our Board Governance Highlights leadership structure, with a unified Chairman and Whirlpool’s other corporate governance features include CEO and independent Presiding Director, is optimal for annual director elections, majority voting in director Whirlpool because it demonstrates to our employees, elections, proxy access, shareholder engagement, a suppliers, customers, and other stakeholders that global code of business conduct and ethics that applies Whirlpool is under strong leadership, with a single to all employees, officers and directors, and annual person setting the tone and having primary responsibility evaluations by the Board of the effectiveness of the for managing our operations. Our independent Board and its committees. Presiding Director presides at executive sessions of the non-employee directors and serves as a focal point for managing stockholder communications with the independent directors. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 61 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS OUR PEOPLE Board Composition The Board, with the assistance of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, selects potential new Board members using specific criteria. We believe it is valuable to have directors with varying lengths of service to strike the right balance between renewal and continuity. The introduction of three new independent directors in the past three years has brought fresh perspectives to our Board. The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee leads the Board’s annual self-evaluation process and regularly reviews the relevant skill sets for director candidates. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines provide for retirement at age 72. Currently, the average tenure of independent directors is 8.6 years. We believe that our current practices properly provide for Board refreshment. Board Diversity and Experience of Independent Directors Female Racial/Ethnic Worked Outside Current or Minorities the U.S. Former CEOs 2 | 17% 4 | 33% 7 | 58% 9 | 75% Board Tenure of Independent Directors 4 3 0-4 Years 5-8 Years 9 Years or More 5 Our Board of Directors reflects an effective mix of business expertise, company knowledge and diverse perspectives. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 62 SUSTAINABLE OURPRODUCTS PEOPLE Additional Financial Information In this section: • Forward-Looking Statements • Free Cash Flow • Ongoing Earnings Per Diluted Share FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Certain statements contained in this report, and other written and oral statements made from time to time by us or on our behalf do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and may contain forward-looking statements that reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. As such, they are considered “forward-looking statements” which provide current expectations or forecasts of future events. Such statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as “may,” “could,” “will,” “should,” “possible,” “plan,” “predict,” “forecast,” “potential,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “believe,” “may impact,” “on track,” and similar words or expressions. Our forward-looking statements generally relate to our growth strategies, financial results, product development, and sales efforts. These forward-looking statements should be considered with the understanding that such statements involve a variety of risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, and may be affected by inaccurate assumptions. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual results may vary materially. This document contains forward-looking statements about Whirlpool Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries (“Whirlpool”) that speak only as of this date. Whirlpool disclaims any obligation to update these statements. Forward-looking statements in this document may include, but are not limited to, statements regarding expected earnings per share, cash flow, productivity and raw material prices. Many risks, contingencies and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from Whirlpool’s forward-looking statements. Among these factors are: (1) intense competition in the home appliance industry reflecting the impact of both new and established global competitors, including Asian and European manufacturers, and the impact of the changing retail environment; (2) Whirlpool’s ability to maintain or increase sales to significant trade customers and the ability of these trade customers to maintain or increase market share; (3) Whirlpool’s ability to maintain its reputation and brand image; (4) the ability of Whirlpool to achieve its business plans, productivity improvements, and cost control objectives, and to leverage its global operating platform, and accelerate the rate of innovation; (5) Whirlpool’s ability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights; (6) acquisition and investment-related risks, including risks associated with our past acquisitions, and risks associated with our increased presence in emerging markets; (7) risks related to our international operations, including changes in foreign regulations, regulatory compliance and disruptions arising from political, legal and economic instability; (8) information technology system failures, data security breaches, network disruptions, and cybersecurity attacks; (9) product liability and product recall costs; (10) the ability of suppliers of critical parts, components and manufacturing equipment to deliver sufficient quantities to Whirlpool in a timely and cost-effective manner; (11) our ability to attract, develop and retain executives and other qualified employees; (12) the impact of labor relations; (13) fluctuations in the cost of key materials (including steel, resins, copper and aluminum) and components and the ability of Whirlpool to offset cost increases; (14) Whirlpool’s ability to manage foreign currency fluctuations; (15) impacts from goodwill impairment and related charges; (16) triggering events or circumstances impacting the carrying value of our long-lived assets; (17) inventory and other asset risk; (18) the uncertain global economy and changes in economic conditions which affect demand for our products; (19) health care cost trends, regulatory changes and variations between results and estimates that could increase future Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 64 SUSTAINABLE ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION PRODUCTS funding obligations for pension and postretirement benefit plans; (20) litigation, tax, and legal compliance risk and costs, especially if materially different from the amount we expect to incur or have accrued for, and any disruptions caused by the same; (21) the effects and costs of governmental investigations or related actions by third parties; and (22) changes in the legal and regulatory environment including environmental, health and safety regulations, and taxes and tariffs. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, and investors are advised to review disclosures in our filings with the SEC. It is not possible to foresee or identify all factors that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historic results. Therefore, investors should not consider the foregoing factors to be an exhaustive statement of all risks, uncertainties, or factors that could potentially cause actual results to differ from forward-looking statements. Free Cash Flow As defined by the company, free cash flow is cash provided by (used in) operating activities after capital expenditures, proceeds from the sale of assets and businesses and changes in restricted cash. The reconciliation provided below reconciles twelve months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 free cash flow with cash provided by (used in) operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. Free cash flow as a percentage of net sales is calculated by dividing free cash flow by net sales. FREE CASH FLOW (FCF) RECONCILIATION Twelve Months Ended December 31, In millions 2017 2018 Cash provided by operating activities $1,264 $1,229 Capital expenditures (684) (590) Proceeds from sale of assets and businesses 61 160 Change in restricted cash(1) 66 54 Free cash flow $ 707 $ 853 (1) For additional information regarding restricted cash, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the Whirlpool 2018 Annual Report 10k. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 65 SUSTAINABLE ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION PRODUCTS Ongoing Earnings Per Diluted Share The reconciliation provided below reconciles the non-GAAP financial measure of ongoing earnings per diluted share with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, net earnings per diluted share available to Whirlpool, for the twelve months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017. The earnings per diluted share GAAP measure and ongoing business measure are presented net of tax, while each adjustment is presented on a pre-tax basis. The aggregate income tax impact of the taxable components of each adjustment is presented in the income tax impact line item at our 2018 and 2017 and full-year tax rates of 6.6% and 14.7%, respectively. EARNINGS PER DILUTED SHARE Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2017 2018 Reported measure $ 4.70 $ (2.72) Restructuring expense 3.70 3.68 Out-of-period adjustment 0.27 France antitrust settlement 1.53 Impairment of goodwill and intangibles 11.11 Trade customer insolvency 0.45 Divestiture related transition costs 0.32 Income tax impact (0.56) (0.29) Normalized tax rate adjustment 5.63 1.25 Share adjustment (0.17) Ongoing measure $13.74 $15.16 Ongoing measure $13.6 For more information on the adjustments and additional reconciliations of non-GAAP measures, such as free cash flow and ongoing earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, see page 32 of the 2018 Form 10-K, or the document titled “GAAP Reconciliations” at: Investors.WhirlpoolCorp.com/financial-information/annual-reports. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 66 INFORMATION SUSTAINABLE ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL PRODUCTS UNSDGs & GRI Standards Index Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 67 GRI STANDARDS INDEX UNSDGs How Whirlpool aligns with the UNSDGs At Whirlpool, we are actively working toward achieving six of the 17 U.N. Sustainable Development Goals, which will ensure a better and sustainable future for all. The global goals give us a framework for operating transparently; creating a culture of and respect and dignity; and harnessing innovation to build efficient products that respect our planetary boundaries. The goals that drive us are those most material to our operations as a manufacturer and full details on our progress can be found in the table below. U.N. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS LEARN MORE: By leveraging philanthropy, volunteerism, in-kind donations and Community Relations, pages 50-59 ongoing partnerships with respected nonprofits, Whirlpool and its employees are committed to improving the communities we call home. There are pressing social and environmental challenges in every community where Whirlpool has a presence – and we possess the scale and capacity to make a difference. Our approach to diversity and inclusion is straightforward: we Diversity and Inclusion, page 40-46 value all people, regardless of gender, race, ethnicity, nationality, Community Relations, pages 50-59 age, sexual orientation, religious beliefs, physical ability, or any other visible or invisible diversity. We have committed to increase Whirlpool Corporation’s female representation in executive and senior level positions Engaging our talented workforce in rewarding work, protecting their Environment, Health and Safety, pages 47-48 health and safety and investing in their success are fundamental Global Supply Chain, page 49 priorities at Whirlpool. We are harnessing innovation to create products that operate Sustainable Products, pages 34-38 more efficiently, while minimizing or eliminiating the use of harmful substances to make them. Smart features will further allow consumers to reduce resource demand while increasing performance. Manufacturing is inherently energy and emissions-intensive. We have Our Commitments, page 10 set ambitious science-based targets and are serious about pursuing Sustainable Plants, pages 22-29 opportunities to reduce emissions by implementing new practices and better technologies. Sustainable Products, pages 33-38 Our recently updated Integrity Manual encapuslates the Whirlpool Sustainability Priorities, page 14 Code of Ethics. It provides a foundation for our Global Compliance Global Supply Chain, page 49 Program going forward and will promote ethical decision-making at all levels of Whirlpool. We are committed to creating a transparent supply chain free of human rights violations including forced labor and child labor. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 68 UNSDGs & GRI STANDARDS INDEX GRI Standards Index with only key indicators for our business Disclosure Number Disclosure Title Response GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization Whirlpool Corporation 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services About This Report, pages 2-3 2018 Form 10-K, pages 3-5 No Whirlpool products have been banned in any of the markets that we serve. 102-3 Location of headquarters 2000 North M-63, Benton Harbor, Michigan 102-4 Location of operations About This Report, pages 2-3 102-5 Ownership and legal form Whirlpool is a publicly traded company, listed on the Chicago Stock Exchange and New York Stock Exchange 102-6 Markets served About This Report, pages 2-3 2018 Form, 10-K page 7 102-7 Scale of the organization About This Report, pages 2-3 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 2018 Workforce Demographics, pages 41-42 102-9 Supply chain Global Supply Chain, page 49 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its About This Report, page 2 supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Our Approach to Sustainability, page 6 Environment, Health and Safety, page 47 102-12 External initiatives Our Commitments, page 10 102-13 Membership of associations Our Commitments, page 10 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO Message, pages 4-5 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Validating Our Strategy, pages 11-15 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 2018 Proxy Statement, page 2 Whirlpool Integrity Manual 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Whirlpool Integrity Manual 2018 Progress Against Sustainability Priorities, page 15 Global Supply Chain, page 49 2018 Proxy Statement, page 15 Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 69 UNSDGs & GRI STANDARDS INDEX Disclosure Number Disclosure Title Response Governance 102-18 Governance structure Governance, pages 61-62 2018 Proxy Statement, pages 11-13 Validating Our Strategy, page 11 102-19 Delegating authority Validating Our Strategy, page 11 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, Validating Our Strategy, page 11 environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, Validating Our Strategy, page 11 environmental, and social topics 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance Validating Our Strategy, page 11 body’s performance 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in Validating Our Strategy, page 11 sustainability reporting Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Our customers, our employees, our suppliers, our investors, our communities. 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 2018 Form 10-K, page 14 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Validating Our Strategy, pages 11-12 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Validating Our Strategy, pages 11-12 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Validating Our Strategy, pages 13-15 Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial 2018 Form 10-K, Exhibit 21 List of Subsidiaries statements About This Report, page 2 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Validating Our Strategy, pages 11-12 102-47 List of material topics Validating Our Strategy, page 12 102-48 Restatements of information About This Report, page 2 102-49 Changes in reporting There have been no major changes. 102-50 Reporting period Fiscal year 2018 102-51 Date of most recent report 2017 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About This Report, page 2 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards with the GRI Standards Core option 102-55 GRI content index 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report > GRI (page 67) 102-56 External assurance None Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 70 UNSDGs & GRI STANDARDS INDEX Disclosure Number Disclosure Title Response GRI 200: ECONOMIC GRI 201: Economic Performance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Our Approach to Sustainability, pages 6-10 103-2 The management approach and its components Our Approach to Sustainability, pages 6-10 Our Science-Based Approach, page 6-10 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our Approach to Sustainability, pages 6-10 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and Our Approach to Sustainability, pages 6-10 opportunities due to climate change GRI 202: Market Presence 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Validating Our Strategy, pages 11-15 103-2 The management approach and its components Validating Our Strategy, pages 11-12 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our Approach to Sustainability, pages 6-10 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender Whirlpool’s compensation philosophy supports the business strategy by compared to local minimum wage attracting, motivating and retaining top talent by being market competitive, aligning rewards to both individual and company performance, and remaining flexible to support changing business needs. The ratio of the standard entry-level hourly wage to local minimum wage varies from location to location around the world. This variation is necessary to comply with local market conditions and with wage minimums in countries or municipalities that set the minimums. Whirlpool complies with local minimum wage laws in each jurisdiction in which we operate. Whirlpool does not vary entry-level compensation by gender. GRI 205: Anti-corruption 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary We execute a comprehensive, annual management enterprise risk questionnaire through our ERM and Internal Audit functions that assesses all enterprise risk. In addition, we have a global compliance team that includes people accountable for compliance sitting in every region. Part of the responsibilities of our global compliance team is to continually, proactively identify and assess risk, including corruption risk. 103-2 The management approach and its components 2018 Progress Against Sustainability Priorities, page 15 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2018 Progress Against Sustainability Priorities, page 15 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption We provide training on anti-corruption as part of our global, multi-year, policies and procedures multi-faceted training program. All employees at a manager level and above, including our executive committee members, have received anticorruption training through our electronic compliance training program in the past two years. In addition, all employees at a manager level and above, including our executive committee members, execute an annual certification regarding our Code of Ethics and Global Compliance Policies, including our Anti-Corruption Policy. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken We had zero confirmed incidents of corruption in 2018. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 71 UNSDGs & GRI STANDARDS INDEX Disclosure Number Disclosure Title Response GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL GRI 301: Materials 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2018 Highlights: Waste, page 28 Critical Materials Management, pages 37-38 103-2 The management approach and its components 2018 Highlights: Waste, page 28 Critical Materials Management, pages 37-38 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2018 Highlights: Waste, page 28 Critical Materials Management, pages 37-38 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Environmental Scorecard, page 19 301-2 Recycled input materials used Environmental Scorecard, page 19 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 2018 Progress Against Sustainability Priorities, page 13 GRI 302: Energy 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Validating Our Strategy, pages 11-15 103-2 The management approach and its components Our Initiatives: 2018 Highlights, pages 26-27, 33-37 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Plant Strategy, page 22 Product Strategy, page 31 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Our Performance, page 23 302-3 Energy intensity Key Performance Indicators, pages 19, 23-25 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Our Performance, page 23 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products Energy and Renewables, pages 26-27, 34-36 and services GRI 303: Water and Effluents 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Validating our Strategy, pages 11-15 103-2 The management approach and its components Plant Strategy, page 22 Product Strategy, page 31 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Water, pages 35-36 303-3 Water withdrawal Our Performance, page 25 303-4 Water discharge Our Performance, page 25 GRI 305: Emissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Our Science-Based Approach, page 9 2018 Progress Against Sustainability Priorities, page 14 103-2 The management approach and its components 2018 Progress Against Sustainability Priorities, page 14 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2018 Progress Against Sustainability Priorities, page 14 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Our Performance, page 24 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Our Performance, page 24 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Our Science-Based Approach, page 9 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Key Performance Indicators, pages 19, 33 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Our Performance, pages 9, 24 Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 72 UNSDGs & GRI STANDARDS INDEX Disclosure Number Disclosure Title Response GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Waste and Water, page 28 Progress Against Sustainability Priorities, page 13 103-2 The management approach and its components Progress Against Sustainability Priorities, page 13 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Progress Against Sustainability Priorities, page 13 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Our Performance, page 25 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Our Performance, page 24 306-3 Significant spills No significant spills recorded GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Progress Against Sustainability Priorities, pages 13-14 Critical Materials Management, page 37 103-2 The management approach and its components Progress Against Sustainability Priorities, pages 13-14 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Progress Against Sustainability Priorities, pages 13-14 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions regulations Environment, Health and Safety, pages 47-48 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Progress Against Sustainability Priorities, page 14 Global Supply Chain, page 49 103-2 The management approach and its components Global Supply Chain, page 49 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Global Supply Chain, page 49 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using Global Supply Chain, page 49 environmental criteria 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply Global Supply Chain, page 49 chain and actions taken Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 73 UNSDGs & GRI STANDARDS INDEX Disclosure Number Disclosure Title Response GRI 400: SOCIAL GRI 401: Employment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary People Strategy, page 40 103-2 The management approach and its components People Strategy, page 40 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People Strategy, page 40 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are Our benefits and rewards programs are market competitive, equitable, not provided to temporary or part-time employees and tailored to the unique needs of our employees in each region/ market, common components typically include: Physical Health: Whirlpool is committed to taking care of you – the whole of you. And your family, too. We provide health centers with both medical and wellness services at many of our facilities. We offer incentives and rewards for making healthy lifestyle choices. And, where applicable, we provide your choice of health plans, so you can choose the best fit for you. Financial Health: We want to make sure you and your family are taken care of now and in the future. That’s why we offer a retirement program and insurance options that will ensure you and your family are protected, regardless of what life throws at you (country specific). You can tailor these benefits to your individual needs. Time Off: We understand the importance of time off to relax, to be with family and friends, to heal or help a loved one heal, or time to bond with a new family member. Globally, we offer a variety of time off policies that are region or country specific. We believe in striving for balance in life and our time off work policies support that. Discount and Other Perks: We love our products at Whirlpool Corporation; our employee discounts ensure that all employees and their families can love them as well! We also offer a variety of other perks throughout our locations that support our employees. GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary The ratio of the standard entry-level hourly wage to local minimum 103-2 The management approach and its components wage varies from location to location around the world. This variation is necessary to comply with local market conditions and with wage 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach minimums in countries or municipalities that set the minimums. Whirlpool does not vary entry-level compensation by gender. 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding In locations where collective bargaining exists, copies of agreements operational changes are shared with employees and government entities as appropriate. GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Environment, Health and Safety, page 47 103-2 The management approach and its components Environment, Health and Safety, page 47 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environment, Health and Safety, page 47 403-9 Work-related injuries Environment, Health and Safety, page 48 Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 74 UNSDGs & GRI STANDARDS INDEX Disclosure Number Disclosure Title Response GRI 404: Training and Education 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Workforce Development, page 43 103-2 The management approach and its components Workforce Development, page 43 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Workforce Development, page 43 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and Workforce Development, page 43 transition assistance programs GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Workforce Development, page 44-46 103-2 The management approach and its components Workforce Development, page 44-46 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Workforce Development, page 44-46 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2018 Progress Against Sustainability Priorities, page 15 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective Whirlpool Corporation does not tolerate discrimination, harassment or any actions taken disrespectful behavior in the workplace. Whirlpool’s Global Compliance Policy on Diversity, Equal Opportunity and Respect in the Workplace requires all employees to be provided an environment of mutual respect that is free from any form of harassment or discrimination. Employees are encouraged to speak with their manager, Human Resources, Compliance or other member of the Law Department, or use the ethics hotline (“Integrity Line”) to report incidents of discrimination, harassment or disrespectful behavior. In the event employees wish to remain anonymous, they may do so through the Integrity Line (unless otherwise prohibited by law). All reports are taken seriously to determine whether an investigation is necessary. If so, an investigation will be led by Human Resources or Compliance or other department, as appropriate. Once the investigation is concluded, remediation plans will be communicated and implemented, as necessary and appropriate. Whirlpool Corporation also has a strict policy against retaliation of any kind. Employees are encouraged to speak with their manager, Human Resources, Compliance or other member of the Law Department, or use the ethics hotline if they have any retaliation concerns. GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Workforce Development, page 43 Global Supply Chain, page 49 103-2 The management approach and its components Workforce Development, page 43 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Workforce Development, page 43 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to Whirlpool Corporation respects the rights of its employees to associate freedom of association and collective bargaining with whom they choose. We respect the right of employees to join or may be at risk not join an independent trade union and will bargain in good faith with these associations when they are properly elected. Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 75 UNSDGs & GRI STANDARDS INDEX Disclosure Number Disclosure Title Response GRI 408: Child Labor 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Global Supply Chain, page 49 103-2 The management approach and its components Global Supply Chain, page 49 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Global Supply Chain, page 49 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Global Supply Chain, page 49 incidents of child labor GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Global Supply Chain, page 49 103-2 The management approach and its components Global Supply Chain, page 49 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Global Supply Chain, page 49 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Global Supply Chain, page 49 incidents of forced or compulsory labor GRI 413: Local Communities 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Community Relations, pages 50-51 103-2 The management approach and its components Community Relations, pages 50-51 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Community Relations, pages 50-51 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, Community Relations, page 56-59 impact assessments, and development programs GRI 415: Public Policy 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary https://www.whirlpoolcorp.com/us-political-contributions/ 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 415-1 Political contributions https://www.whirlpoolcorp.com/us-political-contributions Whirlpool Corporation | 2018 Corporate Sustainability Report 76 UNSDGs & GRI STANDARDS INDEX
