UNGC 2018/19 Marcura’s Commitment to The United Nations’ Global Compact UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2018/19: CSR at Marcura Copyright © 2019 The Marcura Group 1 UNGC 2018/19 CEO’s Review CEO’s Review Dear Reader, satisfied to have eliminated this problem both hours and fuel waste. At the same it our ethical duty to help the industry in 99% of instances that we manage. time, early customer reports tell us that our continue to evolve in this direction. We have tools save them hundreds of thousands organised an initiative with the Maritime Our employees’ 38 nationalities and our of dollars per year. Maritime experts have Anti-Corruption Network (MACN) to help widespread global locations continue been hard at work for decades to reduce build that awareness in the industry, and to to strengthen our Group and help us fuel waste at sea. We are hopeful that our strengthen the anti-corruption tools available. uphold the promotion of diversity. technologies will bring similar improvements. Marcura are serving the interaction between In support of the environment, we are In terms of compliance and anti-corruption, principals and their counterparties. We proud to be taking steps toward helping Marcura have in recent years become believe that it is our solemn obligation to the maritime industry reduce fuel active with leaders working to improve safeguard the integrity of this space. For 2018-2019, The Marcura Group are consumption in port. While our commitment the industry globally. In the past year, pleased to continue the practice of to independence precludes us from ever As in past years, I find gratification in for example, we have launched Marcura providing an annual UNGC Communication owning or operating vessels, we consider discovering ways that the UNGC Principles Compliance as a Service (MCaaS) as a on Progress Report which our largest it our obligation to help our customers find continue to energise our diverse group of core customer offering. For our DA-Desk subsidiary, DA-Desk, established in 2012. ways to support UNGC environmental goals. employees, and to invigorate our culture. customers, we continue to offer enhanced For that reason, our Report again takes Seafarers caught our attention in the One of our emerging innovations offers compliance services for all transactions the somewhat unusual step of highlighting human rights area this year. Transacting insight into how our information technology and parties entered in the system. For employee-driven involvement in both as we do across multiple currencies, time tools can help support our environmental customers choosing our PortsDirect our Dubai and Mumbai locations. zones, languages and banking systems, the goals. We know that shipowners’ and services, we offer access to suppliers premaritime world faces countless obstacles society’s interests dovetail in ports: both vetted through highly transparent selection On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to submit in paying and receiving salaries on time to want to cut fuel usage. Shipowners want to systems that operate well-shielded from to the UNGC the 2018-2019 Communication ocean-going crew and their families. Despite minimise time and fuel spent in port. Society bribery and inappropriate incentives. on Progress Report for The Marcura Group. the best intentions and efforts of shipping wants to reduce pollution near population Of course, general legal and maritime centres—many of which surround ports. employers, 6% of crew payments are stalled awareness around anti-corruption has Jens Lorens Poulsen because of cross-border transaction-related By introducing our industry’s first real-time, not yet reached a level that demands issues. This has caused great suffering to granular views into port operations at the Group CEO scrupulous, multi-layered checks and seafarers and their far-away families over contract, planning and execution stages of verifications. Nonetheless—and particularly the years. Through our maritime financial each sea voyage, we help charterers, owners, operating as we do the world’s largest services arm, MarTrust, we are deeply masters and agents collaborate to reduce port payments processor—we consider Copyright © 2019 The Marcura Group 2 UNGC 2018/19 About The Marcura Group About this Report About The Marcura Group We at The Marcura Group are pleased Policies, Practical Actions The Marcura Group provides the processes across all stakeholders—not only to present our fourth Communication on and Outcomes maritime industry with 24/7 operational for processes and process improvements, Progress Report. From June 2018 to May support services and specialised but also for the digital journey on which 2019, our Group companies and employees The following pages provide an overview cloud-based platforms managed by we accompany the industry. Due to the have continually sought to enhance our of how we apply practical actions, industry specialists. We work closely strength of our loyal customers, we have posture in adhering to the Ten Principles planned projects and initiatives based with our global customers and partners the industrial scale to make available more of the UNGC, in its four main pillars: on the four pillars of the UNGC. to develop innovative solutions to resources and insights for each transaction This Report provides an overview of everyday industry challenges, and than any other provider globally. Human Rights activities and initiatives aligned to the together raise standards along the way. We do this with over 650 highly-trained Labour UNGC principles, which have been rolled We are headquartered in Dubai with a global people, including including former Environment out at our offices in Dubai, UAE; Mumbai, network of offices. Our Group includes, ship captains, maritime operations India; and at our offices in Dubai, Mumbai amongst others, the world’s largest port experts, software developers, scientists, Anti-Corruption. and other cities across the world. cost-management company, DA-Desk; a engineers and data analysts—all For more information about the UNGC, leading maritime port supplier-vetting and committed to supporting the front please visit www.unglobalcompact.org. procurement services provider, PortsDirect; lines of the maritime industry. and a maritime-focused payment processing The Group serve over 350 vessel-operating company for secure, efficient and costcompanies located globally, including effective international payments, MarTrust. many publicly traded companies, the In the tramp shipping sector, in particular, biggest commodity trading houses, our companies also provide structured and major tanker operators. cash management, fixture management and business intelligence services. Our services include processing more than US $7 billion in maritime industry Founded in 2001 on the principles of payments all over the world. independence and transparency, our story is ‘raising standards together with As of June 2019, the Group have nine our customers’: lifting the agenda for portfolio companies and business the maritime industry, and standardising units under management. TRACE Certification ID TC4142-1856 BIMCO Copyright © 2019 The Marcura Group 3 UNGC 2018/19 Implementing the Principles Implementing the Ten Principles Since 2001, we have helped transform Moreover, as part of our commitment We invest intensively in our businesses, Materiality and Scope port cost management practices and to transparency, good governance as well as in our shared services platforms establish new standards for efficiency and compliance, we have joined that empower each business to stay Determining materiality for this Report and oversight in the industry. organisations that share our values: focused. With access to experienced includes considering economic, practitioners within our legal, compliance environmental, and social impacts We have no connection to port suppliers, •W e belong to the Maritime Antithat are relevant to us as a business and cyber security operations, our port agents, port authorities, or Corruption Network, a global business organisation and to our stakeholders, core and venture businesses receive shipping companies. Our independence network working towards its vision of a including our Group employees, diligent governance from the onset is one of our bedrock principles and maritime industry free of corruption. our customers, our suppliers, our of their business journeys. allows us to avoid conflicts of interest, partners and our communities. •W e have earned TRACE certification whether actual or potential. The Group continually focus on its people, through a comprehensive due diligence Staff members who engage on a regular hiring dedicated knowledge workers review, analysis and approval process. basis with key stakeholders conducted and practitioners who understand •W e are an Associate Member shipping industry practices. With a the materiality test internally. Our of BIMCO, an organisation that growing number of offices globally, we stakeholders highlighted three primary promotes fair business practices, offer our employees additional flexibility areas during the materiality test: free trade and access to markets. and opportunities for career planning • Human Rights and Labour: and training. We maintain a multiOn-time payment, compensation and •W e are an Associate Member of cultural workplace, with 38 different benefits; talent retention; career path INTERTANKO, a shipping industry nationalities currently represented. development; employee promotions, forum working “for safe transport, cleaner seas and free competition.” Each employee is kept up-to-date with training and development; working training and information on topics such as conditions; gender equality. •W e belong to the Baltic Exchange, new regulations and processes in relation • Environment: a membership organisation for to compliance, anti-bribery and fraud Carbon emission control, waste the maritime industry. prevention. In addition, each staff member management and afforestation. goes through a thorough induction • Anti-Corruption: period which provides further pertinent Fair business ethics, innovation, fair information relating to the Group and its profitability, integration, privacy values. Finally, all employees are required and data protection, engagement, to sign the Group Code of Conduct. transparency and compliance. Copyright © 2019 The Marcura Group 4 UNGC 2018/19 The UNGC Committee 2019 The Marcura Group’s UNGC Committee 2019 At Marcura, our UNGC commitment We recognise that respecting human rights Commitment, Policies and Goals moves jointly from the foundations and is a continual process which we will always We respect our colleagues, our employees and •R  especting human rights, including the the top of the organisation, to permeate strive to improve. No discrimination is allowed our customers. Our policies seek to uphold and prevention of harassment, physical or mental our entire business. Our employees have based on gender, ethnicity, religion, race, promote human rights in accordance with the punishment, or other form of abuse. taken leading roles to spur internal cultural nationality or physical disability. improvements in order to follow UNGC UNGC through these practices: • F air remuneration (which may include the We are especially pleased this year with how Principles, and that is something that • Upholding our values and standards through provision to employees of housing or housing MarTrust have helped to support this UNGC all Marcurians want to see continue. For constant communication with our customers. allowance, medical insurance, repatriation and pillar. MarTrust customers no longer need that reason, and to continue to promote end-of-service gratuity). to worry about crew families not receiving • Encouraging our employees to grow employee pride in the Principles, our salaries on time. professionally and personally. annual UNGC Report takes an approach that is somewhat uncommon: we highlight Delayed payments have been a longstanding employee involvement in every report, problem in the maritime world, because drilling down to our individual teams, of the vast complexities of moving money their members and their activities. across borders and time zones, languages, UNGC COMMITTEE banking systems, foreign exchange rate and CHAIRMAN We believe that respect and support for currencies. In the past, payors could not get human rights are fundamental aspects Jens Lorens Poulsen, UNGC COMMITTEE salaries to 6% of crew on time. MarTrust’s Group CEO DEPUTY CHAIR of the Group’s culture. We employ a leadership and employees are sincerely glad multicultural group of professionals and our to have corrected this serious problem in 99% Felix Antero, Code of Conduct outlines the behaviour Group GC & CCO of the salary payments we process. expected of every employee at any level. Our employees act with integrity: we expect them to conduct business affairs legally, HUMAN RIGHTS & ENVIRONMENT Anti-Corruption LABOUR TEAM TEAM TEAM ethically and responsibly. In practical terms, our policies prohibit us, for instance, from Ravindranath Uppar Balaji Nader David Lord paying money to or receiving money from the suppliers whose invoices we audit on behalf of our customers. This way, we Ranjita Vijay Vinu Vijayan can be certain that we do not take part in Francis Wellington Anish Kochery Steffi Dias Yogesh Shenoy Aya Ismaill irresponsible practices that may be harmful Nitesh Shah Ganesh Kumar Suchint Miglani Sharlet Thomas to our customers, to the maritime industry, Sudheesh Shetty Prashantha Shetty Pramilla Pinto Avinash Kadam or to society. Copyright © 2019 The Marcura Group 5 UNGC 2018/19 Human Rights and Labour Human Rights and Labour We believe that respect and support for world, because of the vast complexities human rights are fundamental aspects of moving money across borders and of the Group’s culture. We employ a time zones, languages, banking systems, multicultural group of professionals and our foreign exchange rate and currencies. In Code of Conduct outlines the behaviour the past, payors could not get salaries to expected of every employee at any level. 6% of crew on time. MarTrust’s leadership and employees are sincerely glad to have Our employees act with integrity: we expect corrected this serious problem in 99% of the them to conduct business affairs legally, salary payments we process. ethically and responsibly. In practical terms, our policies prohibit us, for instance, from paying money to or receiving money from the suppliers whose invoices we audit Commitment, Policies and Goals on behalf of our customers. This way, we We respect our colleagues, our employees and can be certain that we do not take part in our customers. Our policies seek to uphold irresponsible practices that may be harmful and promote human rights in accordance with to our customers, to the maritime industry, the UNGC through these practices: or to society. • Upholding our values and standards We recognise that respecting human rights through constant communication with our is a continual process which we will always customers. strive to improve. No discrimination is allowed based on gender, ethnicity, religion, • Encouraging our employees to grow race, nationality or physical disability. professionally and personally. We are especially pleased this year with • Respecting human rights, including the how MarTrust have helped to support this prevention of harassment, physical or UNGC pillar. MarTrust customers no longer mental punishment, or other form of abuse. need to worry about crew families not • Fair remuneration (which may include receiving salaries on time. the provision to employees of housing or Delayed payments have been a housing allowance, medical insurance, longstanding problem in the maritime repatriation and end-of-service gratuity). Copyright © 2019 The Marcura Group 6 UNGC 2018/19 Human Rights and Labour The Marcura UNGC Human Rights and Labour Team Actions and Activities The Dubai UNGC team organised a hike to beginners, they achieved a remarkable Flat/ was held to show solidarity to the millions of Wadi Al Helo, an archaeological heritage Climb/Descent (3 km/2.3 km/2.3 km each way). children who embark on a long and treacherous The aim of the Human Rights and Labour site in Sharjah, UAE, open to all employees. journey to school every single day. Twenty-two Team is to enhance communication, To inspire a healthy lifestyle, our Hikers trekked 2 km to the site’s high point, employees participated, along with three family educate and create awareness of UNGC UNGC Human Rights team brought a at about a 200-meter elevation on extremely members; all gained an opportunity to build a in fun, active and healthy activities that comprehensive wellness initiative to our rugged terrain with sharp rocks. healthy lifestyle by walking. also embraced interaction with other local Dubai office. We are grateful to Lockton organisations of the UAE. Employees This was an excellent opportunity for Insurance Brokers LLC and Kings College The UNGC team Dubai joined an Internal across business units, departments and teambuilding and for getting to know each Hospital for supporting us. The event was Indoor Sports event with the 13th Dubai continents enjoyed participating in and other, as well as for helping one another during open to all Dubai office employees. Investment Park Corporate Sports benefiting from team activities. As in past the tricky traverse patches. It was also an Competitions, organised by YalaSports Dubai Cares, part of the UAE-based Mohammed years, the team actively promoted the event where all 20 employees and three family Forty employees participated in four events. bin Rashid Al Maktoum Global Initiatives, following themes: Wellness, Knowledge, members participating were able to push Marcura employees won six awards. Anne have been working towards providing quality Sport, Teambuilding, Creativity and Charity. themselves and test their physical endurance. Perera and Candida A. Hendricks won Gold education to 18 million youth in 57 developing and Silver, respectively, in Carrom – Women’s The Human Rights and Labour Team The Mumbai UNGC team organised a Trek-acountries in the past decade. In support of the Single. Vinod Nair won Carrom – Men’s Single; maintains a Grievances mailbox. Thon to Prabalmachi, an easy-level trek open to UAE’s Year of Tolerance, the UNGC Human and joined Ahamed Aslam to take Gold in No grievances were reported this year. all employees. All 48 employees who participated Rights Team encouraged employees to join Carrom – Men’s Doubles. Janani Yagnamurthy in the event were first-timers on a trek. For this year’s Dubai Cares Walk for Education. It Our UNGC Human Rights and Labour took top honours in Badminton. team led a 30-Day Fitness Challenge. With activities including a Weight Loss Challenge, a Rope Skipping and Push-Ups Challenge, a Squats Challenge and a Plank/ Headstand Challenge, we awarded prizes to winners in both our main campuses. Of the 21 employees who elected to participate in Dubai, Janani Yagnamurthy emerged as the Women’s Division winner and Sayed Ali Mehdi as the Men’s. Among Mumbai’s 110 participants, Ashwini Pawar led the Women’s Division and Pradeep Ahire won top place for the men. Marcurians organised by the UNGC A nurse administers a blood pressure and The Dubai UNGC team gathers at their team celebrate 3rd Place at the blood sugar test to one of 125 employee Wadi Al Helo hike. YalaSports Cricket Championship. wellness participants. Copyright © 2019 The Marcura Group 7 UNGC 2018/19 Environment Environment Though we do not operate maritime Second, our algorithms cross-check Digital Contract Execution and Signing Consistent with the best practices we offer vessels, Marcura take seriously our duty to historical traffic flow within a port against our customers, we apply digital signatures to We also help the environment by employing protect the environment and weather patterns and other variables, to our own internal forms, as well. digital tools in the contract development, to help our customers do so. We are help a ship time its entrance at port. Where amendment and signing processes. We have forged a close relationship with pleased to be helping the industry to possible and practical, we also check Marcura’s proprietary software tools INTERTANKO, which has expressed interest shift toward ever more fuel-efficient efficiency levels at specific terminals, which are designed to minimise the volume of in our independent, secure cloud-based mechanisms for transportation. we have found to vary widely. Again, this physical contracts and agreements. Our MarDocs maritime contract tools. results in faster turnarounds at port, and Using Data to Support the Environment highly secure digitised agreements obviate significant fuel savings. Commitment, Policies and Goals the need to airmail documents back and For a given vessel and voyage, fuel Thanks to our unrivalled volume of historical forth across the globe, or to place them • We protect our environment. efficiency is more than fuel consumed and global port data, our digital tools are in physical storage that requires energy and pollution expended. It is a much more • We support innovative developments in able to help customers save up to hundreds for ventilation and maintenance. By using finely-grained calculation. Unnecessary the shipping industry that create platforms of thousands in US dollars annually. a cloud-based e-signature platform for time spent in port means more fuel for digital exchange of information and document execution, no paper need be wasted. Needless loss of valuable time communication to reduce the use of paper. flown internationally for final authorisations. may stem from multiple factors: weather, • We aim to reduce waste. conditions at port, queues at the terminal; even choice of terminal. We approach this problem from multiple angles. First, our digital tools facilitate collaboration among charterers, owners, masters and agents. Better communication among the varied parties makes for more efficient transport of goods and fuel within the harbour. From this efficiency, speed of work increases, and fuel needed while idling drops. Using data to support the environment is a Marcura’s data-driven innovations are helping Marcura tools help customers save concept we approach from multiple angles. the industry and the environment. time and fuel in port. Copyright © 2019 The Marcura Group 8 UNGC 2018/19 Environment The Marcura UNGC Environment Team Actions and Activities: Dubai Actions and Activities: Mumbai Both the Dubai and Mumbai night shift staff The Mumbai UNGC Environment Team Mumbai Marcurians also took part in a elected to reduce power consumption by included employees in their first-ever beach-cleaning program in association moving all teams to a single area, to ensure Marathon for Mumbai Happiness Run with Jallosh: Clean Coasts, from June electricity usage is limited to that area only. conducted by SportzConsult to encourage 1 5 – World Environment Day. sports and fitness. The 5 km and 10 km runs The team encouraged fellow Marcurians Dubai employees initiated Power Saver marked an exhilarating voyage of discovery to sign up for the E-bill option offered by mode for computers by reducing the CPU with flower-laden stretches, energetic music, Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution speeds, lowering screen brightness, and tasty chocolates, heady fragrances and highCompany Ltd. This step also earned amending the Power and Sleep settings on fives with the cheer squad. Marcurians who signers a Rs.10 discount per bill. inactive PCs. participated were given a sapling as a token The Dubai team also continued progress of appreciation for their attendance. In Mumbai, the team supplied all-natural toward a paperless office, by electing to jute bags to employees to help them carry The Mumbai team initiated the Energy their lunches and other goods, plastic-free. remove one printer from the Operations Saving Contest on the occasion of World area; now, three teams share a common Water Day on 22nd March 2019, where we printer, and the team hopes that the change educated our employees on a few good will encourage Operations staff to print less. practices to reduce consumption of water For World Earth Hour, Dubai colleagues and energy to ensure that this has a positive and their families gathered at Al Nakheel effect on our environment. Oasis, Buhairah Corniche, Sharjah to show support to this worldwide event. “It was an exceptional voyage being part of this year’s UNGC team. The overwhelming response to various activities by Marcurians boosted my morale and I felt content in contributing to a greater cause. It also gave me the opportunity to collaborate with numerous colleagues.” —Sharlet Thomas, UNGC Human Rights Team Copyright © 2019 The Marcura Group 9 UNGC 2018/19 Anti-Bribery and Corruption Anti-Bribery and Corruption Commitment, Policies and Goals Actions and Activities • We comply with anti-corruption laws. Promoting Transparency in Maritime Data Protection MACN Support Procurement An area of concern at Marcura, because • We are committed to acting ethically One key component of anti-corruption and legally, regardless of where we do This year, we highlight the Marcura is the protection of data. At Marcura, we we handle a sizeable portion of the world’s business. This means, in part, that we PortsDirect offering. PortsDirect’s structured follow industry best practices designed to port data, is the general vulnerability of the abide by all international anti-corruption procurement offering has been an antisafeguard the confidentiality of the data maritime industry to corruption in an era of laws, treaties and regulations that prohibit corruption influence in over 400 ports and the security of the information with ever-tightening margins and highly varying bribery, improper payments or kickbacks. that our customers use around the world. which we work. In addition to maintaining levels of controls and enforcement. We do Through transparent, objective mechanisms physical security practices at our offices, our utmost to design our processes and • We are strongly committed to combating systems to help alert and shield customers for evaluating and selecting port service and redundancy at our data sites, we corruption in all its forms. We believe that with regards to corrupt practices where we providers, PortsDirect is helping to counter maintain a fully-audited Business Continuity corruption undermines democracy, the can; and work hard to help the industry to corrupt practices. Plan and disaster recovery plans. rule of law and the proper operation of move toward stronger protections. free markets. The PortsDirect framework includes The third-party entities with which we extensive measurement tools for supplier work are asked to undergo detailed We continue to engage with the MACN on • Our dedicated Compliance Team works best practices and tools, to help further the quality, service and delivery. Vesselinformation and cyber security full time on compliance-related tasks goals of the network. operating customers are happy to sign assessments, covering information and initiatives. on to PortsDirect not only for the group security and privacy to align with both • Our internal Code of Conduct prohibits savings achieved and for eliminating the ISO27001 and GDPR. all forms of bribery in the workplace. work of supplier selection, but also in order We distribute periodic circulars to agents to shield employees from potentially corrupt and customers to educate them on topics influences. Since PortsDirect suppliers are such as phishing, fraud, online scams, pre-vetted, would-be providers have no password protection, and general good Marcura are serving the incentives to exercise undue influence or engage in bribery. security practices. By protecting the interaction between principals industry from breaches, we also help make We hope that PortsDirect helps buttress the it less exposed to fraud and corruption. and their counterparties. We anti-corruption efforts by our customers and believe that it is our solemn others in the industry. obligation to safeguard the integrity of this space. —Jens Loren Poulsen, Group CEO Copyright © 2019 The Marcura Group 10 UNGC 2018/19 Anti-Bribery and Corruption The Marcura UNGC Anti-Bribery and Corruption Team The team this year looked at three Commitment, Policies and Goals Actions and Activities different areas: • We comply with anti-corruption laws. Our first presentation for the Group’s Finally, we worked with multiple 1. H  ighlighting the different types of employees provided an overview of some departments across the business to create • We are committed to acting ethically a campaign comprising different types corruption, in order to help educate of the topics we would look to cover and legally, regardless of where we do of media to spread an anti-corruption ourselves and our fellow Marcurians of throughout the initiative, reviewing the business. This means, in part, that we awareness message to our colleagues. This the areas we are exposed to within our different types of corruption, the impact abide by all international anti-corruption campaign includes: organisation. of corruption on individuals and, of course, laws, treaties and regulations that prohibit how we can help to combat corruption. • Emails – An anti-corruption flyer, sent via 2. The impact of potential corruption bribery, improper payments or kickbacks. on Marcura, our customers, and the The second presentation provided a deeper email to help save paper. • We are strongly committed to combating individuals who work for them; to help look into the different types of corruption • Digital posters – Highlighting the corruption in all its forms. We believe that us to understand the impacts and how it and how they affect both the individuals campaign and spreading the word. corruption undermines democracy, the rule would feel to be in a given situation. and corporate companies within our of law and the proper operation of • Social media for business – A poll based industry, with an individual breakdown of 3. What we as Marcurians can do to free markets. on our information presentations and the impacts for each type of corruption. help prevent any possibility of • Our dedicated Compliance Team works converted into a video, followed by a brief corruption within our organisation. Next, we presented to the Group’s multiple-choice questionnaire. full time on compliance-related tasks employees a summary of information we All of this enabled us to go on to create and initiatives. • Recognition – Our specially-made UNGC | had established throughout the initiative. an awareness campaign for the wider • Our internal Code of Conduct prohibits all We discussed how we were going to take Marcura Anti-Corruption mugs, distributed business, utilising different company forms of bribery in the workplace. these learnings to create an awareness to all those who took part in our poll. media to spread an anti-corruption campaign to the wider business. awareness message to all of our colleagues, in each office across the globe. Copyright © 2019 The Marcura Group 11 We are interested in knowing what you Jens Lorens Poulsen think about our 2018/19 Communication Group CEO, Marcura on Progress Report. +971-4-363-6200 j.poulsen@marcura.com We value your feedback, which will be used for analysis and further improvements. Please send your Felix J. Antero feedback to our contacts below or email Group General Counsel & info@marcura.com. Chief Compliance Officer +971-4-701-7050 For more information about The Marcura f.antero@marcura.com Group, visit marcura.com. Copyright © 2019 The Marcura Group
