2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TSX THO NYSE TAHO REPORT PUBLICATION AUGUST, 2018 About This Report Tahoe’s 2017 Sustainability Report covers the calendar year ending on December 31, 2017 and marks our 3rd annual reporting on the economic, social and environmental issues that are pertinent and important to our operations in Canada, Guatemala and Peru. Both the 2015 and 2016 Sustainability Reports are available on Tahoe’s website: www.tahoeresources.com. This report is prepared to conform with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and the G4 Mining and Metals Sector Disclosures. A complete GRI Standards Content Index can be found in the appendices. In this report, we provide an overview of our company, our approach to sustainability, our people, our governance structure, our development programs for the communities around our operations, and our protection and management of the diverse environments in which we operate. We have assembled this report for a range of audiences, from investors to the residents near our operations. This report is available in both English and Spanish. Information and data in this report were compiled and reviewed for accuracy as part of our internal quality assurance process. The data collection system is managed by our Vice President of Sustainability, and this report was reviewed by Tahoe management and the Sustainability Committee. Further information about Tahoe and our company’s sustainability programs and progress are found on our website (referenced above). We hope you will find this report to be both interesting and reader-friendly. To ask questions or learn more about Tahoe and our sustainability work, please contact us at csr@tahoeresources.com or investors@tahoeresouces.com. FRONT COVER: Juana de Dios, a local community member who participates in Tahoe Peru’s economic development programs, herds her sheep in Quillispampa Community, Cajambamba, Peru. TA B L E O F C O N T E N T S ABOUT TAHOE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE OUR HOST COMMUNITIES OUR PLANET AND COUNTRIES Message from the President 2 Defining Materiality: Our 12 Our Employees 22 Community Development 32 Environmental Stewardship 44 & Chief Executive Officer Human Rights Commitments Programs Local Employment 23 Water Management 45 Message from the 3 Grievance Management 14 Indigenous Peoples 38 HSEC Committee Chair Occupational Health 24 Engagement Effluents and Waste 48 Ethical and Legal Business 18 and Safety Management Sustainability Strategy 4 Management Security and Human Rights 40 Inclusion and Diversity 31 Energy Use and Climate 49 Our Operations 9 Stakeholder Engagement 19 Informal Mining 41 Change Corporate Governance 11 Global Citizenship 20 Local Procurement 42 Biodiversity and Land 50 Management Closure and Reclamation 52 OUR HOST ABOUT TAHOE OUR APPROACH OUR PEOPLE COMMUNITIES OUR PLANET AND COUNTRIES 01 05 02 04 03 APPENDICES Financial Snapshot 54 Global Reporting Initiative 56 Information and Index 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 1 leaders, indigenous groups, government agencies, MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT 01 ABOUT TAHOE & CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER and international mediation experts to positive effect. Based on our intensive engagement, we are hopeful the roadblock will peacefully resolve once the EscobTahoe Resources is pleased to release our third annual al license is reinstated. sustainability report which demonstrates our ongoing We are hopeful that the Guatemalan Constitutional commitment to inform you about our economic, enviCourt will uphold the Supreme Court ruling allowing us ronmental and social performance. to resume operations at Escobal in the near term. A 2017 was a year of two stories for Tahoe Resources. productive Escobal is in the best interests of all of our stakeholders, including the Government of GuatemaTahoe’s gold business was strong, with record gold prola, the local communities, our employees, our suppliers duction of 445.9 thousand ounces. This performance and Tahoe’s shareholders. was driven primarily by our La Arena Mine in Peru. In fact, Tahoe’s entire gold segment met or exceeded Mining for Sustainable Value guidance in all categories in 2017, including lower than guided cash costs and all-in sustaining costs. The outWith challenge comes opportunity. While sustainabilstanding performance from the gold business in 2017 ity and adherence to human rights principles have has driven key growth projects – Shahuindo’s expansion always been integral to Tahoe’s business model, progto 36,000 tonnes per day in Peru and a shaft expansion ress is not always linear. Our experience in Guatemala project at Tahoe Canada’s Bell Creek – underscoring has reinforced the need to continually enhance our JIM VOORHEES PRESIDENT & CHIEF the increasingly meaningful contribution of the gold approach to seeking support and mutually benefiEXECUTIVE OFFICER segment to Tahoe’s overall financial performance. cial relations with local communities and indigenous groups. In these last twelve months, we have taken a Tahoe’s silver segment, the Escobal Mine in Guatemanew approach to ongoing, broad and inclusive enla, was a different story. While Escobal delivered a solgagement with communities, establishing structured id performance, producing 9.7 million ounces of silver dialogue to provide accessible and timely informaduring the first half of the year, mining activity stopped tion about our operations, designing social investment on July 5, 2017 following a provisional ruling by the Sustrategies aimed at broader benefit and regional preme Court of Guatemala to suspend the mining lieconomic impact, and developing a comprehensive cense. On September 10, 2017, the Supreme Court of Indigenous Peoples Policy. In this process, we are adGuatemala issued a ruling based on the merits of the vancing a participatory and consultative approach case that reinstated the Escobal mining license; howwith our communities and local partners. ever, that ruling was appealed to the higher Constitutional Court on September 12, 2017 and, at this time, Moving forward, we reaffirm our commitment to susthe Constitutional Court has yet to issue a final ruling. tainability across our business. In January of this year, we joined the United Nations Global Compact and will We have worked hard to peacefully resolve a roadparticipate in the Canada Local Network. We are lookblock at the town of Casillas, 17 kilometers from the ing forward to active participation in the Global ComEscobal mine site. We respect all human rights, includpact, where we will have an opportunity to engage ing the rights to free expression and peaceful protest. with other companies to promote its key principles in In the past year, we have engaged with community achieving the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals. 2 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S About Tahoe At the foundation of our business is an extraordinary work2017. We thank our shareholders for their support during force. All of us at Tahoe are dedicated to the highest stanthis challenging period. We are collectively focused on dards of environmental stewardship, community engagebuilding and returning value for all of our stakeholders and ment, and employee health and safety. We understand we look forward to making progress in the year ahead. that our commitment to sound sustainability practices Yours sincerely, starts with our Board of Directors and continues throughout our operations with the dedication and devotion shown by our personnel. Our team’s dedication, positive spirit and resilience in the Jim Voorhees face of adversity were keys to sustaining our business in PRESIDENT & CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER icy implementation with respect to safety, health, securiMESSAGE FROM THE HSEC ty, communities, and the environment. The Board visited COMMITTEE CHAIR Tahoe Peru in June of 2017, meeting with our employees, the President of the Republic and the Minister of Energy Dear Tahoe Stakeholders, and Mines. We reviewed strategy and operational imTahoe Resources embraces sustainability in all aspects pacts, and requested follow-up reporting from manageof our business. Our mission is to create lasting value for ment to ensure concerns were being properly addressed. our stakeholders: shareholders, employees, the commuWe also receive quarterly reports from and provide guidnities surrounding our operations, and our host countries ance to Tahoe’s Sustainability Committee, whose purpose through responsible operation of our mines. Today’s natALAN MOON is to address economic, environmental and social matters HSEC COMMITTEE CHAIR ural resource companies have a unique opportunity to related to our company and its operations. The Commitproduce wealth, support society, and enhance the lives tee provides strategic direction to management to ensure of those whom the industry touches. that the Company’s activities align with the highest interDespite 2017 being a challenging year, we remain comnational standards. mitted to meeting the highest standards of environmenAll of us at Tahoe work every day to earn the trust and tal stewardship across our operations, respecting human respect of our stakeholders. We are committed to operatrights in our business practices, and prioritizing the health, ing our company in a responsible manner, being mindful safety and well-being of our employees and the commuof the full range of impacts our business operations have nities where we live and work. We are happy to report that Tahoe’s safety record has improved year over year and on all of our stakeholders and the environment. The HSEC we continue to strive for zero incidents. Committee continues its commitment to support management with the goal of being a leader in the field. The Board of Directors’ Health, Safety, Environment and Community (HSEC) Committee oversees all facets of our corporate sustainability and safety performance, including oversight of Tahoe’s Human Rights, CSR, and Environmental Policies. On a quarterly basis, the Board measures Alan C. Moon the effectiveness of Tahoe’s strategies, programs and polHEALTH, SAFETY, ENVIRONMENT AND COMMUNITY COMMITTEE CHAIR 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 3 About Tahoe SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY protocols from inception to closure of 2018 Sustainability Targets our Tahoe assets. The Board’s HSEC SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Our sustainability strategy centers on Committee has ultimate responsibility Develop an integrated framework for health responsibly operating efficient mines for overseeing management’s strateand safety, environment and community to meet the highest standards of engies and implementation of Tahoe’s relations. vironmental management, financial sustainability-related policies and prudence, respect for human rights, commitments. and broad-based benefit sharing. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs) We understand that an integrated As we take stock of 2017, we can reMapping of sustainability program to the SDGs. approach to sustainability in our busiport our full alignment with the Volunness pursuits and activities results in retary Principles at all operations. We sponsible and well-managed mining can also report that all Latin AmeriENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM operations. We also recognize that can operations have now employed Develop implementation strategy and schedule such an approach brings significant a UNGPs-compliant grievance mechfor Latin American operations. value to those directly invested in the anism. We continue to develop a success of our operations – our sharecorporate social investment strateholders, employees, suppliers, and DUE DILIGENCE gy and sustainability management Develop human rights risk assessment protocol for communities. framework focused on safety and higher-risk jurisdictions. health, environment, social manageSince 2013, Tahoe has aligned with ment, local procurement and securia number of international standards, including the United Nations Guidty. It will guide specific performance FCPA AND ANTI-CORRUPTION standards to ensure implementation Implement comprehensive anti-bribery and antiing Principles on Business and Human corruption program across the Company. Rights (UNGPs), the Voluntary Princiof our policies consistently across the ples on Security and Human Rights Company. We also recognize the (Voluntary Principles), the Internationimportance of setting long-term obTALENT DEVELOPMENT al Finance Corporation Performance jectives, with observable and meaFull implementation of diversity and inclusion Standards on Environmental and Sosurable results, to help us improve our program. cial Sustainability, and the Equator sustainability and social performance. Principles. Tahoe’s Code of Business As a result, we are reviewing our susConduct and the Human Rights, Cortainability strategy with the intent of INDIGENOUS PEOPLES POLICY identifying and formulating multi-year Develop comprehensive policy with participation porate Social Responsibility (CSR), Enfrom local indigenous communities and experts. vironment, and Diversity policies serve objectives that are credible, measuras the foundational building blocks for able, and aligned with our internal compliance with those international and external business drivers. RISK AND CONTINGENCY MANAGEMENT Corporate risk and contingency management framework across all operations. 4 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S About Tahoe 2017 SUSTAINABILITY AT A GLANCE 3 Joined U.N. Global Compact and Local Network Canada as an official participant 3 Tahoe Peru launched UNGPs-aligned grievance mechanism, Tú Cuentas 3 Full alignment with the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights across all operations 3 Hired corporate Director of Security and Contingency Planning and Tahoe Canada OH&S Director 3 Implemented new corporate Security and Equipment Transfer Policy 3 OH&S decline in All Occurrence Incident Rate (AOIR) over the past five years 3 Host country nationals make up 98% of workforce 3 $476 million goods and services procured from local suppliers, totaling 95% of total spend for goods and services 3 No major environmental incidents within the past five years at Tahoe operations 3 Initiated 2016 fiscal year financial disclosure reporting under the Extractive Sector Transparency Measures Act (ESTMA) 3 Tahoe Canada won Timmins District Mine Rescue competition for the second year in a row 3 Added independent toll-free Whistleblower Hotline for anonymous reporting 24 hours a day across operations 3 New Diversity Policy approved by the Board of Directors in March 2017 3 Completed corruption risk assessments for Latin American operations 3 Tahoe Canada joined Northern Industrial Electricity Rate (NIER) Program to increase energy efficiency and reduce costs 3 Developed a company-wide, standardized water management strategy for all operations 3 Implemented the use of EQwin software to better track water quality data at operations 3 Fulfilled Board-mandated internal environmental audit program for all operations 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 5 About Tahoe versity and self-sustaining land uses replace SUSTAINABLE MODERN MINING areas where mining once occurred. Responsible mining is key to global sustainability. The mining industry produces essenIn addition to thoughtful, cutting-edge detial materials for modern transportation, sign and advanced technologies, today’s building and construction, communications, successful mines rely upon a skillfully trained consumer goods, medical equipment and workforce. In stark contrast to those miners advanced technology. Today’s higher stanwho carried shovels and picks, highly-trained dard of living and ever-evolving technolomodern miners now operate mechanized gies, require a progressive, agile and thriving equipment to do the heavy lifting. Tahoe mining industry. Peru, for example, delivers annual trainings in heavy equipment operation for local men The aim of modern mining is to efficiently and women to enter the Peruvian mining develop mineral resources while minimizing industry workforce. In addition to skills adthe impact on the environment and society. vancement, the number one priority of any Today, mining is governed by international modern mine is the safety of every employand national standards on health, safety, ee. Tahoe staff practice a culture of safety human rights, environmental stewardship both on and off the job. and social responsibility. The world’s growing population and lifestyles Modern mines are carefully designed with will continue to demand the large quantities state-of-the-art technology and machinof natural resources that mines produce. ery. With advanced degrees in engineering, geology, mining, metallurgy and environThink of your smart phone, where an estimental science, the men and women who mated 62 different metals and elements are plan, design and build mines such as those required for each device. Advancements in operated by Tahoe bring decades of expeextraction technology and improved methrience operating responsible mines in a susods for recycling of materials will continue tainable way. For example, at our Escobal to drive the mining industry well into the fuMine in Guatemala, we utilize the dry-stack ture. Mining companies like Tahoe undermethod of tailings handling, which is an instand that mines must be managed with novative method that reduces water consustainability at the forefront. This means the sumption, limits seepage, reduces the risk of efficient extraction of the mineral resource, slope failure and provides for more prompt environmental stewardship, ever-improving TOP: Mine surveying is a fundamental engineering activity closure and reclamation activity. That’s a safety practices, and awareness of the ecoat Tahoe’s operations. long way from how miners treated mining nomic and social benefits that our operaBOTTOM: Modern mines, like Escobal’s underground waste even 30 years ago. The goal is to entions bring to the local communities and our silver operations, are operated by skilled staff who utilize advanced technology and equipment. sure that, at the end of the mine life, biodihost countries. 6 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S About Tahoe 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 7 About Tahoe BELL CREEK TIMMINS WEST ABOUT TAHOE Tahoe Resources is a minerals exploration and mining company led by experienced professionals dedicated to the responsible production of precious metals in the Americas. We operate the Escobal silver mine in Guatemala, the La Arena and Shahuindo gold Reno mines in Peru, and the Bell Creek and Timmins West gold mines in Canada. In 2017, we celebrated the one millionth ounce poured at our Canadian operations, and we produced 9.7 million ounces of silver and 445,900 ounces of gold, with concentrates containing 4,214 tonnes of lead and 6,084 tonnes of zinc. Our products are shipped to SHAHUINDO LA ARENA markets in Asia, Europe and North America where they are further refined and sold. Lima ESCOBAL Jim Voorhees, an experienced mining engineer and leader of Tahoe’s HSEC CommitGuatemala City tee for eight years, assumed the position of President and CEO of Tahoe Resources in mid-June 2018. Corporate headquarters are in Reno, Nevada, United States, with a registered office located in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. We are a public company incorporated under the Business Corporations Act of British Columbia and traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX:THO) and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE:TAHO). 2017 Significant Events: 1. Mining activity at Escobal was suspended in early July 2017 following a provisional ruling by the Supreme Court of Guatemala regarding the company’s mining license in response to an action brought by the anti-mining organization, CALAS (Centro de Acción Legal Ambiental y Social de Guatemala), against Guatemala’s Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM). The action alleges that MEM violated the Xinka indigenous people’s right of consultation in advance of granting the Escobal mining license to Tahoe’s Guatemalan subsidiary, Minera San Rafael. While the Supreme Court of Guatemala issued a ruling based on the merits of the case that reinstated the Escobal mining license, we are currently awaiting the outcome of an appeal to the Constitutional Court. 2. Tahoe advanced two major expansion projects in 2017. In Peru, the Shahuindo expansion project includes a 12,000 tpd crushing and agglomeration circuit now in operation with an expansion to 36,000 tonnes per day expected in 2018. In Canada, construction on the Bell Creek shaft expansion project was in full swing in 2017. The project is expected to double production at Bell Creek to approximately 80,000 ounces per year in 2019 and significantly extend mine life. 8 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S About Tahoe OUR OPERATIONS Timmins West Mine – Canada The Timmins West Mine is an underground operation that uses longhole mining methods. This mine is located approximately 18 kilometers west of the city of Timmins and is comprised of the Timmins deposit, which has been in commercial production since January 2011, the Thunder Creek deposit, which achieved commercial production in January 2012, and the 144 Gap deposit, which went into production in April 2016. All three deposits are interconnected by underground drifts. Tahoe produces ore from the mine via a 5.5-meter diameter shaft with 6,000-tonne per day hoisting capacity. Ore is accessed via internal ramps from both the surface and the main shaft, and then trucked to the Bell Creek mill. In 2017, Timmins West produced nearly 119,000 ounces of gold Bell Creek Mine Complex – Canada with a workforce of approximately 293 employees and 160 contractor employees. At the end of 2017, Proven and ProbaThe Bell Creek Mine is an underground mine in Ontario, Canable Mineral Reserves at the Timmins West Mine were 6.5 million da. We use longhole mining methods with ore currently trucked tonnes with an average gold grade of 3.15 grams per tonne to the surface via a ramp system. This operation is located in containing 654,000 ounces of gold. one of the world’s most prolific gold belts. The operation is located approximately 20 kilometers northeast of the city of Timmins, which has a population of about 42,000 people. In 2017, Bell Creek produced nearly 48,000 ounces of gold with a workforce of approximately 246 employees at the mine, 66 employees at the mill, and 58 contractor employees. Ore from the Bell Creek Mine (along with ore from our Timmins West Mine) is processed at the Bell Creek mill. During 2017, the mill averaged 3,719 tonnes per day and processed 1.36 million tonnes of ore at an average gold grade of 3.97 grams per tonne and an average recovery of 96.4%, for a total of 167 thousand recovered gold ounces. At the end of 2017, Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves at the Bell Creek Mine were 2.4 million tonnes with an average gold grade of 4.07 grams per tonne containing 315,000 ounces of gold. 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 9 About Tahoe Escobal Mine – Guatemala ounces of gold with a workforce of approximately 677 employees and 1,118 contractor employees. The Escobal Mine is an underground operation that uses longhole mining methods and is one of the At the end of 2017, the Proven and Probable Minlargest primary silver mines in the world. eral Reserves at La Arena were 44.0 million tonnes with an average gold grade of 0.40 grams per This operation lies in mountainous terrain in Guatetonne containing 568,400 ounces of gold. mala. Elevations range from about 1,300 meters above sea level in the valley on the west side of the Shahuindo Mine – Peru project area to approximately 1,800 meters at the Escobal Mine easternmost portion of the site. The mine is located The Shahuindo Mine is also an open-pit, heapthree kilometers from San Rafael las Flores, a town of leach gold mining operation, located in a prolific approximately 3,000 people and about 70 kilomegold producing belt in the Department of Cajamarters southeast of Guatemala City by paved road. ca in northern Peru, about 30 kilometers north of Although mine operations were suspended in July our La Arena Mine. The operation is situated on the 2017, Escobal produced 9.7 million ounces of silver west side of the Condebamba River valley, approxduring the first half of the year and had a production imately 15 kilometers west of Cajabamba, a town rate of approximately 4,500 tonnes per day with a with a population of approximately 13,500 people. workforce of approximately 995 employees. At the Elevation across the mine area ranges from 2,400 to end of 2017, Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves 3,600 meters above sea level. for the Escobal deposit totaled 264 million ounces of silver at an average grade of 334 grams per tonne, The operation uses conventional drill/blast, load with significant quantities of lead, zinc and gold. and haul methods. Production through 2017 was run-of-mine (ROM) ore truck-placed onto pads La Arena Mine La Arena Mine – Peru with no crushing or agglomeration required prior to leaching. Starting in 2018, production will include The La Arena Mine is an open-pit, heap-leach gold mine located at an elevation of 3,400 meters in the single-stage crushing and agglomeration prior to Department of La Libertad on the eastern slope of leaching, as well as ROM placement due to the the Western Cordillera in northern Peru. Access to fine-grained nature of the ore. the mine is via a 165-kilometer national highway from In 2017, Shahuindo produced nearly 79,000 ounces the coastal city of Trujillo. The town of Huamachuco, with a population of approximately 35,000 people, is of gold with a workforce of approximately 449 emlocated 21 kilometers to the east of the mine. ployees and 1,859 contractor employees. This operation uses conventional drill/blast, load At the end of 2017, the Proven and Probable Minerand haul methods. Ore is truck-placed onto pads al Reserves for Shahuindo were 127.8 million tonnes with no crushing or agglomeration required prior with an average gold grade of 0.46 grams per to leaching. In 2017, La Arena produced 195,600 tonne containing 1.9 million ounces of gold. Shahuindo Mine 10 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S About Tahoe CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Tahoe’s Board of Directors oversees Tahoe’s operational, safety, environmental and social performance, as well as corporate strategy, governance and risk mitigation. The Board met six times in 2017 with 100% Director attendance at all regularly scheduled meetings. Our Directors review quarterly summaries on site-level operations, safety statistics, employee engagement, environmental compliance and interaction with local communities and other stakeholders. In 2017, the Directors visited the Tahoe Peru operations to enhance their knowledge and provide direction on various aspects of the operations. To maximize health, safety, sustainability and environmental stewardship, the Board has established the Health, Safety, Environment and Community Committee (HSEC), with the mandate of establishing, maintaining and reviewing Tahoe’s health, safety, environmental and community-related policies, as well as overseeing all facets of our corporate sustainability performance. The HSEC Committee oversees Tahoe’s Sustainability Committee, whose purpose is to address economic, environmental and social matters related to our company and its operations. The corporate leadership team of the Sustainability Committee is comprised of Tahoe’s Executive Chair, Chief Executive Officer, Tahoe’s Board of Directors and management team executive management and operational and CSR leaders at all discuss project plans with Tahoe Peru staff during a visit to Shahuindo operations. sites. The Sustainability Committee reported three times in 2017 to the Board’s HSEC Committee with respect to health, safety, With the direction of the HSEC Committee, Tahoe commenced human rights, environmental and community relations perforan internal environmental assessment process, designed and inmance, including due diligence and risk management meatroduced to the environmental management teams at all our sures. Reports include quarterly summaries from site-level grievoperations in late 2016 and fully implemented in 2017. The obance mechanisms, safety statistics and updates on economic jectives of the audit process were to (1) monitor environmental development programming within local communities. compliance, (2) identify and develop plans to address material Detailed information regarding the Board structure, compensaenvironmental challenges, (3) highlight positive environmental tion and governance can be found in Tahoe’s 2017 Managepractices that may be utilized at other operations, and (4) proment Information Circular at www.tahoeresources.com. mote continuous environmental improvement at all our sites. 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 11 DEFINING MATERIALITY: OUR HUMAN RIGHTS COMMITMENTS 02 OUR APPROACH We take our responsibility to respect human rights in all aspects of our business very seriously and expect the same of our business partners, employees, contractors, and community stakeholders. We recognize that, as a business in the extractive sector, our responsibility to ensure respect for human rights is both an imperative and an opportunity. Tahoe recognizes the rights and freedoms set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and we adhere to the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. Our Human Rights Policy can be found at www.tahoeresources.com. While each of our operations has its own human rights profile and challenges, we take a consistent approach to managing our human rights responsibilities. There are universally relevant human rights priorities across the mining industry. We use as our guide the Business for Social Responsibility’s Primer on Human Rights Priorities for the Extractives Sector to help identify the material human rights responsibilities that we must address and manage as a company. Environmental Impacts Labor Rights As a natural resource company, we recognize We are committed to providing rewarding work the very nature of our business depends on and opportunities and a workplace that protects the impacts the natural environment. Our goal has health and safety of all employees; does not use always been to conduct our mining operations forced or child labor; respects the rights to freeto minimize impacts to the environment and dom of association and collective bargaining; leave our mine sites in good condition for future is free from harassment and discrimination; fairly use or as self-sustaining ecosystems. Particularly as water is a shared compensates our employees; and promotes transferable skills through critical resource for our communities and our operations, we aim to appropriate training. We are committed to equal pay for equal work protect existing water sources by conserving and recycling 100% of and promote diversity and inclusion across our operations. the water used in our mining process. Social and Economic Disruption Land Acquisition We recognize that the arrival and presence of We are committed to ensuring a fair and equitaa large-scale operation can have disruptive efble land acquisition process when acquiring indifects on local communities. We perform social vidual or communal lands in accordance with IFC impact assessments where we operate and soPerformance Standard 5. Our aim is to develop cioeconomic baseline assessments on all new project designs that minimize and avoid displaceprojects. We engage municipalities in local hiring ments and ensure that individuals are better off practices that aim to limit the influx of outside workers. We support after any resettlement. We also are committed to improving the lands institutional strengthening to combat negative social impacts. We are that we do use, through reforestation and agricultural-use programs. revisiting our social investment and development strategies to broadWe have benefit sharing agreements with former land owners incentiven the economic impacts in the regions where we operate. izing them to invest in their new properties and in community improvement projects. 12 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Our Approach Indigenous Peoples Bribery and Corruption We are committed to recognizing, respecting, and seeking to Ethical business is a cornerstone of our company and we recunderstand the rights, cultures, heritage, interests and aspiraognize the importance of mitigating corruption risks and options of Indigenous Peoples. We endeavor to always recognize erating responsibly and ethically. We perform anti-corruption the individual and collective rights of indigenous groups in our assessments of our subsidiaries and perform third party due dildecision-making processes. We support indigenous social and igence on our vendors and suppliers. In 2018, we developed a cultural practices, and we engage and consult local comstand-alone Anti-Corruption Policy and comprehensive trainmunities regarding our operations. Our commitments will be ing program to further reduce corruption risks across our opercaptured in a comprehensive Indigenous Peoples Policy being ating jurisdictions. We also provide 24 hour per day access to developed in 2018. a Whistleblower hotline. Supply Chains Access to Remedy We are cognizant that we may have impacts either through One of our most important stakeholder engagement tools is our own activities or as a result of our business relationships. We our UNGPs-aligned grievance mechanisms, which help us to perform due diligence on our suppliers and contractors to preidentify negative impacts and provide a timely remedy. After vent and mitigate negative social impacts in our supply chain. several years of use, the mechanism has become a source We require that all suppliers comply with the laws and regulaof continuous learning and company improvement. Our protions of the countries in which they operate, and we monitor grams encourage all stakeholders to communicate their contheir adherence to our Code of Business Conduct, Human Rights, Whistleblower and cerns, questions and suggestions. We take all concerns and feedback seriously and other policies. We prioritize the use of local suppliers to generate employment opcommit to addressing concerns and supporting any community member seeking portunities and local economic development for neighboring communities. protection of their human rights. Security and Human Rights Cumulative Impacts We are committed to managing the security of our operations Whether we are operating in historical mining jurisdictions like in a socially responsible manner for the protection of employCanada and Peru, or in countries new to mining like Guatemaees, local stakeholders and site assets. We recognize that effecla, we recognize that mining companies, and the private sector tive security is a combination of physical security measures and more generally, can have a collective impact larger than one strong community support. The security framework employed mine alone. We take responsibility for mitigating the impacts of across our operations demonstrates our commitment to internaour operations and are committed to driving initiatives that bring tional standards – specifically the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights positive cumulative impacts to the countries in which we operate. We promote the – which is embodied throughout our operational security structure. The framework Voluntary Principles and the Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative, and we seek colemploys a stringent process of assessment, training, evaluation and auditing of all laborations with our peer companies and suppliers to limit the impacts from production, security providers. processing and transport of minerals. In 2017, both corporate and operational employees received corporate governance training on the Human Rights Policy and Code of Business Conduct. We also require every manager to review and commit to these and other policies through Tahoe’s WeComply annual training program. In 2017, we began the development of a human rights due diligence protocol for high risk operations and, in early 2018, contracted an independent third party to perform a human rights impact assessment in Guatemala. Throughout this report, we explain our management approach to human rights topics most relevant to the mining sector. These include workplace rights, non-discrimination procedures, prohibition of forced and child labor, indigenous rights, access to land, and the security and well-being of local stakeholders. 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 13 Our Approach formance to our corporate SustainGRIEVANCE ability Committee. Each operation MANAGEMENT strives to resolve any complaints or concerns on the local level, while our Tahoe maintains grievance manBoard’s Health, Safety, Environment agement programs at our operaand Community Committee reviews tions to allow stakeholders to make grievance data, strategizes to adcomplaints, submit suggestions and/ dress trends and becomes involved, or ask questions. Given the culturas appropriate, to resolve persistent al and social variations in the counor corporate-related issues. tries where we operate, each of our mines has its own internal procedures Grievances, whether complaints for grievance reporting, tracking and received through the operationalresolution. Our overarching goal is to level grievance mechanism or in listen, understand and resolve issues other forms, are regularly monitored brought to us by stakeholders. and reported to the Sustainability Committee. Grievance management We work to align with the United performance and key trends and Nations Guiding Principles on Busiopportunities for organizational ness and Human Rights to provide improvement in response to recurrent rights-compatible grievance mangrievances are reported and agement. Each operation reports discussed with the Board’s HSEC on grievance management perCommittee. MSR employee listening to mine neighbor. 2017 GRIEVANCES NUMBER OF PERCENT RESOLVED GRIEVANCES WITHIN 45 DAYS MSR 90 100% PERU 127 55%(1) CANADA 29 100% Notes: (1) Tahoe Peru’s new grievance management platform was launched in late 2017. The team is now focused on improving response time and resolution of grievances within target timeframe. 14 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Our Approach Minera San Rafael In 2017, Minera San Rafael (MSR) continued the effective use of Tú Cuentas, a non-judicial grievance mechanism and management system. When Escobal resumes operations, we will provide additional training on Tú Cuentas to renew awareness near the municipalities where we operate, and to ensure everyone is aware of how to access the “This is a company mechanism. that wants to do In 2017, MSR advanced the company’s voluntary things right and is home purchase program for the nearby community focused on continuous of La Cuchilla. The process started in 2016 after MSR improvement. received complaints through Tú Cuentas about alMSR staff engage CONRED on land issues in La Cuchilla. Mining has a great leged effects of mining on the community. In 2017, the disaster relief agency of Guatemala, CONRED, ing the Escobal mining license to Tahoe’s Guateresponsibility to completed a study that reached the conclusion malan subsidiary, MSR. In the event consultation leverage nonthat the 71 families living at La Cuchilla commuis ordered by the Court, MSR is more than willing renewable resources to assist in any government consultation process. nity should be relocated due to the naturally unto generate positive Tahoe is also in the process of finalizing an Indigestable lands as a result of steep slopes and heavy development and rain. According to the CONRED study, the unstable nous Peoples Policy. MSR is actively engaging with welfare for people. lands were unrelated to mining or other activities Xinka and other indigenous communities in our reFor me, it is important at Escobal. Although not caused by MSR activities, gion to understand how we can partner with them to show how modern MSR initiated a program to buy land and to provide to advance their interests. mining works and support to enable community members to move Since June 7, 2017, a group of protesters near the how it can generate to safer living conditions. MSR contracted with an town of Casillas, approximately 16 kilometers from the NGO specialized in relocation work to monitor the benefits for society. Escobal Mine, has blocked the primary highway that process. By the end of 2017, 65 landowners had sold I think that both connects Guatemala City to San Rafael las Flores their property, with six remaining to be purchased Tahoe and Minera and our Escobal Mine. The roadblock has limited the by MSR. San Rafael have the transport of necessary supplies and fuel for the purelements to bring this As explained in the section About Tahoe in this repose of mine maintenance, although MSR has mainport, a non-governmental organization, CALAS, tained sufficient supplies to ensure compliance with kind of benefit.” brought legal action against Guatemala’s Ministry environmental mitigation measures. We have contin—JOHN SERNA, MSR SUSTAINABILITY DIRECTOR of Energy and Mines (MEM) for the agency’s lack ued to engage with community leaders, indigenous of advanced (pre-development) consultation with groups, the local church, government agencies, and Xinka indigenous communities. The action alleges international mediation experts to positive effect. that MEM violated the Xinka indigenous people’s MSR has recently seen significant progress aimed at right of consultation under International Labor Orpeacefully resolving the roadblock and constructive ganization Convention 169, in advance of grantdialogue continues today. 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 15 Our Approach Tahoe Peru we received 127 complaints: 55 at La Arena and 72 at Shahuindo. Our legal, social, In October 2017, Tahoe Peru launched the land management, environmental and perTú Cuentas grievance-reporting platform mitting teams from both La Arena and Shafor local community members, employees, huindo diligently worked to resolve these suppliers and contractors. Tú Cuentas is a past complaints that involved availability non-judicial grievance mechanism and of jobs, expectations regarding land acmanagement system aligned with the UN quisition, water scarcity, and contracting Guiding Principles on Business and Human opportunities to provide employment and Rights for providing effective rights-comcontract rental equipment to the mines. This patible grievance management. Like Guaeffort included the completion of a registry temala, it utilizes NAVEX Global’s case of company commitments that involved management software, which provides for construction of water systems, upgrading multiple communication options and facilitates tracking, organizing and managing local education, improvement of produccomplaints. The Tú Cuentas platform replactive infrastructure, and development of proes the former grievance system that was pricedures for contracting local people and marily managed by the site-level sustainabilcompanies for work at our operations. The ity teams. The new platform allows Tahoe work continues into 2018. Peru’s Compliance Officer and manageWhile several parcels of land were acquired ment to respond to claims in a timely manner. In 2018, we expect to achieve resolution over the year, only one acquisition at La of grievances within the target timeframe. Arena involved relocation of a family. We Annual employee governance training at La Arena Mine. did not record any grievances or significant During the fourth quarter of 2017, after iniissues in 2017 related to land-use, indigenous tiation of the grievance-reporting platform, and/or customary rights. 16 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Our Approach Tahoe Canada Tahoe Canada administers an effective internal database system to track, manage, respond to, and resolve grievances within target timeframes. Tahoe operates its Canadian mines near the historic mining town of Timmins. We understand that trucking through Timmins, by us, other mining companies and non-mining related industries, may impose unwelcome effects to many residents of the city, including noise, dust, vibrations, and wear and tear on local roads. Tahoe Canada responded to several complaints in 2017 regarding truck traffic “Transparency is in the community. Tahoe Canada is currently working with another mining company to fund a traffic study and to assess potential community by-pass routes that might alleviate some of the impacts of shaped by operating trucking ore and tailings through Timmins. in a way that allows others to see what actions are performed, thus allowing employees, First Nations, communities, and regulators to work with openness, accountability and with precise communication.” —CELINA WATSON, ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNICIAN, TIMMINS WEST MINE CLOCKWISE FROM LEFT: View of Timmins West operations. One of the trucks used to haul ore from Timmins West Mine to the Bell Creek mill. Safety monitoring of underground hoist cables at Bell Creek Mine. 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 17 Our Approach Tahoe. Nonetheless, we voluntarily joined the case as a named party and the legal challenge has affected our operations. In 2017, we took proactive steps to strengthen our ethical business management. We retained an independent legal expert to conduct a corruption risk assessment for our Latin American operations. We used recommendations from this assessment to implement a new stand-alone Anti-Corruption Policy (which can be viewed under the Corporate Governance section of our website at www.tahoeresources.com) and to improve vendor selection policies, government engagement and hospitality protocols. We established new Chief Compliance Officer positions to oversee Tahoe’s anti-corruption initiatives and to promote integrity of conduct for our management and employees. We recognize the importance of anti-corruption values and prevention, especially in Guatemala and Peru where corruption risks are higher than in North America. Our stand-alone Anti-Corruption Policy provides detailed information about anti-corruption risks and instructions on how to manage those risks. The Policy makes clear that Tahoe will not Tahoe Peru supports local women in productive hen tolerate bribery or other improper contributions and interacbreeding projects. tions, and that special care must be taken in relationships with government officials. Tahoe is and will continue to be vigilant ETHICAL AND LEGAL BUSINESS MANAGEMENT to mitigate corruption risks in our daily business. All Tahoe emTahoe is committed to conducting business according to the ployees and contractors are responsible for upholding the strict highest ethical, professional and legal standards. There were no standards in Tahoe’s Anti-Corruption Policy and for avoiding sitlegal actions during 2017 regarding anti-competitive behavior uations that may give the appearance of improper influence. or violations of any anti-trust and monopoly legislation. In addiIn 2017, Tahoe updated and enhanced the company’s 24tion, for 2017, Tahoe was in full compliance with laws and regulahour Whistleblower hotline to support our Whistleblower Policy tions in social and economic arenas, including those advanced that governs the reporting and investigation of allegations of by international declarations, conventions and treaties, as well suspected improper activities with respect to accounting, interas national, sub-national, regional and local regulations. There nal accounting controls or auditing matters, and violations of were no cases brought against Tahoe through international disthe law. Our Whistleblower Policy is available on our compapute mechanisms or national dispute mechanisms supervised by ny’s website at www.tahoeresources.com. This hotline enables government authorities. As explained in the section About Tahoe stakeholders to seek advice or report concerns about ethical in this report, the allegations regarding the lack of consultation matters, unlawful behavior and organizational integrity. Whiswith the Xinka indigenous people in Guatemala was directed tleblower issues are handled on a case-by-case basis and with at Guatemala’s Ministry of Energy and Mines, and not against the utmost care. 18 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Our Approach STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT KEY Tahoe considers any person, organization or government authority that has an interest in our activities to STAKEHOLDER be a stakeholder, including those who are potentially affected by our operations and/or influence our INTERESTS business decisions. This includes our employees, host communities, suppliers and contractors, shareholdIN 2017 ers, analysts, environmental, social and governance (ESG) firms, governments, regulators, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and customers. + Financial and operating Tahoe believes effective stakeholder engagement is performance founded on transparency and meaningful dialogue. We work to build relationships with our stakeholders + Environmental stewardship and value their opinions. We welcome various per+ Safe and healthy operations spectives and feedback. Such dialogue keeps us informed about the key areas of interest of our diverse Over 1,300 people visited our Escobal, La Arena, Shahuindo, Bell Creek and Timmins West mines in 2017 to learn how we do business at Tahoe. + Employment and training stakeholders and informs decision making throughopportunities out the company. Within our corporate office, the executive manage+ Consultation efforts with ment team coordinates with investors, analysts, the We work as a team to identify key stakeholders, indigenous peoples public at large, and international organizations and which stakeholders to engage, how and when to groups. Stakeholder engagement activities are re+ Community investment and engage with them, and how to proactively reach ported back to the Board of Directors, primarily as a development programs and understand perspectives of those groups and function of the Sustainability Committee. organizations that are critical of Tahoe and the min+ Business integrity and human ing industry. Recognizing that interests and concerns rights practices One of our key stakeholder engagement objecchange over time and there will always be differenctives, in alignment with the United Nations Guiding + Workforce inclusion and es of opinions, we seek to balance and align interests Principles on Business and Human Rights, is to ensure diversity of all stakeholders in relation to our business. Interestwe are accessible to our stakeholders so that we ingly, most of our stakeholders shared similar key intermay hear, understand and address their concerns + Supply chain management ests and concerns in 2017. and provide remedy, if and when needed. Our ex+ Energy use and efficiency Each of Tahoe’s operations has a dedicated sustainperience in 2017 in Guatemala has shown us we ability and social management team that leads dineed to improve our approach to early, ongoing, rect engagement with impacted local communities, broad and inclusive engagement. We need to anauthorities and development partners. As appropriticipate better, and improve our response time and ate, these on-site teams coordinate with the enviapproach to seeking dialogue and peaceful resoluronment, land, legal, labor and operational departtion to community concerns as they arise, and even ments as part of engagement activities. before they arise. 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 19 Our Approach GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP At Tahoe, we understand and prioritize the importance of being a responsible global citizen. We aim to promote best practices through participation in and support of organizations that share our values. 2017 RECOGNITION Business for Social Responsibility • Tahoe Resources and Tahoe Resources is a member of BSR, a global nonprofit organization which works Executive Vice President with a network of more than 250 member companies and other partners to develop Corporate Affairs & sustainable business strategies and solutions through consulting, research, and crossGeneral Counsel Edie sector collaboration. Hofmeister selected as a finalist for the CANADIAN GENERAL COUNSEL AWARDS in The Global Reporting Initiative Environmental, Social and Governance Tahoe utilizes the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) reporting framework, which category. requires organizations to measure their performance against specific economic, environmental and social benchmarks. We apply the GRI Standards and Mining • Director Tanya and Metals Sector Supplement to provide comprehensive information about our Jakusconek awarded sustainability performance. The Top Gun Analyst award for 2017 by Brendan Wood United Nations Global Compact International. In 2018, Tahoe Resources became a participant in the United Nations Global • Tahoe Canada swept Compact corporate responsibility initiative, committing the company to the Global to victory at the Timmins Compact’s 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and District Mine Rescue anti-corruption. competition for the second year in a row, winning the overall competition as well as International Zinc Association awards for the best first aid team and highest Since 2015, Tahoe has been a member of the International Zinc Association, a nonwritten exam (MCQ) profit organization that promotes the role that zinc plays through innovative programs scores. in the areas of human health and crop nutrition, environment and sustainable development, and technology. 20 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Our Approach In each of our jurisdictions, we are very active in many local and regional organizations. This is another way that we work TAHOE CANADA BELL CREEK AND TIMMINS WEST hard to be a good member of the communities and regions MEMBERSHIPS AND AFFILIATIONS where we operate. • Ontario Mining Association • Canadian Dam Association DEVELOPMENT PARTNERSHIPS • Northern College MINERA SAN RAFAEL ESCOBAL MEMBERSHIPS AND AFFILIATIONS • The Guatemala Chamber of Industry • The Guatemala Chamber of Commerce • The Canadian Chamber of Commerce in Guatemala (CANCHAM) • The American Chamber of Commerce in Guatemala (AMCHAM) • Association for the Promotion of Freedom and Sustainable Development • The Action Center for Corporate Social Responsibility in Guatemala • Alliance for Nutrition Foundation • The Entrepreneurs Foundation for Education DEVELOPMENT PARTNERSHIPS • Technical Institute for Training and Productivity • Puente TAHOE PERU LA ARENA AND SHAHUINDO MEMBERSHIPS AND AFFILIATIONS • Peruvian National Mining, Energy and Oil Society • Mining Safety Institute DEVELOPMENT PARTNERSHIPS • ProDiálogo – Conflict Prevention and Resolution Organization • Network of Social Development Institute (Red Social) • Cajabamba Municipal Government • Cajabamba Regional Government • Cachachi Municipal Government • Health Network Sánchez Carrión • The Local Education Management Unit of Sánchez Carrión • Sánchez Carrión Municipal Government • Sanagorán Municipal Government • North Sierra Project Interaction of Peruvian women at • Private University of the North Shahuindo community gardens. • TECSUP Non-Profit Educational Organization 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 21 ernance and Nominating Committee. Management OUR EMPLOYEES 03 OUR PEOPLE Our employees form the foundation of our business. The development and retention of an exceptional pool of at each operation implements these policies in coordination with the corporate office. We make our policies available in English and Spanish. talented, well-trained and motivated employees are critical to the growth and success of our operations. Each jurisdiction also manages a set of human resources policies that provide a clear outline of our expectations We place the health and safety of all employees at the for behavior and conditions of employment, as well as forefront and adhere to government labor laws and employment benefits and opportunities. Each location international human rights standards in all jurisdictions has a variety of channels for resolving disputes whether where we operate. As enunciated in our Code of Busithrough the normal chain of command, Tú Cuentas, or a ness Conduct and Human Rights Policy, Tahoe follows collective bargaining grievance procedure. human rights-compliant fair labor practices, including the prohibition of forced labor or child labor, the creation of As of December 31, 2017, Tahoe employed 2,896 ema safe, secure and non-discriminatory work environment, ployees. This includes 995 employees at Minera San Rafathe commitment to fair compensation, the freedom of el and the Escobal Mine in Guatemala, 1,197 employees association, and the protection of the right to collective at Tahoe Peru, 675 employees at Tahoe Canada, and bargaining. 29 employees at our corporate office in Reno, Nevada, USA. We do not have temporary employees at the corThe Tahoe Board of Directors approves our corporate porate office or in our operations. About 10% of our workpersonnel-related policies through the Corporate Govforce are women, a number we are working to increase. EMPLOYEES 889 males / 89.3% 106 females / 10.7% MSR Tahoe Canada 609 males / 90.2% 66 females / 9.8% Tahoe Peru 1,106 males / 92.4% 91 females / 7.6% LOCAL HIRING 63% locals 37% non-locals MSR Tahoe Canada 88% locals 12% non-locals Tahoe Peru 63% locals 37% non-locals 22 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Our People MSR managed to maintain its Escobal workforce through 2017 LOCAL EMPLOYMENT following the temporary suspension of the mining license in One of our greatest opportunities to advance our local comJuly 2017. Unfortunately, in 2018, after extended delays by the munities is through local employment and capacity building. Guatemalan Constitutional Court to rule on the case regardLocal employment directly contributes to the economic and ing our license, MSR had no choice but to reduce the worksocial development of the surrounding communities. Hiring loforce. This situation was extremely disappointing to Tahoe, as cally is a commitment we make to the communities closest to we had worked very hard at Escobal to build a cohesive and our operations, as well as to our host countries, and we strongly proficient workforce. believe it makes us an employer of choice. Tahoe Canada is pleased that the Company has been able About 1,975 employees, or approximately 70% of our total opto accomplish most of the Bell Creek shaft expansion project using our own internal resources, which includes engineering, erational workforce, are local hires, who come from the direct procurement, supervision and management personnel. We area of influence of our operations. In addition, 2,825 employare only supplementing our workforce on this project from exees out of the total of 2,867 who are employed at our operaternal parties where we require key specialized services or skills. tions (over 98% of our workforce) are host country nationals of We have added 85 people to our workforce during this project. the countries where we operate. In 2017, Tahoe Peru hired additional management personnel Tahoe has established practices that prioritize local hiring at all to oversee a variety of expansion projects at the Shahuindo our operations, and we retain expatriate technical and manaMine, including the construction of the new crushing and aggerial expertise only when it is not available in local communiglomeration (C&A) facility. The actual construction work for ties. To further these efforts, expatriates receive cultural training the C&A facility was completed by external contractors, but, upon arriving in their host location and are directed to identify, as the Shahuindo Mine expands from 12,000 tonnes per day train and mentor local employees to take these positions in the to 36,000 tonnes per day, we expect direct employment will future. increase by several hundred employees. “Working in Tahoe Peru is a very pleasant experience for the opportunity to collaborate with a very professional and committed team. Aligned with the company policy, we continue to implement improvements in the management of safety and environment. All this without neglecting operational excellence and contributing to the development of our neighboring communities.” —LUIS VARGAS, TAHOE PERU SHAHUINDO OPERATIONS MANAGER 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 23 Our People igation of health and safety is never compromised. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY We conduct our business to the highest safety stanEssential to Tahoe’s success is a safe and healthy dards, from the planning and execution of our opwork environment for our employees, contractors erational safety programs to the transportation of and neighboring communities. We recognize that a supplies and products through our communities. A high standard of safety requires a commitment from strong culture of health and safety leads to efficient every person in our organization. and successful operations that benefit employees, communities and shareholders alike. In 2017, we had no fatalities at any of our mines. We meet our health and safety commitments through “Our success depends In 2017, the Escobal, Shahuindo and La Arena mines policies and procedures, reporting measures, ongoing on the capabilities each had stretches of time in excess of one million safety training and benchmarking. Our formal comman-hours worked without a lost time accident. Of and commitment mitments comply with the International Labor Orgacourse, our goal is zero incidents, and we strive to nization (ILO) Convention No. 176, as well as relevant of our people. They establish a mindset at our operations where health laws and regulations that govern workplace health are our core strength and safety are never compromised. Our leadership and safety in each of the jurisdictions where we opand we are focused and employees work together proactively, and miterate. Tahoe’s Code of Business Conduct emphasizes on attracting and that accidents and injuries are preventable and reretaining experienced quires employees to comply with all relevant safety and skilled talent, and health rules. Our Corporate Social Responsibility building on a culture Policy requires regular health and safety reviews that that puts safety at its document lost time accidents and other safety statistics for our employees and contractors. On a quarcore and supports our terly basis, each operation reports health and safety people to reach their information to the Board’s HSEC Committee. full potential.” —PETER VAN ALPHEN, A Culture of Safety TAHOE CANADA VP OF OPERATIONS Tahoe continuously seeks to improve and expand its initiatives and employee education and training programs to create and build a culture of health and safety, promote hazard and risk awareness, and emphasize strict adherence to health and safety policies and procedures. We conduct mandatory safety training at all our sites; this includes daily safety talks, weekly management reviews, task-specific training, hazardous materials training, and monthly Maintenance inspection of underground loader and annual safety trainings. To help promote safety bucket at MSR. at our operations, we provide employee incentives, giveaways, motivational speakers and engage in communication campaigns. 24 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Our People Current Safety Initiatives To track and manage observed job hazards, Tahoe Canada has initiated a “proactive” campaign. The company uses industrial-duty tablets to populate a safety-oriented database, called e-compliance, to record hazards in real time. Once a hazard is recorded, it is immediately uploaded to Tahoe Canada’s management team who can monitor mitigation and the elimination of the hazard. The goal of this campaign is to remove a safety risk before the hazard can trigger an incident, as well as to record a history of the problem to help identify if a systemic safety condition exists. In 2017, Tahoe Peru continued its hand safety program – a campaign dedicated to preventing hand injuries, which are the principle and persistent safety issue at our Peruvian operations. Given our attention to this issue, we were able to reduce hand-related accidents by nearly 25% over 2016, but we will stay focused on this issue to strive for zero incidents. In addition, in 2017, Tahoe Peru shifted emphasis from merely monitoring and reacting to test results at our site laboratories to a program of ventilation system modifications and proactive analytical practices to reduce exposure to heavy metals. Although mine operations were suspended in mid-July of 2017, MSR spent the last half of the year working to update safety training programs, maintain and improve safety equipment, and to provide additional focused training time on firefighting and personnel rescue practices and procedures. Health and Safety Monitoring Tahoe has established company-wide metrics to monitor adherence to safety goals, and we closely monitor the all occurrence incident rate (AOIR) at each operation for injury type and frequency rate. We also conduct frequent formal health and safety reviews at each of our operations. We use these reviews and reports to evaluate health and safety occurrences and highlight training needs. TOP: MSR employees receive regular health screenings at the medical unit on site. BOTTOM: Mine rescue training at Bell Creek operation. 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 25 Our People 2017 SAFETY PERFORMANCE STATISTICS OCCUPATIONAL (1) RESTRICTED WORK ALL OCCURRENCE OPERATION ABSENTEE RATE (2) TYPES OF INJURIES MEDICAL INJURIES (3) LOST TIME INJURIES (4) LOST DAYS DISEASE RATE INJURIES (5) INCIDENT RATE MSR MALE 0.84% 0 Cuts, bruises, 6 1 2 19 0.22 trauma, FEMALE 0.16% 0 fractures 0 0 0 0 0 TAHOE CANADA (6) MALE Strains, 42 3 26 47.4 5.4 3.85%(7) N/A(8) lacerations, FEMALE contusion 0 0 0 0 0 TAHOE PERU MALE 0.19% 0 Cuts, bruises, 23 4 1 319 0.98 strains, FEMALE 0.18% 0 contusions 0 0 0 0 0 Notes: (1) Frequency rates in safety data are for 200,000 hours worked and represent data for both employees and contractors. (2) Absentee rate does not include work-related injury rates, nor contractor absentee rates. Annual information for Tahoe Peru absentee rate is not retained given inconsequential levels of absenteeism. (3) Medical injuries are those requiring the attention of trained medical personnel before employees or contractors can return to work with restriction. (4) Lost time injuries are those that prevent a person from reporting to work in any capacity. Time away from work to seek medical assistance does not count as lost time. (5) Restricted work injuries are those that prevent an employee or contractor from performing at least some of the normally assigned duties for their job classification. (6) Tahoe Canada uses the guidance set forth by the U.S. Occupational Health and Safety Administration for recording and reporting accident statistics. (7) Not separated by gender. (8) Not calculated as a separate rate. Occupational disease would be classified as either a medical or lost time injury. FATALITY RATE YEAR 2014 2015 2016 2017 FATALITIES 0 1 employee 0 0 We regularly monitor levels of cyanide, lead, diesel particulate matter, silica, noise and other industrial contaminants at our operations to minimize exposure of employees and contractors, as well as at surrounding communities to identify potential health hazards. Although Tahoe’s employees and workers are not exposed to occupation-related diseases, we perform regular employee health screenings. Both employees and visitors are screened to ensure they are fit for working at or visiting our mines at altitude. Pregnant and nursing women are reassigned from work environments where exposure to lead concentrate is possible. We also provide healthcare services such as diagnostic testing, physical exams, and preventative and urgent care at the on-site medical clinics in Guatemala and Peru and at the first aid room in LEFT: CPR training in Peru. Canada. RIGHT: Monitoring of electrical systems important at all Tahoe operations. 26 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Our People Health and Safety Committees Tahoe has health and safety committees at our operations that are comprised of management and non-management representatives from each department. The goal of these committees is to foster and improve safety practices at our opera“Tahoe offers tions. opportunities for In Canada, over 7% of our workforce development and serve on our health and safety compersonal growth; it mittee, which is co-chaired by workinvests in Guatemala ers and senior management. At both to develop talent, our Bell Creek and Timmins West operations, we follow Ontario health and better income and safety regulations, as well as those quality of life for mandates established by our internal people. Modern life health and safety committee. would be impossible without mining and Similarly, in Guatemala at our Escobal Mine, our site health and safemy job means the ty committee is comprised of both possibility of sharing workers and management. This comwith other people the MSR staff participate in health and safety training activity. mittee meets at least monthly to rebenefits from mining, view safety issues and concerns. The so that they, like me, group is tasked with improving safety performance and instilling in our employees and contractors a may develop more culture of accident prevention, both at the mine and in everyday life. abilities to improve In Peru, both the La Arena and Shahuindo mines have occupational health and safety committees that their families’ income.” offer management recommendations and controls on safety issues, as well as work for continuous im—ROBERTO DIEGUEZ, provement for the sites’ health and safety. Each committee has a minimum of 20 employees; 50% of the MSR SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT SUPERVISOR committee are employees elected by the employees themselves, while the other 50% are selected by the Company. Employees are encouraged to report any occupational health and safety issues through Tú Cuentas, the supervisory chain of command, or directly to safety professionals at each site. We also make an external community contact number available in each jurisdiction for stakeholders to report concerns. 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 27 Our People The highly-trained and skilled MSR mine rescue personnel developed an Emergency Master Plan for our Guatemala Escobal Mine that is reviewed by department managers and approved by MSR’s VP of Operations. We conduct simulations to measure our capacity to respond to emergency events and expand our abilities as appropriate to the results of the simulations. MSR also has the support of CONRED, the National Coordination for Disaster Reduction of Guatemala, when a loss is beyond the control of the Company. In Canada, we are subject to the Federal Emergency Management Act and follow Tahoe Canada swept to victory at the Timmins District Mine Rescue competition for the regulated emergency rethe second year in a row, winning overall sponse guidance from municcompetition, along with the best first aid team ipal, regional, provincial and and the highest written exam (MCQ) scores. federal levels. Our emergency After this win, our team advanced to the allOntario Mine Rescue Provincial competition plans are vetted by communion June 7, 2017, winning Overall Runner-up. Tahoe Canada mine rescue team honing their fire-fighting ty emergency response teams skills at a competition in Goderich, Ontario. (fire, police and city authorities). Canada has a trucking-specific crisis management plan, Emergency Readiness and Accident Prevention and we conduct general community consultations and hold public meetings to gain input from the local communities. Tahoe’s first priority is to avoid safety hazards through good engineering, vigilant management, proactive employee training, We also have emergency plans in place at our La Arena and regular equipment maintenance and first-rate personal protecShahuindo operations that align and comply with the Peruvitive equipment. However, in the event of an emergency, each an Safety, Occupational, Health and Environment Act. Highly of our operations has a well-trained emergency response team trained brigadistas are prepared to address emergency events in place, with emergency response and crisis management that could affect the health and safety of employees, contracplans covering a wide variety of potential emergency scetors and visitors. We review these plans on an annual basis or when necessitated by changes in law, with updates or changes narios. Our Corporate Crisis Management Committee, led by made as appropriate. Tahoe’s Security Director, oversees crisis management planning and promotes the principal objective of controlling an incident Emergency contact numbers are accessible to stakeholders for before it becomes a crisis. each of our operations. 28 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Our People RECRUITMENT, RETENTION AND DEVELOPMENT Tahoe aims to be a first-rate employer with competitive compensation, generous benefit packages, ongoing training and employee development, and education assistance. Our employees consistently earn well above minimum wage at all of our operations. Our objective is to attract, retain and develop successful employees. Each of our operations provides health and wellness benefits, life and disability insurance, parental leave where applicable, on-site medical attention, vacation and paid time off. We provide extensive training at all levels of operations, including induction courses, safety classes and job hazard analysis, compliance training and technical training. Education assistance and reimbursement programs are available to employees who wish to further their education and secure increased responsibility and growth at Tahoe. We have many employees across our operations pursuing advanced technical, engineering and business degrees with support of our educational assistance program. AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR PER EMPLOYEE MSR TAHOE CANADA TAHOE PERU MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE SENIOR MANAGEMENT 40 30 60 25 17 27 MIDDLE MANAGEMENT 22 16 75 40 85 56 ADMINISTRATIVE/ TECHNICAL 27 22 125 180 107 34 NON-MANAGEMENT (OPERATIONS) 22 35 160 100 110 142 Tahoe offers incentive programs to many of its employees. These programs are based on safety and operational performance factors, as well as individual performance. Employee performance at all our operations is evaluated through an annual review process where development goals and objectives are discussed between the supervisor and employee. In Peru, we adhere to mandatory labor law bonus programs. As a result of their profit sharing program, employees at our Peruvian operations have particular interest in operational profitability. In Canada and the United States, we maintain contribution retirement plans for our employees. All of our operations report high retention and relatively low turnover rates. For our Canadian operations, the 2017 turnMSR team training on Code of Ethics and Values. over rate approached 18%, while turnover rates for our Peruvian and Guatemalan mines were 9% and 7%, respectfully. 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 29 Our People EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Tahoe proactively communicates relevant information to employees, their families and the communities near our operations. The valuable feedback we receive through employee engagement helps us better understand our impact, assess emerging issues and adequately address concerns in a timely manner. Our communication initiatives include in-person meetings, health and safety committee meetings, mass email communications, message boards, one-on-one interaction with supervisors, newsletters and a corporate social responsibility blog. Employees are encouraged to engage directly with their supervisory chain of command to address concerns, issues, questions or commendations. Each operation practices an “open door” policy that encourages communication, feedback and discussion. Grievance mechanisms are accessible to all employees, as well as an independent 24-hour Whistleblower hotline for reporting financial and fraud matters. As Tahoe’s most important asset, we involve our employees in evaluating labor climate and working conditions. Approximately 36% of employees at La Arena and 46% of employees at Shahuindo are now covered by collective bargaining TOP: Forklift operator at MSR operation. agreements covering wages, benefits and work conditions. There are no employee unions or employee collective bargaining BOTTOM: Regular training promotes efficient and safety-minded employees. agreements at our Canadian or Guatemala operations. Rather, the MSR workforce has formed ASEMIS – Guatemalan employee association – to provide benefits to our employees, from low interest loans, to savings programs to dividends paid by various small enterprises partnerships with the Company (e.g., promoting the local coffee business). None of our operations had any lockouts in 2017. There was an employee strike at our Shahuindo Mine in March 2017, which lasted four days before its resolution. The reasons for the strike were employee expectations related to profit sharing and increased wages. We addressed wage increases and clarified profit sharing parameters (e.g., Shahuindo had not yet made a profit).The prompt resolution of the strike reflects Tahoe’s commitment to direct engagement with our employees and to their incentive programs. 30 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Our People INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY Tahoe recognizes a talented and diverse workforce provides a key competitive advantage and creates positive value for our shareholders, communities and employees. Diversity amongst our employees and directors also enhances our organizational strength and makes us more creative, flexible and productive. We remain committed to fostering an environment where individual differences and perspectives are always valued and respected. This means fostering a workplace free from discrimination of any kind, including on the basis of race, gender, national origin, citizenship, sexual orientation, disability or membership in any political, religious or union organization. In 2017, MSR received four claims of discrimination in the workplace through the Tú Cuentas system. The Compliance Officer and Human Resources department investigated each incident, took corrective action, and provided on-going monitoring of the employees involved in substantiated claims. At Tahoe, we are working to increase the participation of women, indigenous peoples and other minorities in our operations and supply chain. We believe in equal pay for equal work, and we are working across our operations to achieve equity. RATIO OF BASIC SALARY AND REMUNERATION OF WOMEN TO MEN Senior Management Ratio 1.02 : 1 Middle Management Ratio 0.92 : 1 Administrative/Technical Ratio 0.99 : 1 Non-Management (Operations) Ratio 0.85 : 1 In 2017, Tahoe approved a Diversity Policy that commits to ensuring an inclusive work atmosphere, developing and retaining talent at Tahoe, and promoting greater diversity among Tahoe’s Board of Directors. It reinforces our core values of respect and appreciation for differences in gender, age, ethnicity, indigenous origin or heritage, beliefs, sexual orientation, nationality and other characteristics that make us unique. This commitment is reinforced in our policies and procedures, including the Code of Business Conduct, the Human Rights Policy and the CSR Policy. These policies are available at www.tahoeresources.com. In 2018, Tahoe is implementing its diversity plan designed and led by human resources and management at each country operation. We prioritize hiring people from the local communities that surround our operations. We also want to build the skills of local workforces and provide employment-related programs and training to help young workers, women and indigenous people benefit from employment and procurement opportunities. EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT RATIO MEN WOMEN 7 males / 58% 5 females / 42% 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 31 04 OUR HOST COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS Tahoe strives to be a good neighbor to the local communities COMMUNITIES in the regions of our operations. We embrace the principle of AND COUNTRIES sustainability in mining, which means our development activities meet the needs of our present shareholders and stakeholders without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs. We integrate economic activity with business integrity, environmental stewardship, high standards of safety and social accountability. We focus our social investment efforts on improving education, natural resource management, and economic development opportunities. Our Community Relations and Sustainability teams engage daily with local community members and work diligently to develop strong and robust relationships with them. Constructive and regular engagement with local communities is also essential to understand local perspectives and development priorities, as well as to monitor impacts and concerns, and identify and manage social risks. Our conversations with the community are foundational to planning and making locally-relevant and appropriate social Tahoe is proud of its contributions to education programs in communities neighboring our operations. Here, young investments. Guatemalan students benefit from those contributions. Tahoe partners with a range of local development agencies and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). This approach allows us to use and leverage their expertise in economic and “Tahoe Canada plays a critical role in the Timmins community. social development in designing our community investment They provide tens of millions of dollars in annual salaries, purchase strategies. Through partnerships, we believe development local goods and services, and readily contribute to various programming creates more effective and long-term positive community groups and organizations. Their commitment towards outcomes and, most importantly, investments that can reach well beyond the life of the mine. We also find that our collabthe future gives confidence to our community. Tahoe shows us oration with NGOs, governments and local communities proevery day that they believe in the City of Timmins.” vides longer lasting effects by encouraging local stakeholder —STEVE BLACK, MAYOR CITY OF TIMMINS involvement in program planning and monitoring. 32 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Our Host Communities and Countries CANADA Economic and Community Development We are proud of our efforts to further First Nations economic deMining Skills Development: Tahoe velopment programs and to support local education, health inCanada continues to work with frastructure, and arts programs. These and other local initiatives Timmins Northern College on procontribute to a thriving and active community. grams geared toward developing job skills and technical training for Education community members to join the local mining industry. Tahoe CanMining Education: To further education in the fields of geology, ada supports the college’s technimining engineering and mineral processing, Tahoe Canada sponsored for the second year the Student-Industry Mineral Exploration cal training facility. We are in the Workshop (S-IMEW). This program brings aspiring geoscience stupreliminary stages of a new partdents from across nership with Northern College to Canada to Timmins support Northern College’s underfor a two-week, ground mining school. hands-on learning Timmins Hospital: Quality healthexperience at local care plays a significant role in attracting new talent to the Timmins mining operations, mining community. In 2017, Tahoe Canada donated $160,000 to including the Bell the Timmins and District Hospital Foundation to enhance patient Creek and Timmins West mines. S-IMEW care. Many of our employees and their families depend on the was founded in services at Timmins and District Hospital, and we want to ensure 2007 as a means to that they continue to have access to a state-of-the-art facility. expose interested students to the minNatural Resource Management ing industry before Fish Preservation: Tahoe Canada partners with Mattagami First NaGeoscience students learning firsthand about mining at our Bell Creek operation. entering the worktion, Flying Post First Nation, the local Ministry of Natural Resources force. and Forestry and other local sponsors to make a positive impact Music Education: Tahoe Canada has partnered with the non-profon the local fish population in Timmins. We support the Mattagami it music organization, Through Education Music Provides OpportuFirst Nation in a program that monitors and restores sturgeon in the nity (TEMPO), and the District School Board Ontario North East for Mattagami River as part of the Sturgeon Restoration Project. Tahoe the past three years to support music education for high school also supports a program to rehabilitate the Walleye population in and vocational students. TEMPO provides a five-month course that the Mattagami Lake watershed. The restoration project educates gives students the opportunity to improve their music skills and exstudents at more than 10 different schools in Ontario about the implore careers in the industry. Music professionals instruct the stuportance of species preservation and teaches how to manage a dents in songwriting, music theory, marketing, finance, copyright “micro-hatchery”, which the students are using to raise and hatch law and entrepreneurship. trout for release into the lake system around their communities. 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 33 Our Host Communities and Countries GUATEMALA MSR’s economic development program aims to transform natural resources to generate human, economic and material value in a responsible way. Education and Cultural Heritage Vocational Training Center: In alliance with the Guatemalan Technical Training Institute, MSR has provided vocational skills training since 2013 to local and regional residents at its Vocational Training Center. The Center provides courses in technical careers including welding, electrical apprenticeship, apparel construction, cosmetology, computer skills, gastronomy, jewelry making and baking, among others. Aprendamos Juntas: Through Aprendamos Juntas (We Learn Together), MSR continues to partner with the well-respected Guatemalan non-profit organization, Puente, to administer a food security program in communities near the Escobal Mine. Health development indicators, such as growth and nutritional status of the participants’ children, are measured and tracked as part of the program. Over 800 women have completed the program consisting of hygiene, nutrition and health trainings as well as donation and installation of fuel efficient stoves, water filters and water collection systems. A two-year evaluation of the program is being performed and preliminary results indicate a reduction in acute malnutrition among children participating in the program. CLOCKWISE FROM TOP: Showcasing jewelry and local entrepreneur skills learned from programs sponsored by MSR. Learning new skills at the Vocational Training Center. Working with local farmers to improve egg production. 34 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Our Host Communities and Countries Economic Development Entrepreneurism: In 2017, MSR continued its financial support and engagement with the non-profit organization FUNDES, which oversees an economic program to support the development of local businesses in San Rafael las Flores. FUNDES’s mission is to strengthen the business capacity of local commercial enterprises to improve their market reach and to achieve sustainable results. As part of this program, MSR works with women’s associations, assisting them in developing their own small businesses with training in product development, marketing efforts and access to markets. Sustainable Farms: MSR promotes sustainable farming practices in coordination with local communities. The majority of rural populations in MSR’s area of influence rely on the farming of grains, onions and coffee. MSR created the Sustainable Farms program to ensure food security for families and generate income through commercialization of products produced on these farms. Since 2015, thirteen sustainable farms have been created in San Rafael las Flores and Casillas benefiting 100 farmers, primarily women, and providing their families with healthy food and additional income. MSR provides training and technical assistance on how to make organic fertilizers and rainwater harvesting systems, constructs poultry houses and livestock sheds, and donates the initial cost for the animals and food. MSR employee helping to teach and promote sustainable farming practices. Natural Resource Management Reforestation Program: Rapid population growth and the high demand for energy have negatively impacted Guatemala’s forestry resources. To help reduce deforestation in the region, MSR’s reforestation program planted more than 300,000 trees on over 300 hectares in Santa Rosa Department. Further, to increase small landowners’ incomes in the region, MSR helped locals design forest management plans to obtain government subsidies that promote reforestation. 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 35 Our Host Communities and Countries PERU In Peru, we provide strategic investments in nutrition, education, agriculture, water and health infrastructure, and projects that stimulate the local economy and capacity development, particularly towards improving women’s economic development opportunities. Education and Cultural Heritage Education Campaign: Reaffirming our commitment to education and improving quality of life, Tahoe Peru continues its education campaigns in communities near the Shahuindo and La Arena operations. Tahoe Peru has invested in the building or refurbishing of school infrastructure, including installation of seven pre-fabricated classrooms at local educational institutions. We also annually deliver school uniforms, packages and backpacks with supplies, and teaching kits and materials to local community schools. Healthy Homes: Tahoe Peru continues a health and education program intended to teach families how to improve health and nutrition by establishing healthy environments and building healthy eating habits. The program includes “healthy practices” sessions aimed specifically at mothers and local women on topics such as family management and empowerment workshops. Another component of the program is training for parents on issues of family management and reduction of domestic violence. Tahoe Peru also assists in training of health promoters in surrounding villages. CLOCKWISE FROM TOP: School children give Tahoe Peru a “thumbs-up” for their investments in local education. Improving guinea pig breeding programs important to local economic development. Tahoe Peru’s Healthy Homes program trains local community health promoters. 36 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Our Host Communities and Countries Economic Development Productive Projects: Tahoe Peru provides assistance to local farmers and cooperatives to improve their agricultural practices. Through the Expansion of Agricultural Frontiers Project, we work with enterprising local farmers to promote avocado productivity and granadilla crop modernization. Guinea pigs and hen breeding projects are also underway, including support in construction and maintenance of sheds, nests, and feeding areas. Training in potato, bean and pea cultivation is another of our partnership programs involving local farmers. Tahoe Peru also helps to strengthen capacities of local producers in business management and facilitates connections to agro-export companies. Empowering Women: Empoderamiento Mujer is a program specifically aimed at improving women’s economic development through guinea pig and hen breeding, bakery businesses, and handicraft and textiles production. Supply Chain Development: Tahoe Peru has obtained funding from Innova Peru for the execution of the project known as Strengthening of the Corporate Management of Local Suppliers. This program is aimed at improving the quality and capacity of local businesses to provide goods and services to Tahoe Peru and other mining companies in the region. Natural Resource Management Tahoe Peru supports programs to help local farmers. Reforestation Program: To reduce the effects of deforestation, more than 7,000 pine trees and 1,000 taya trees were planted in the region. In addition, with the help of Tahoe Peru’s delivery of seedlings, technical advice and market research, avocado and passion fruit planting has increased. 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 37 Our Host Communities and Countries for us to reaffirm our commitment to responsible practices and INDIGENOUS PEOPLES ENGAGEMENT strengthen our relations with indigenous communities, as well as to guide operations and promote accountability with our local communities. The Indigenous Peoples Policy will provide a framework for facilitating honest, transparent dialogue between the Company and indigenous peoples intended to foster a mutual understanding of perspectives, cultures, and goals. It is aimed at creating positive outcomes, such as agreements to help communities manage impacts and receive direct social benefit from mining activities. We plan to take a participatory approach to developing the Policy to ensure feedback from indigenous populations near our operations in Guatemala, Peru and Canada. Our approach to engaging and supporting indigenous peoples is also articulated in our Human Rights Policy. We understand the importance of protecting indigenous rights, particularly where our operations take place in or adjacent to indigenous peoples’ territories. Our sustainability strategy aims to ensure continued respect for the social, economic and cultural rights of indigenous peoples, effective representation and participation of indigenous peoples located in the areas of impact of our operations, proactive engagement and dialogue with those critical of or concerned about our operations, and accessible and effective access to remedy in the event that our policies are not followed. Canada In Canada, consultations for our projects have been undertaken Hoop dancing at local Timmins fair by member of the with regulatory agencies, the general public, Wabun Tribal CounMattagami First Nation, highlighting a tradition of story-telling dancing cil, Flying Post, Mattagami, and Matachewan First Nations, who are passed on through the generations. represented by Wabun Tribal Council, the Wahgoshig First Nation, and the Métis Nation of Ontario. We maintain regular engagement Tahoe recognizes, respects and seeks to understand the rights, with Mattagami, Matachewan, Wahgoshig, and Flying Post First Nacultures, heritage, interests and aspirations of indigenous peotions. ples. Respect for the rights of indigenous peoples within the areas of impact or influence of our activity is an integral part of Tahoe’s Tahoe Canada has had an Impact Benefit Agreement (IBA) for approach to human rights and relations with indigenous commumany years with the Mattagami and Flying Post First Nations with nities. respect to the Timmins West Mine. We also have an IBA with Wahgoshig First Nation and the Wabun Tribal Council First Nations of Tahoe Resources is committed to developing and rolling out an Matachewan, Mattagami and Flying Post with respect to the Bell Indigenous Peoples Policy in 2018. A new policy is an opportunity Creek Mine. Both IBAs establish a framework for continued consul38 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Our Host Communities and Countries tation on Tahoe’s existing and future operations in Timmins, and provide education and training, employment opportunities, environmental care, and collaborative business opportunities for First Nations members. These agreements reflect Tahoe’s commitment to building positive relationships with aboriginal groups through direct, bilateral and multi-lateral engagement to explore mutually-beneficial opportunities. Guatemala In Guatemala, we spent much of 2017 revisiting our engagement with Guatemalan indigenous communities, including those of the Xinka and the Xalapan. Over the years, we have engaged with indigenous communities in the region where Escobal is located and implemented several development projects with neighboring communities. We are currently working with these communities to advance projects including repair and maintenance of community roads and water systems. Engagements in the past have included supporting local fairs, school infrastructure improvements, and coffee and agriculture projects related to our economic development programming in the region. We also maintain a UNGPs-compliant grievance mechanism, for which all human rights-related issues, and specifically Voluntary Principles-related and indigenous peoples-related Exciting business development opportunities have concerns, are prioritized and escalated to ensure they are being addressed in a timely grown from our IBAs, including Black Diamond manner by management. We use NAVEX for our grievance management system to be Drilling Inc. and Wahgoshig Resources Inc., who able to track and respond to complaints. While hundreds of employees and community have partnered with Norex Drilling to provide surmembers have made use of Tú Cuentas to communicate ideas and concerns about the face diamond drilling on a Tahoe Resources propEscobal Mine and MSR since its inception, we do not ask claimants for information regarderty southwest of Timmins. In 2017, Wahgoshig First Nation committed to building sustainable business ing their ethnic identity and are not aware of any indigenous institutions or individuals who opportunities for their membership as well as benhave made claims against MSR. efiting the local economy in Northeastern Ontario through their wholly-owned subsidiary, Wahgoshig On May 24, 2017, an anti-mining organization, CALAS, filed a claim in the Supreme Court Resources Inc. Working closely with Norex Drilling of Guatemala against Guatemala’s Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) alleging that MEM as well with Nishnawbe Aski Development Fund and violated the Xinka indigenous communities’ right of consultation in advance of granting the Northern Ontario Heritage Fund Corporation, Black Escobal mining license to Tahoe’s Guatemalan subsidiary, Minera San Rafael (MSR). MSR’s Diamond Drilling Inc. was incorporated in May 2017. mining license was suspended while the underlying claim was fully heard on the merits. The support of the Wahgoshig Chief and the WahgoWhile the Supreme Court issued a definitive decision in September 2017 on the merits of shig band council, the WRI Board of Directors and the underlying claim both ordering MEM to undertake a consultation in several surroundNorex Drilling was critical in getting this new venture ing communities and reinstating Escobal’s mining license, MSR’s license remains suspended off to a good start. while the case goes through an appeals process within the Constitutional Court. Without the Constitutional Court ruling, the parties cannot assess whether or how a consultation will take shape. Under ILO 169, and as enunciated by Guatemalan courts, consultation is the government’s obligation. To the extent we are allowed, Tahoe and MSR will fully support MEM in any of its indigenous engagement. Meanwhile, as described above, MSR will continue with its own local indigenous engagement plans and programs. 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 39 Our Host Communities and Countries in-country legal requirements, international human SECURITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS rights principles, conflict management and the use Tahoe oversees security management in a of force. In 2017, all of our contracted security persocially-responsible manner for protection sonnel at our Bell Creek and Timmins West mines in of employees, local stakeholders and site Canada, our Escobal Mine in Guatemala, and our assets. We recognize that effective security is a La Arena and Shahuindo mines in Peru completed combination of strict rules regarding physical human-rights training. security and strong community support. The responsible management of security is critical Across our operations, Tahoe implements a strin“Respect is a core value to the Company’s business and Tahoe strives to gent security evaluation process, beginning at the and we are committed provide a safe working environment for our staff contract tender phase and continuing through and contractors, while respecting the rights and the life of the contract. Tahoe’s security staff perto providing a safe and traditions of our local stakeholders. forms monthly evaluations of and regularly particsecure work environment ipates in providers’ training programs. In addition, where human rights Tahoe’s security practices are governed by our Tahoe staff reviews content, attendance records are respected and Security Policy, Equipment Transfer Policy and and evaluation sheets to monitor and improve entrenched within Anti-Corruption Policy. We are committed to inthe quality of training. our security practices. ternational standards – specifically the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights – which Security providers for Tahoe operations receive Our employees and comprehensive training in human rights policies, are embodied within the operational security contractors take their structure. Tahoe’s policy framework and secucodes of conduct principles and grievance manresponsibilities to protect rity program provide control measures to allow agement mechanisms. Our security providers the safety and security Tahoe’s in-country management to confirm secumust meet all in-country employment laws prior within the community rity providers are working in a manner that meets to providing security services for our operations. where we operate company and Voluntary Principles’ standards and respects the rights of all stakeholders. The Every four months, Tahoe checks the security seriously. All stakeholders providers’ licenses, insurance and payment of strong reporting relationship among corporate, and employees regional and site security staff creates consistenbenefit payments to personnel. We also review are encouraged to cy in deploying the security framework and sharthe recruitment process and protocols for new report any human ing of best practices. employees or contract personnel to confirm that rights concerns and background checks are performed (with emphaOur security personnel are often the first point of sis on identifying potential human rights violators). all of these reports contact with local stakeholders, and, as such, it All security personnel must agree to abide by our are investigated to a is essential that they are well-trained and socially Code of Business Conduct. Tahoe requires the conclusion.” aware. We therefore provide human rights trainings security provider to supply supporting evidence —PAUL PRIMEAU, for contracted security groups that are focused on that its policies are being met. TAHOE CANADA SECURITY MANAGER 40 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Our Host Communities and Countries ter and land access, impacting our operations and exploration INFORMAL MINING activities. No informal or small-scale mining activities occur near Tahoe’s operations in Canada or Guatemala. In Peru, however, artisanal In late 2016, we initiated a dialogue process with the Algamarca mining is commonplace and occurring near the Shahuindo Mine. miners. At their request, ProDialogo and Red Social of Peru are We are therefore working with Peruvian government-sanctioned now facilitating the dialogue process with regional government mitigation programs to help eliminate or mitigate the mal-effects involvement. As part of this dialogue process and in an effort to of informal mining. develop alternative economic opportunities for the miners, a socioeconomic baseline has been completed and a development Unlicensed small-scale mining occurs at the Algamarca mining camp near our Shahuindo operation and also within the footprint plan of the Algamarca Village Center is being finalized. The San of the Shahuindo Mine operations. These activities have adverseBlas de Algamarca informal miners association has also visited ly affected the environment, particularly soil quality, and have different agro-industrial plants in the region to learn about other increased the Algamarca community’s potential exposure to industries. Joint actions are being implemented to prevent the hazardous materials. Informal mining has also limited some wainflux of new informal miners to the area. Dost Bardouille, Tahoe VP of Sustainability (center) with miners at Algamarca Mining Camp. “At Tahoe, Sustainability means creating value for all of our stakeholders. We strive to be a trusted partner in the development of local communities where we operate, working to improve the local economy, access to education, vocational skills, and the health and wellbeing of people and the environment. How we engage with our local stakeholders – constructively understanding their hopes, expectations, and concerns – is fundamental to successfully translating community investments into sustainable outcomes, enabling communities to prosper even after our operations end. ” —-DOST BARDOUILLE, VICE PRESIDENT OF SUSTAINABILITY 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 41 Our Host Communities and Countries LOCAL PROCUREMENT Tahoe purchases a multitude of supplies and services to support responsible operations. Our people manage contracts with many suppliers, ranging from multi-national corporations to nearby small businesses. We pursue high-quality goods and services at a low price to ensure economic efficiencies, but we also recognize that price must be coupled with social and ethical responsibility. We evaluate and balance each supplier’s location and assess whether they are capable and qualified to meet the mine’s logistical requirements. We also expect each vendor and supplier to comply with fair labor practices, human rights, ethics, anti-corruption and safety standards. All suppliers and contractors are expected to follow Tahoe’s policies for managing and mitigating social and environmental impacts as an outcome of their work. A review process is carried out with local suppliers, assessing the origin of partners, and capital, and evaluating management, laTOP: Local women learn new baking skills in MSRbor, environmental, social and safety capacisponsored programs. ties. Large scale suppliers external to the local BOTTOM: Tahoe Peru employee shows off plant areas must contribute to local employment and growth in La Arena greenhouse, part of a program services and must also devise an environmental to help improve local agricultural productivity. management plan prior to beginning work. This plan is then incorporated into the company-wide environmental management plan and controls. 42 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Our Host Communities and Countries Most of Tahoe’s purchasing responsibilities are handled at the local operations. Given the growing demand for ethical standards and legal compliance in the mining business, we believe our mine employees are better positioned to balance price factors against the social and ethical values of local suppliers. For example, tender processes as well as supplier evaluations pre-contract award are now being reviewed at our Latin American operations to ensure the suppliers meet Tahoe standards and contractual obligations. We strive to ensure that our social and ethical values are observed throughout the supply chain. PROPORTION OF SPENDING ON LOCAL SUPPLIERS MSR(1) TAHOE CANADA TAHOE PERU SPEND FOR GOODS AND SERVICES $63 million $172 million $261 million PORTION OF PROCUREMENT BUDGET SPENT ON IN-COUNTRY SUPPLIERS 97% Guatemalan 99% Canadian 94% Peruvian Notes: (1) Spend for goods and services reflects only half year of operations. LEFT: Preparing for reforestation planting in programs sponsored by MSR. RIGHT: Tahoe Peru gardens at Shahuindo provide many of the vegetables and fruits consumed by employees at the camp cafeteria. 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 43 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP 05 OUR PLANET Tahoe understands that mining can have environmental impacts, so we believe strongly that environmental protection and stewardship are the keys to ensuring the long-term viability of our business. We are committed to sound environmental practices at all our operations, which includes continuous improvement in the efficient use of resources, processes and materials. Our management and employees incorporate environmental awareness into their daily “We live, work and work and implement actions necessary to protect the environment. This commitment play in our community is reflected at the highest level of Tahoe’s management and is one of the principal responsibilities of the Board of Directors’ Health, Safety, Environment and Community and we recognize Committee (HSEC). that our activities have an environmental The HSEC Committee evaluates the effectiveness of Tahoe’s Environmental Policy on impact. We constantly a regular basis; and it serves as the Company’s framework for the protection of natural resources in the regions where we operate. Goals of this policy are to: challenge our people to prevent, • Examine the potential environmental impact of Tahoe’s proposed activities and take minimize, mitigate steps to minimize, mitigate or, where possible, eliminate that impact; and remediate those • Maintain a high level of environmental protection in accordance with recognized impacts. We strive industry standards, while meeting or exceeding the standards set by the applicable towards getting it right environmental laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate; and protecting our • Report findings to management and our Board of Directors to ensure environmental shared environment.” compliance, and use results of our environmental reviews to improve and attain higher —MARCEL CARDINAL, levels of environmental performance; TAHOE CANADA MANAGER OF ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS • Minimize hazardous and non-hazardous materials generation and properly dispose of all wastes; • Maintain dialogue with the communities and other pertinent stakeholders neighboring our operations to understand their concerns, minimize negative impacts and to enhance environmental quality; • Progressively rehabilitate disturbed areas, where appropriate, and update closure plans that can continuously improve and incorporate new technologies where practical; • Train and educate employees and contractors about their environmental responsibility related to our operations and activities, and require contractors and suppliers to operate according to the Company’s environmental standards and procedures; and • Consider environmental factors when purchasing equipment and materials. 44 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Our Planet WATER MANAGEMENT Water is essential for our operations, from ore processing to employee consumption, as well as for fire protection and dust control. At the same time, we recognize that water is equally vital to the local communities near our mines and within the ecosystems in which we operate. All of our operations have extensive water management and treatment programs and strategies to focus on water conservation and protection. These include: 3 Recycling and the use of groundwater as the source of project makeup water; 3 Managing runoff and erosion control during any construction, operational and reclamation activities. This includes erosion and sediment management practices such as surface water channels, culverts, culvert inlet protection devices, silt fencing, wattles and sediment catch basins; 3 Installing and maintaining, to the extent practical, upgradient surface water channels to route runoff around our facilities to prevent runoff from contacting the areas used by these facilities; 3 Routing runoff generated from precipitation on general Measuring flow and taking water samples near Escobal Mine. infrastructure areas into channels or through culverts towards stormwater basins or other appropriate sediment control measures; and “We recognize that our operation affects the 3 Restoring, reclaiming and revegetating disturbed areas environment that we share with local wildlife when no longer needed for operations. Where practical, and their habitat. From the beginning, we have we implement temporary stabilization of inactive features continually worked to improve a comprehensive or temporary disturbances (such as road cut and fill areas) water balance to minimize our impact on for erosion and sediment control. biodiversity.” These efforts, and diligent oversight and management, help —-JENNIFER WARDEN, safeguard against adverse impacts on water quantity and ENVIRONMENTAL COORDINATOR, TIMMINS WEST MINE quality to our surrounding ecosystems and communities. 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 45 Our Planet TOTAL ESTIMATED VOLUME OF WATER WITHDRAWN AND COLLECTED IN 2017 (1000 M3) CATEGORY WATER TYPE MSR TAHOE CANADA TAHOE PERU Groundwater 1,063 922 92 WATER COLLECTED Rainwater/surface water(1) 28 773 263 WATER RECYCLED AND REUSED Water recycled and reused 3,073 2,200 554 WATER DISCHARGED TO SURFACE WATER Water discharged to surface water 485 1,497 0 Notes: (1) There are no surface water diversions from rivers, streams or creeks at any of Tahoe’s mines for use in operations. The water reported for this category is rainwater and surface water collected and used on site. water discharged from our operations. We submit the analyses to the appropriate regulatory agencies, from which the results are made available to the general public. Certain regulatory agencies also conduct independent sampling and analysis on a regular basis, sometimes in conjunction with community members or other stakeholders. Prior to 2017, all of our operations had different methods and procedures to estimate and track water balances. In 2017, we worked to standardize our approach for our mines, and we now use the EQwin software system as a company-wide water quality and management database for real time water quality analysis and monitoring. This tool enables us to present graphical data on water quality monitoring in the various reports we submit, both internally and to governmental authorities. EQwin is a well-known, multi-purpose database software used to track and document field samples, analyze and report data collected from environmental monitoring programs, ensure compliance with government regulations and operating permits, and maintain accurate, accessible and fully documented long-term sampling records. Canada At our Timmins West and Bell Creek mines in Canada, we use Discussing water management at Shahuindo near a lined channel that diverts 100% recycled water for our operational and processing needs. up-gradient runoff around the mine. To understand water use on a real-time basis, we utilize a “live Our corporate and on-site environmental professionals work tracking” computer system, with computer screens located at collaboratively with regulators, employees, community memkey locations around the mines, where our personnel can rebers and other stakeholders to minimize and prevent operationview water use and track water balances. This system is a great al impact to water quality and quantity, as well as to improve tool for water monitoring and for meeting our operational and water supply storage and distribution. We sample and analyze compliance requirements. 46 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Our Planet Guatemala In 2017, at our Escobal Mine in Guatemala, we improved the handling of water pumped from our underground operations to reduce possible sediment generation. We also added baffles to our water retention ponds on the surface to give us greater retention time for sediment control and to help prevent “short-circuiting” of water flow. We continue to operate our dry-stack tailings infrastructure and facilities that significantly reduce our water use and to minimize the potential for surface and ground water contamination. We also look forward, upon resumption of Escobal operations, to a restart of our participatory community water monitoring program. This activity will recommence our direct engagement with the community on environmental performance. It also allows us to encourage and educate local stakeholders in natural resource management practices that improve water quantity and quality, prevent deforestation and reduce pollution. Peru In the Andes mountains of Peru, where we operate our La Arena and Shahuindo mines, water is a tale of two seasons. In the wet or rainy season, water is overly abundant, and care must be taken to minimize sediment generation and downstream water quality issues. However, in the dry season, water becomes a very valuable commodity for ore processing activities and dust control. To address these diametrically distinct situations, we began a comprehensive review in 2017 of water use and water balance management for both our La Arena and Shahuindo mines, with the ultimate goals of conserving water during the dry season and managing and treating water in the rainy season. Implementing the EQwin system was an important milestone for our Peruvian operations, and is moving us toward a more efficient and effective water management system at both mines. TOP: Discussing reforestation practices at Escobal. BOTTOM: Drainage control (series of silt fences) at Escobal. 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 47 Our Planet We use the dry-stack method of tailings disposal at our EFFLUENTS AND WASTE MANAGEMENT Escobal operation. Unlike conventional tailings impoundTahoe is dedicated to responsibly managing and disposments that require a large amount of surface area and ing of sewage, trash, chemicals, tailings and waste rock water, dry stack facilities cover a smaller footprint, have generated by or used at our operations. We align our polbetter long-term structural integrity, maximize water conicies and practices with international guidelines, and we servation, and minimize the potential for long-term impact. strive to meet or exceed local government regulations in every jurisdiction. These efforts demonstrate our commitOur mines generate waste rock to access ore material. ment to minimize long-term impact through responsible For our underground operations in Canada and Guateenvironmental management. mala, we strive to leave as much waste rock as practical in underground mined-out areas. For our La Arena and MINING TERMS Shahuindo mines in Peru (which are both surface mines), we carefully design and engineer our waste rock storage TAILINGS: The non-economic, finely ground rock materials areas and have detailed reclamation plans for each site that remain after the desired recoverable minerals (e.g., gold and silver) are removed from ore by milling activities. once mining is completed. Tahoe generates tailings at our Escobal Mine in Guatemala and at our Bell Creek complex in Canada. Tahoe maintains robust recycling programs at our operations to minimize waste and trash delivery to area landfills. At our WASTE ROCK: Barren rock or rock of too low a grade to La Arena and Shahuindo mines in Peru, we have installed be mined economically. Tahoe removes waste rock at all brightly color-coded waste bins for various types of trash maour operations to access ore, which is the rock material terials. We also compost 100% of the kitchen waste and food from which valuable material or minerals can be economscraps from the Peruvian on-site housing facilities and use the ically mined for profit. Minerals recovered at Tahoe mines include gold, silver, lead and zinc. resulting compost for on-site reclamation activities. Personnel transporting, handling or using any hazardous chemicals (including sodium cyanide used at our Canadi2017 MINING WASTE an and Peruvian mines) are trained to ensure the safe use MATERIAL (TONNES) TYPE MSR TAHOE CANADA TAHOE PERU of such materials. Fuel and other petroleum products at all our mine sites are stored in aboveground containment structures, with appropriate secondary containment meaTAILINGS 667,000 1,356,500 0(1) sures. We maintain spill prevention control and counterWASTE ROCK 270,900 633,800 30,180,000 measure plans for our operations. These plans address Notes: site-specific spill prevention measures, fuel haul guidelines, (1) There are no mills at the La Arena and Shahuindo mines in Peru, and thus no tailings are produced at these operations. The ores at these mines are processed through heap leach fuel unloading procedures, inspections, secondary contechnology. tainment of all on-site fuel storage tanks and staff training. In meeting this commitment, we focus on worker health and At all our operations, we also carefully manage petroleum safety, as well as protection of the environment. We carefully waste products, spent solvents and aerosol-can residues. manage the use of chemicals and diesel fuel to prevent spills, These items are stored in approved containers separate fires or explosions and to protect the existing biological and from other trash products and transported off site for recyhydrologic resources of the areas surrounding our operations. cling or disposal in approved waste facilities. 48 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Our Planet ENERGY USE AND CLIMATE CHANGE Mining and ore processing are energy intensive and use large amounts of diesel fuel and electric power. Our operations have a continuing and, in many cases, growing demand for energy as we mine ore at greater depths and transport waste rock and materials over ever-greater distances. ENERGY In light of the current understanding of causes of climate change and the prevailing belief that the cumulative actions of the world’s industries and populations can affect climate INCENTIVE change, we at Tahoe, like many other mining companies around the world, have begun to examine strategies to maximize our energy efficiencies through conservation activities, PROGRAM decreasing emissions, and, wherever practically possible, to look for clean energy sources. In 2017, we unveiled this logo to launch At the same time, we must ensure that current energy needs of our mines are met. our Energy Incentive Program for our Bell Creek and Timmins West operations, to One of our company’s objectives for 2018 and beyond will be to better understand our energy highlight our push for energy efficiency. use and explore options for improving energy efficiency. An important part of this task will be to The logo combines three symbols: the minimize business risk and to ensure a steady and secure supply of energy for our operations. headframe for mining, the leaf for environmental awareness, and the electrical In 2017, Tahoe Canada joined the Northern Industrial Electricity Rate (NIER) Program, a govplug to symbolize energy. “Digging Enerernment funded energy program that provides electricity rebates to eligible Ontario mines. gy” symbolizes both our dependency on One of the criteria for NIER Program funding is employee energy awareness and engageenergy and the need for its wise use. ment. By the end of 2017, the NIER Program has saved our Bell Creek and Timmins West mines almost five million dollars in energy use. We will continue this program into the future. The Energy Incentive Program provides compensation to our employees, stuWe subscribe to another government initiative known as the Independent Electricity System dents and contractors for submitting suggestions that help us achieve enerOperator’s (IESO) Industrial Accelerator Program (IAP). This program provides a variety of gy conservation, either through energy incentives including energy manager funding, design engineering studies and capital projreduction or improvement in energy efects. By the end of 2017, this program’s initial electricity savings requirement of 2,000 MWh ficiencies. Personnel with valid monthly was surpassed with savings of 8,500 MWh. suggestions have their names entered into a draw for gift certificates; and, at Our Canada operations are at the forefront of this challenge because energy accounts for the end of each year, we will award a nearly 10% of our total annual costs at the Bell Creek and Timmins West mines, and those grand prize to the implemented suggescosts are projected to increase. Ontario has the highest electricity costs in Canada and tion that saves the most energy. Over some of the highest energy costs in all of North America. In April 2017, we hired a full-time 120 suggestions were submitted in 2017. Energy Manager to oversee energy usage and conservation programs for our Bell Creek One suggestion alone is projected to and Timmins West operations. In September 2017, our Energy Manager was selected by save $1.4 million for cleaning grates in the IESO as Ontario’s energy manager of the month based on Tahoe’s performance in the the SAG mill during our monthly scheduled maintenance. program. Although energy savings is one important goal, a corresponding benefit is lower greenhouse gas emissions, which is the foremost objective in addressing climate change. 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 49 Our Planet BIODIVERSITY AND LAND MANAGEMENT Tahoe promotes biodiversity management and conservation as a fundamental component of all our operations. Although none of Tahoe’s operations are located in protected or high-biodiversity areas, each of Tahoe’s operations seeks to minimize physical disturbance to natural habitats and has detailed reclamation plans that will be implemented after final site closure to achieve biodiversity similar to those that existed prior to mining. In addition, we seek to promote sustainable management of ecosystems and living natural resources in the areas surrounding our operations by fostering partnerships with stakeholders who have conservation needs and biodiversity priorities. CURRENT LAND STATUS (HECTARES) LAND STATUS MSR TAHOE CANADA TAHOE PERU PRE-2017 TOTAL LAND DISTURBED AND NOT YET RECLAIMED 98 351 592 LAND NEWLY DISTURBED DURING 2017 5 75 87 LAND RECLAIMED DURING 2017 2 0 3 TOTAL LAND DISTURBED AND NOT RECLAIMED AT END OF 2017 101 426 676 Each of our operations monitors potential effects to biodiversity through extensive water monitoring programs and through flora, fauna and aquatic surveys to identify any changes or potential impacts on the surrounding environment. Pursuant to regulatory reporting requirements, we provide reports on our biodiversity monitoring to regulators on a monthly, quarterly and/or annual basis. The status and progress of our monitoring is verified through periodic and regular inspections by authorities, community leaders and Tahoe employees. Our on-site and corporate environmental professionals provide quarterly reports to the Board’s HSEC Committee, which closely scrutinizes activities and actions associated with A Shahuindo neighbor holds alfalfa crop, showing that biodiversity and mining can go hand-in-hand. biodiversity. Based on our 2017 monitoring programs and data, there were no negative impacts from any of our operations on the biodiversity of the areas adjacent to our mines. Tahoe will continue comprehensive monitoring into the future to ensure biodiversity conservation is maintained for the benefit of surrounding ecosystems and the local communities and residents who depend on and enjoy our natural environment. 50 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Our Planet Canada undertake activities to improve and enhance the ecosystem of the Porcupine River watershed that In 2017, Tahoe Canada continued to support and includes both the Porcupine River and Porcupine fund partnerships involved with a variety of aquatic Lake. Since receiving their not-for-profit status in habitat and aquatic resource protection programs 2014, this group has undertaken dozens of projects, and enhancement efforts. including planting thousands of native trees and shrubs along the shoreline zones to improve and We maintained our financial assistance to the restore the biodiversity of the watershed. Mattagami First Nation for the operation of their Walleye fish hatchery. Walleye is native to most Guatemala of Canada and is a commercially valuable food “I like the company fish, as well as being a popular sporting fish. Since MSR continues to train and provide technical asand I like my job. I 2012, the Mattagami First Nation’s fish hatchery has sistance to the nearly 400 small and medium sized see the reforestation raised and released over 3 million Walleye to local coffee growers in the region around the Escobal work we do is already streams and lakes. Mine to prevent the spread of the coffee damagyielding results and may ing disease (roya). Guatemala is one of the main Based on our ongoing cooperation and involveserve as a model for ment with the Sturgeon Restoration Project mancoffee producers in the world; this industry contribthe region, since land aged by the Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources, utes to a large portion of the country’s economy and employs an estimated 70% of the workforce that was previously the Sturgeon fish populations are rebounding in our in the region where we operate. Since 2014, a used for agriculture is region. The Sturgeon is a member of one of the oldest families of bony fish in the world – their evoludamaging fungus, called coffee rust, has caused back to being forest tion can be traced back over 200 million years and damage to coffee plants, which decreases the again and water they maintain many of the physical characteristics plant’s production of coffee beans. Through the springs are improving. of their ancestral form. Over the past 200 years, assistance of MSR and numerous other Guatemala It is also positive that over-exploitation and habitat alteration resulted in and international organizations and government we can show the results dramatic declines throughout much of their historagencies, the coffee growers have made great strides in eradicating this disease. and the people from ic range. The work by the Ontario Ministry of Natuthe community are ral Resources, with support by many stakeholders In 2017, we continued our efforts to help small landseeing it.” (including Tahoe Canada), is restoring populations owners with forest management practices to offset of this species which has spiritual, cultural and food —HENRY SALAZAR, tenets with the area’s First Nation communities. past deforestation in the upper part of Los EsclaMSR ENVIRONMENTAL FORESTRY SUPERVISOR vos river basin in the Department of Santa Rosa. Tahoe Canada, in alliance with other TimminsWe grow more than 10,000 plants annually at our located mining companies, government agencies, Escobal greenhouses and distribute these plants First Nations communities and conservation throughout the region. Species include Quercus organizations, supports and provides financial skinneri, Quercus oocarp, Quercus peduncular assistance to further the efforts and goals of the and Quercus brachystachys. Since we began this Friends of the Porcupine River organization. This assistance nearly three years ago, we have plantgroup of paid staffers and a slew of eager volunteers ed more than 25,000 trees. 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 51 Our Planet Peru Tahoe Peru continues to provide agricultural best practices training to local farmers, such as teaching them about alternatives to pesticides. We are now seeing that local farmers who have received this training have improved the yield and quality of their products such as avocados, garlic, alfalfa and beans. At our La Arena mine site, we are working to create and establish new wetlands as “We used to plant the compensation for historic impacts. At our Shahuinpassion fruit attached to do site, we have donated thousands of small trees the trees. It was difficult to reforest areas surrounding the mine. to grow and harvest. CLOSURE AND RECLAMATION Now, Shahuindo has given us plants, fertilizers, At Tahoe, site closure and reclamation is integral and training. Today our to our site planning and ongoing operations. We crops are sorted with have embraced the “Mining for Closure” concept at all our operations, a philosophy that early-stage wood and wire, and mine planning should anticipate the effects of we have drip irrigation eventual mine closure and reclamation. We also with hoses. I am happy work hard to minimize disturbance – recognizing and grateful. My plants that every hectare we avoid disturbing is one are so beautiful. We Avocados almost ready for harvest at farm near Shahuindo. hectare we don’t need to reclaim. have already started The purpose of reclamation is to return areas impacted by mining and processing activities to a healthy harvesting, and we state with lands that support productive post-mining land use. For each of our operations, we have cloare ready to take our sure and reclamation plans with site-specific environmental measures designed to minimize long-term products to market.” impacts, promote biodiversity and protect the watersheds where we operate. In addition, each mine —JUANA DE DIOS VALDERRAMA has funds held in trust to meet future anticipated closure and reclamation costs. MARQUINA, COMMUNITY MARÍA PARADO DE BELLIDO, QUILLISHPAMPA, CAJABAMBA Whenever possible and practical, we conduct concurrent or progressive reclamation activities to remediate disturbed areas that are no longer necessary for operations. Reclamation completed during active operations is termed “concurrent” or “progressive” reclamation. This reclamation work is designed to provide permanent, low-maintenance achievement of final reclamation goals. One of the important benefits realized from such concurrent reclamation is reduced erosion, which decreases sediment generation and improves water quality. 52 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Our Planet Because reclamation practices and technologies are evolving, we will continue to evaluate new reclamation techniques and implement improved measures where appropriate. In 2017, we had a reminder about the social aspects of closure – something that we at Tahoe assumed would be far into the future for our company and our operations in Guatemala. With the mid-July 2017 curtailment of production from our Escobal Mine, we experienced firsthand that mine closure involves more than the physical, biological and other environmental plans. There is a social and economic impact to employees and suppliers and their families, as well as to the local communities that surround the mine. To ease the economic burdens to our Escobal employees, and in an effort to hold onto our highly skilled and trained workforce, Tahoe continued to pay Escobal employees throughout the second half of 2017. As we continue to refine and upgrade our mine closure and reclamation plans, we will improve upon current social plans associated with final closure. In the process of strengthening social closure plans, we will review: • Engagement with affected and interested communities and stakeholders regarding post-closure goals; • Estimated budgets for social closure programmed activities by component for different closure scenarios; • Closure initiatives that can continue when the company is no longer involved; • Community participation in planning and implementation with respect to the environmental and socioeconomic impacts of final mine closure; and • Closure initiatives that are linked to our community investment programs. Even at this stage of our operations, we understand that eventual closure of our mines can be disruptive to the social and economic fabric of the communities near our operations. Planning for social closure during ongoing design planning (i.e., our “Mining for Closure” philosophy) will help us to better understand community perspectives, identify opportunities to mitigate potential impacts, and make sure adequate resources are available to mitigate the effects of mine closure. TOP: Pine tree seedlings grown in Escobal greenhouses for use in reforestation practices. BOTTOM: Newly-reclaimed waste rock storage facility at La Arena, with concrete contour channels for erosion control. 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 53 Appendix Financial Snapshot The following table provides a summary of select financial and operating metrics and is derived from Tahoe’s Consolidated Financial Statements and Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) for the year ended December 31, 2017. Production performance measures include results from Tahoe’s mining properties. Operating cash flows, capital expenditures, financial position and liquidity are consolidated Company amounts. SCALE OF TAHOE—ANNUAL COMPARISON MSR TAHOE CANADA(1) TAHOE PERU(2) 2017 2016 2015(3) CHANGE PRODUCTION STAGE MINES 1 2 2 5 5 2 3 PRODUCTION (000’S OZS) GOLD OUNCES PRODUCED 4 167 275 446 385 186 260 SILVER OUNCES PRODUCED 9,692 21 150 9,863 21,267 20,422 (10,559) OPERATIONS PERFORMANCE(4) (000’S $USD) REVENUES $192,510 $211,840 $329,207 $733,557 $784,503 $519,721 $213,836 OPERATING COSTS PRODUCTION COSTS 61,934 105,975 180,237 348,146 332,721 241,661 106,485 ROYALTIES 10,521 5,049 15,570 22,913 13,240 2,330 CARE AND MAINTENANCE 24,855 24,855 DEPRECIATION AND DEPLETION 32,858 60,614 59,544 153,016 124,744 78,649 74,367 TOTAL OPERATING COSTS 130,168 171,638 239,781 541,587 480,378 333,550 183,182 MINE OPERATING EARNINGS $62,342 $40,202 $89,426 $191,970 $304,125 $186,171 $30,654 OPERATING CASH FLOWS(4) (000’S $USD) $234,264 $249,454 $166,744 $67,520 CAPITAL EXPENDITURES(4) (000’S $USD) $224,089 $190,885 $121,953 $102,136 FINANCIAL POSITION AND LIQUIDITY (000’S $USD) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS $125,665 $163,368 $108,667 $16,998 REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY BORROWING CAPACITY(5) $300,000 $150,000 $150,000 WORKING CAPITAL(6) $143,245 $209,006 $77,321 $65,924 TOTAL INDEBTEDNESS(7) $42,754 $50,946 $48,862 $(6,108) TOTAL ASSETS $3,080,638 $3,071,253 $2,002,461 $1,078,177 (1) Operational and financial information in Canada began on April 1, 2016, the date of Reporting Standards, including with respect to economic value generated, distributed acquisition of Lake Shore Gold Corp. and retained. (2) Commercial production at the Shahuindo Mine in Peru was declared on May 1, 2016. (5) Tahoe did not draw on its $300 million credit facility in 2017. (3) 2015 includes results from La Arena and Shahuindo in Peru beginning on April 1, 2015, the (6) Based on Tahoe’s audited consolidated financial statements and computed as current date of acquisition of Rio Alto Mining Limited. assets less current liabilities. (4) Amounts are based on Tahoe’s audited consolidated financial statements, which are (7) Based on Tahoe’s audited consolidated financial statements and includes lease prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued obligations and a bank loan facility. by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IFRS”). Accordingly, such amounts reported are not directly comparable to amounts reported pursuant to GRI Sustainability 54 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Appendix Value Generated and Distributed A key component of Tahoe’s growth strategy is our commitment to provide lasting, positive in-country impacts as a result of our operational presence. The generation and distribution of economic value is critical to the long-term prosperity of Tahoe’s employees and communities. The following table provides a summary by country of the Company’s economic performance. 2017 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED (000’S $USD) MSR(7) TAHOE CANADA TAHOE PERU TOTAL ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED: SALES REVENUE $192,510 $211,840 $329,207 $733,557 OTHER(1) 946 (361) 83 668 193,456 211,479 329,290 734,225 ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED: OPERATING COSTS(2) 71,465 185,147 211,803 468,415 EMPLOYEE WAGES AND BENEFITS(3) 24,004 49,603 46,052 119,659 PAYMENTS TO PROVIDERS OF CAPITAL(4) 36,849 780 1,353 38,982 PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTS:(5) TAXES 16,860 830 38,880 56,570 ROYALTIES AND FEES 8,330 600 4,450 13,380 COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS(6) 2527 368 16,877 19,772 160,035 237,328 319,415 716,778 ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED $33,421 $(25,849) $9,875 $17,447 (1) Includes interest income from cash deposits, proceeds from the sale of assets and (4) Includes payments of interest on lease obligations, debt and dividends to shareholders. recognition of deferred revenue. (5) Represents amounts reported to Natural Resources Canada (NRCan) under the (2) Operating costs primarily include production costs, general and administrative costs, Extractive Sector Transparency Measures Act (ESTMA). exploration expense, capital expenditures, payments made under Impact Benefit (6) Includes expenditures for community infrastructures, charitable organizations and other Agreements and certain taxes and royalty payments not included in the “Payments to in-country programs not core to mining operations. Does not include any “in-kind” governments” line. amounts. (3) Includes salaries and wages, share-based compensation expenses and the cost of (7) MSR includes Tahoe Corporate general and administration (G&A)-related costs and insurance benefits, employee support services and retirement plan contributions. payments, including dividends paid to shareholders. Additional information relating to Tahoe’s financial performance, including a copy of our 2017 Financial Statements and MD&A, may be obtained or viewed from the System for Electronic Document Analysis and Retrieval at www.sedar.com, on the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system at www.sec.gov, and on the Company’s website at www.tahoeresources.com. 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 55 Appendix GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INFORMATION AND INDEX NO. DESCRIPTION TAHOE CANADA MINERA SAN RAFAEL TAHOE PERU (BELL CREEK AND TIMMINS WEST) (ESCOBAL) (LA ARENA AND SHAHUINDO) 102-1 Name of the organization Tahoe Resources Inc. 102-2 Activities, brands, products Tahoe is a mining and minerals exploration company that produces precious metals in the Americas. See discussion on pages 8-10 in “About and services Tahoe”. 102-3 Location of headquarters Reno, Nevada, USA 102-4 Location of operations Canada Guatemala Peru 102-5 Ownership and legal form Tahoe is a public company incorporated under the Business Corporations Act of British Columbia and traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX:THO) and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE:TAHO). 102-6 Markets served Our products are shipped to markets in Asia, Europe and North America where they are further refined and sold. See discussion on page 8 in “About Tahoe”. 102-7 Scale of the organization See “About Tahoe”, pages 1-11; and “Our People”, pages 22-31. Also see Tahoe’s February 2018 Annual Information Form and Tahoe’s 2017 Consolidated Financial Statements found under Investor Relations at www.tahoeresources.com. Number of employees (as 675 995 1,197 of 12/31/2017) Number of operations 2 1 2 Net sales See Financial Snapshot, pages 54-55. Also see Tahoe’s 2017 Consolidated Financial Statements under Investor Relations at www.tahoeresources.com. Total capitalization See Financial Snapshot, pages 54-55. Also see Tahoe’s 2017 Consolidated Financial Statements found under Investor Relations at www.tahoeresources.com. Products (year 2017) Silver (ounces) none 9,700,000 ounces none Gold (ounces) 167,000 ounces none 275,000 ounces Number of contractor 14 15 2,977 employees (as of December 31, 2017) 102-8 Information on employees See “Our People”, pages 22-31. and other workers 102-9 Supply chain See Local Procurement in “Our Host Communities and Countries”, pages 42-43. 56 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Appendix NO. DESCRIPTION TAHOE CANADA MINERA SAN RAFAEL TAHOE PERU (BELL CREEK AND TIMMINS WEST) (ESCOBAL) (LA ARENA AND SHAHUINDO) 102-10 Significant changes to the See “About Tahoe”, pages 1-11. organization and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary principle or See “Our Approach”, pages 12-21; and “Our Planet”, pages 44-53. Tahoe acknowledges the goals and objectives set forth in the United Nations approach Principle 15 of “The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development”. We believe strongly in both environmental protection and environmental stewardship to ensure the long-term viability of our communities and our business. We are committed to sound environmental practices at our operations, which includes the continuous improvement in the efficient use of resources, processes and materials. 102-12 External initiatives See “Our Approach”, pages 12-21. Tahoe recognizes the externally-developed economic, environmental and social charters and principles found in the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability, the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, and the Equator Principles. 102-13 Membership of associations See “Our Approach”, pages 12-21. Also, Tahoe has memberships, affiliations or development partnerships with the International Bar Association, the Canadian Society of Corporate Secretaries, and the BSR’s Business Action for Women Initiative. Memberships and Affiliations Ontario Mining Association The Guatemala Chamber of Industry Peruvian National Mining, Energy and Oil Society Canadian Dam Association The Guatemala Chamber of Commerce Mining Safety Institute The Canadian Chamber of Commerce in Guatemala (CANCHAM) The American Chamber of Commerce in Guatemala (AMCHAM) Association for the Promotion of Freedom and Sustainable Development The Action Center for Corporate Social Responsibility in Guatemala Alliance for Nutrition Foundation The Entrepreneurs Foundation for Education Development Partnerships Northern College Technical Institute for Training and Productivity ProDiálogo – Conflict Prevention and Resolution Puente Organization Network of Social Development Institute (Red Social) Cajabamba Municipal Government Cajabamba Regional Government Cachachi Municipal Government Health Network Sánchez Carrión The Local Education Management Unit of Sánchez Carrión Sánchez Carrión Municipal Government Sanagorán Municipal Government North Sierra Project Private University of the North TECSUP Non-Profit Educational Organization 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 57 Appendix NO. DESCRIPTION TAHOE CANADA MINERA SAN RAFAEL TAHOE PERU (BELL CREEK AND TIMMINS WEST) (ESCOBAL) (LA ARENA AND SHAHUINDO) 102-14 Statement from senior See the Message from the President and Chief Executive Officer in “About Tahoe”, pages 2-3. decision-maker 102-15 Key impacts, risks and See “Our Approach”, pages 12-21; “Our People”, pages 22-31; “Our Host Communities and Countries” pages 32-43; and “Our Planet”, pages 44opportunities 53. 102-16 Values, principles, standards See “Our Approach”, pages 12-21; and “Our People”, pages 22-31. Tahoe conducts annual training for management on the company’s values, and norms of behavior principles, standards and norms of behavior. Corporate policies regarding these items are found in the Corporate Governance section under heading “Company” at www.tahoeresources.com. 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and See “Our Approach”, pages 12-21; “Our People”, pages 22-31; and “Our Host Communities and Countries”, pages 32-43. concerns about ethics 102-18 Governance structure See Corporate Governance in “About Tahoe”, page 11. Also see Corporate Governance under heading Company and in Tahoe’s May 2018 Management Information Circular found under Investor Relations, both at www.tahoeresources.com. 102-19 Delegating authority See Corporate Governance in “About Tahoe”, page 11. Also see Corporate Governance under heading Company and in Tahoe’s May 2018 Management Information Circular found under Investor Relations, both at www.tahoeresources.com. 102-20 Executive-level responsibility See Corporate Governance in “About Tahoe”, page 11. Also see Corporate Governance under heading Company and in Tahoe’s May 2018 for economic, Management Information Circular found under Investor Relations, both at www.tahoeresources.com. environmental and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on See Stakeholder Engagement in “Our Approach”, page 19; and “Our Host Communities and Countries”, pages 32-43. Also see Corporate economic, environmental Governance under Company and Our Approach under Sustainability at www.tahoeresources.com. and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest See Our Approach to Good Governance on pages 5-6 in Tahoe’s 2016 Sustainability Report. Also see Management Team and Board of Directors governance body and its under Company and Tahoe’s May 2018 Management Information Circular under Investor Relations, both at www.tahoeresources.com. committees 102-23 Chair of the highest Mr. Kevin McArthur is the founder and the Executive Chair of Tahoe Resources. See Board of Directors under Company and Tahoe’s May 2018 governance body Management Information Circular under Investor Relations, both at www.tahoeresources.com. 102-24 Nominating and selecting See Corporate Governance in “About Tahoe”, page 11. Also see Tahoe’s May 2018 Management Information Circular under Investor Relations at the highest governance www.tahoeresources.com. body 102-25 Conflicts of interest See Tahoe’s May 2018 Management Information Circular under Investor Relations at www.tahoeresources.com. 102-26 Role of highest governance See Corporate Governance in “About Tahoe”, page 11. Also see Tahoe’s May 2018 Management Information Circular under Investor Relations at body in setting purpose, www.tahoeresources.com. values and strategy 58 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Appendix NO. DESCRIPTION TAHOE CANADA MINERA SAN RAFAEL TAHOE PERU (BELL CREEK AND TIMMINS WEST) (ESCOBAL) (LA ARENA AND SHAHUINDO) 102-27 Collective knowledge of See Management Team and Board of Directors under Company and Tahoe’s May 2018 Management Information Circular under Investor highest governance body Relations, both at www.tahoeresources.com. 102-28 Evaluating the highest See Tahoe’s May 2018 Management Information Circular under Investor Relations at www.tahoeresources.com. governance body’s performance 102-29 Identifying and managing See Corporate Governance in “About Tahoe”, page 11, and Stakeholder Engagement in “Our Approach”, page 19. Also see Tahoe’s February economic, environmental 2018 Annual Information Form under Investor Relations at www.tahoeresources.com. and social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk See Corporate Governance in “About Tahoe”, page 11, and “Our Planet”, pages 44-53. Also see Tahoe’s February 2018 Annual Information Form management processes under Investor Relations at www.tahoeresources.com. 102-31 Review of economic, See Corporate Governance in “About Tahoe”, page 11. Also see Tahoe’s February 2018 Annual Information Form under Investor Relations at environmental and social www.tahoeresources.com. topics 102-32 Highest governance body’s See Corporate Governance in “About Tahoe”, page 11. Also see Tahoe 2018 Management Information Circular under Investor Relations at role in company’s www.tahoeresources.com. sustainability reporting 102-33 Communicating critical See “Our Approach”, pages 12-21. concerns 102-34 Nature and total number of See “Our Approach”, pages 12-21. Also see Ethical Business Management on pages 21-23 in Tahoe’s 2016 Sustainability Report. critical concerns 102-35 Remuneration polices See Employee Engagement in “Our People”, page 30, and Inclusion and Diversity in “Our People”, page 31. 102-36 Process for determining See Employee Engagement in “Our People”, page 30, and Inclusion and Diversity in “Our People”, page 31. Also see Tahoe’s May 2018 remuneration Management Information Circular under Investor Relations at www.tahoeresources.com. 102-37 Stakeholder’s involvement See Stakeholder Engagement in “Our Approach”, page 19. Also see Tahoe’s May 2018 Management Information Circular under Investor in remuneration Relations at www.tahoeresources.com. 102-38 Annual total compensation Also see Tahoe’s May 2018 Management Information Circular under Investor Relations at www.tahoeresources.com. ratio 102-39 Percentage increase in See Tahoe’s May 2018 Management Information Circular under Investor Relations at www.tahoeresources.com. annual total compensation ratio 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 59 Appendix NO. DESCRIPTION TAHOE CANADA MINERA SAN RAFAEL TAHOE PERU (BELL CREEK AND TIMMINS WEST) (ESCOBAL) (LA ARENA AND SHAHUINDO) 102-40 List of stakeholder groups See Stakeholder Engagement in “Our Approach”, page 19, and “Our Host Communities and Countries”, pages 32-43. Also see Stakeholder Engagement on pages 11-13 in Tahoe’s 2016 Sustainability Report. 102-41 Collective bargaining See Employee Engagement in “Our People”, See Employee Engagement in “Our People”, See Employee Engagement in “Our People”, agreements page 30. No employees at Tahoe Canada page 30. No employees at Escobal were page 30. About 36% of employees at La Arena were covered by collective bargaining covered by collective bargaining Mine and 46% of employees at Shahuindo agreements in 2017. agreements in 2017. Mine are covered by collective bargaining agreements. 102-42 Identifying and selecting See Stakeholder Engagement in “Our Approach”, page 19. Also see Stakeholder Engagement on pages 11-13 in Tahoe’s 2016 Sustainability stakeholders Report. 102-43 Approach to stakeholder See Stakeholder Engagement in “Our Approach”, page 19. Also see Stakeholder Engagement on pages 11-13 in Tahoe’s 2016 Sustainability engagement Report. 102-44 Key topics and concerns See Stakeholder Engagement in “Our Approach”, page 19. Also see Stakeholder Engagement on pages 11-13 in Tahoe’s 2016 Sustainability raised Report. 102-45 Entities included in the See Financial Snapshot, pages 54-55. Also see Tahoe’s 2017 Consolidated Financial Statements under Investor Relations at consolidated financial www.tahoeresources.com. statements 102-46 Defining report content and See the About this Report, on the inside cover of this document, and the Table of Contents that follows. Also see Defining Materiality: Our Human topic Boundaries Rights Commitments in “Our Approach”, pages 12-13. 102-47 List of material topics See Defining Materiality: Our Human Rights Commitments in “Our Approach”, pages 12-13. 102-48 Restatements of information See About this Report, on the inside cover of this document. Tahoe has no restatements of information given in the previous Sustainability Report nor any restatements of 2016 financial reporting. This document is intended to update interested parties with 2017 information. 102-49 Changes in reporting Nothing significant. See About this Report, on the inside cover of this document. 102-50 Reporting period This report covers the calendar year ending December 31, 2017. See About this Report, on the inside cover of this document. 102-51 Date of most recent report Tahoe issued its 2016 Sustainability Report on July 17, 2017. See About this Report, on the inside cover of this document. 102-52 Reporting cycle This report covers the calendar year ending December 31, 2017. See About this Report (the 2017 Sustainability Report), on the inside cover of this document. 102-53 Contact point for questions See About this Report, on the inside cover of this document. For further information, please contact us at csr@tahoeresources.com or regarding the report investors@tahoeresources.com. 60 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Appendix NO. DESCRIPTION TAHOE CANADA MINERA SAN RAFAEL TAHOE PERU (BELL CREEK AND TIMMINS WEST) (ESCOBAL) (LA ARENA AND SHAHUINDO) 102-54 Claims of reporting in See About this Report, on the inside cover of this document. The Tahoe 2017 Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. Standards 102-55 GRI content index This GRI content index complies with the requirement of the GRI standard. 102-56 External assurance See About this Report, on the inside cover of this document. Tahoe complied the data and information in this report; we reviewed the contents of this report prior to its publication as part of our internal quality assurance process. We did not use an external assurance process. 201-1 Direct economic value See Financial Snapshot, pages 54-55. Also see Tahoe’s 2017 Consolidated Financial Statements under Investor Relations at generated and distributed www.tahoeresources.com. 201-2 Financial implications and See Energy Use/Climate Change in “Our Planet”, page 49. other risks and opportunities due to climate change 201-3 Defined benefit plan See “Our People”, pages 22-31. Also see Tahoe’s May 2018 Management Information Circular under Investor Relations at obligations and other www.tahoeresources.com. retirement plans 201-4 Financial assistance Tahoe Canada received a rebate for the NIER None Tahoe Peru received a tax credit through the received from government Energy Program = $2.2 million. Tax for Works program at La Arena = $1,678,774 202-2 Proportion of senior See Our Employees in “Our People”, page 22, and Inclusion and Diversity in “Our People”, page 31. management hired from the local community 63% 0% 0% 203-1 Infrastructure investments See Community Development Programs in “Our Host Communities and Countries”, pages 32-37. and services supported in the local community 203-2 Significant indirect See Community Development Programs in “Our Host Communities and Countries”, pages 32-37. economic impacts Operations were indirectly affected with the Interruption of mining operations at our In Peru, it is estimated that for each direct rise of the Canadian dollar against the Escobal Mine in Guatemala created a employment job, three indirect jobs are American dollar, as well as the increase in fuel negative economic impact on San Rafael las created. However, with mining, there is an and energy prices. Flores and other nearby municipalities, and to increase in the prices of local goods and the many local suppliers and vendors (and services, which potentially generates hardship their families) who provide goods and for those who do not work directly in mining. services to the Escobal. This negative economic impact continued into 2018. 204-1 Proportion of spending on See Local Procurement in “Our Host Communities and Countries”, pages 42-43. local suppliers 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 61 Appendix NO. DESCRIPTION TAHOE CANADA MINERA SAN RAFAEL TAHOE PERU (BELL CREEK AND TIMMINS WEST) (ESCOBAL) (LA ARENA AND SHAHUINDO) Definition of local Tahoe Canada defines local as any MSR defines local as San Rafael las Flores. Tahoe Peru defines local as anyone from the organization present in Timmins, pays taxes to multiple nearby, local communities of La Timmins, and has at least one employee Arena and Shahuindo. located in Timmins. It is not based on the remittance address. Local includes Timmins, Porcupine and Schumacher. Amount of procurement 99% 97% 94% budget spent on in-country suppliers Suppliers from local area 49% 9% 8% Suppliers from region (not 23% 1% 3% including local area) Suppliers from national area 27% 87% 83% (not including local or regional area) 205-1 Operations assessed for risks Corporate policies regarding corruption are found in Tahoe’s numerous policies set forth in the Corporate Governance section under heading related to corruption Company located on Tahoe’s website www.tahoeresources.com. During 2017, we retained an independent legal expert to conduct a corruption risk assessment for our Latin American operations. Based on this review, we adopted a Stand-Alone Anti-Corruption Policy and have strengthened our vendor and supplier selection polices. 205-2 Communications and See Defining Materiality: Our Human Rights Commitments in “Our Approach”, pages 12-13, and Recruitment, Retention and Development in “Our training about antiPeople”, page 29. corruption policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of None in 2017 corruption and actions taken 206-1 Legal actions for antiNone in 2017 competitive behavior, antitrust and monopoly practices 303-1 Water withdrawal by source See Water Management in “Our Planet”, pages 45-47. 303-2 Water sources significantly See Water Management in “Our Planet”, pages 45-47. No water sources are significantly affected by withdrawals at any of Tahoe’s operations. affected by withdrawal of water 62 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Appendix NO. DESCRIPTION TAHOE CANADA MINERA SAN RAFAEL TAHOE PERU (BELL CREEK AND TIMMINS WEST) (ESCOBAL) (LA ARENA AND SHAHUINDO) 303-3 Water recycled and reused See Water Management in “Our Planet”, pages 45-47. 304-1 Operational sites owned, None of Tahoe’s operations are located in local or internationally protected areas. See Biodiversity and Land Management in “Our Planet”, leased, managed in, or pages 50-52. adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts of See Biodiversity and Land Management in “Our Planet”, pages 50-52. activities, products and services on biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or Where practical, Tahoe conducts progressive or concurrent reclamation activities. See Biodiversity/Land Management in “Our Planet”, pages 50restored 52, and Closure/Reclamation in “Our Planet”, pages 52-53. 304-4 IUCN Red List species and See Biodiversity and Land Management in “Our Planet”, pages 50-52. national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations Critically endangered None None 5 plants 1 animal Endangered 1 reptile 1 amphibian 3 plants 2 mammals I animal Vulnerable 5 birds 2 plants but no animals 2 plants Near threatened 1 mammal 1 amphibian None 1 bird 2 mammals Least concern 1 insect 9 plant species 21 plants 13 amphibian/reptiles and 121 birds 22 animals 30 mammals 306-1 Water discharge See Water Management in “Our Planet”, pages 45-47. 1,497,000 cubic meters 485,000 cubic meters None 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 63 Appendix NO. DESCRIPTION TAHOE CANADA MINERA SAN RAFAEL TAHOE PERU (BELL CREEK AND TIMMINS WEST) (ESCOBAL) (LA ARENA AND SHAHUINDO) 306-2 Waste material See Effluents and Waste Management in “Our Planet”, page 48. Mining Waste Material (1000 tonnes) Overburden/Waste Rock 633.8 270.9 30,180 Tailings 1,356.5 667 None Heap Leach None None 5,360 Hazardous Waste Summary (tonnes) 1 Reuse 618.9 58.6 0 2 Recycle 90.7 1.7 0 Incineration 0 73.3 0 Landfill 0 0 0 On-site Storage 0 0 64.2 Non-Hazardous Waste Summary (tonnes) Reuse 0 130.0 5.0 Recycling 37 530.9 49.1 Composting 0 4.1 0 Landfill 1,118 215.4 114.2 306-3 Significant spills See “Effluents and Waste Management” in “Our Planet”, page 48. There were no significant spills at any of Tahoe’s operations in 2017. 306-4 Transport of Hazardous Waste (tonnes, unless noted) 3 Transported 173,850 liters 58.6 64.2 1 An estimated 468,800 tonnes of tailings and 150,100 tonnes of rockfill were used in the construction of the Phase 5 tailings expansion in 2017. 2 These are tailings excavated from the Bell Creek tailings facility and shipped to the Timmins West Mine for use in their paste backfill plant. 3 This volume represents used oil that was transported off-site by a third-party contractor. 64 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Appendix NO. DESCRIPTION TAHOE CANADA MINERA SAN RAFAEL TAHOE PERU (BELL CREEK AND TIMMINS WEST) (ESCOBAL) (LA ARENA AND SHAHUINDO) Imported 0 0 0 Exported 0 0 0 Recycled 0 1.7 0 Placed in Secure Landfill 0 0 64.2 Incinerated 0 73.3 0 306-5 Water bodies affected by See Water Management in “Our Planet”, pages 45-47. No water bodies are significantly affected by water discharges and/or runoff at any of water discharges and/or Tahoe’s operations. runoff 307-1 Non-compliance with During 2017, Tahoe did not have any significant environmentally-related fines, and there were no monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws environmental laws and/or regulations. 401-1 New Employee Hires Male Female Male Female Male Female Under 30 years old 36 7 37 3 64 26 Between 30-50 years old 56 6 18 3 123 22 Older than 50 years old 14 1 4 0 18 1 Employee Turnover Male Female Male Female Male Female Under 30 years old 32 12 20 8 15 25 Between 30-50 years old 50 12 30 11 55 9 Older than 50 years old 27 4 1 0 5 0 401-2 Benefits provided to fullSee Recruitment, Retention and Development in “Our People”, page 29. time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees Life insurance Yes Yes Yes Health care Yes Yes Yes Disability/invalidity Yes Yes Yes 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 65 Appendix NO. DESCRIPTION TAHOE CANADA MINERA SAN RAFAEL TAHOE PERU (BELL CREEK AND TIMMINS WEST) (ESCOBAL) (LA ARENA AND SHAHUINDO) Parental leave Yes Yes Yes Retirement provision No coverage No coverage No coverage Stock ownership No coverage No coverage No coverage 401-3 Parental leave See Recruitment, Retention and Development in “Our People”, page 29. Male Female Male Female Male Female Employees entitled to 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% parental leave Employees that took 4 2 66 13 64 6 parental leave Employees back to work 4 2 66 13 64 6 after parental leave Employees back to work 4 2 66 13 55 1 after parental leave ended that were still employed 12 months after their return to work Return to work retention 100% 100% 100% 100% 85.9% 16.7% rates of employees that took parental leave 402-1 Minimum notice periods for See Employee Engagement in “Our People”, page 30. Minimum notice meets or exceeds government regulations in each jurisdiction. operational changes 403-1 Workers represented on See Occupational Health and Safety in “Our People”, pages 24-26, and Health and Safety Committees in “Our People”, pages 27-28. health and safety committees 403-2 Types/rates of injury and See Occupational Health and Safety in “Our People”, pages 24-26. rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 66 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Appendix NO. DESCRIPTION TAHOE CANADA MINERA SAN RAFAEL TAHOE PERU (BELL CREEK AND TIMMINS WEST) (ESCOBAL) (LA ARENA AND SHAHUINDO) 2017 SAFETY PERFORMANCE STATISTICS (1) Operation Fatalities Absentee Rate Occupational Types of Injuries Medical Lost Time Restricted Work Lost Days All Occurrence (2) Disease Rate Injuries (3) Injuries (4) Injuries (5) Incident Rate MSR Male 0 0.84% 0 Cuts, bruises, 6 1 2 19 0.22 trauma, fractures Female 0 0.16% 0 0 0 0 0 0 Combined 0 0 6 1 2 19 Tahoe Canada (6) Male 0 Strains, 42 3 26 47.4 5.4 lacerations, Female 0 contusion 0 0 0 0 0 Combined 0 3.85% (7) NA (8) 42 3 26 47.4 Tahoe Peru Male 0 0.19% 0 Cuts, bruises, 23 4 0 319 0.98 strains, Female 0 0.18% 0 contusions 0 0 0 0 0 Combined 0 0 23 4 0 319 Notes: 1. Frequency rates in safety data are for 200,000 hours worked and represent data for both employees and contractors. 2. Absentee rate does not include work-related injury rates, nor contractor absentee rates. Annual information for Tahoe Peru absentee rate is not retained given inconsequential levels of absenteeism. 3. Medical injuries are those requiring the attention of trained medical personnel before employees or contractors can return to work with restriction. 4. Lost time injuries are those that prevent a person from reporting to work in any capacity. Time away from work to seek medical assistance does not count as lost time. 5. Restricted work injuries are those that prevent an employee or contractor from performing at least some of the normally assigned duties for their job classification. 6. Tahoe Canada uses the guidance set forth by the U.S. Occupational Health and Safety Administration for recording and reporting accident statistics. 7. Not separated by gender. 8. Not calculated as a separate rate. Occupational disease would be classified as either a medical or lost time injury. 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 67 Appendix NO. DESCRIPTION TAHOE CANADA MINERA SAN RAFAEL TAHOE PERU (BELL CREEK AND TIMMINS WEST) (ESCOBAL) (LA ARENA AND SHAHUINDO) 403-3 Workers with high incidence See Occupational Health and Safety in “Our People”, pages 24-26. or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 403-4 Health and safety topics See Occupational Health and Safety in “Our People”, pages 24-26. covered in agreements with trade unions 404-1 Average hours of training See Recruitment, Retention and Development in “Our People”, page 29. per year per employee Average Hours Per Year Male Female Male Female Male Female Senior Management 40 30 60 25 17 27 Middle Management 22 16 75 40 85 56 Administrative/Technical 27 22 125 180 107 34 Non-Management 22 35 160 100 110 142 (Operations) 404-2 Programs for upgrading See Recruitment, Retention and Development in “Our People”, page 29. employee skills and transition assistance programs 404-3 Employees receiving See Recruitment, Retention and Development in “Our People”, page 29. regular performance development reviews 405-1 Diversity of governance See Our Employees in “Our People”, page 22. Note: Tahoe does not track percentage of individuals with the Company’s governance bodies by bodies and employees gender or age. Category Senior Management Middle Management Admin/Technical Non-Management (Operations) Total MSR Tahoe Tahoe MSR Tahoe Tahoe MSR Tahoe Tahoe MSR Tahoe Tahoe Canada Peru Canada Peru Canada Peru Canada Peru Under 30 years 1 0 0 18 0 0 142 15 81 224 82 141 704 male 68 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Appendix NO. DESCRIPTION TAHOE CANADA MINERA SAN RAFAEL TAHOE PERU (BELL CREEK AND TIMMINS WEST) (ESCOBAL) (LA ARENA AND SHAHUINDO) Category Senior Management Middle Management Admin/Technical Non-Management (Operations) Total MSR Tahoe Tahoe MSR Tahoe Tahoe MSR Tahoe Tahoe MSR Tahoe Tahoe Canada Peru Canada Peru Canada Peru Canada Peru Under 30 years 0 0 0 1 0 0 35 14 31 17 3 15 116 female Between 30-50 15 7 16 73 29 22 194 31 338 185 294 409 1,613 years male Between 30-50 3 6 3 7 1 3 18 18 37 24 12 4 136 years – female Over 50 years – 3 6 6 6 35 9 18 15 32 10 95 49 284 male Over 50 years – 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 8 1 1 2 0 14 female TOTAL 22 19 25 105 67 34 407 101 520 461 488 618 2,867 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and See Inclusion and Diversity in “Our People”, page 31. remuneration of women to men Senior Management 1:1 1.09:1 1:1 Middle Management 1:1 0.86:1 1:1 Administrative/Technical 1:1 0.96:1 1:1 Non-Management 1:1 0.72:1 1:1 (Operations) 406-1 Incidents of discrimination See Inclusion and Diversity in “Our People”, page 31. and corrective actions taken None 4 None 407-1 Operations and suppliers See Employee Engagement in “Our People”, page 30; Inclusion and Diversity in “Our People”, page 31; and Local Procurement in “Our Host where right to freedom of Communities and Countries”, pages 42-43. association and collective bargaining may be at risk 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 69 Appendix NO. DESCRIPTION TAHOE CANADA MINERA SAN RAFAEL TAHOE PERU (BELL CREEK AND TIMMINS WEST) (ESCOBAL) (LA ARENA AND SHAHUINDO) 408-1 Operations and suppliers at See Defining Materiality: Our Human Rights Commitments in “Our Approach”, pages 12-13, and Our Employees in “Our People”, page 22. significant risk for incidents of child labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at See Defining Materiality: Our Human Rights Commitment in “Our Approach”, pages 12-13, and Our Employees in “Our People”, page 22. significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 410-1 Security personnel trained in See Security and Human Rights in “Our Host Communities and Countries”, page 40. human rights polices or procedures Security personnel who 100% 100% 100% received formal training on the Company’s human rights policies Training applied to thirdYes Yes Yes party security personnel 411-1 Incidents of violations See Indigenous Peoples Engagement in “Our Host Communities and Countries”, page 38-39. involving rights of indigenous peoples 412-1 Operations that have been See Defining Materiality: Our Human Rights Commitments in “Our Approach”, pages 12-13. subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 412-2 Employee training on See Defining Materiality: Our Human Rights Commitments in “Our Approach”, pages 12-13. human rights polices or procedures Hours in 2017 devoted to 2 hours per employee 8.5 hours per employee 2 hours per employee training on human rights polices Employees trained in 2017 95% 83% 85% on human rights policies 70 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Appendix NO. DESCRIPTION TAHOE CANADA MINERA SAN RAFAEL TAHOE PERU (BELL CREEK AND TIMMINS WEST) (ESCOBAL) (LA ARENA AND SHAHUINDO) 412-3 Significant investment See Defining Materiality: Our Human Rights Commitments in “Our Approach”, pages 12-13. agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or human rights screening 413-1 Local community See Grievance Management in “Our Approach”, pages 14-17; Stakeholder Engagement in “Our Approach”, page 19: Community Development engagement, impact Programs in “Our Host Communities and Countries”, pages 32-37; and Indigenous Peoples Engagement in “Our Host Communities and Countries”, assessments and pages 38-39. development programs Social impact assessment Yes Yes Yes Environmental impact Yes Yes Yes assessment and on-going monitoring Public disclosure of Yes Yes Yes environmental and social impact assessments Local community Yes Yes Yes development programs based on local needs Stakeholder engagement Yes Yes Yes Broad-based community Yes Yes Yes consultation committees Occupational health and Yes Yes Yes safety committees Formal local community Yes Yes Yes grievance processes 413-2 Operations with significant See Community Development Programs in “Our Host Communities and Countries”, pages 32-37, and Indigenous Peoples Engagement in “Our negative impacts Host Communities and Countries”, pages 38-39; Also see “Our People”, pages 22-31; “Our Planet”, pages 44-53; and Adding Value Everyday on pages 52-53 in Tahoe’s 2016 Sustainability Report. 415-1 Political contributions See Financial Snapshot, pages 54-55. During 2017, Tahoe made no political contributions. The use of Tahoe’s funds, goods and/or services as contributions to political parties, candidates or campaigns is forbidden, unless authorized by the Company’s Chief Executive Officer. 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 71 Appendix NO. DESCRIPTION TAHOE CANADA MINERA SAN RAFAEL TAHOE PERU (BELL CREEK AND TIMMINS WEST) (ESCOBAL) (LA ARENA AND SHAHUINDO) 419-1 Non-compliance with social During 2017, Tahoe received no notices, fines or sanctions related to significant non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and laws economic areas. MM1 Amount of land (owned or leased, and managed for production activities or extractive use) distributed or rehabilitated Current Land Status (hectares) Previous total land 351 98 592 disturbed not reclaimed Land newly disturbed 75 5 87 during 2017 Land reclaimed during 2017 0 2 3 Total land disturbed not 426 101 676 reclaimed at end of 2017 MM2 Operations with biodiversity Each of Tahoe’s mines has biodiversity programs and undertakes biodiversity monitoring. See Biodiversity/Land Management in “Our Planet”, management plans pages 50-52. MM3 Overburden/waste rock See information provided in GRI Disclosure 306-2. and tailings disposal MM4 Strikes and lock-outs over Tahoe experienced no strikes nor lock-outs exceeding one week’s duration at any of our operations. See Employee Engagement in “Our People”, one-week duration page 30. MM5 Operations in or adjacent See Indigenous Peoples Engagement in “Our Host Communities and Countries”, pages 38-39. to indigenous people’s territories; operations with formal agreements with indigenous peoples MM6 Significant disputes related See Grievance Management in “Our Approach”, pages 14-17, and Indigenous Peoples Engagement in “Our Host Communities and Countries”, to land use, customary pages 38-39. rights of local communities and indigenous peoples 72 | TA H O E R E S O U R C E S Appendix NO. DESCRIPTION TAHOE CANADA MINERA SAN RAFAEL TAHOE PERU (BELL CREEK AND TIMMINS WEST) (ESCOBAL) (LA ARENA AND SHAHUINDO) MM7 Grievance mechanisms See Grievance Management in “Our Approach”, pages 14-17, and Indigenous Peoples Engagement in “Our Host Communities and Countries”, used to resolve disputes pages 38-39. relating to land use, customary rights of local communities and indigenous peoples, and the outcomes MM8 Number of company See Informal Mining in “Our Host Communities and Countries”, page 41. operating sites where ASM occurs on, or adjacent to the site; risks and actions to manage and mitigate these risks MM9 Sites where resettlements See Grievance Management in “Our Approach”, pages 14-17. took place, the number of households resettled in each, and how their livelihoods were affected in the process MM10 Number of operations with Each of Tahoe’s mines has closure and reclamation plans, as well as financial guarantees with appropriate regulatory authorities in the closure plans jurisdictions of operations. See Closure/Reclamation in “Our Planet”, pages 52-53. In-Place Third-Party $11.1 million USD $5.4 million USD $125.1 million USD Reclamation Cost Estimates (end of 2017) 2 0 1 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T | 73 Our mission is to create lasting value for our stakeholders: shareholders, employees, host communities and countries. We practice responsible mining in the Americas that balances and aligns all stakeholder interests. At Tahoe, we are Mining for Sustainable Value. WE WELCOME YOUR FEEDBACK Tahoe is proud of our 2017 sustainability efforts. We work hard to integrate socially responsible practices into our business. We aim for the highest standards of corporate governance and environmental stewardship, focus on employee health and safety, and seek to improve local economic and social development. Please contact us at csr@tahoeresources.com or investors@tahoeresources.com to ask questions and/or to provide input to our company. Tahoe Resources Inc. 5310 Kietzke Lane, Suite 200 Reno, Nevada 89511 Tahoeresources.com TSX:THO/NYSE:TAHO
