SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 reporting period 2018 according to the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standard INDICE INDEX STRATEGY AND SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLIERS 1. Letter to Stakeholders 6. Procurement of products and services 1.1. Support to the United Nations Global 6.1. Sustainable procurement of forestall Compact products 6.2. Suppliers 6.3. Control of the suppliers’ sustainability ORGANISATION’S PROFILE requirements 2. General Info 6.4. Our commitment on the conflict 2.1. The Plants minerals 2.2. Our business lines 6.5. Focus on biodiversity 2.3. Our history 6.6. Indigenous population rights 2.4. Activities e results 2017 TARGETS AND RESULTS GOVERNANCE 7. Targets of a Sustainable development 3. Corporate structure and Palladio Group 7.1 Goals, commitments and targets 3.1. The structure 7.2 Results 3.2. Governance 3.3. Establishment of the Sustainability Committee ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY 3.4. Targets of a Sustainable development 8. Economic Management 3.5. Management systems 8.1. Sustainable Development 3.6. Our principles and values 8.2. Palladio’s retirees group 3.7. Ethic Code 8.3. Market presence MATERIALITY ANALYSIS: METHODS AND RESULTS 4. Identified material aspects and boundaries ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 4.1. Identification and context of each 9. Environmental responsibility material aspect 9.1. Emissions 4.2. External assessment 9.2. Carbon Footprint 9.3. Climatic change 9.4. Approach to Climatic change DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS 9.5. Analysis 5. Relationships with Stakeholder 9.6. Results and scenarios 5.1. Communication and dialogue 9.7. Comparison DDPP vs SDA-2DS initiatives with Stakeholder scenarios 5.2. Palladio Group News 9.8. Carbon Price Impact 5.3. Transparency and sharing with 9.9. Energy Stakeholder 9.10. Waste 5.4. Stakeholder involvement 9.11. Drains 5.5. Customer 9.12. Water 5.6. Customer’s satisfaction 5.7. Customer’s health and safety 5.8. Privacy SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 1 of 132 INDICE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ANNEXES 10. Work practices and adequate working 17.1. Annex 1 Table of determination conditions material aspects and boundaries 10.1. Employment 17.2. Annex 2 Table coefficients as used 10.2. Diversity and equal opportunities for environmental calculations 10.3. Industrial relations 17.3. Annex 3 Table of correlation of the 10.4. Health and safety at work Report with the UN Global Compact 10 principle 17.4. Annex 4 life cycle assessment (LCA) 11. Training and education 17.5. Annex 5 life cycle impact 11.1. Professional development, careers assessment (LCIA) and human resources evaluation 11.2. Safety training 18. CERTIFICATIONS 11.3. Palladio Academy 18.1. Financial statement certification 11.4. Palladio Wiki Palladio Group 11.5. Ethics and anti-corruption training 18.2. Financial statement certification 11.6. First aid BLSD courses Ireland 11.7. Environmental and sustainability 18.3. Financial statement certification training Palladio East 11.8. Lean manufacturing meetings 18.4. SGS certification Sustainability Report 12. Human rights 19. INDEX AND GRI CONTENTS 12.1. Antidiscrimination 12.2. Freedom of association and collective bargaining 20. Sustainability Report’s assessment 12.3. Child labour questionnaire 12.4. Forced labour 12.5. Assessment 13. Society 13.1. Local Communities 13.2. Recreational activities 13.3. Anticorruption 13.4. Politic 14. Marketing communication 15. REPORT’S PROFILE 15.1. Link to the 10 principles of the U.N. Global Compact 16. COMPLIANCE 17. TABLES OF DATAS AND INDICATORS Page 2 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 VISION INDICE To be a benchmark in the healthcare world, anticipating the needs of our partners with valuable solutions MISSION We aim to make excellence our standard, paying great attention to innovation and to the full SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 3 of 132 sustainability of our processes INDICE Page 4 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 STRATEGY AND SUSTAINABILITY Letter to Stakeholders (Rif. 102-14/15) flow pack department. Investments also continued in the foreign plants with the arrival of new machinery. The new departments have grown and we have hired new employees to cope with the increase in orders, especially in the leaflets and P24 departments. Impresa 4.0 issues, in particular, have become an increasingly integral part of the mechanisms underlying the functioning of the Group. The economic trend was also positive this year with the growth of the new This year passed fast and many are the departments and the increase in events that occurred during this period. orders. A few clouds are glimpsed on The most important occurred in month the Italian economy after the calm of March and it was the acquisition of seemed to appear, proposing the company Poliweb Graphic srl. challenges that can lead companies to based in Gossolengo near Piacenza. focus on a short-term time horizon and This is a company specialised in overshadow the need to prepare for producing high-end labels for the the challenges of the future. pharmaceutical industry. To avert this risk, Palladio Group has With this acquisition the Group wanted made every effort by formalizing the to complete the range of products to Strategic Plan 2018-2022 which has offer to our pharmaceutical customers. launched 35 strategy deployment Today we are able to present ourselves projects that will allow us to look to the as a global secondary packaging future with confident optimism that, provider offering cartons, leaflets and with the resources that the company is labels. ready to make available, we can win It was also a year accompanied by any future challenge. steady growth in terms of employment, A fundamental contribution to the production, technological innovation definition of the Strategic Plan is also and strong investments that attributable to the approval, by the materialized with the arrival of the new United Nations, of the Global Agenda Heidelberg printing press in the Thiene for Sustainable Development and of plant and with the installation of new the relevant Goals 8 and 9which folding machines for the leaflets and encourage to: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 5 of 132 STRATEGY AND SUSTAINABILITY “stimulate lasting, inclusive and This chapter, in addition to exposing the sustainable economic growth, full commitment linked to the Sustainable and productive employment and Development Goal No. 13 which decent work for all” encourages promoting actions, at all “build resilient infrastructure and levels, to combat climate change , also promote innovation and fair, includes the recommendations responsible and sustainable promoted by the Task Force on industrialization”. Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) on reporting on risks related to This year we also took on the challenge climate change. to measure our work by referring to the Sustainable Development Goals Aware that the responsibility of a (SDGs) approved by the United Nations company does not end with the with the 2030 Agenda. The above adoption of resilient economic comes from the awareness of what we strategies, we have adopted a can still do to affirm a truly sustainable company policy that reconciles economic model and as an incentive economic objectives with social and to continue to improve processes while environmental ones with a view to adopting procurement methods that future sustainability that creates respect the environment and human tangible and intangible values, for dignity. everything that involves the company. To do this, at year-end 2018, it became So, in line with the commitments operational the Sustainability undertaken and pursued over the years Committee formed by the Corporate for the quality, environmental and Managers of the Group, who have health and safety at work and ethics, identified the SDG's most impacted by we will continue to make sustainability our business activities and defined a central element of all the corporate future targets related to same. processes that contribute to the The task of this Committee is to promote realisation of the product supplied to a path of continuous improvement the market in which we operate. towards sustainability which for the The intention of the company in this company also translates into greater regard can be summarised in the competitiveness and the strengthening conviction that sustainable of the Group's identity. development is the only form of development of society that does not Furthermore, in relation to the need to compromise the possibility of future combat climate change provided for in generations to persist in the the 2015 Paris Agreement, this year we development itself, preserving the included in the report a chapter quality and quantity of heritage and dedicated to our decarbonisation natural reserves. process. Page 6 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 STRATEGY AND SUSTAINABILITY Respect for and protection of Health and Safety at Work, of the Environment Over the years we have always and Human Rights are the foundation invested in human and economic of corporate operating strategies and resources to ensure well-being and concern the entire organization in satisfaction at the workplace. relation to the relevant activities / We have also confirmed our processes planned and carried out for commitment to adhering to charitable the: “Design and production of activities that could help the next by materials packaging and services for making donations to non-profit the pharmaceutical and cosmetics foundations, local and international industries”. aware that our small gesture is a great help for them. We will continue to be In compliance with the Legal active in supporting environmental Requirements in force in the countries in projects, social and cultural activities in which we operate and in compliance the local communities in which we with the principles defined in the Code operate especially by involving future of Ethics, the Group is committed to generations. respecting and promoting actions for the management of forest resources The evolution of the Company, which consistent with the respect of the values took place over time through multiple ethical and environmental and with the acquisitions and the increase in the orientation to continuous improvement. range of products and services for In particular, the organization is customers, is the testimony of an committed to the major concerns of organic strategy of shared value our time: sustainable development, creation, guaranteeing the respect the Universal Declaration of commitment to protect and use Human Rights and adherence to compatible and ethical natural and international accounting standards, as human resources. In fact, what has defined by the OECD and the UN, such never changed over the years, and as the Global Compact. that helped us to grow, was to make The objective of the entire Palladio excellence our standard, always Group is to pursue, year after year, an paying great attention to innovation, economic development compatible comprehensive sustainability of with social equity and ecosystems, processes and promoting a series of operating under an environmental projects related to the Business Plan 4.0 balance. This means that the with the support of technologies economic, social and environmental developed ad hoc. dimensions are closely interrelated, and any programming intervention will We want to continue to be the inevitably have to take into account reference point in the health care mutual interrelations. world, anticipating the needs of our SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 7 of 132 STRATEGY AND SUSTAINABILITY partners with valuable solutions and contributing to the sustainable Enjoy the reading! development of the company and the stakeholders. Mauro Marchi I hope that the Stakeholders, by Chief Executive Officer reading this Report, can understand the actions and the results achieved by the Group in compliance with the principles of Corporate Social Responsibility. Page 8 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 STRATEGY AND SUSTAINABILITY 1.1 Support for the United Nations Global Compact In May 2012 Palladio guidelines for the formation of Group has formalized management decisions. its adhesion to the Global Compact of Treating employees fairly and the United Nations, a respectfully is a natural thing for a welljoint initiative between managed company and contributes to companies from the ability of Palladio Group to attract around the world, United Nations and retain the best talent. The agencies and groups representing the maintenance of safeguards against interests of labour and civil society. corruption and violations of human rights as well as being the right thing to The aim of the initiative is to involve the do protects the Company from legal business world in a new form of responsibilities. collaboration through the adherence to ten universal principles concerning Optimizing the environmental human rights, labour protection, performance of our company's environmental protection and the fight activities is a key business responsibility against corruption. It also aims to make and helps reduce material and energy its principles an integral part of the costs. business strategy and to promote In relation to these general rules of collaborations in line with the objectives good business management, we of the United Nations in order to therefore undertake to maintain the achieve global growth that takes into Global Compact (and its principles) as account the interests and concerns of an integral part of our business strategy stakeholders. and our culture in all business activities that focus on the protection and Palladio Group's motivation to join the compatible use of natural and human UN Global Compact was based on the resources. fact that many of its principles favour our business, while others are directly In order to be able to provide our related to the Group's main activities customers, employees, suppliers and and its competitiveness on the market. other stakeholders with information on Furthermore, since 2018 we have our sustainability and performance included in our corporate responsibility objectives, we have based strategy an integrated approach to the sustainability reporting on GRI implementation of the Sustainable Sustainability Reporting Standards in Development Goals (UN SDG’s) also order to communicate the results using these targets as general SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 9 of 132 STRATEGY AND SUSTAINABILITY obtained to our Stakeholders in path together with the United Nations complete transparency. Global Compact. The usual Communication On Progress (COP) to describe what has been done and implemented by Palladio Group to Mauro Marchi Chief Executive Officer respect the principles promoted by the Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDG’s) has been integrated into this reporting. As a Managing Director, I cordially thank you, honoured in pursuing this Page 10 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 ORGANISATION’S PROFILE Information general (Rif. 102-1/2/3/4/5/6/7) in the national and international markets in which it operates. Nowadays Palladio Group is a cutting edge Italian multinational operating in the production-delivery of goods and services for secondary and primary packaging, of pharmaceutical and cosmetic products. The Group's customers are the leading multinational industries with which Palladio Group, the parent company of supply and collaboration relationships the Group, is a public limited company have been established that are under Italian law. fundamental for innovation and The three foreign subsidiaries are limited continuous improvement of the liability companies. products and services provided. The object of the Group's activity is The reference market is the substantially homogeneous among the pharmaceutical market and the core various Plants and can be referred to as business is the production of packaging design and production of packaging material. Palladio Group’s main goal is and services for the pharmaceutical to offer products, services and expertise and cosmetic industries”. in compliance with the requirements, while trying to anticipate and meet Palladio Group S.P.A was established in Stakeholder’s needs. 1946 and thus has about 70 years of The production is based on project, experience characterized by a according to the information and progressive growth focused on the technical specification provided by the commitment to fulfil, in the respect of a customer, in compliance with the sustainable and socially responsible applicable requirements and industrial development, the mandatory laws. expectations/ needs of its customers All the production activities are and all other Interested Parties. performed using machinery and A growth that has enabled the facilities that are technologically highly company to transform itself from a small advanced, this in order to guarantee local business to an international safety, containment of energy company, technologically advanced, consumption and environmental capable of imposing itself in the protection challenge against leading competitor SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 11 of 132 ORGANISATION’S PROFILE 2.1 The Plants Palladio Group spa has its headquarter in Dueville (Vicenza) and several production plants located in Italy and abroad in line with the company's strategy to produce in countries where growth and / or market opportunities are expected. Registered office and Italian plants Foreign Plants Palladio Group spa Palladio Ireland ltd Headquarter Via Cresole, 8 Dueville (Vicenza) Italy Sragh Industrial Estate Tullamore (Co. Offaly) – Ireland Products: cartons, leaflets Products: cartons Via Campazzi, 10 Thiene (Vicenza) – Italy Palladio East doo Products: cartons, blister Beogradski put 26300 Vršac (Vojvodina) Serbija Products : cartons, leaflets, labels Via Maremmana (Z.I. Gello) – Pontedera (Pisa) Italy Products: cartons, leaflets, labels, aluminium foils Palladio BMN llc Kievskoe highway, km. 104 Pharma Partners srl 249032 Obninsk, Kaluga Region Via Ettore Strobino, 55/57 Prato Russian Federation Packaging of medical devices Products:cartons,leaflets Poliweb Graphics srl Via Morigi, n.19 Gossolengo (Piacenza) Product: labels Page 12 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 ORGANISATION’S PROFILE 2.2 Business lines In the Group, at 31/12/2018, over 700 The total production capacity of the employees were employed, operating Group is approximately: at the eight plants. 1700 million cases, 800 million sheets of illustrations 600 million labels. 500 tons of aluminium Our brands FOLDING CARTONS Development and production of a wide range of cartons, boxes and display cases based on the technical specifications of the customers using cutting-edge printing technologies LEAFLTES & BOOKLETS Production of leaflets in single, double and triple reel, folded and pre-folded with perforations. Outserts with closure labels are also available. The booklet is particularly suitable for multilingual information purposes, the booklet is easy to read, easy to transport and long lasting LABELS Production of self-adhesive labels on paper, transparent and laminated materials. Embossed Braille labels, peel-off labels, calendar labels and serialized security stickers complete the range. ALUMINIUM A flexographic printing line is dedicated to the production of small batches of printed aluminium for blisters to be used with the Kit System service. Our services Brand protection Smart Packaging – Track & Trace IoT (Internet of Things) Dedicated teams, software, Intelligent packaging solutions machinery and quality to support patients and systems dedicated to every healthcare professionals in type of market need. monitoring adherence to therapy. Pharma Supply Chain Partners Management Contract consulting and Just in Time, Full Customization production services for secondary production scalable from VMI packaging. (Vendor Managed Inventory), InFact (logistics services), Delivery within 24 hours from the PO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 13 of 132 ORGANISATION’S PROFILE 2.3 Our History The story of an Italian company remaining firmly attached to a business founded in 1946, which has always model that proved to be effective over been focused on results, evolving from the years, and that is now appreciated a local dimension to national levels and by all our customers as synonymous with that has been able to stand out against quality and reliability. its international competitors During the 1950s, the company developed and changed its name to Palladio Industria Tipolitografica S.p.A. The specialization in the pharmaceutical sector began. 1980 Work is constantly increasing. The company moved to the new factory in 1946 Dueville, which is still Palladio’s Acquisition of the Società Tipolitografica headquarters Andrea Palladio. 1996 Page 14 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 ORGANISATION’S PROFILE 50 years after the foundation a second witness this evolution becoming Palladio plant is opened in Thiene. The production East and Palladio Ireland Packaging capacity is doubled and at the same time Solutions. the packaging market extends to the cosmetic industry. 2016 2000 Official start-up of the production of leaflets in Dueville’s plant; leading to the expansion of the range of products of secondary-packaging supplied to our customers. 2004 Palladio Group celebrated 70 years of The acquisition of Grafica Zannini is commitment and passion, marking this accomplished: the group is now enriched important anniversary with a ceremony in by two new plants in Tuscany, one in the prestigious setting of the Basilica Ireland and one in Serbia. The Group is the Palladiana in Vicenza absolute leader in Italy in the field of secondary packaging for the 2017 pharmaceutical sector. 2011 The fusion between Palladio and Grafica Zannini is formalized. Creation of the Palladio Zannini Industrie Grafiche Cartotecniche S.p.A. An important step has been added to our development project: Palladio BNM. 2013 As part of the strategy of diversification of 2018 the industry in which it operates, Palladio Zannini takes control of the Officina Farmaceutica Pharma Partners, integrating it into a larger project of industrial growth.. 2015 In March Palladio Group completed the Beginning construction of the new plant, at acquisition of the company Poliweb Obninsk in the Kaluga Oblast (Russia), the Graphics in Gossolengo (Piacenza). The company name is Palladio Obninsk. goal is to improve our rank in the 2015 international market for the label for the In October Palladio Zannini changes its healthcare industry. name and becomes Palladio Group S.p.A. Even the foreign offices in Serbia and Ireland, Zannini East and Zannini Ireland SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 15 of 132 ORGANISATION’S PROFILE 2.4 Main activities and results in 2018 Palladio expands its offer in labelling labelling market for Healthcare, announcing the acquisition of Poliweb Graphics S.r.l. Poliweb Graphics S.r.l., an Italian company founded in 1994 with headquarters in Gossolengo (PC), specializes in the design and production of self-adhesive labels with innovative technical solutions for the pharmaceutical markets. With this acquisition, Palladio Group will complete the range of products it is In March 2018, Palladio Group carried able to supply the pharmaceutical out a strategic operation to strengthen market with a high-tech global service the Group's position in the international perspective. PluggyMed, monitoring the adherence of oral therapies Intellettiva Srl, a startup born from a connect to the carton and collect and joint venture between Palladio Group transmit data on drug consumption in a S.p.A. and Omnys Srl which deals with safe way and, from a cloud platform designing and developing that collects consumption data , technological solutions for the provides remote control and healthcare world and pharmaceutical monitoring of all devices in use. companies with the aim of improving patients' daily life, has provided a new innovative and non-invasive solution for monitoring adherence of therapies oral exam to Italiassistenza spa.The solution consists of a cardboard box customized for the specific blister pack that contains the primary packaging of the drug, an electronic device that can Page 16 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 ORGANISATION’S PROFILE Palladio receives the EcoVadis Gold rating For the seventh consecutive year, Palladio Group has received the Gold medal Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) award from EcoVadis, one of the leading evaluators of global supply chains. Receiving an overall score of 75/100, it was placed among the companies with the highest rating compared to the This certification, besides being a 40,000 companies analysed by the reward for our vision and efforts in the organization that act proactively and field of CSR, is also a help to our responsibly in relation to Corporate customers to achieve their sustainability Social Responsibility. and environmental goals. Palladio improves its rating in the “Carbon Disclosure Project CLIMATE CHANGE 2018 CDP SCORE REPORT Palladio Group has increased its rating to level B (on a scale ranging from A to D) both in the management of its own climate impact and in the management of water resources. This is an important acknowledgment to the actions and strategies of contrast to the Climate Change adopted by Palladio as well as to the transparency WATER 2018 CDP SCORE REPORT in the communication to confirm the continuous commitment towards a sustainable development model that combines economic performance with the reduction of CO2 emissions. A commitment in line with the outcomes of COP 21, enshrined in the Paris Agreement to fight climate change. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 17 of 132 ORGANISATION’S PROFILE Strategic Plan 2018-2022 make available, we will be able to win any future challenge. The Plan, in line with the provisions of the 2030 Global Agenda approved by the United Nations (Objectives SDG 8 and SDG 9), is based on five pillars: Organic growth and cross selling, efficiency and harmonization, focus on highly profitable products and services , diversification, managerialisation. As a result of the integration process launched a few years ago, in 2018, the Strategic Plan 2018-2022 was presented, aimed at creating longterm sustainable value for all categories of stakeholder and which has given rise to 35 strategy projects deployments that will allow us to look to the future with optimism sure that, with the resources that the company is ready to Pharma Partner, speech at “All You Can Track&Trace” Palladio Group is structuring itself to part in the All you can track and trace successfully face the challenge of 2018 event, focusing on the traceability and anti-counterfeiting with regulatory and technical aspects of the the new Track & Trace line that since serialization world. June 2018 is able to serialize on the finished product, in addition to having the ability to over-label , apply Tamper Evident, aggregate and acquire the data in line with the regulation (EU) 161/2016, to which all Member States (excluding Italy) will have to adapt by February 2019. Pharma Partners, Officina Farmaceutica of Palladio Group, took Page 18 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 GOVERNANCE Palladio Group’s corporate structure 3.1 The structure (Ref 102-45/46) Palladio Group is part of the Holding Palladio Group spa – plants in: Group Marchi, according to the Dueville-Vicenza (Italy), structure shown in the following Thiene-Vicenza (Italy), organizational chart. Pontedera-Pisa (Italy) Palladio East doo – Vršac (Serbia) With the view of reporting Palladio Ireland ltd Tullamore (Ireland) homogeneity, in relation to the type of materials produced in the various Note: Exclusions from the reporting scope • Palladio BNM (Russia) was not included in plants of the Group, it has been the scope as it is not yet fully operational. determined that the scope of the • Pharma Partners is not included in the reporting scope as it operates in a different reporting will be limited to the plant context. operating in the Pharmaceutical and • Poliweb Graphics will be included in the Cosmetic sectors and producing scope upon completion of full integration into the Group. primary and secondary packaging Therefore, when the report mentions Palladio materials(cartons, labels, leaflets, Group or Group, only the plants previously aluminium foil), namely: mentioned shall be considered. HOLDING GRUPPO MARCHI SPA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 19 of 132 GOVERNANCE 3.2 Governance (Ref. 102-18) The Governance model in use is the Palladio Group shareholders assembly, “traditional” type, which means that it is by resolution dated 17/06/2016, has characterised by the dichotomy appointed the new Company Board of between the management body Directors which will remain in office until (Board of Directors) and the supervisory approval of the financial statements body (Union Board); the activities of 2018. statutory audit are entrusted to an In line with the provisions of the D.L. 6 Audit firm. July 2012, n. 95, converted by L. 7 The mechanisms of corporate August 2012 n.135, The Palladio Group’s governance adopted by Palladio Board of Directors is composed of Group, in line with the statutory seven members: President, CEO and provisions, intend to ensure an efficient five Councillors. More specific details and transparent functioning of the about the members (i.e.: age, gender) Company’s organs of government and can be found on public record control systems. available, upon request at one of the The members of the Board of Directors Group Companies, at the Register of are appointed according to integrity, Enterprises of the relevant Chamber of professionalism and competence Commerce(C.I.A.A.). criteria defined by the Statute, they Palladio Group pursues the aim of good shall hold office for a period not governance through the exceeding three financial years and implementation of a set of values, rules they end the mandate at the date of and procedures, stated in the Ethic the Meeting called to approve the Code, which outlines the commitments financial statements for the last year of and responsibilities that the company their term. The directors are re-elected and those who work there, are taking in in accordance with art. 2383 of the the management of each business Italian Civil Code. activity. SHAREHOLDERS' MEETING BOARD OF BOARD OF AUDITING FIRM DIRECTORS UNIONS Shareholders' Meeting Approves the Financial Statements, appoints the Board of Directors, the Board of Unions, the Auditing firm and amends the statute Board of Directors Ensures that the management of the Company takes place in implementation of the mission and the corporate purpose. Board of Unions, Supervises compliance with the law and the Articles of Association, compliance with the principles of correct administration, the adequacy of the organizational, administrative and accounting structure and its level of functioning Auditing firmPerforms the audit of the financial statements and periodically verifies the accounting Page 20 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 GOVERNANCE 3.3 3.3. Establishment of the Sustainability Committee During 2018, the Sustainability approval process of the materiality Committee formed by the Group's matrix, Corporate Managers was set up. definition of the Sustainable The Committee has the responsibility to Development Goals (SDGs) most promote a path of continuous affected by the company's business improvement towards sustainability, activities. which for the Company also translates into greater competitiveness and The Committee, every six months, will strengthening of the Group's identity. hold formal meetings at Group level to Specific meetings based on discussion review the risk framework, the work involved Committee members on: environmental strategy, the objectives the most relevant economic, social and key sustainability indicators and and environmental aspects for the related activities. company in order to identify the SDG’s, Chief Executive Officer Quality & Sustainability Sustainability Technical service, Chief Financial Chief Commercial Chief Strategic Human Resource Safety & Purchasing Officer Officer Officer Environment SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 21 of 132 GOVERNANCE 3.4 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s) The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable the countries in which it operates, has Development is an action program for decided to make a tangible people and the planet signed in contribution by linking the Agenda 2030 September 2015 by the governments of Goals to its Sustainability Report. the 193 UN member countries. It Therefore, in each chapter of this incorporates 17 Goals for Sustainable Sustainability Report, one or more of the Development (SDG’s) and 169 related Goals for Sustainable Development are targets in a major action program that connected so that the targets can be is leading the world on the way to go referable and comparable with the over the next 15 years. commitments that Governments have taken to safeguard the future of the planet. Therefore, the Sustainable Development Goals were evaluated in order to identify which were the closest to the Group's business activities and related projects, i.e. those for which policies and strategies can be developed that can directly or indirectly contribute to their Everyone, both individual citizens and achievement. public, private and non-profit organizations, are called to contribute The Sustainable Development Goals, to the achievement of development policies, strategies and actions that are goals for their own part. implemented in relation to the nature of In this context, Palladio Group, aware the Group's business are listed in a of its role in Sustainable Development in special section. Page 22 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 GOVERNANCE 3.5 The management systems (Ref. 102-11/12/13) The adoption of specific procedures for From the point of view of continuous change management, analysis of the improvement and in order to ensure all associated risks, and the use of customers and consumers the quality advanced technologies facilitates the and safety of our products, Palladio achievement of the targets set in our Group adopted, for some time, a respect for the Environment and Policy Company Management Systems Health and Safety at Work. In recent conforming to the requirements of the years, thanks to effective technological following voluntary frameworks: processes, there have been reductions ISO 9001 (Quality Management and (in some cases) elimination of Systems) substances harmful to the environment G.M.P. (Good Manufacturing as well as health and safety in the Practice) applicable to workplace. The above has allowed Pharmaceutical Packaging greater protection for our employees ISO 14001 (Environmental and the reduction of emissions (waste Management Systems) production, air emissions, discharges, OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health etc.) of hazardous substances. and Safety Assessment Series) The precautionary approach of CoC FSC® (Forest Stewardship Palladio Group can be found in the Council ® Chain of Custody) adoption of the certifications listed CoC PEFCTM (Chain of Custody of below and in the financial statements Forest Base Products) of the Risk Fund, the Bad Debt Fund and ISO/IEC 27001 (Information Security the product RC. Management System) Active Certifications Other Good Information Plant Manufacturing Security Practice System ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 CoC FSC® CoC PEFCTM G.M.P ISO/IEC 27001 Dueville        Thiene        Pontedera        Tullamore    Vršac        Obninsk    SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 23 of 132 GOVERNANCE The Quality Management System is The Group also adhere to initiatives developed and maintained promoted by:: considering the GMP requirements  COMIECO Consortium applicable to pharmaceutical  LEGAMBIENTE (UNEP) packaging. Palladio Group is also a member of the The organisation has also obtained the following national and international voluntary and independent trade associations: certifications of traceability (chain of  AFI (Associazione Farmaceutici custody CoC) of products derived Industria) from forests certified FSC® or PEFCTM.  ASSOGRAFICI Because of this the Organisation is also  ATIF (Italian Technical committed to not be involved, directly Association for the development or indirectly, in activities that are of Flexography) inconsistent with their policies of quality,  CIAL (Aluminium Packaging environment and safety. In 2017 our Consortium) management systems have been  COMIECO (National Consortium aligned with the regulations ISO\IEC Recovery and Recycling of 27001 (Information Security cellulose packaging) Management System).  CONAI (Packaging National It is also noted that in the Palladio Consortium) Ireland and Palladio Obninsk plant,  ECMA (European Carton Makers although there are no certified Association) Environmental and Safety systems,  ENIPG (Ente Nazionale Istruzione compliance with the binding legislation Professionale Grafica) applicable on this matter is in force.  GIFASP (Italian Group Carton box Manufacturers) In 2017, the management systems were  GIPEA (Italian Group of Auto aligned with the ISO 27001 (Information adhesive Labels Manufacturers) Security Management System)  HCPC Europe (Healthcare regulation while adopting Regulation Compliance Packaging (EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Council) Regulation, GDPR) relating to the  Italian Institute of Packaging) protection of individuals with regard to  INDUSTRIAL UNION (for the plants the processing personal data, as well as in Vicenza, Pisa and Serbia) the free circulation of such data. Page 24 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 GOVERNANCE 3.6 Our Principles and Values (Ref. 102-16) Consistently with our Mission Palladio Group has always invested in cuttingOur commitment to Ethics, Social edge technologies and equipment, Responsibility and respect for the 10 often developed in preview thanks to principles of U.N. Global Compact, is the close relationship established with expressed in a set of documents customers and suppliers. All this has necessary to define the behaviour of contributed and contributes to provide each participant in the Organization, measurable added value in terms of i.e.: logistics, productivity and lead time.  Ethic Code  Chart of Value The parameters within which our ethical  Ethical Trading Initiative Code (ETI) conduct is positioned are represented  Chart of Principles for by our values and the contents of the Environmental Sustainability Code of Ethics. In fact, Palladio Group  Sustainability Report pursues its economic objectives by  Supplier Code of Conduct giving priority to social factors, health  Social Responsibility Policy and safety and the defence of the  Human Rights Policy environment in the awareness that our  Sustainable supply policy entrepreneurial action must be in line  Policy for the prevention of with the interests of society. corruption SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 25 of 132 GOVERNANCE 3.7 Ethic Code (Ref. 102-17) The Ethic Code goods and services to comply with our contains the Code of Ethics and the Social values and Responsibility Policy” by signing the principles that Supplier Code of Conduct , in order to inspire and respect the same ethical principles as characterize the Palladio group. actions of The Ethic Code can be downloaded Palladio Group in from our website and is available in the relations with its languages of the countries where Stakeholders. The Palladio Group is present. Code of Ethics has been subject to The Ethic Code was provided to and some specific changes to adapt to the signed by all employees and made changes that have occurred in available on the company intranet site. legislation and was approved by the The training, in accordance with the Palladio Group spa Executive provisions of the Ethic Code, was Committee on May 25, 2017. renewed to all employees during 2017 The Code is an integral part of the on the occasion of the new issue of the employment relationship: all Ethic Code. Training on the Ethic Code employees commit themselves to is given to all new employees at the behave in line with the code itself. time of hiring. Palladio Group undertakes to monitor Consistently with our Code of Ethics, it is compliance with the provisions of its possible to implement the WhistleCode of Ethics by all its Employees and blowing procedure in order to report Collaborators working on its behalf. any unethical or illegal behaviour. Palladio Group, also exercising its The Whistle-blowing procedure can be control over the companies with which activated both from the inside and it establishes collaborations for work from the outside through the exchange and / or service, also undertakes not to and communication platforms with our be complicit in the abuse of human Stakeholders. rights. It has also been formally In the course of 2018 there have been requested to the Group's suppliers of no reports to the Ethics Committee. Page 26 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS: METHODS AND RESULTS Identified material aspects and boundaries 4.1 Identification and context of each material aspect (Ref. 102-47/48/49 – 103-1) The Palladio Group's management of and social issues of the organization the environmental, economic and both on the basis of the impacts for the social material aspects complies with Group and on the basis of stakeholder interest, Including external (and / or the GRI Sustainability Reporting internal) boundaries in which the major Standards, These, in order to determine significant impacts may occur the material aspects and their relevant This universally recognized reporting perimeters, outline a process divided technique uses specific indicators, into the following four stages: depending on the levels of application, 1. Identification bringing the company to: 2. Prioritisation  Perform a complete monitoring of its 3. Validation performance. 4. Review  Draw up a final balance of the main As shown in the picture, each of the environmental impacts of the four phases covers specific elements of Group ‘s production activities. the process defining what is relevant  Communicate the progress in and where it is relevant “. relation of the UN Global Compact In order to guarantee the quality of the Principles. information and the adequacy to the  Ensure that a measurable progress has been achieved. principles of balance, clarity, accuracy, timeliness, comparability and reliability In the third phase Validation the provided by the GRI, Palladio Group Palladio Group’s various department was inspired, for the definition of the managers, according to their roles and contents of this Report, to the following tasks across the Group were involved in principles. the activities and they have been During the first identification phase, centrally coordinated by the Quality potential material aspects were and Sustainability department selected through the analysis of various manager. The results of the Validation sources such as: Corporate documents activities were then finally approved by and policies, Code of ethics, the Executive Committee of Palladio Consultation with various stakeholders, Group S.p.A.. mandatory standards, GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards. During the fourth and final review During the second phase of the phase, which takes place after the evaluation of the priorities, the material aspects identified in the previous phase publication of the report, the were examined, giving priority to the organization focuses on the identified individual economic, environmental Relevant Aspects considering the SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 27 of 132 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS: METHODS AND RESULTS Stakeholders' feedback in order to identify new Aspects that could be examined in the next Sustainability The application of the identification Report. and prioritisation phases, according to the objective methodology indicated Based on the various consultations, above, has allowed the determination assessments and observations made in of the material aspects and boundaries the first phase, the Materials Aspects which are shown in the table in Annex 1 have been identified and are listed and in the following matrix. below, according to the following categories: Materiality Environmental •Identification of which aspects can be defined Material through the parameters: Economic •Significance considering the strength of the Social economic, environmental and social impact; •Degree of influence on stakeholder assessments and In order to identify the potentially decisions materials aspects, the following Stakeholder Inclusiveness elements of Palladio Group S.p.A. were •Involvement of the subjects “interested in a taken into consideration : meaningful way and that will reasonably influence the ability of the organization itself to implement its  Environmental aspects most own strategies and achieve its goals”, throughout the report phase significant for Palladio Group S.p.A., according to the Environmental Sustainability context Management System. •The performances illustrated in the financial statements must give a clear idea of the  Economical aspects that best organization's inclusion in the context of sustainable development, respecting the environmental and meet the needs of an increasingly social limits and demands expressed at the sectoral, local, regional and international level competitive market.  Most significant Social aspects Entirety according to : •The set of topics contained and dealt with in the report must be such as to reflect the entire the Company Policy and in sustainability performance and must allow stakeholders to evaluate it. respect of health and safety at work the Occupational Health and The reporting data refer to the last three Safety Management System and years (2016, 2017, 2018) and are the binding laws. indicated for each individual the Code of Ethics of Palladio production plant and for the whole Group and in compliance with Group. Some data may have been fundamental human rights, as revised, if compared with previous established by the International years, due to changes in the Conventions on the subject. coefficients, basic errors and  Compliance aspects to homogeneity in the reporting, in order international standards related to allow comparisons without distortions to the product in relation to the The table (Annex 2) shows the relationship with the consumer. coefficients used for the environmental Page 28 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS: METHODS AND RESULTS calculations, during the reporting period. It should be noted that during 2018 During the reporting period there were there were several significant changes no significant changes regarding the regarding the introduction of new scope, reporting limits or measurement machines, the size of the buildings and methods. the expansion of services that led to an If, in some case, a new method of increase in the consumption of energy measurement has been used, same will be highlighted under the relevant resources. indicator. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 29 of 132 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS: METHODS AND RESULTS 4.2 External Assessment (Ref. 102-56) This Sustainability Report was subjected The data relating to economic to external verification by SGS Italia, an performance, in a specific section, independent body with respect to our derive from the Consolidated Financial Group, as reported in the declaration in Statements also subjected to the appropriate section. verification by auditors of the Reconta Ernst & Young Company. Page 30 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS Stakeholders (Ref. 102-40/42/43/44) Palladio Group achieved its success on During the year 2018, there were no the domestic and international markets criticalities emerged from the activities because it kept in mind that its activities of stakeholder engagement. are directed primarily to Stakeholders, therefore its development was built Stakeholders are those bodies who prioritising the satisfaction of the needs have interests in place with our business of all stakeholders, including rights as such as: defined by national laws and Shareholders, applicable international standards. Employees Collaborators, The drafting and publication of the Customers, Sustainability Report and other report Suppliers, on the assessment of our Corporate Business Partners Social Responsibility (such as Ecovadis e Carbon Disclosure Project) was the first step in sharing and disclosing that has We also consider Stakeholders all those led us to focus on important aspects on individuals or groups, as well as the which our efforts must be addressed as Organizations and Institutions that response to our stakeholders' needs represent them, whose interests are and expectations. influenced by the direct and indirect In fact, our Sustainability Principles and effects of the activities of Palladio Values are the result of both material Group, in particular, the local subjects arising from the involvement of the various functions and the results of communities in which we operate, various forms of dialogue and environmental associations, future discussion with the Group Stakeholders generations. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 31 of 132 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS 5.1 Initiatives of communication and dialogue with stakeholders The sustainability approach used, in relationships with the various order to ensure the achievement of the stakeholders by promoting transversal objectives, the quality of information initiatives involving different and the adequacy of the presentation stakeholders through integrated of the principles towards stakeholders is external and internal communication to use the principle of inclusiveness and platforms that stakeholders can use materiality. Palladio Group wanted to without any particular constraints, such encourage information and as: Website www.palladiogroup.com Intranet internal intranet e-mail info@palladiogroup.com Facebook www.facebook.com/pages/Amici-di-Palladiogroup LinkedIn www.linkedin.com/company/palladiogroup Yammer www.yammer.com/palladiogroup.com Vimeo vimeo.com/user44390006 With the adoption of the techniques requests, sharing, understanding new related to Enterprise 4.0 it is the needs, requirements and duties. company's intention to increasingly use Specific groups of internal stakeholders these means of communication, and in were involved in the preparation of this particular social networks, as dynamic Report. platforms where intercepting potential Page 32 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS 5.2 Palladio Group News (company magazine) Since 2014, our company newspaper participation and involvement of has been restored with the main employees, keeping them updated purpose of telling everything about the about the activities that are being carried out and promoting the company starting from the internal circulation of information between the organization, going to the main events, various departments. up to the news on the products, but The structure of the publication includes also with the very important goal of an editorial signed by the CEO, the favouring and increasing the sense of focus on a relevant topic or of belonging of the employees, the spirit particular interest for the company, of collaboration and teamwork, then various columns that tell the news improving the working environment. from our operational offices, then some pages dedicated to events, to business With this additional communication life and to our employees. tool, we want to stimulate the SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 33 of 132 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS 5.3 Transparency and sharing with Stakeholders Evaluation of Climate Change aspects For the third consecutive year, Palladio Group participated in the CDP Climate Change Report, which measures, disseminates and shares environmental information by increasing the assessment to level B (on a scale from A to D). The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is This participation is a sign of a desire for the international organization that commitment by Palladio Group to deal measures the global commitment of with issues such as climate change, companies in fighting climate change identifying areas for potential with the aim of encouraging them to improvement. take mitigation actions. Smeta Audit SMETA is an audit methodology that includes all aspects of responsible business practices, covering the four pillars of Sedex in the areas of work, health and safety, environment and business ethics. Sedex it is a non-profit organization committed to increasing the spread of For the fourth consecutive time, ethical principles along global supply Palladio East has been evaluated chains and is the largest platform in successfully by Sedex in compliance Europe that collects and processes with Smeta, confirming the strong data on the ethical behaviour of supply commitment to permanent chains. improvements in the CSR field. Page 34 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS CSR Assessment For the seventh consecutive year, EcoVadis is an online platform for CSR Palladio Group has submitted its CSR to assessment (Corporate Social be assessed by Ecovadis, once again Responsibility). obtaining the Gold Medal (advanced level). The assessment is based on sustainable development standards: Global Reporting Initiative, United Nations Global Compact and ISO 26000. Reporting GRI Standard Since 2015 Palladio applies the reporting guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), strongly supported by the UNEP (United Last year, the previous guidelines (GRI Nation Environment Program), G4 Guidelines) have been updated companies, auditing companies, giving rise to a recognized standard environmental associations and the UN, called GRI Sustainability Reporting is an international institute that Standard (GRI Standard), to which establishes the principles of drafting the Palladio Group has promptly adapted. Sustainability Report and the contents. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 35 of 132 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS 5.4 Stakeholder engagement Ricicloaperto“Open recycling” For over 15 years, Palladio has joined recycled, to reassure citizens about the the national initiative of the paper usefulness of their daily efforts in making industry COMIECO (the Italian recycling. consortium Our sites, annually, open the doors for two days in order to accommodate groups of children and adults that illustrate the processes and methods of recycling. On March 2st and 22nd 2018 more than 200 kids from primary and secondary schools of the province of Vicenza have visited establishments to study the principles on which is based the paper recycling and how it is used in paper for the recovery and recycling of converting company for the packaging based on cellulose) called production of packaging. Ricicloaperto because it is aware of its importance and of the action of ecological education and awareness of future generations. Ricicloaperto is a major communication campaign on waste sorting and recycling of paper and cardboard, to raise awareness and show “live” the different phases of the cycle of recycling and educate the The enthusiasm shown by the students young generations to a conscious use during the course of the event was of resources. remarkable, both for the courses The aim is to discover the industrial offered by Comieco on good practices value of recycling, the professionalism for waste management and for the and the technology of the sector and chance to visit a real factory, to show how recycled paper and discovering its operation and daily cardboard are actually being management. Page 36 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS EKOLOGIJA Project In December 2018, Palladio East was available to support (technically and financially) a group of students from Vršac's high School for the new school program which proposes additional compulsory subjects related to applied sciences . The study focused on the subject of material recycling. The project called Ekologija, with the supervision of the teachers and the principal of the high school it has the aim to increase the environmental culture in the school in order for younger generations to take on sustainable behaviours and lifestyles . After the first phase of introduction, theoretical and practical, performed by students of the high School of Vršac, is scheduled the activity to raise awareness and general involvement in their school with concrete proposals on how to organise themselves in their own environment to adopt a kind of behaviour that becomes routine .The idea is to have the possibility to recycle the discarded materials in the context Palladio East took on the responsibility of school activities in order to have a of sponsoring the project, making return of benefits for the school itself in available technical and financial terms of new equipment. support, and implementing periodic To avoid that all this will end up in a monitoring of progress in the good example made by a small group, environmental culture. Palladio East has proposed to launch a joint project of four years with Vršac’s High School. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 37 of 132 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS Clean up the world 2018 As confirmation of our environmental In this context, Palladio, in the national commitment and territory, has supported schools in the consistently with the path areas where its plants are located, taken in the previous years, allowing the purchase of membership also in 2018, Palladio Group packages to organise the joined the “Clean Up the environmental volunteer day. World initiative promoted by Legambiente. At the Vršac plant, the children of the educational institutions have The event, linked to Clean Up the dedicated themselves to cleaning a World , is a global environmental part of the Mesic stream bed Mesic campaign held in collaboration with (Поток Месић) which passes through the United Nations Environment the center of Vršac. Program (UNEP). Visit of the Sismondi Graphic Institute's students In April 2018, the Pontedera plant hosted three classes of the G. Sismondi Institute of Pescia (Lucca) on a company visit. The students, who attend the third year and follow the graphic course, have seen the new printing processes with digital methodologies that allow a reduction in set-up times and production waste. Page 38 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS Sustainability day As it has been implemented in the past in other plants of the Group, also in the new Russian plant Palladio BNM employees and their families were involved and sensitised on environmental issues by mean of a strong tool with an immediate impact. A Sustainability day was therefore organized to fully understand the issue of sustainability in all its aspects: economic, social and environmental. Home is a wonderful documentary by Yann Arthus-Bertrand on environment and climate change promoted by the Good Planet Foundation and produced by Luc Besson. The film was released simultaneously in cinemas in 50 countries, coinciding with During this day, which also saw the World Environment Day. participation of some local customers, Home denounces the current state of the screening of the film Home by the Earth, its climate and the long-term Yann Arthus‐ Bertrand was carried out. repercussions on its future. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 39 of 132 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS Health, safety and environment day L'EHS DAY 2018 It is a free and open to the public event that aims not only to involve more than 2,000 young people and students, considered as the engine of a true cultural change, but it is also addressed to institutions, professionals and representatives of small, medium and large enterprise. The EHS DAY, conceived by the Italian Institute for Safety, has as its main goal Also this year Palladio Group supported to increase the culture of prevention the Italian Institute for Safety through and risk awareness among the new two important events in the framework generations, combining health and of the Peer Safety Education 2018 environmental issues with safety issues. project. Abilmente, a bridge between school and work transition from secondary school to the working world for children with disabilities and neurodevelopmental disorders. The project, born from the need to effectively face the moment of transition to the world of adults with children with disabilities, has an annual duration and includes activities in Palladio Group supports the project groups of a laboratory and experiential Abilmente born from the synergy type to enhance the autonomy of the Engim Veneto CFP Patronato San children. The intervention with the Gaetano and the Disability Service of children is carried out by a psychoULSS4, to respond to the emerging pedagogical team that supports and need to accompany the delicate manages the various laboratories. Page 40 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS 5.5 The customers (Ref. 103-2/3) Customer care is of strategic customers in terms of functionality, importance for the companies. This reliability and safety. The Quality concept is widespread at all levels of Management System, in line with the the organization so that there is applicable requirements of the GMP awareness of having to pay due attention to the requests and (Good Manufacturing Practice) expectations of the customer whose required by our customers, is satisfaction is periodically verified responsible for ensuring compliance through constant meetings and with the procedures while promoting a questionnaires. culture of quality throughout the For Palladio Group, high quality company through the involvement of standards mean meeting the needs of all the employees. 5.6 Customer’s satisfaction The customer satisfaction has a key role support and behavioural guidelines for in the strategic vision of the Palladio carrying out the activity. Group that is committed to developing Contractual relationships and its own products and services communications with customers are according to a customer-driven based on principles of fairness and approach to business. The ability to honesty, professionalism, transparency constantly be able to respond to the and cooperation in the search for the customer’s actual needs and best solutions to their needs. Over the expectations constitutes a prerequisite years, our offer has been enriched and for creating and maintaining the diversified, offering the full range of confidence needed for long-lasting products and services to cover a relationships. To know the needs and variety of solutions for the the degree of satisfaction with products pharmaceutical and cosmetic and services provided, we organise packaging. By investing in new periodically numerous initiatives of technologies, research and dialogue with customers. The development, and introducing management of customer relationships ourselves to the customers as reliable and the ability to provide specific partners it has been possible to achieve services plays a key role for the all these results, and we managed to implementation of business strategies. be closer to our customers and focused The Group therefore it prepares for sales on their satisfaction while still force specific training courses, weekly guaranteeing the compatible use and meetings and provides appropriate protection of natural and human resources. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 41 of 132 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS Relationships with our clients are suggestions from them to improve managed through a team of products and services. commercial accounts divided by During 2016, the company Cerved geographical areas operating as supported us in order to detect specialised consultants. Alongside the commercial account customer satisfaction. This survey team, we have also a Marketing and resulted in a total Customer Satisfaction Communication dpt which, through Index of 97.3 points / 100. Product various communication channels quality, wide range and preparation of (meetings at the offices, fairs, website) the technical sales office are elements allows us to offer a specialized of excellence in the offer. consultancy service to understand the client's needs and develop solutions ad-hoc according to the different needs of the market. The customer service dpt has also been strengthened in order to continue offering an accurate, reliable and timely service to our customers. Customer satisfaction analyses are also carried out to measure the satisfaction of our customers and receive valuable 5.7 Customer’s health and safety (Ref. 416-1) Due to the nature of products delivered produced through appropriate by the Palladio Group‘s companies, statements issued by the Quality Office there is not a significant risks to in which is stated the type of raw customers in terms of health and safety. material used for the production. In Nevertheless, we have decided to consider any possible repercussion on addition to the above, although we did the community; therefore, we have not have direct contact with the end catalogued the life cycle of our user, innovative solutions are proposed product, and analysing and evaluating to customers with the basic goal of all aspects, in order to improve its developing new packaging solutions manufacturing. for the medicine of the future. Labelling is not required for the type of Packaging designed to support product provided. The Group shall patients in monitoring and adherence provide appropriate documentation to to the therapy prescribed for them. its customers in relation to each batch Page 42 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS 5.8 Privacy (Rif. 418-1) Awareness of the importance of b) Customer Contractual generating, using and storing Requirements; information correctly led Palladio c) Requirements of other Group to implement, in January 2017, stakeholders; the Information Security Management d) Any additional requirement System in accordance with ISO / IEC independently set by Palladio 27001. Group. Adherence to this voluntary regulation has allowed us to pursue, and maintain In 2018 Palladio Group has adapted to over time, a level of confidentiality, Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General integrity and availability of information Data Protection Regulation, GDPR) in accordance with the requirements relating to the protection of individuals established by: with regard to the processing of a) Legislation in force (in particular personal data, as well as to the free protection of privacy and circulation of such data. intellectual property); SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 43 of 132 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS Page 44 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 SUPPLIERS Procurement of products and services (Ref. 103-2/3, 102-9/10, 204-1, 301-1/2/3, 308-1, 412-3, 414-1/2) Palladio Group works on a contract request for use of recycled material by basis, therefore it is the customer to our customers was over 23%. specify the type of raw material and Not being bounded by requirements for supplier to be used and we must strictly materials of packaging used for the comply with these requests, this limits packing of products sold, it has been our possibility to purchase recycled raw called the exclusive use of packaging materials. made from recycled materials. The criteria adopted by the Being unable to act directly on the pharmaceutical industry in finished product, we promote the accordance with the FDA (Food & Drug concept of sustainable consumption Administration) regulations, do not with our Customers through initiatives allow that the re-use of the boxes in aimed to raise the customer’s which the product is shipped. The use of awareness to use recycled cardboard such packaging it is only allowed once or to reduce the board grammage, to avoid cross-contamination issues. thus giving a contribution to: Our activities, for the type of material A positive effect on the used and in relation to the life cycle of environment the product, provide for a recycling A reduction of cardboard waste system that stands at very high An economic benefit for the percentages. All the materials used in customer production, which can be reused or A rationalisation of the supplier's recycled at the end of their life cycle, stock are appropriately separated and Greater flexibility in the orders collected for the purpose of their production. following treatment. Our initiatives have still originated positive results. In fact, also in 2018 the SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 45 of 132 SUPPLIERS 6.1 Sustainable procurement of forest-based products In October 2010, the European Union Our sourcing policy is to guarantee the adopted a regulation to prevent illegal origin and legality of wood products timber trade in Europe. Since March 3, (paper and cardboard) in our chain of 2013, the law (EU) 995/2010, better custody, paying particular attention to known as EU Timber Regulation (EUTR) suppliers of forest raw materials. Hence, have come into force; detailed information is gathered to this applies to wood assess legality, traceability, third-party and to all products certification status, global policy originated from it, compliance, and compliance with EU Timber Regulation (EUTR) including paper. EUTR 995/2010 “Timber Regulation” and For companies that with Due Diligence System. introduce in Europe products made from wood fibres, the Regulation In 2018, all Palladio Group’s suppliers of prohibits the placing and trade of forest based raw material have illegal products and requires the confirmed the origin of the material adoption of a system of internal “Due and all resulted to have a valid Diligence”. certification. Therefore, we can say that also in the year 2018 100% of the raw Palladio Group, through compliance materials used from wood (paper and with PEFC and FSC certifications, board) come from lawful resources. purchase only certified raw materials and / or materials not originating from controversial sources. Page 46 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 SUPPLIERS 6.2 Suppliers The Group’s suppliers operate in in particular, companies that can different sectors including: raw provide goods and / or services in the materials, ancillary materials for the markets in which the Palladio group production of pharmaceutical plants operate packaging such as inks and varnishes, The raw material used for production is services (in particular third parties). defined by the customer, and generally From a geographical point of view, The produced / manufactured by Group favours domestic suppliers and, multinational paper mills. 6.3 Control of supplier sustainability requirements Palladio Group, committing itself not to environmental legislation, Abuse of be complicit in the abuse of human office and corruption. rights, also exercises control over the During the reference year, the thirtycompanies with which it establishes eight (38) new suppliers included in the collaborations for work and / or service vendor list were selected and qualified performances. on the basis of social and In choosing Suppliers, we value Quality, Safety, environmental criteria and impacts on Environment and Social Responsibility the company. We have also begun to Management Systems consolidate the sustainability management monitoring activity by previously qualified suppliers. This activity will continue over the next few years so that the evaluation is extended Our procedure of selection and to all our suppliers. qualification of suppliers, since 2016, Through this activity we intend to provides that these are aware and encourage our Suppliers to understand share the principles and values set out and respect our Code of Conduct to in our Code of Ethics and that comply allow, through compliance with the with the following standards: Safety and criteria set forth in it, the continuation of health in the workplace, Working the Supply relationships according to conditions, Freedom association and clear and transparent criteria. It is in not retaliation, forced and compulsory fact our intention to favour not only a Labour, child Labour, nonresponsible attitude towards Palladio discrimination, compliance with Group, but also a profound SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 47 of 132 SUPPLIERS commitment to respect the same issues responsibility and the good practice within the supplier's company. In terms standards lay down by the of health & safety in the workplace we Environmental and health & safety ask the supplier/service provider to management system of Palladio have full knowledge of local regulations Group. on this subject and to follow the Any negative environmental impacts indications as per documentation and possible complaints related to provided which must be signed for those impacts are handled through the acceptance by the same (DUVRI). documented nonconformity We require, as per our procedures, that management. all the suppliers (contractors), selected During the reporting period, no to carry out work within our premises, contracts were rejected, no and must demonstrate to be in performance conditions were imposed, possession of documentation certifying and in any case no action was taken as compliance with legislative and a result of the assessment of respect for contractual obligations towards their human rights and practices of work with employees. They also have to be in major suppliers, contractors and other compliance with the corporate’s social business partners. 6.4 Our commitment on the Conflict Minerals issue In July 2010, the US Congress brought as mined in the mines of the Democratic part of human rights violations in the Republic of the Congo (DRC) and Democratic Republic of the Congo related countries. For all the above, and neighbouring countries having signed the commitment to (collectively, the DRC”) the mining and monitor human rights in our supply trading of tin, tungsten, tantalum and chain and in compliance with the gold ( minerals coming from conflict requests of some customers, in 2015, we areas ). The president of the United started by launching a survey with States of America has approved a new some of our suppliers to discuss the regulation, called Dodd-Frank Act, topic conflict minerals And receive which requires companies, American or confirmation that materials extracted otherwise, to make public the possible from the conflict zones are not used in use of the so-called Conflict Minerals the respective production processes. Page 48 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 SUPPLIERS 6.5 Focus on Biodiversity (Ref. 304-1/2/3/4) One of the environmental factors on in protecting the global environment which Palladio Group puts focuses is and maintaining and enriching the biodiversity despite all the Group's biodiversity of the Group, through plants are located in technological / participation in Systems of Forest industrial areas, away from protected Management as the FSC® and PEFCTM areas and areas of high biodiversity or Custody Chains, privileges purchases of areas where the Species listed in the raw materials of forest origin that come red UINC list have their habitat. from forests managed in a sustainable In relation to the prevalence of the raw way from an environmental, social and material used, which is made up of economic point of view paper and cardboard, and the awareness of the role that forests play 6.6 Indigenous population’s Rights (Ref. 411-1) In Palladio Group there were no obtaining the CoC FSC® certification, incidents involving the rights of the to buy the raw material in compliance communities in which it operates. with the principles promoted by this Although the production activity does Organization, including the recognition not take place in countries where and protection of the rights of indigenous communities are present, indigenous peoples and other confirming compliance with the minorities (such as local communities) principle of not being, albeit indirectly, that depend on the forest. accomplices in the abuse of Human Rights, the company is committed to SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 49 of 132 SUPPLIERS Page 50 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 TARGETS AND RESULTS Sustainable Development Goals 7.1 Goals, commitments and targets SDG Ref. GRI Goals and commitments Target We will support projects in favour of the community as social, cultural and artistic activities that are fundamental values for civil -society, contributing to improving the quality of life of the local communities in which we operate. Through rewarding mechanisms, we will ensure Target 2019: 100% of the salaries 203-2 that the salaries of employees in all group paid will be included in the 202-1 locations are on average higher than the minimum legal values without 413-2 minimum salary required by law without any any distinction between genders distinction between genders and origin and origin We will continue to maintain a constant dialogue with the various local institutions and other organizations in order to assess any relevant -impacts that the activities and corporate choices may have on the communities. We will support through donations, financial contributions and pro bono activities to nonprofit associations and foundations. 201-1 We will continue to promote various paths of 203-1/2 good practices aimed at improving people's 411-1 lives through the adoption of virtuous behaviours 413-2 regarding correct nutrition, personal and social -well-being, physical activity, road safety, sustainable mobility, contrast to smoking, alcohol and other types of addictions. We will strengthen the prevention and treatment of substance abuse, including the abuse of drugs and harmful alcohol consumption by: awareness courses for alcohol and drug abuse prevention, also in relation Target 2019: to detect 0 (zero) to the working environment (including positive for drug / alcohol test foreign sites) awareness campaign against smoking 403-2/3 in Palladio East courses dedicated to the prevention of accidents and occupational diseases We will maintain the performance on Target 2019: 0 (zero) professional occupational diseases in the plants and sites of diseases the group We will reduce severity and incidence of Target 2030: Reach the 0 (zero) accidents through training and prevention rate of accidents SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 51 of 132 TARGETS AND RESULTS We will continue to carry out professional training courses within the company through: general training/communication training/communication on the ethic code training/communication on sustainability training for sustainability managers initiatives aimed at supporting in remote Skills increase 404-1 TARGET 2019: >3,5h education We will continue to implement the Academy and Palladio Wiki project to transfer / acquire skills and know-how. We will provide scholarships to be assigned to deserving students, children of employees. We will ensure the compliance of corporate policy in which it is envisaged the right to equal opportunities and is condemned social, racial and religious discrimination in favour of Target 2019: integration and cultural exchange. We will ensure that all employees are treated Activation of the Dragonfly with social equality, guaranteeing them equal 202-1 Project (awareness of respect opportunities, in particular gender equality. 401-1 for the female gender) 405-1/2 We will guarantee universal access to sexual and Activities of survey ITA/ABR 406-1 reproductive health and reproductive rights to all employees of the Group through compulsory Targeted activities (to be maternity leave based on the laws in force in the various countries. defined after a survey) The company will continue to favour, through the granting of holidays and leaves, any ancillary requests to support maternity and parenting which benefits, without distinction, both men and women. Target 2019: per capita water consumption <15 m3 303-1/2/3, We will try to reduce water consumption at all Group operating sites by minimizing waste, Target 2030: considerably 304-1/2/3/4 despite the prevalent use of water for sanitary increase the efficiency of water 306-1/2/5 purposes. use by analysing innovative solutions for limiting water consumption Page 52 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 TARGETS AND RESULTS Significantly increase the share of We will implement the purchase of energy renewable energies on total energy consumption: produced exclusively from renewable sources for Target 2020: > 70% all the Group's plants Target 2025: > 80% Target 2030: > 90% 302-1/3/4/5 Target 2019: Investments in energy infrastructure and clean We will favour, as far as economically and energy technologies: technologically possible, investments in energy photovoltaic system installation infrastructure and clean energy technologies. at the Pontedera site purchase of electric company cars Through the Strategic Plan 2018-2022 we will continue to promote economic development and innovation in order to achieve higher Target 2019: keep transport costs standards of economic productivity through within 1% of turnover. diversification, technological progress and innovation. We will continue to encourage Target 2019: keep the number of lasting, inclusive and sustainable economic full trucks within 40% of the total growth, full and productive employment and number of outbound trips decent work for all, through the commitments expressed in the Corporate Ethic Code and Target 2022: related policies such as: Turnover >120M€ 201-1 Human Rights Policy MOL >20% Social Responsibility Policy Special Business over total Health and Safety at Work and >30% Environment Policy Policy for the prevention of corruption Forest Sustainability Policy Sustainable procurement policy Target 2019: 100% purchase of We will continue to purchase only certified forest certified forest products products originating from controlled sources. originating from controlled sources We will continue to improve infrastructure by increasing resource efficiency and adopting cleaner and more environmentally friendly technologies and industrial processes. Target 2022: On implementation of the 2018-2022 Strategic > 15% of total investments (for 201-1, 203-1 Plan we will invest in: the replacement of plants) plant rejuvenation projects >50% of total investments (for Enterprise 4.0 new technologies) Plants safety systems adjustment refurbishing of the headquarters and replacement of windows with low-emission glass” SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 53 of 132 TARGETS AND RESULTS We will ensure respect for the dignity of each person and offer equal opportunities in all phases and for all aspects of the employment Target 2030: Achieve 100% of the relationship: value of the wage ratio between men and women in order to 203-2 adopting wage and social protection policies guarantee the equality of 405-2 for greater equality, remuneration of women than men (on a comparable level of avoiding any form of discrimination that may role/ seniority) derive from differences in gender, age, state of health, nationality, political or religious opinions Planned activities 2019: Clean Up The Word (UNEP) Riciclo aperto (CONAI) “Abilmente” Project We will continue to invest in education and ecological awareness of future generations Activities 2019-2022: through adherence to national / international “Ekologija Project” in 203-1 initiatives or by directly financing projects aimed collaboration with the Vršac at understanding the issue of sustainability in all High School, with the aim of its aspects. increasing the environmental culture in the school in order to make sustainable behaviours and lifestyles take place for younger generations We will guarantee that the purchase of raw materials takes place exclusively from controlled sources and that the suppliers are in possession of specific certifications for the purposes of sustainable management and efficient use of Target 2019: 100% purchase of 301-1/2/3 certified forest products natural resources. originating from controlled sources. We will evaluate the possibility of recycling the waste from the self-adhesive production cycle and the differentiated management of waste in the kitchen. We will continue to prevent and reduce the amount of waste so that the global 306-2/3/4 environmental impact on waste remains minimal. Target 2019: 100% of all new suppliers will be selected and We will continue to monitor suppliers' 308-1 qualified also on the basis of sustainability requirements social and environmental criteria and impacts on society. Page 54 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 TARGETS AND RESULTS We will continue to pursue the continuous improvement of environmental and energy performance, applying best practices that Target 2020: 20% reduction in enable us to improve environmental CO2 from scope 1 & scope 2 management in an economically efficient emissions (compared to the manner such as: reference year 2012) reaching awareness of travel policies to limit 0.343 tons of CO2 per ton of unnecessary transfers finished product. continuous monitoring of the specific CO2 emission KPI awareness of the full truck factor in relation to transport activities Reduction of CO2 emissions in evaluation of business car pooling relation to the SDA_2DS scenario 201-2 to contribute to the limitation of raising the global temperature by We will continue to regularly assess the risks and 2° opportunities associated with climate change as part of global strategic business planning and Target: 2030 business risk management by striving to promote 34% for scope 1 & scope 2 a cleaner energy future. 22% for global CO2 emissions In relation to the SDA 2DS scenario, consistent with the limitation of the global temperature Target 2050: increase of 2 ° C, pathways reduction rates were 83% for scope 1 & scope 2 defined for the years 2015-2030 and 2015-2050 52% for global CO2 emissions which provide for a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions from the our production activities for scope 1 & 2 and for global CO2 emissions We will continue to prevent and significantly reduce any form of pollution by giving all solid 306-1 and waste water to authorized disposal companies for transport and storage in suitable premises to treat them for disposal or recycling.. Target 2019: Through membership and maintenance of Forest Management Systems such as FSC® e PEFCTM 123/5000 Custody Chains We continue to support the Procurement of 100% forestprotection of forests and fauna present therein 304-1/2/3/4 based products by suppliers of by fighting against the wood industry illegal forest-based raw material markets; we will therefore only purchase compliant with EUTR 995/2010 e/o products of forest origin that come only from DDS. controlled sources. We will maintain and constantly strengthen our corporate governance system, aligning it with the best national and international standards for preventing corruption in accordance with the Target 2019: training on anticorruption policies to increase 205-1/3 tenth principle of the UN Global Compact, which awareness and the ability to Palladio has adhered to since 2012 (based on prevent corruption. which “companies commit to fight against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery”). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 55 of 132 TARGETS AND RESULTS We will continue to maintain active partnerships with: COMIECO Consortium (Riciclo aperto) Target 2019: Participation to the Clean Up the Word (UNEP) Dragonfly Project (awareness of 203-2 Unione Industriali (Membership of the respect for the female gender Environmental Sustainability Charter) Vrsac high school (Ekologija project) Abilmente project (a bridge between school and work) Page 56 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 TARGETS AND RESULTS 7.2 Main Results In the tables in paragraph 17 are available all the data / results of monitoring in relation to the indicators provided by the GRI in the course of the reference period. The main results achieved during the year 2018, in relation to the policies adopted and linked to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s), are the following: SDG 2018 Result We have supported projects in favour of the community through donations, financial contributions and pro bono activities in relation to a preventive analysis of the needs of local communities or of general public interest for a total amount of 65,551 euros. The 73.41% of employees have received a higher salary than the minimum wage required by law without any distinction of genders and backgrounds. 88.96% of employees received Economic Benefits / Premiums. We have invested in the education and ecological awareness of future generations through adherence to national / international initiatives and directly financing projects aimed at understanding the issue of sustainability in all its aspects (see chapter 5.4 Stakeholders involvement). We have joined/opened a dialogue with various local institutions in the countries where we operate, including:: Legambiente Puliamo il Mondo (linked to Clean Up the World ). Abilmente Project with the Institute, born from the synergy of Engim Veneto CFP Patronato San Gaetano and the Disability Service of the ULSS 4. School for primary and secondary education Jelena Varjaški for orphans and disabled children Vršac High School, launched Ekologija project Unione Industriali (Membership of the Environmental Sustainability Charter) COMIECO Consortium (Riciclo aperto). Courses dedicated to the prevention of accidents and occupational diseases were carried out for 6,970 hours with an increase of over 3,900 hours compared to the previous year to favour the achievement of the accident target (aiming to zero). The free prevention program for influenza vaccination was implemented. Occupational diseases have maintained an incidence of 0%. The total training hours were 17,628 (about 6,500 hours more than in 2017). The average training rate per employee has increased by over 56%. Implementation of the Academy and Palladio Wiki project continued. Specific courses continued aimed at developing the skills that involved 50 employees. Provision of 4 types of scholarships to be awarded to students, children of employees. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 57 of 132 TARGETS AND RESULTS No reports were presented concerning discriminatory human rights practices. We have enhanced and developed the know-how of human capital, in line with the company's strategic guidelines, through specific training for skills development and performance evaluation. We guaranteed universal access to sexual and reproductive health. During the year, 5 employees of the 5 eligible persons benefited. The return rate of employees returned to work is 100%. The Group's Social Responsibility commitments have been emphasized through the issue of Human Rights Policy. We have ensured respect for the dignity of each by offering equal opportunities at all stages and for all aspects of the employment relationship:  adopting wage and social protection policies for the purpose of greater equality,  avoiding any form of discrimination resulting from differences in gender, age, state of health, nationality, political or religious opinions 100% of the energy purchased for all Italian plants and for the Irish plant comes exclusively from renewable sources with a certified Origin Guarantee. To improve the infrastructures, increasing the efficiency in the use of resources and adopting cleaner and healthier technologies and industrial processes for the environment, investments have been made to increase energy efficiency, such as:  replacement and installation of new production lines, technologically more advanced and efficient, to respect the environment and pursue energy savings,  reduction of internal climatic dispersion with installation of high energy efficiency fixtures. We continued the promotion of economic development and innovation by issuing the 2018-2022 Strategic Plan. Plan that aims to stimulate lasting, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. Investments were made for: new technologies, equal to 24% of total investments, replacement of installations, equal to 28% of total investments. A Sustainable Procurement Policy has been issued to share the commitment to sustainable procurement practices. 100% of the forest products purchased were of lawful origin 100% of the new suppliers have been selected and qualified also on the basis of social and environmental criteria and impacts on society. 100% of forest-based products come from suppliers of forest-based raw materials compliant with EUTR 995/2010 and / or DDS. The percentage of waste sent for recycling / recovery has increased by 13.62% with a ratio of 1.04% to total waste. Total hazardous waste decreased by 2.32%. The percentage of hazardous waste compared to the total waste has decreased by 17.22. 100% of solid and waste water was sent to authorize disposal companies for transport and storage in premises that can be treated for disposal or recycling in order to prevent and significantly reduce any form of pollution. Page 58 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 TARGETS AND RESULTS An assessment was made on the risks and opportunities associated with climate change which led to scenarios consistent with the limitation of the global temperature increase of 2 ° C (see chapter 9.3 Climate change and following). We have reduced CO2 emissions from our production activities by 19.91%, achieving the result set for the 2018 target (15% reduction compared to the reference year). During 2018, 7.815 m3 of water were consumed, reducing consumption compared to the previous year by 7.95%. Per capita consumption, with targets set at 15m3 per year, was 12.12m3 with a reduction of 7.95% compared to 2017. In accordance with the tenth principle of the UN Global Compact, to which Palladio joined in 2012: the Policy for the Prevention of Corruption was issued, a risk analysis was performed and an audit was carried out on the ability to prevent corruption by a third party in line with the requirements of ISO 37001 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 59 of 132 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY Economic Management (Ref. 103-2/3, 201-1, 203-1/2) In recent years Palladio Group has the economic conditions of the local reorganised its structure to better meet communities in which it operates. the needs of an increasingly By supporting projects in favour of the competitive market by making many community as social, cultural and investments aimed to make our artistic activities that are fundamental production more efficient and to values for civil society, Palladio Group improve the organisation, increase also contributes to improving the customer services and strengthen quality of life of the local communities leadership in the market in which it in which it is present. operates. Donations, financial contributions and After the construction of the plant in pro bono activities were carried out Russian territory, which was the during the year with reference to a continuation of the already preventive analysis of the needs of consolidated strategy with other local communities or of general public foreign factories to produce directly in interest. the countries where the market is In addition to the various activities expected to grow, 2018 led to the undertaken by the Group, as every acquisition of the Poliweb Graphics year Palladio Group’s employees, Company for the purpose to expand together with the company, have the labelling offer. contributed to support, through the This dynamism, in addition to proceeds of the annual lottery, various generating value for the Company, associations of humanitarian and social contributes, albeit indirectly, to improve nature of their own choice. Investimenti nella comunità Palladio Group 2018: € 65.551 Page 60 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY 8.1 Sustainable development (201-2/3) As we are aware of the importance of initiatives were also promoted to ensuring a sustainable development of reduce energy consumption and our activities and a more efficient use of facilitate the waste recycling. energy and materials, Palladio Group In this regard in 2018, expenses were pursues continuous improvement of its incurred for the management and environmental performance and environmental protection for more than energy, applying best practices which 142,000 euro, mainly due to the will improve the environmental installation of cleaner and more management in a cost-effective way. efficient technologies, training for staff To achieve these objectives, the directly involved in environmental Company has adopted a management, external services, management model based on the purchases of green products, waste preventive analysis of the disposal. environmental impacts of its activities, on the constant monitoring of Palladio Group is aware of the risks due consumption and waste and on the to physical transformations in relation to evaluation by third parties of the climate change but, at present, it performance of its CSR. believes that will not affect the This approach has allowed us to identify operations of its plants and business the areas which need our intervention decisions in the medium and long term. to achieve an environmental The company has, however, signed improvement; we acted in this direction insurance contracts to protect itself in with targeted activities that led to case of unexpected weather events progressive reductions in CO2 and has put into procedures a Business emissions. Continuity and a Disaster Recovery To promote the company's plan to ensure continuity of its activities. sustainability culture, awareness-raising SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 61 of 132 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY 8.2 Palladio Group’s Pensioners Palladio Group, totally in line with the regulations in force, provides a pension plan to its employees as provided by the countries where it operates. It also assists employees in the transition from working life to retirement. The same are always invited to participate in the exchange of Christmas greetings, the Christmas lottery and the delivery of the Christmas gift basket along with all staff on duty. In the past several years the Palladio's Pensioners Group became a corporate institution that is in charge of organizing trips, convivial meetings, plant tours, theatre performances and other initiatives to involve all former colleagues and give them a chance to meet and together refresh the bond of Also this year the company has taken a long working life spent in the charge of organizing the classic annual company. event of the completely free excursion open to pensioners and their spouses by proposing a romantic mini cruise among the Venetian villas of the Brenta Riviera from Padua to Venice. Page 62 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY 8.3 Market Presence (Ref. 202-1/2) The most important operational sites priority is given to people living in the (based on the high number of vicinity where the activity takes place. employees) are located in Italy and Serbia. Generally speaking the managers and the employees of both the foreign The salary of new employees in all subsidiaries and the various Italian locations of the group is on average plants have their habitual residence higher than the minimum wage nearby the relevant local communities. required by law without any distinction between genres and backgrounds. For Senior managers are meant the toplevel functions and for local community Palladio Group doesn’t have a specific is intended the country in which the policy regarding the global recruitment plant operates. of staff residing in the vicinity of the plants; recruitment practices however SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 63 of 132 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY Page 64 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Environmental Responsibility (Ref. 103-2/3) Palladio Group has identified the Another important step in the policy of environmental aspects related to the reducing waste is the management of activities, products and direct and waste arising from our raw material indirect services and the related (paper and cardboard). impact factors associated considering Most of this material is in fact managed the life cycle perspective. The as a by-product where permitted by significant environmental aspects have the applicable local legislation of the been determined to keep them under countries in which the Group's plants control and prevent any environmental are located. All this type of material is risk. appropriately managed for the purpose of its reuse / recycling The applicable legal requirements and other requirements subscribed by the The organisation, in order to improve Organisation are taken into account in the efficiency in the use of materials the definition, implementation and and resources, also separates the maintenance of the Environmental various packaging materials (such as Management System. wooden pallets, some types of plastic, iron, etc.) in order to help improve Specific targets of improvement are efficiency in the use of materials and defined on an annual basis in order to resources. improve our performance and reduce consumption resulting from any waste. Since 2009, Palladio Group has These goals, during the years have analysed its LCA (Life Cycle brought significant benefits. Assessment), starting to monitor greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Several studies aimed at defining and deriving in particular from: modifying procedural methods and Consumption of natural gas (direct structural interventions have allowed a emissions of greenhouse gases) reduction in consumption resulting from Consumption of electricity (indirect emissions of greenhouse gases) waste. The implementation of these interventions, such as: demotic the indirect impacts resulting from its management of air conditioning, lights productive activities were also and various utilities at the service of checked, such as: production, use of LED lights, have led Consumption paper raw materials to considerable improvements in Transport resulting from the energy efficiencies. purchase of paper raw materials SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 65 of 132 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Transport resulting from the sale of reduce natural resources waste finished products. reduce our contribution to Global Warming. Following the evaluation of environmental impacts (LCIA), in The extent of reduction was relation to the annual production, our determined through the evaluation of consumptions were monitored to the Carbon Foot Print for the years intervene significantly by establishing taken as reference. targets aimed to: Page 66 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 9.1 Emissions (Rif. 305-1/2/3/4/5) Palladio Group does not have In consequence of this the Scope 2 significant emissions in the emissions are accounted in two atmosphere or emissions for which different ways respectively called the competent authorities have location-based method and a prescribed monitoring, so the market-based method; the emission emissions of ozone depleting factors used for the two methods substances are not measured. are shown in the table in the Annex In any case the following 2. For the Market based environmental aspects have been methodology the following emission identified and taken into account: factors were used, where available, in the following order of preference: Certificate of Guarantee of Scope 1) Origin (Italy) Emissions of greenhouse gases due Specific emission factor made to the combustion of natural gas available by the supplier and diesel fuel in the plants for (Ireland) premises heating (direct and Residual mix (Ireland) controllable emissions); Emission factor used in the For each plant, the consumption of Location based methodology natural gas and diesel (invoices) for (Serbia) the last three years has been used. Scope 3) Scope 2) Greenhouse gas emissions from the Greenhouse gas emissions from the processing of raw materials consumption of electricity in the incoming to the production cycle plants (indirect emissions); and from the transportation of raw The energy consumption data materials and finished products (invoices), issued the last three (other indirect emissions); years, have been used. In 2016, we The data for the last three years introduced the Scope 2 emission containing the quantities of raw calculation methodology in line with materials incoming to each plant the new requirements of the have been used. In detail, there are Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 2 the following incoming materials: Guidance. Cardboard boxes for processing in the line; SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 67 of 132 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Paper for leaflets in line cardboard) and output (for processes; delivery of finished products) Self-adhesive Labels for stickers from all plants of the Group. production; Inbound Travel (for the supply of raw materials of paper and _____________________________ Scope1 refers to direct greenhouse gas emissions and absorption, Scope 2 is reported to greenhouse gas indirect emissions associated with the use of energy, Scope 3 is other indirect emissions; For further details refer to the definitions of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (www.ghgprotocol.org) Page 68 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 9.2 Carbon Footprint In recent years, thanks to a series of increased production, to reach the set activities aimed to define and modify targets. In fact, in order to mitigate the the procedural methods and the environmental impacts associated with structural intervention that would allow the transport of products, the a reduction in consumption resulting Organization constantly ensures the from any energy waste, we avoided to optimization of outbound and inbound increase the Greenhouse Gas emission. journeys through the procurement and The above despite the enlargements of subsequent production of the finished the plants, the implementation of product in the factories located closest additional production lines, the to the customer to whom the material is production differentiation and the delivered. increase of the business that have led The different types of emission (Scope 1, to an increase in energy consumption. Scope 2, Scope 3) are accounted for The strategic targets on greenhouse by transforming them into an economic gas emissions have been determined value. The last value of the available as the sum of Scope 1 emissions and carbon price derived from the last Scope 2 emissions Market Based. edition of the Word Bank Group Report The agreements signed since 2017 (State and Trends of Carbon Pricing) is concerning the purchase of energy used for the above. Based on this produced exclusively from renewable information, considering the value in sources, have led to a reduction of the different countries in which Palladio approximately 45% in CO2 emissions at Group operates, a specific carbon Group level for the Scope 2 calculated price was identified as the ratio with reference to the year 2016. between economic value and carbon Above all we monitor the indirect revenue. impacts arising from our productive This indicator has been included in the activity as: company's key indicators for the Consumption of paper raw materials purpose of its monitoring. Transport resulting from the purchase of paper raw materials Transport deriving from the sale of finished products. Thanks to the adoption of Lean Manufacturing, we were able to reduce the absolute environmental impact of the Group, managing to limit the increase of CO2 associated with an SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 69 of 132 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 9.3 Climate Change It is now universally recognised that the The report also highlights the enormous battle against the impacts of climate costs in terms of climate risk on the part change is an essential condition to of investors, regulatory authorities and ensure that other sustainable governments in the event of immobility. development goals can be usefully pursued. The establishment of the Task Force on In September 2015 there was the Climate-Related Financial Information adoption of the United Nations (TCFD), announced by the Financial Sustainable Development Goals Stability Board (FSB), has further (SDGs), a global agenda for strengthened the recognition of the sustainable development until 2030. financial importance of climate risk. The One of these goals (goal 13) concerns eventuality of exceeding the 1.5 ° C climate action and the need to take threshold leads to rather disturbing urgent measures to combat climate scenarios. change and the resulting impacts. In fact, an increase in the global average temperature of 2 ° C would This Agenda received a significant lead to the disappearance of coral boost with the adoption of the Paris reefs, and of their entire and articulated Agreement on the United Nations marine ecosystems. The sea level would Framework Convention on Climate rise to a global level of 10 centimetres, Change (UNFCCC) in December 2015. radically changing the lives of millions Agreement that established a of people living along the coasts. complete framework to reduce The oceans would face even more greenhouse gas emissions and limit intense acidification processes than global warming to a maximum of 2 ° today, with very serious consequences Centigrade above pre-industrial levels. for marine flora and fauna. More torrid summers and extreme The Intergovernmental Group of Experts weather events would make cereal for Climate Change (IPCC), the main cultivation more difficult and international body for the assessment of expensive, the first source of food for climate change, has estimated (AR5 billions of people in much of the world. ratio) that the achievement of the 2 ° Celsius limit requires a limitation of CO2 Action is needed at all levels to ensure concentration in the atmosphere equal a sustainable economy, society and to 450 parts per million (ppm) by 2100 environment in general. and proposing a range of different The IPCC report indicates that only potential temperature scenarios through a significant and very rapid including an extreme final climate risk. change in the way we live and our Page 70 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY habits can we avoid serious organization of our cities. The longer it consequences. expects, the more difficult it will be to This implies changing the way we do it in an organized and economically produce electricity, giving priority to sustainable way. This action is necessary renewable sources above all else, the at all levels to ensure a sustainable way the production chain works, the economy, society and environment in transport system, the crops and the general Ref.: https://www.wwf.org.uk/updates/our-warming-world-how-much-difference-will-half-degree-really-make SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 71 of 132 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 9.4 The approach to climate change Palladio Group regularly assesses the In line with the requirements of the risks and opportunities associated with report concerning the TCFD climate change as part of global recommendations issued in June 2017, strategic business planning and and in addition to what has already business risk management by been disclosed in past years, this report committing to promoting a cleaner includes an update and in-depth energy future. Actions include the use analysis of the Group's climate strategy. of innovative approaches to integrate Palladio Group has in fact decided to energy consumption with renewable engage with its Stakeholders by energy resources. In fact, following the publishing the assessment of potential strategic restructuring and investments impacts resulting from future in recent years, CO2 emissions (Scope 1 requirements and technological + Scope 2) have fallen by over 58% from advances aimed at limiting global 2012 to 2018. warming to 2° C compared to preindustrial levels. 9.5 The analysis The Palladio Group business is strongly In relation to the scenario models focused on the supply of considered we presumed decreases in pharmaceutical packaging and the CO2 emissions differentiated for each consequent impact is closely scenario model. For the development connected to the consumption of of the scenario analysis for the Palladio electric energy and the consumption of Group business, two calculation models raw materials of forest origin. were used and compared: 298/5000 1. the model published in the report For this assessment, the Group analysed Deep Decarbonisation Pathways the potential impacts on production Project (DDPP) which is a global activities through long-term scenario initiative promoted by the models. Sustainable Development Solutions In these scenarios, possible variations in Network (SDSN) and by the Institute raw material quantities, energy for Sustainable Development and consumption and incoming / outgoing International Relations (IDDRI). transport were considered. Page 72 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Deep Decarbonisation Pathways ° C (2DS) scenario developed by the Project, is included among the International Energy Agency (IEA) transition scenarios mentioned by within the Energy Technology TCFD and coherent with the Perspectives (ETP) 2014 study (IEA, containment targets of the global 2014). It was developed by CDP, temperature rise within the 2 ° C WRI and WWF with the technical defined in the Paris agreement support of Ecofys as a consulting partner. The methodology provides 2. the calculation model Sectoral companies with a sector-specific Decarbonisation Approach (SDA) method to set emission targets proposed by Science Based Target based on the latest ETP data. (SBT). This method is based on the 2 9.6 Results and scenarios The graphs shown below show the SDA_2DS) divided by scope 1 + scope 2 trends relating to the scenarios and total emissions. identified in the two models (DDPP and SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 73 of 132 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 9.7 Comparing scenarios DDPP vs SDA-2DS The graphs respectively show the Group S.p.A. in terms of reduction in comparisons between the two models particular for the Scope 1 and Scope 2 of scenario studied referring to the 2030 issues of the SDA_2DS scenario and 2050 target year, which indicate compared to the DDPP scenario. the greatest effort required for Palladio 9.8 Carbon Price Impact The scenario study was accompanied by an assessment of the economic impact typical of direct and indirect CO2 associated with the activities of Palladio Group S.p.A. The graph below compared the impact assessments associated with the different scenarios in terms of specific Carbon Prices. Page 74 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 9.9 Energy (Ref. 302-1/3/4/5) Currently Palladio Group does not targeted a modernization of the produce energy, this is only purchased. production equipment such as the The energy consumption for heating replacement of bulbs neon lamps with production floors and offices during high energy efficiency (LED), the use of winter time is exclusively attributable by demotic (home automation) the use of natural gas (Italian plants equipment for the management of and plant Serbia) or oil fuel (Irish plant)). services subservient to the production The consumption of electrical energy is and to air-conditioning the building significant as it has the greater and the replacement of the heating environmental impact. This type of systems with high efficiency boilers. consumption derives from both the Since 2017, agreements are in place normal production and the use of signed for the purchase of energy compressors for air conditioning. produced exclusively through renewable sources for Italian plants Specific interventions have enabled a and for the Irish plant. reduction in consumption at This choice is positively reflected in the comparative level (KPI). significant reduction in emissions This reduction was achieved through a associated with electricity consumption series of specific procedural and calculated according to the Market structural interventions, or through acts Based methodology of the Guideline to sensitize all employees to for greater Scope 2 of the GHG protocol. awareness. The structural interventions SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 75 of 132 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 9.10 Waste (Ref. 306-2/3/4) Palladio Group follows a clear strategy The total waste produced has for waste management. The objective increased in relation to the increase in is to prevent and reduce the amount of production, however, the actions waste so that the global environmental undertaken have led to a decrease in impact related to the waste remains hazardous waste of 2.32% with a minimal. reduction of over 19% in the ratio between hazardous waste and total Palladio Group is just a waste producer, waste. not a dealer. All waste is collected from The percentage of waste sent for our premises and delivered to local recycling / recovery has also increased authorized waste disposal companies by 15% with a ratio of 0.45% to total where it will be disposed of and/or waste. recycled.. 9.11 Drains (Ref. 306-1/5) The production cycle does not include list, which includes all the 197 Italian drains of water; the only planned Policy Species (species included in the discharges are those resulting from the annexes of Directive 92/43 / EEC use of sanitation and therefore similar to Habitat and of the Berne Convention, domestic sewage. both ratified by the Italian Government and in fact constituting national laws), Our offices and manufacturing plants in have their habitat. For this reason, there are located in technological / industrial are no measurements in. areas, away from protected areas and areas of high biodiversity or areas where the Species listed in the red UINC Page 76 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 9.12 Water (Ref. 303-1/2/3) Water is a very important resource that is used sparingly in all Group’s plants. During 2018, 7.815 m3 of water were consumed, reducing consumption Almost all the water consumed comes compared to the previous year by from municipal water while about 2.5% approximately 8%. of consumption consists of ground water, used only at the plant in Dueville. Per capita consumption, with targets set at 15 m3 per year, was 12.12m3 with The Group's plants take quantities of a reduction of 7.95% compared to water that do not significantly damage 2017. water sources and use the same mainly for hygienic-sanitary purposes Despite the reduced water impacts on (recycling / reuse methods are not the activities, in the last three years, used). In the production process the use Palladio Group has provided a of water is generally limited to offset complete report on water problems by printing activities for wetting the printing completing the CDP Supply Chain plates. Consequently the relative Water questionnaire , dedicated to the consumption is closely linked also to the management of water resources. quantity of processed product. With regard to the Sustainable However, to limit water consumption Development Goal 6 there is a and minimize waste of this resource, commitment to carry out appropriate flow regulators have been installed on analyses aimed at finding innovative the taps located in the toilets of the solutions for containing water various locations, simple devices that consumption to considerably increase mix air with the water coming out of the water use efficiency. taps and double buttons for draining the toilet water. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 77 of 132 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Page 78 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Work Practices and Fair Work Conditions (Ref. 103-2/3) Palladio Group supports the society, encouraging corporate social implementation of adequate work responsibility through the respect and practices, in both the workplace and in promotion of nine fundamental all areas of its sphere of influence. principles concerning human rights, The adoption of appropriate working work and the environment. They are practices is for us a moral commitment universally shared principles derived and we are sure that this, together with from the Universal Declaration of a strongly widespread business ethic, Human Rights, the Declaration of helps the performance of our International Labour on Fundamental company. Palladio Group always Principles and Rights at Work and the places people” first ensuring respect Rio Declaration on Environment and for human rights and denouncing any Development form of abuse towards their workers. The letter of intent signed by the CEO In developing our policy of respect and highlights our commitment and defines promotion of human rights, we have the objectives that Palladio Group taken into consideration the factors follows at group level, with profuse that contribute to comply with these commitment by all, for achieving these principles: principles. The protection of human resources which are the core capital for the Our Code of Ethics together with the company’s development and Chart of Values emphasises that success. Palladio Group adopted practices of Sharing policies and business respect and gratification to its objectives employees, enabling them to coThe involvement of employees in operate within the company system. training activities to increase their This is thanks to all the form of skills. protections guaranteed by the The promotion of activities aimed to company, such as: the integration of personnel. The application of the Workers The assessment of our suppliers on National Contract, applicable to their compliance to the our sector, allows the protection of our employees and the respect of requirements and to the principles of laws relating to protection of ethical work management. labour. The free membership to trade union Since 2012, we are part of the Global groups Compact; which joins businesses, UN Compliance with the Health and agencies, work organisations and civil Safety At Work SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 79 of 132 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The growth of professionalism to our reward mechanism, based on employees, through targeted meritocracy, employees are training programs, implemented at guaranteed a super minimum (or all levels, providing know-how aimed equivalent) higher than the legal to prepare them to deal with the minimum wage. . Also the new customers which will benefit of an employees’ salaries, in all sites of the exceptional experience with the group and especially in Serbia, are on company. average higher than the minimum The breakdown of employees by wage required by law. gender, age, minority group In May 2018, at the Serbian site of Equality of pay between men and Palladio East, an independent audit women, in accordance with the job was carried out by the company SGS categories of membership. conducted in compliance with SMETA. Our personnel, on annual bases, This is the fourth audit carried out using receive a performance bonus to the 4 pillar method (the first was encourage active participation in the carried out in 2014), passed positively as work of the company and to reward a demonstration of Palladio Group's those that contribute to the excellent commitment even on foreign sites. results of Palladio Group. Through a Palladio is close to its collaborators DOWN PAYMENT ON TFR 2018 231.348 € BENEFITS 2018 119.658 € LOANS 2018 176.000 € Note: down payments and loans relate to the Italian plants Page 80 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 10.1 Employment (Ref. 102-8/41, 401-1/2/3, 402-1) Within Palladio Group the Labour Representatives) and TUR (Trade Union National Collective Agreements Representatives). (working act) are regularly applied and The temporary employees enjoy the consequently all employees are same benefits as those in a permanent covered by such contracts. The contract. company recognizes all employees the Some example of our benefits: right to join trade unions as they wish,  Provision of supplementary health this does not imply any advantage or care (in total paid by the disadvantage attitude towards its company) employees.  Adherence to free prevention In this regard, the trade unions have the programs (such as vaccination freedom to carry on their activities against flu, tetanus, without any pressure or interference by antimeningococcal etc.). the Executive Board. The mandatory maternity leave is up to The Human Resources Department is all staff of the Group in accordance always willing to listen and address any with relevant legislation in the different issues of workers seeking satisfactory countries. All employees can take solutions for complainants while parental leave in accordance with respecting corporate ethics and local regulations. confidentiality. Our employees through The Organisation adheres strictly to the a voting system, which guarantees the laws and, if necessary, favours ancillary confidentiality and anonymity, elect requests by granting holidays and their WSR (Workers Safety leaves. 10.2 Diversity and equality (Ref. 405-1/2) The roles and responsibilities are well The employment’s processing is defined as reported in documentation through the recognition of relating to the management systems qualifications of staff, experiences and and all our employees are treated with skills. All this is in order to frame each social equality ensuring the same equal worker in a befitting manner in order to opportunities. pay an adequate salary for the work SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 81 of 132 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY performed, regardless of any increase the skills of our human discrimination. Managers and resources to facilitate, if necessary, employees of the various Italian and exchanges between departments and foreign plants are generally residing in operations of mobility within the group. the local communities or surrounding The above support the implementation areas. of the company policy to give priority to In order to promote and encourage internal recruitment. The company, in their career development, all order to anticipate or reduce any employees are annually evaluated on negative impact due to redundancies, the basis of individual or collective (by makes use of employment agencies for department) performance. Internal minor activities (e.g. Porterage and and external training courses allow us to warehousing). Page 82 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 10.3 Industrial Relationships In the event of significant organisational law (art. 47 l. 428/1990), the changes, the Group will inform in communication has to be made at advance the workers' representatives least 25 days before. and trade unions in accordance with The Italian legislation establishing a what is defined by the European general framework of informing and Regulation 2002/14 / EC, implemented consulting employees is Legislative by the Member States, in terms of Decree. N. 25/2007, which implements transfers of businesses or plants (fully or the European directive mentioned partially) to another employer as a above result of a legal transfer or merger, the In the reporting period there were no transferor and transferee are required organizational changes and / or any to inform the representatives of the other significant change in corporate workers concerned in due time , this operations. means that , in Italy, according to the 10.4 Health and Safety at work (Ref. 403-1/2/3/4, 412-2) Each manufacturing site of the Group The company assesses the risks and has active formal committees for health identifies the causes of the most serious and safety. These committees, diseases and disorders (example: workconsisting of representatives of related stress, manual handling of management and workers, have the loads, noise, use of computers) to task of assessing, control, monitor and prevent them the following measures advise on programs for workplace for workers are in place: training, safety. In each plant there is at least surveys of opinion, reduction of one person responsible for the overtime, flexible working hours and calculation and updating of statistics interventions on systems, equipment on trends of accidents. These statistics and property assets. result from the processing of data in These measures aim to maintain the accordance with UNI 7249 dated organisation of workplaces always 21/06/2007. adequate to protect the health and The trend of accidents is periodically safety of the workers, to create more examined, both per plant and at Group comfortable working conditions and level. increase the efficiency and reliability of the man-machine systems. All the SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 83 of 132 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY measures listed above are reassessed participation of workers' at least annually or at the request of the representatives to inspections and parties concerned. audits on employees’ health and During 2018, 6 requests were made for safety, accident investigations, training, occupational illnesses of which 2 performance targets or commitments received a negative response and 4 on the level of practices to be are still being evaluated by the adopted, periodic inspections and the competent government bodies. presence of joint committees for the In Italy, it is enforced the Decree n. 81 health and safety. April 9, 2008 Consolidation Act for the In the foreign plants, in compliance with protection of health and safety in the applicable laws of the country and not workplace to which is added the as part of formal agreements with trade agreement governing the workers' unions, the same activities as in the representation for Safety. Italian sites are implemented, i.e. Memoranda of understanding or regular meetings with employees on formal agreements with trade unions health and safety at work. In both the are in place in the National Collective Serbian and Irish plants there are Labour agreement (CCNL), health and Workers' Safety Representatives. safety issues such as, for example, the Page 84 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Training and Education (Ref. 404-1/2/3, 205-2) Palladio Group invests in training and in July 2016, Palladio and Palladio opportunities for improvement Academy Wiki were born. because we are convinced that they Palladio Academy has been defined as are essential elements for the personal a new way of knowing knowledge growth of our employees. while Palladio Wiki is an encyclopaedia During the year 2018 our employees of Palladio Group's knowledge. attended to 17.628 hours of training with an increase of over 36% compared to the previous year. Training is not only a key element of Palladio Group, but also one of the objectives that we pursue constantly in our daily activities. In order to make our corporate identity explicit, to make our employees aware of our activities, sharing, explaining and conveying the company's know-how, 11.1 Professional development, careers and human resources’ evaluation As part of its strategy of consolidating development trajectories), in a logic of careers and enhancing and valorisation and recognition of skills. developing staff, Palladio Group has defined training interventions designed Since 2017, specific courses have been and organized by Human Resources launched aimed at developing skills. and aimed at increasing and In 2018 the courses involved 50 strengthening the skills of internal staff. employees for a total of 2026 hours of In order to achieve the standard, a role training. mapping system was implemented Operational mechanisms have also aimed at the effective management of been launched to consolidate the career paths (vertical and horizontal organizational model pursued in recent progressions, internal mobility, years, such as: management of professional SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 85 of 132 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Standardization of human resources policy. Common classification systems, position weighting schemes and incentive systems have been defined. The compensation process has been made more transparent thanks to the standardization of levels and job titles within the company. Team development. the knowledge of all employees, plans The development of teams has been to enhance or increase potential, further pursued through appropriate identify training gaps, develop specific courses dedicated to develop personal and individual training plans and plan skills, mediation skills, problem solving dedicated career paths. The skills and learn how to interact with assessment of skills and performance other team members and with other has been divided and optimized work groups. according to two different targets: First target, aimed at assessing individual skills and goals for training and development, Second target focuses instead on performance, as a tool specifically designed to guide the professional performance of the individual. The establishment of shared functions The self-assessment tools have been at Group level has enabled the added to standard top-down elimination of barriers between the assessment processes with the aim of various functions facilitating the sharing making employees aware of career of knowledge and continuous training. development. This activity, implemented in 2017 in Evaluation of skills and development of Italian plants, will also be extended to human resources foreign plants in the coming years. a process has been developed that, through an assessment of Page 86 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 11.2 Training on Safety In order to promote a more interactive behaviour among the employees we communication the Company has have adopted a disciplinary code that established the “Safety Circles “which defines sanctions in connection with are organised by the head of possible violations of company rules on departments involving the staff. Within safety. these circles, the safety data together During 2018, 6790 hours of specific with the outcome of any complaint training on occupational safety were received from the employees are carried out, an increase of analysed and any improvement approximately 58% compared to the opportunity is shared and evaluated To previous year. reduce the so-called abnormal 11.3 Palladio Academy Palladio Academy is a training project focused on developing the skills of employees through the provision of tailor made training courses based on the professional level of the employee. Palladio Academy is a single large brain managed by 10 founders who, with the help of Palladio Academy is continuing to over 35 trainers, are committed to grow and to pursue step by step the sharing with everyone the company goals set at the time of its foundation. knowledge and the task of training the The team continued its path always personnel while maintaining the working collectively and gradually standard of training at any group enlisting new members who, with establishment. Palladio Academy great commitment and perseverance, promotes a culture of learning and have contributed to the development sharing of business know-how for a of several projects launched. cutting-edge company. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 87 of 132 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 11.4 Palladio Wiki Palladio Wiki is our tool Palladio Wiki is the intellectual property designed to “know the of Palladio Group, accessible only business knowledge”, through company email address or on an encyclopaedia of special totems for consultation knowledge of Palladio Group to which available to all those who do not have anyone who is interested can draw on a business email address. and/or contribute to, collaborating with the team Academy. 11.5 Ethic and anti-corruption training Aware that the fight against corruption Code of Ethics, Palladio Group is one of the main global challenges provided information on Human Rights and represents a major obstacle to to all employees. All new employees sustainable development, in 2017, on during the reference year received the occasion of the new issue of the appropriate training in this area. 11.7 Environmental and sustainability training Personnel awareness in this field is very activities through brochures, posters strong; the company promotes and visits to our factories, to ensure that initiatives that directly involve the Group’s vision and commitment in employees, and in some cases also the the environmental field is properly family sphere through advertising shared. campaigns of our sustainability 11.8 Lean Manufacturing meetings Palladio Group, through specific Lean Our weekly meeting system that Manufacturing meetings, develops involves members from sales, specific programs for updating the skills production and quality sectors (also of employees to enable the made in video conference with the achievement of strategic objectives in Group's sites) contributes to the training an evolving work environment. and growth of the competencies of the The most qualified employees increase participants through the sharing of the the human capital of the organization know-how held by the specific contributing to the improvement of managers. performance. Page 88 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Human Rights (Ref. 103-2/3) Palladio Group always operates in there is no forced labour and any compliance with fundamental human work request, which goes beyond rights. As established by international normal working hours, is regulated by conventions on the subject, it has national contracts in agreement with based its activities on the support of the workers' representatives and those rights. The main points of trade unions, providing for reference were already reported in our compensation based on overtime Chart of Values. hours, Our policies define at all the levels of In all countries where our Factories the organisation and in all countries are and where we operate, the where we operate the commitment employees are guaranteed a relating to the practices of respect and working treatment above the preservation of Human Rights. average of workers present in that To confirm the above: particular country. We also indirectly social and environmental criteria guarantee the respect of indigenous were included in the selection of people and their territorial assets suppliers with which to establish through membership of the FSC & collaborations for work and / or PEFC Standards. service performances Disputes concerning human rights Any discriminatory behaviour based have never risen. on race, colour, sex, religion, In 2018, in the Group's plants, there political opinion, nationality or social were no reports regarding violations of extraction is reported, to the Human Rights relating to the work of Committee of Ethics. Group employees or those coming Child labour is forbidden, from internal or external Stakeholders. 12.1 Anti-discrimination (Ref. 406-1) Among the objectives of the company regard to the percentage of disabled policy is the right to equal opportunities people employed, in order to ensure and social, racial and religious equal treatment; Palladio Group also discrimination is condemned in favour supports their integration within the of the integration of individuals and Organisation through assignments of cultural exchange. We are in line with dignifying tasks in respect of their the national law requirements with disability. The conditions and SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 89 of 132 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY workplaces are maintained / designed reports on discriminatory human rights to encourage mobility for people with practices have been submitted. disabilities. During the year 2018 no 12.2 Freedom of association and collective bargaining (Ref. 102-41, 407-1) All employees are free to join trade During the year 2018: unions or similar organisations, without There were no hours of strike this causing any attitude of advantage organised by employees, or disadvantage in their regards. The 321 paid hours has been spent for trade unions have the freedom to carry meetings with trade union, on their business, within all Palladio the percentage of members of trade Group activities, without experiencing unions is 9,95. pressure or interference from the Our suppliers are monitored through Company. In the Group companies, appropriate control activities periodically, are held meetings with the (guidelines and questionnaires), in trade unions (paid) open to all which there are specific references to employees in order to support the right the freedom of association and of workers to the freedom of collective bargaining. association. 12.3 Child Labour (Ref. 408-1) Child labour is not permitted at all conduct, while all service providers Group facilities. (contractors) are controlled through The minimum age of our employees in specific declarations that certify the 2018 was 18, while the average age fulfilment by the company of the was 40. In relation to the provisions of the legislative and contractual obligations Policies, the main suppliers of raw including child labour. materials are monitored through specific questionnaires and codes of Page 90 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 12.4 Forced Labour (Ref. 409-1) In Palladio group there have never Group’s working hours are determined been examples of forced or so as not to prejudice the right of every compulsory labour. worker to daily rest periods, needed for We guarantee to all our employees the refreshment of psychophysical and appropriate working hours as enshrined intellectual’s energies. Every worker has by the National Contract; the work the right to holidays and sick leaves as done in overtime is paid in accordance they require. Once again, our suppliers with the relevant legislation and are monitored / controlled, on this workers participate on a voluntary basis regard, through specific activities. to any initiative of overtime. Palladio 12.5 Evaluation (Ref. 412-1) Palladio Group, aware of its Group plants. This activity is necessary commitment to respecting human to correctly address the company's rights, checks and periodically verifies decisions and to prevent it from being the human rights aspects of all its associated or considered as complicit activities. This operation takes place in activities undertaken by other parties through a formal evaluation process with whom it has or could have based on information provided by the relations. Ethics Committees and by the various Managers for all the activities of the SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 91 of 132 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Page 92 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Society (Ref. 103-2/3) Palladio Group intends to be active regard to the merits they and participatory in the territories in demonstrated in terms of which it operates by creating better participation, professional growth, economic opportunities for the local achievement of objectives and a community, supporting the sense of belonging to society. improvement of the social and cultural  It is not allowed to promise and / or conditions. Many were the initiatives in offer (to managers, Officials and the field of solidarity, environmental employees of the Public education and sustainability, which are Administration or their relatives) considered priorities for our objects, services, benefits or favours organisation. of value in order to achieve an Social commitment has always played interest or an advantage for an important role in the corporate Palladio Group. The offer of gifts or culture of Palladio Group, it is firmly other benefits of nominal value are anchored to our values and it is permitted only if consistent with the reflected in the daily activities of all legitimate uses or customs. Plants which are programmed in order  Political parties, their representatives to mitigate the potential and actual or candidates are cannot be impacts of our business. Prevention funded, and shall refrain from any programs have been established and pressure (direct or indirect) towards implemented to ensure compliance politicians. with the law, protect the physical,  It is allowed to provide donations economic, and natural resources of the only to non-profit associations and populations present in the areas where Charities with regular statutes and our Plants are located. constituent acts. Palladio Group has no tolerance to  The sponsorship of activities may corruption. The value that guides our relate to social, environmental, choices is based on meritocracy and sports, art and culture in general. ethics, rewarding our employees only in accordance with these principles. This Our commercial relations are based principle is considered in the solely on trusting relationships with our management of our customers, customers which choose us only for the suppliers and any authority with which intrinsic qualities of the product we Palladio Group has relation. supply our suppliers are properly In Palladio Group: selected and qualified. None of them  It is allowed to promote the receive preferential treatments and development of roles and reward there are no agreements in place corporate’s collaborators only in SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 93 of 132 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY where conflicts of interest are exposed disclosures to our customers and or evident. suppliers in which we present the Those who collaborate with our commitment made by Palladio Group company should see in us a valuable on Social Responsibility, aiming to partner in business and be aware that sensitise them to operate in line with our our way of doing business is based on principles. As stated above, it is principles and values of social ethics, confirmed, by the fact that our not based on monopolistic practices company has never received any that could lead to unfair competition or administrative or judicial sanctions for which may be in conflict with principles noncompliance with laws and of anti-trust. For this reason, from the regulations. point of view of fair Marketing, we sent 13.1 Local communities (Ref. 413-1/2) The Company has a constant dialogue In recent years, various local, national with the various local institutions and and international associations have other organisations in order to assess been supported. any significant impact that our activities In 2018 the proceeds of the Christmas and business decisions may have on lottery of the Italian plants (doubled by the community. the company) were donated to various The percentage of the activities in humanitarian and social associations which the community have been indicated by the employees. involved is not available as there is no a The Palladio East plant, as well as last system of measurement in use for this year, has cheered the Easter holidays of indicator. orphans and children with special In 2018 Palladio joined the event needs by giving sweets and toys to promoted by Legambiente Puliamo il everyone. Mondo . Event linked to Clean Up the Moreover, also in 2018, the funds World which is a global environmental traditionally destined to make a campaign held in collaboration with Christmas present to customers, were the United Nations Environment donated to support the associations Program (UNEP). Città della Speranza and I Bambini delle Fate . Page 94 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 13.2 Recreational activities Palladio has always considered that increase integration and strengthen the there was a profound link between team spirit that distinguishes the Group. personal well-being and work The above is the fundamental element performance, an indicator that in the for improving the quality of life, work past was measured solely in terms of performance and the corporate productivity. Today it is measured with climate. Precisely for this reason over productivity combined with new ideas the years “recreational” activities have and the desire to continuously improve been promoted in which to alternate that can only come if people are professional and private life motivated and interested in the work experiences, such as: yoga classes, they do. Following this conviction and prize competitions, company visits, consistent with this commitment, the sports tournaments, safe driving company believes it is essential to courses. organize cultural, artistic and sporting activities for employees in order to 13.3 Anti-corruption (Ref. 205-1/3, 414-1) In all factories of Palladio Group we of corruption. The information that have a zero-tolerance policy against emerged showed that the areas in corruption. The value that guides our which the Group operates cannot be choices is based on meritocracy and classified as high risk of corruption. ethics. This brings us to reward our During 2019 specific actions will be employees only on the basis of that envisaged to increase awareness of value. Such a principle is also taken into corruption prevention elements. account in the management of our Our financial statements are subject customers, suppliers and any authority annually to review by Reconta Ernst & dealing with Palladio Group. Young which determine and verify During the year 2018 an evaluation and compliance with the regulations an audit was carried out by an external governing the reporting criteria. In this body in compliance with the 37001 perspective, any accounting operation regulation concerning the prevention or transaction is based on the SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 95 of 132 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY accuracy, completeness and and / or suppliers; there have been no authorisation of the basic information legal actions concerning corruption for the entries. All payments to be paid practices against the companies of the are appropriate to business Group performance and contractual rules In 2014, fraudulent legal actions were and cannot be made to an entity other taken against two employees who than the contracting party. If were then laid off. Business relations employees become aware of any type were interrupted with a supplier for of falsification or omission, they must violations related to corruption. immediately report it to our Ethics There have been legal actions for fraud Committee. against this. The above actions are still In the year 2018 there were no on-going. corruption cases involving employees 13.3 Public administration (Rif. 415-1, 201-4) Palladio Group has relations with public forbid the founding of political parties institutions primarily through the or their members. national trade associations and We do not receive financial benefits consequently does not take positions from the Public Administrations. on public policy and also does not The public administration is not part of participate in the development of the shareholding. public policies. Company policies Page 96 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Marketing Communication Palladio group has not adhered to programs, codes of conduct for marketing activities. This is due to the fact that these types of product are not provided directly to the final user that could be the subject of any sponsorship activities. Customers are typically contacted through normal business practices or through participation in public tenders. During 2018 we participated in various events and exhibitions, among them: Pharmtech & Ingredients Moscow Phrmapack Cphi Worldwide Madrid Pharmapack Europe Paris 58° edition of Simposio AFI Rimini All you can track & trace – Macerata SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 97 of 132 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Page 98 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 REPORT’S PROFILE Report’s Profile (Ref. 102-50/51/52/53/54/55/56) The Sustainability Report is published N. 7 Sustainability Reports annually. (inclusive of the Communication The report’s data refer to the last three On Progress), years (2016, 2017, 2018) and they are N. 2 Communication On Progress, indicated both per production unit and N. 3 CDP Supply Chain Climate at group level. Change Report The report will be made available to all N. 2 CDP Supply Chain Water stakeholders through publication on questionnaire. the United Nations Global Compact website, on the G.R.I website, on the The latest publication, available on the Palladio Group website and on the Palladio Group web site, on the G.R.I. company intranet. and on that of the U.N. Global For more information you can contact Compact dates back to July 2018. the company via the following e-mail: sustainability@palladiogroup.com. This report has been: prepared in accordance to GRI The aim is to annually disclose, to Standard: Core option. Stakeholders, information relevant to subjected to external verification economic, environmental and social activities by SGS.Italia spa performances resulting from the (certification shown in a specific Palladio Group's production. In section). particular, the report aims to frame in a wider context the activities of the Data on economic performance, company in accordance with the deferred in the relevant section, are standards and the G4 guidelines of the extracted from the Consolidated GRI and the Principles of the Global Financial Statements verified by Compact, which are part of the report. auditors of Soc. Ernst & Young.. So far have been published: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 99 of 132 REPORT’S PROFILE 15.1 Link to the 10 principles of the UNGC The sustainability model adopted by Palladio Group is inspired by the United To facilitate the search for relevant Nations Global Compact. information to Stakeholders interested In May 2012 Palladio Group has in evaluating the implementation of the formalized its adherence to the U.N. Principles by the Palladio Group, it has Global Compact, a pact that binds all been prepared the table in those companies committed to attachment 3. aligning their operations and strategies to the 10 universally accepted The table shows which GRI STD principles concerning human rights, performance indicators applicable to labour, environment and antithe Palladio Group are to be related to corruption. each of the 10 Principles of the U.N. Global Compact. The evidence of Palladio Group For the search of commitment to respect and promote the pages where these principles is accounted for in this the GRI indicators report, in fact the GRI standard, are treated, see applicable to Palladio Group, is the explanatory considered in conjunction with each of table of the report’s the 10 principles of the U.N. Global contents. Compact. (Source: GRI-UNGC, “Making the Connection”). Page 100 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 COMPLIANCE Compliance During the year 2018:  There have been no reports or  There have been no cases of noncomplaints about suppliers work compliance with voluntary practices regulations and codes concerning (Ref. 414-2) the impacts on the health and  There have been no administrative safety of products / services or criminal sanctions, financial and supplied by the Palladio Group non-financial res judicata due to plants during their lifecycle nonconformity or failure to comply (Ref. 416-2) with laws and regulations relating to  There were no cases of nonthe environment compliance with laws and voluntary (Ref. 307-1) regulations concerning information  No significant environmental and labelling of products / services impacts or environmental impact (Ref. 417-1/2) complaints have been reported  There were no cases of non(Ref. 308-2) compliance with laws and voluntary  There have been no legal actions regulations concerning the related to unfair competition, antiprovision and use of the Group trust and monopolistic practices products and services (Ref. 206-1) (Ref. 417-3)  have not been experienced any  There have been no complaints administrative or penal sanctions, regarding privacy breaches or loss pecuniary and non-pecuniary res of customer judicata for non-compliance or (Ref. 418-1) non-compliance with laws and  There have been no cases of nonregulations to which the Group's compliance with laws or regulations facilities must comply concerning the supply and use of (Ref. 419-1) products and services of companies  There have been no reports or in the Group complaints concerning impacts on (Ref. 419-1) society (Ref. 414-2) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 101 of 132 COMPLIANCE Page 102 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 DATA AND INDICATORS TABLES Data And Indicators Tables Detailed analysis of employees TOTAL BREAKDOWN 2018 Ref. 102-8, 201-3, 202-1/2 2016 2017 2018 ITALY IRELAND SERBIA Total Employees Men 449 491 498 348 17 133 Total Employees Women 141 149 147 87 3 57 General Total Employees 590 640 645 435 20 190 on permanent contract Men 347 366 393 281 12 100 -full time 388 276 12 100 -part time 5 5 0 0 on permanent contract Women 90 98 119 72 3 44 -full time 109 62 3 44 -part time 10 10 0 0 fixed term contract Men 52 45 41 3 5 33 -full time 40 2 5 33 -part time 1 1 0 0 fixed term contract Women 22 19 15 2 0 13 -full time 14 1 0 13 -part time 1 1 0 0 temporary workers Men 43 76 64 64 0 0 -full time 64 64 0 0 -part time 0 0 0 0 temporary workers Women 19 21 13 13 0 0 -full time 13 13 0 0 -part time 0 0 0 0 part-time and solidarity Men 7 5 4 4 0 0 part-time and solidarity Women 10 10 10 10 0 0 With trade union membership 81 73 64 64 0 0 Affected by Disability 26 28 25 23 0 2 Foreigner 25 24 17 7 10 0 Salaries above minimum wage 472 262 20 190 Men 351 201 17 133 Women 121 61 3 57 Annual salary Increments % 4,99 7,28 52 40 12 0 Bonuses /Premiums % 99,23 100 572 363 19 190 Salaries above minimum wage % 73,18% 60,23% 100,00% 100,00% Men 70,48% 57,76% 100,00% 100,00% Women 82,31% 70,11% 100,00% 100,00% Overtime % of hours worked 6,12 6,39 8,06% 9,20% 60,00% 0,00% Holiday hours % of hours worked 8,83 9,41 88,68% 83,45% 95,00% 100,00% Disciplinary Measures % over employees 0,83 4,71 5,30% 3,23% 5,06% 9,17% Worked hours 854877 885207 9,55% 10,63% 9,47% 7,57% Holiday hours 75493 83303 17 6 1 10 Overtime 52279 56595 2,64% 1,38% 5,00% 5,26% N. Ethical complaints 949275 593437 35002 320836 % Ethical complaints 0,52 0,00 90640,58 63056 3313 24272 Cover of the pension plan (Euro) 4.166.169 4.373.799 4.516.274 3.678.202 75.000,00 838.072 % Senior manager hired in the local 100 100 100 100 100 100 community SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 103 of 132 DATA AND INDICATORS TABLES Employees detailed age Analysis TOTAL BREAKDOWN 2018 Ref. 102-8, 401-2 2016 2017 2018 ITALY IRELAND SERBIA Employees under 18 Total Employees under 18 0 0 0 0 0 0 Employees under 30 Total Men 63 81 90 57 2 31 Total Women 20 18 18 10 1 7 White collar Men 3 2 6 2 0 4 White collar Women 5 5 9 4 1 4 Blue collar Men 60 79 84 55 2 27 Blue collar Women 15 13 9 6 0 3 Manager Men 0 0 0 0 0 0 Manager Women 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 83 99 108 67 3 38 Employees 30 – 50 Total Men 296 320 290 183 11 96 Total Women 95 106 104 54 2 48 White collar Men 39 39 29 11 1 17 White collar Women 30 31 36 15 2 19 Blue collar Men 258 276 253 165 9 79 Blue collar Women 62 72 65 37 0 28 Manager Men 2 5 8 7 1 0 Manager Women 3 3 2 0 1 Total 391 426 394 237 13 144 Employees over 50 Total Men 90 90 118 108 4 6 Total Women 26 25 25 23 0 2 White collar Men 19 20 27 26 1 0 White collar Women 6 5 6 5 0 1 Blue collar Men 65 63 82 75 3 4 Blue collar Women 20 20 19 18 0 1 Manager Men 6 6 8 7 0 1 Manager Women 1 1 0 0 1 Total 116 115 143 131 4 8 Employees’ age Average age 40,34 40,00 40,00 42,00 41,00 37,00 Minimum Age 18 18 18 18,00 20,00 20,00 % over total Employees White collar Men 10,34% 9,53% 9,61% 8,97% 10,00% 11,05% White collar Women 6,95% 6,41% 7,91% 5,52% 15,00% 12,63% Blue collar Men 64,92% 65,31% 64,96% 67,82% 70,00% 57,89% Blue collar Women 16,44% 16,41% 14,42% 14,02% 0,00% 16,84% Manager Men 1,19% 1,72% 2,48% 3,22% 5,00% 0,53% Manager Women 0,17% 0,63% 0,62% 0,46% 0,00% 1,05% Page 104 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 DATA AND INDICATORS TABLES Hiring and Terminations TOTAL BREAKDOWN 2018 Ref. 401-1 2016 2017 2018 ITALY IRELAND SERBIA New hires Men <30 15 11 19 12 3 4 New hires Women <30 1 3 4 3 0 1 New hires Men 30-50 25 17 17 11 3 11 New hires Women 30-50 15 7 10 4 0 6 New hires Men >50 0 3 3 3 0 0 New hires Women >50 1 0 1 1 0 0 Total new hires 57 41 62 34 6 22 Total terminations 24 30 28 15 4 9 Hiring rate Men <30 2,54% 1,72% 2,95% 2,76% 15,00% 2,11% Hiring rate women <30 0,29% 0,82% 1,02% 0,69% 0,00% 0,53% Hiring rate men 30-50 27,78% 17,35% 21,01% 2,53% 15,00% 5,79% Hiring rate women 30-50 28,85% 15,56% 24,39% 0,92% 0,00% 3,16% Hiring rate men >50 0,00% 15,79% 20,00% 0,69% 0,00% 0,00% Hiring rate women >50 14,29% 0,00% 25,00% 0,23% 0,00% 0,00% New hiring rate 9,66% 6,41% 9,61% 7,82% 30,00% 11,58% Terminations rate 4,07% 4,69% 4,34% 3,45% 20,00% 4,74% Hiring rate men 6,78% 4,84% 7,29% 5,98% 30,00% 7,89% Hiring rate women 2,88% 1,56% 2,33% 1,84% 0,00% 3,68% Training TOTAL BREAKDOWN 2018 Ref. 403-4, 404-1/2/3, 412-2 2016 2017 2018 ITALY IRELAND SERBIA Total training hours 10366 11178 17628 12974 911 3743 Average training per employee 17,57 17,47 27,33 29,83 45,55 19,70 Number training hours divided by category ITALY IRELAND SERBIA TOTAL year white blue white blue white blue white blue collar collar collar collar collar collar collar collar 2016 1124 5886 20 762 564 2010 1708 8658 2017 1969 5255 147 525 760 2366 2876 8146 2018 3217 9009 72 839 372 3371 3661 13219 Average training hours divided by employees’ category ITALY IRELAND SERBIA TOTAL year white blue white blue white blue white blue collar collar collar collar collar collar collar collar 2016 18,43 17,06 10,00 50,80 14,46 16,75 16,75 18,04 2017 32,29 15,23 73,25 35,00 19,49 19,72 28,20 16,97 2018 50,27 27,55 12,00 59,93 7,75 23,74 23,53 25,82 Number training hours divided by gender ITALY IRELAND SERBIA TOTAL year men women men women men women men women 2016 6020 990 764 18 1854 720 8638 1728 2017 6111 1114 546 126 2353 773 9009 2013 2018 10306 2668 884 27 2949 794 14139 3489 Average training hours by gender ITALY IRELAND SERBIA TOTAL year men women men women men women men women 2016 18,43 17,06 10,00 50,80 14,46 16,75 16,75 18,04 2017 32,29 15,23 73,25 35,00 19,49 19,72 28,20 16,97 2018 29,61 30,67 52,00 9,00 22,17 13,93 28,39 23,73 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 105 of 132 DATA AND INDICATORS TABLES Ethics and anticorruption trainings 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Training hours 426.5 15 406 165 230 61 Trained employees 488 15 379 165 640 61 % Trained employees in the reporting year 100 3 71 28 100 100 % general Trained employees 100 100 100 100 100 100 TOTAL HOURS of TRAINING BREAKDOWN 2018 Training Health and safety at work 2016 2017 2018 ITALY IRELAND SERBIA 4238 2858 6790 6600 86 104 Anti-corruption TOTAL BREAKDOWN 2018 Ref. 205-3 2016 2017 2018 ITALY IRELAND SERBIA total number of episodes for which employees have been dismissed or 0 0 0 0 0 0 subjected to disciplinary measures for corruption total number of incidents for which contracts with business partners have not 0 0 0 0 0 0 been renewed for violations related to corruption number of legal actions regarding corruption practices against the 0 0 0 0 0 0 organization or its employees TOTAL BREAKDOWN 2018 Right to parental leave ITALY IRELAND SERBIA Ref. 401-3 2016 2017 2018 men women men women men women Number of employees who were entitled to parental 9 8 5 1 4 1 0 0 5 leave. number of employees who 9 8 5 1 4 0 0 0 5 have taken parental leave number of employees who have returned to work at 4 4 4 0 3 0 0 0 0 the end of parental leave number of employees who are still availing of the 5 4 1 1 1 0 0 0 5 parental leave number of employees who have returned to work after parental leave and who 4 4 4 0 2 0 0 0 0 were still employed twelve months after they returned to work % Rate of return of 100 100 100% 100% 75% 0% 0% 0% 100% employees (1) % Retention rate of 100 100 100% 0% 67% 0% 0% 0% 0% employees back to work (1) (1) percentage referred to the end of the parental leave period referred to the reporting year Page 106 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 DATA AND INDICATORS TABLES Health and safety at TOTAL BREAKDOWN 2018 work ITALY IRELAND SERBIA 2016 2017 2018 Ref. 403-2 men women men women men women N° total work 18 10 12 7 2 0 0 3 0 accidents N° total accidents in 2 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 transit N° total days of absence due to 497 162 374 289 0,00 85,00 accidents (no in transit) Hours worked by the Employees (excluding 912.347 936.256 1003165 593437 35200,00 374528,00 holidays, illnesses) N° total hours of absence due to 3976 1296 2992 2312 0 680 accidents (no in transit) % hours of absence due to accidents on 0,436 0,138 0,298 0,390 0,000 0,182 total hours worked Injury severity index 0,54 0,17 0,37 0,49 0,00 0,23 Accident frequency 21,92 14,95 11,96 15,17 0,00 8,01 index Absenteeism 3,32% 4,62% 3,78% 3,63% 4,52% 3,94% Hours out for sick leave 30.327 43.234 37881 21545 1592,00 14744,00 Total N. supplier’s 0 0 0 0 0 0 accidents Sustainable Procurement 2016 2017 2018 Ref.102-9/10, 308-1, 414-1 Total Suppliers 114 140 178 Total new suppliers selected and qualified on the ground of social, 5 26 38 environmental criteria and on their impact on the society Percentage new suppliers selected and qualified on the ground of 100% 100% 100% social, environmental criteria and on their impact on the society Total suppliers of raw materials of forest origin (paper and 21 39 39 cardboard) Total Raw Materials Provider of forest origin in compliance with 21 39 39 EUTR 995/2010 and/or DDS Total forestry raw material suppliers FSC® and/or PEFCTM certified 21 39 39 Percentage of certified forestry products originating from controlled 100% 100% 100% sources Used raw material U.M. 2016 2017 2018 Ref. 301-1 Board kg 19.577.489 19.466.402 20.881.928 Paper kg 3.829.507 4.655.153 4.640.628 Self-adhesive material kg 61.300 62.791 143.679 Aluminium for blister kg 9.566 50.743 85.161 Total Raw Materials from renewable resources kg 23.468.296 24.184.346 25.666.235 Total Raw Materials from no-renewable resources kg 9.566 50.743 85.161 Total Raw material kg 23.477.862 24.235.089 25.751.396 Delivered product kg 14.927.526 15.080.751 16.848.145 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 107 of 132 DATA AND INDICATORS TABLES Percentage incoming Recycled raw materials used M.U. 2016 2017 2018 Ref. 301-2 Total raw materials used kg 19.577.489 19.466.402 25.751.396 Total recycled materials used kg 6.833.608 4.798.077 4.717.905 Percentage of recycled materials used % 34,91 24,65 22,59 Products and related packaging materials recycled at the end of their life cycle M.U. 2016 2017 2018 Rif. 301-3 Sold product kg 14.927.526 15.080.751 16.848.145 Total recovery products sent for recycling kg 9.675.861 10.087.311 8.818.090 Percentage recovery products (recovery products /sold % 64,82 66,89 52,34 product) Percentages supply acquired in the local markets of the country for each Division M.U. 2016 2017 2018 Ref. 204-1 Italy % 51,0 47,66 55,31 Serbia % 42,23 58,47 42,57 Ireland % 91,21 94,43 94,32 Energy consumption for production & air conditioning in Summertime M.U. 2016 2017 2018 Ref. 302-1 Electric power GJ 34.813 37.877 40.665 For the conversion from Kwahu to gigajoule it has been used the standard conversion factor equal to 0.0036 Energy consumption for heating M.U. 2016 2017 2018 Ref. 302-1 Natural Gas GJ 12.038 14.672 12.205 Oil GJ 510 460 652 For the conversion of volumes into gigajoule, the table in Annex 2 of this report has been used energy consumption in comparison (intensity) M.U. 2016 2017 2018 Ref. 302-3/4/5 Natural Gas Consumption Sm3 363.061 436.670 352.418 Gas used Sm3 / working hour Sm3/h 1,293 1,419 1,074 Gas used Sm3 / kg delivered product Sm3/kg 0,024 0,029 0.021 Electric power Consumption kwh 9.670.180 10.521.251 11.295.844 Electric power used Kwh / working hour kwh/h 34,441 34,198 34,440 Electric power used Kwh/kg delivered product kwh/kg 0,6478 0,6986 0,670 Oil Consumption l 13.925 12.558 17.810 Oil litres/ working hour l/h 1,400 1,095 1,696 Oil litres/ kg product delivered l/kg 0,045 0,034 0,053 Water consumption M.U. 2016 2017 2018 Ref. 303-1/2/3 Water withdrawn from mains m3 6.042 8.218 7.624 Water withdrawn from wells m3 648 218 191 Water withdrawn from other sources m3 0 0 0 Total water withdrawal m3 6.690 8.436 7.815 Page 108 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 DATA AND INDICATORS TABLES Waste M.U. 2016 2017 2018 Ref. 306-1/2/4 Total waste produced kg 1.391.255 1.245.993 4.923.828 Total waste retrieved (R) kg 1.135.091 983.716 4.672.101 hazardous waste kg 107.176 120.839 118.102 % hazardous waste on total waste generated % 7,704 9,698 2,40 %NOT hazardous waste on total waste generated % 81,588 78,950 94,89 NOT hazardous waste kg 1.284.079 1.125.154 4.805.726 Waste directly linked to production kg 223.258 235.682 224.818 Total raw material waste (*) kg 8.540.770 9.103.595 8.818.090 (*) Note: part of the raw material waste is sent, by the paper mills, for recycling or reuse. Emissions M.U. 2016 2017 2018 Ref. 305-1/2/3/4/5 Total CO2 Emissions (Market based) tonCO2 21.011,59 18.620,82 15.537,36 Total CO2 Emissions (Location based) tonCO2 20.241,47 21.018,24 18.291,27 Direct CO2 emissions from fossil fuels (natural gas+oil) tonCO2 710,53 854,70 731,08 Market based Indirect emissions of CO2eq (i.e. generated by the tonCO2 5.105,50 2.336,28 2.295,23 E.P. provider) Location base Indirect emissions of CO2eq (i.e. generated by the tonCO2 4.335,38 4.733,71 5.049,14 E.P. provider) indirect CO2 emissions from paper and board production (as tonCO2 12.104,07 12.175,95 9.257,57 finished product) indirect emissions of CO2 from incoming transportation tonCO2 1.396,00 1.407,61 1.528,58 indirect emissions of CO2 from outgoing transportation tonCO2 1.695,49 1.846,28 1.724,90 Indirect CO2 emissions from paper and cardboard tonCO2 6.606,46 7.130,64 5.021,45 waste Indirect CO2 emissions from paper and cardboard tonCO2 18.710,54 19.306,58 14.279,02 purchases tCO2/ton delivered Fuel carbon footprint product 0,0465 0,0559 0,0434 Carbon footprint electricity Market based tCO2/ton delivered product 0,3342 0,1528 0,1362 Carbon footprint electricity Location-based tCO2/ton delivered product 0,2838 0,3096 0,2997 Carbon footprint production of paper and tCO2/ton delivered product 0,7923 0,7964 0,5495 cardboard tCO2/ton delivered Carbon footprint Transportation product 0,2024 0,2128 0,1931 Carbon footprint (from all sources) Market based tCO2/ton delivered product 1,3754 1,2179 0,9222 Carbon footprint (from all sources) Location based tCO2/ton delivered product 1,3250 1,3747 1,0857 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 109 of 132 DATA AND INDICATORS TABLES Carbon Price M.U. 2016 2017 2018 weighted average carbon price calculated €/tonCO2 5,13 5,80 13,09 gross carbon price €/tonCO2 107.843,49 108.057,56 203.362,28 carbon price from fossil fuels (natural gas) €/tonCO2 3.928,63 5.075,01 9.781,71 carbon price (i.e. generated by the E.P. provider) €/tonCO2 27.123,31 14.691,16 29.620,63 carbon price from paper and paperboard production €/tonCO2 22.658,65 27.856,22 66.174,62 (as finished product) Indirect CO2 emissions from paper and cardboard €/tonCO2 61.366,12 70.125,94 121.628,86 purchases Indirect CO2 emissions from paper and cardboard €/tonCO2 95.823,17 111.652,85 187.929,13 waste indirect emissions of CO2 from incoming transportation €/tonCO2 34.457,06 41.526,91 66.300,27 indirect emissions of CO2 from outgoing transportation €/tonCO2 6.612,61 7.539,75 19.751,28 Total turnover € 75.827.265 81.526.452 86.050.223 Scope 1 Carbon price indicator €/€ 0,0000518103 0,0000622499 0,0001136744 Scope 2 Carbon price indicator €/€ 0,0003576987 0,0001802011 0,0003442249 Scope 3 Carbon price indicator €/€ 0,0013509096 0,0014620114 0,0024134790 Gross carbon price indicator €/€ 0,0014222257 0,0013254295 0,0023632976 Economic and financial results TOTAL BREAKDOWN 2018 Ref. 201-1, 203-1 2016 ITALY ITALY ITALY IRLANDA SERBIA Directly Economic Value 75.827.265 81.526.452 86.050.223 68.266.426 2.588.239 15.195.558 Generated a) Revenues 75.827.265 81.526.452 86.050.223 68.266.426 2.588.239 15.195.558 Economic Value Distributed 69.580.540 74.219.642 79.163.848 62.844.724 2.173.834 14.145.290 b) Operating Costs 48.437.33 53.258.875 57.773.313 44.777.221 1.404.485 11.591.607 c) wages and benefits 17.520.385 18.393.637 18.993.323 15.958.282 712.531 2.322.510 d) Payments to providers of capital 953.330 305.864 322.676 231.594 0 91.082 e) Payments to PA 2.641.567 2.205.665 2.008.985 1.818.782 56.818 133.385 f) Community investments (1) 27.926,47 55.601 65.551 58.845 0 6.706 Economic value retained 6.246.725 7.306.810 6.471.970 5.421.702 414.405 1.050.268 (1) Donations and financial contributions Page 110 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 ANNEXES Annexes Annex 1 Determination Table of the material aspects and boundaries Influence on Area Material Aspect Indicators GRI Significance Priority Stakeholder 201-2, Sustainable development 204-1, YES ECONOMIC 301-1/2/3, 411-1 412-3, Procurement 414-1/2, YES 414-1/2 Emissions Energy YES YES YES ENVIRONMENT 302-1/3/4/5 303-1/2/3 Water 304-1/2/3/4 305-1/2/3/4/5 306-3/4 Biodiversity Waste YES YES YES Health and safety at work YES YES YES Training and education 102-43, YES 205-1/2/3 401-1/2/3, Diversity and equal opportunities 402-1, YES 403-1/2/3 404-1/2/3, Industrial Relationships 405-1/2 YES SOCIETY 408-1, Child and forced labour 409-1 412-2 413-1/2, Local Communities 415-1 YES YES YES 416-1, 417-1, Anti-corruption 418-1 YES Product Responsibility YES YES YES 206-1, 307-1, 308-2, COMPLIANCE Compliance 402-2, 414-2, YES YES YES 416-2, 417-2/3, 418-1, 419-1, SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 111 of 132 ANNEXES Annex 2 Table of the coefficients used for environmental calculations CONVERSION FACTORS 2018 CRITERIA ADOPTED RIF. M. U. CONVERSION FACTOR SOURCES The following description is applied to determine the CO2 emissions deriving from the combustion of DENSITY t/l 0,845 diesel fuel during the reference period (calendar year). The amount of fuel used is expressed in terms PCI MJ/t 43,308 of energy content (TJ) and therefore the basic Source: OIL calculation formula is: Ton / CO2 = (t of diesel oil x EMISSION https://www.seai.ie/resources/seaiPCI x Emission factor x Oxidation factor) x 0.000001. FACTOR TCO2/TJ 73,300 statistics/conversion-factors/ Where: the amount of diesel is given by the purchase invoices. OXIDATION The other data are extracted from the table of FACTOR COEFF. 1,000 national Irish parameters GJ/ PCI 35,253 1000Stm3 Publication by the Ministry of the Environment What is described below is used to determine the EMISSION and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea volume of CO2 in relation to the electricity purchased FACTOR TCO2/TJ 55,934 http://www.minambiente.it/sites/default/files/arc regardless of how this is used. The amount of fuel hivio/allegati/emission_trading/tabella_coefficie used is expressed in terms of energy content (TJ) OXIDATION nti_standard_nazionali_11022019.pdf and therefore Ton/CO2 = (Sm3 of gas x PCI x FACTOR COEFF. 1 NATURAL GAS Emission factor x Oxidation factor) x 0,000001. AERS Serbia Where the amount of gas used is derived from the GJ/ http://www.aers.rs/Index.asp?l=2&a=662 invoice data PCI Serbia 33,33835 1000Stm3 in dedicated excel file: Kalkulator-PrimerSvodjenja The other data are retrieved from the table of the IPCC (2006 IPCC Guidelines for National national parameters Greenhouse Gas Inventory) For Italy, they are notified by the Ministry of Emiss. Inv. www.sinanet.isprambiente.it TCO2/TJ 56,100 Environment (Emission Trading Directive) Serbia Specifically Factors electricity emission production and consumption _2018-1 file excel sheet n.8 Average Value Natural Gas, IPCC’06 Market based https://www.ecohz.com/wpcontent/uploads/2017/05/AIB_2016_Residual_ 476,53 ITALIA Mix_Results.pdf What is described below is used to determine the Location based http://www.sinanet.isprambiente.it/it/siavolume of CO2 in relation to the electricity purchased ELECTRIC POWER ispra/serie-storiche-emissioni/national334.9 COEFF. OF CONV. regardless of how this is used. The specific quantity inventory-report-2018/view gCO2/ KWH of CO2 grams related to 1 kW/h (as provided by the Market based http://www.iea.org (2010) SERBIA grid or by recognized standards) needs to be 724 calculated. Through these benchmarks the amount Location based http://www.iea.org (2010) of electricity-produced CO2 is determined. The 724 formula will then be: (amount of purchased energy in Market based Draft: https://www.aibIRLANDA kWh x conversion factor) x 0.000001.) 640,57 net.org/facts/european_residual_mix Location based https://www.seai.ie/resources/publications/Ene 437 rgy-in-Ireland-2018.pdf TRANSPORTS FROM KM TO GCO2/ http://www.sinanet.isprambiente.it/it/siaTransformation from km to gCO2 GCO2 KM 643,9 ispra/fetransp ADESIVE Transformation from mq to kg COEFF. KG/MQ 0,107 Specific weight Carbon Footprint Fact Sheet Tambrite 2017 Stora Enso (ref. Tambrite) Board Producer 0,433 05/18 RDM (ref Rochcoat) Board Producer 0,398 Ref. e-mail 29/03/2019 da RDM MM Karton (ref. Kromopak) Board Producers 0,885 Ref. MM Karton Annual_Report_2017 RAW Various Board Producers COEFF. OF TCO2/ 0,885 Ref. Maximum value of ETS per board MATERIAL Bolloré (ref Primabrite) Paper CONV. ton. 0,212 Ref. PDV 2018 Carbon Assessment del 03/04/19 Various Paper Producers 0,212 Ref. Maximum value of ETS per paper Avery Dennison Self-adhesive paper producer 0,423 Ref. Maximum value of ETS per paper Various Self-adhesive paper producer 0423 Ref. Maximum value of ETS per paper Annex 1 Table 2 / Currency conversion rates, CURRENCY EXCHANGE COEFF.OF CHANGE $/€ 1,2398 as of April 1, 2018 (Report of Word Bank Group 2018/) EU ETS Italy 16$ 12,90€ Carbon price value deduced from the last CARBON Ireland carbon tax Ireland 25$ 20,16€ edition of Report of Word Bank Group State PRICE and Trends of Carbon Pricing 2018 EU ETS Serbia 16$ 12,90€ Page 112 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 ANNEXES Annex 3 Correlation table of the Report with the 10 principles UN Global Compact AREA PRINCIPLE GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE GRI INDICATOR Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights in their respective 103-2, spheres of influence. 412-2, HUMAN RIGHTS 413-1 Principle 2 414-2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses, not even indirectly. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association of employees and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 102-8, Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced 102-41, and compulsory labour 401-1, 401-3, LABOUR 404-3, Principle 5 405-1, Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour 405-2, 406-1 Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7 201-2, Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 301-1, environmental challenges 301-2, 302-1, Principio 8 302-4, ENVIRONMENT Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater 303-1, environmental responsibility 305-1, 305-2, Principle 9 305-3, Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion 305-4, of environmentally friendly technologies. 305-5 102-16, 205-1, Principle 10 205-2, ANTICORRUPTION Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 205-3, including extortion and bribery 413-2, 415-1 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 113 of 132 ANNEXES Annex 4 – Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) LCA assess, in a systematic way, the environmental aspects and impacts of a system or multiple production systems, from the extraction of raw materials and resources to their final disposal, in accordance with the objectives and the scope defined. The study of LCA was performed on each of the Group's plants. The following environmental aspects were identified and taken into account: 1) Greenhouse gas emissions due to the transport of raw materials and products sold (indirect emissions objective 3 ); 2) Greenhouse gas emissions due to the processing of raw materials entering the production cycle (indirect emissions objective 3 ); 3) Emissions of greenhouse gases due to the combustion of natural gas in the Italian and Serbian plants (direct emissions objective 1); 4) Greenhouse gas emissions due to the combustion of heating oil in the Irish plant (direct emissions objective 1); 5) Greenhouse gas emissions due to the production of electricity needed in the plants (indirect emissions objective 2); 6) Water consumption; 7) Production of waste and waste from raw material (paper, cardboard and derivatives). This aspect, although indirectly, influences the consumption of raw materials. 8) Production of wastewater Life cycle Inventory LCI At this stage was carried out data collection relating to the three years in question for each factory included within the system. All data, whether they are measured, calculated or estimated, were used to quantify the elements input to the limits chosen for reporting. Greenhouse gas emissions from the transport of raw materials, products and waste:  List of incoming trips (for the procurement of raw material: paper and cardboard) and outgoing trips from : Pontedera Plant Vicenza Plants (Dueville e Thiene); Vršac Plant; Tullamore Plant. Greenhouse gas emissions from the processing of incoming materials (paper, cardboard and their derivatives) We used the last three years data containing the quantities of raw materials entering in each plant in detail, the following incoming materials were identified: Cardboard for folding cartons; Paper for information leaflets; Self-adhesive labels for stickers; Greenhouse gas emissions from the consumption of natural gas for premises heating For each plant, we used the natural gas consumption (invoices) for the last three years.. Greenhouse gas emissions from the consumption of electricity We used data on energy consumption of each plant (invoices) for the last three years. Water Consumption We used data on water consumption (invoices) for the last three years Production of waste and scraps from the raw material (paper, cardboard and derivatives). We used the last three years data of the quantities of raw material (paper, cardboard and derivatives) coming into the plants and the production of waste and scraps of paper and cardboard products in each factory (MUD/ PO) Production of liquid waste We used the quantities of liquid waste produced at each plant in the last three years (annual declaration of production waste e.g. MUD for the Italian plants). The following types of waste were taken into consideration:  CER 08 01 20: water suspensions containing paint or varnish  CER 08 03 13: waste ink;  CER 08 04 16: glue wash;  CER 09 01 01: water-based developer and activator solutions;  CER 16 10 02: aqueous liquid waste. Page 114 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 ANNEXES Annex 5 Life Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA) The results emerged from the inventory cycle life have been correlated with specific environmental categories through the use of indicators of impact category, which represent in a quantifiable way the category concerned. After the impact categories and the related indicators have been selected, the LCI results have been converted using the characterisation factors, obtaining the results of the different category indicators. The sum of the contributions relating to each category allows obtaining the profile LCIA, which has the purpose of providing information regarding the environmental factors, associated with the input and output flows of the system chosen. Impact categories selection The environmental categories proposed by the Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry (SETAC Europe) in its Working Group on LCIA are listed below:  Extraction of abiotic resources: these types of resources includes three different types of natural elements: Non-renewable resources (fossil fuels or minerals); Resources (groundwater, sand and gravel); Renewable resources (surface water, solar energy, wind energy, etc.).  Extraction of biotic resources: including biomass harvested in sustainable modes as well as in unsustainable ways (deforestation)  Global Warming: increase in temperature in the lower atmosphere as a result of the presence of greenhouse gases that trap infrared radiation.  Depletion of ozone layer: a consequent increase in the incidence of ultraviolet rays, which are harmful to humans and to all ecosystems in general.  Eco-toxicity: impacts on species and ecosystems due to direct emissions or subsequent degradation of the products.  Human toxicity: due to the presence of chemical or biological substances emitted into the environment  Photochemical pollution: caused by the formation of tropospheric ozone following the reactions of volatile organic components in the presence of light and NOX.  Acidification: release of protons (H +) in aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems.  Eutrophication: due to an excess of nitrates, phosphates, organic substances and nutrients. Classification Now that the effects and potential harm of emissions on human health and the environment are known, the results from the inventory phase of the life cycle can be associated with one or more categories of impact. Characterisation In this phase we obtain the quantification of the impact generated. The data in the inventory are transformed into indicators of numeric character, thus determining the relative contribution of each individual substance or resource used. Application to the Palladio Group Referring to the results from the inventory phase of the life cycle, the relevant impact categories are listed below::  emissions of greenhouse gases have been linked to the category GLOBAL WARMING;  water consumption has been associated with the category EXTRACTION OF ABIOTIC RESOURCES  the production of waste and therefore, even indirectly, the consumption of paper and cardboard has been associated with the category EXTRACTION OF BIOTIC RESOURCES  the production of liquid waste has been associated with the category ECOTOXICITY. Total Global Warming and comparison between the group’s plants Following the classification, the greenhouse gas emissions have been associated with this category of impact resulting from:  Transportation of raw materials, products and waste;  Processing of the incoming paper material;  Consumption of natural gas;  Consumption of electric power.  Consumption of heating oil. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 115 of 132 ANNEXES Page 116 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 ATTESTAZIONI Certifications 19.1 Certification of financial statements Palladio Group (pag.1/3) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 117 of 132 ATTESTAZIONI Certification of financial statements Palladio Group (pag.2/3) Page 118 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 ATTESTAZIONI Certification of financial statements Palladio Group (pag.3/3) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 119 of 132 ATTESTAZIONI 19.2 Certification of financial statements Ireland (pag.1/2) Page 120 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 ATTESTAZIONI Certification of financial statements Ireland (pag.2/2) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 121 of 132 ATTESTAZIONI 19.3 Certification of financial statements Palladio East (pag.1/2) Page 122 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 ATTESTAZIONI Certification of financial statements Palladio East (pag.1/2) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 123 of 132 ATTESTAZIONI 19.4 Sustainability Report SGS certification (pag.1/2) Page 124 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 ATTESTAZIONI Sustainability Report SGS certification (pag.2/2) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 125 of 132 INDICE CONTENUTI GRI Explanatory table of the contents of Report (Rif. 102-55) The 2018 Sustainability Report of the Palladio Group was drawn up in accordance with the GRI Standard, “Core” option. The table below shows the Group's information based on the GRI standards with reference to the materiality analysis of Palladio Group. For each indicator, the relevant page number of this Sustainability Reports indicated. GRI STD INDICATOR’S TITLE PAGE NOTES 102-1 Name of the organization. 102-2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 102-3 Location of organization's headquarters. 102-4 Number of countries where the organization operates, 11-20 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form. 102-6 Markets served 102-7 Dimensions of the organisation. 102-8 Number of employees per contract type, region e type 81, 103, 104 102-9 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining 45-48, agreements 107 102-10 Description of the supplier chain 102-11 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding 102-12 Explanation of the precautionary approach application 23-24 102-13 Codes of conduct Underwriting 102-14 Statement by the CEO and commitment to respect the principles of the U.N. Global Compact 5-10 102-15 Description of the main impacts, risks and opportunities. 102-16 Values, principles, standards and rules of behaviour 25 102-17 Warning mechanisms and doubts related to ethics 26 102-18 Organization governance structure 20-22 102-40 List of stakeholder groups involved in the organization’s engagement 31-40 activities 102-41 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining 81, 90 agreements 102-42 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to undertake engagement activities 102-43 Approach of stakeholder’s engagement activities, including 30-43 frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 102-44 Key topics and criticalities 102-45 Companies included in the consolidated financial statements and an indication of the companies included in the report 19 102-46 Process of defining report content 102-47 List of aspects identified as material 102-48 Explanation of the effects of changes in calculations 27-30 102-49 Significant changes from the previous reporting period 102-50 Reporting period. 102-51 Date of most recent previous report. 102-52 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). 99-100 102-53 Contacts and useful addresses to request information on the sustainability report and its contents 102-54 Indication of the chosen option In accordance Page 126 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 INDICE CONTENUTI GRI 102-55 99-100, Index of the GRI content 126-129 102-56 30, Report ‘s external Assurance 99-100 103-1 Explanation of the material matter and its boundary 27-30 103-2 Managerial approach and its components 41-42, 45-48, 60, 65-66, 103-3 Assessment of the Managerial approach 79-80, 89, 93-94 201-1 Economic value generated and distributed 60, 110 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change 61-62, 103 201-3 Coverage of the pension plans defined by the organisation 201-4 Significant financial assistance received from government. 96 202-1 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage. 63, 103 202-2 Percentage of senior management hired from the local community. 203-1 Infrastructures and services provided 62-63, 110 203-2 Main indirect economic impacts 60 204-1 45-48,108 Percentage of expenditure concentrated on local suppliers 205-1 Operation analysed for risks related to corruption 95-96 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption procedures and 85-88 policies 205-3 Accidents related to corruption and actions taken 95-96, 106 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, antitrust and 101 monopolistic practices 301-1 Raw Materials used by weight or volume. 45-48, 301-2 Percentage of raw materials used that are recycled input materials. 108 301-3 Products and their packing materials that are reused 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 78, 110 302-2 Energy consumption outside the organization Not reported 302-3 Energetic Intensity 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 75, 108 302-5 Reduction of energy consumption of products and services 303-1 Total water withdrawn by source 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 77, 108 303-3 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 304-1 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. 304-2 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value 49 outside protected areas. 304-3 Habitats protected or restored. 304-4 Number of species of IUCN Red List and species in the national conservation lists with habitats in areas affected by operations, broken down by level of extinction risk 305-1 Direct GHG Emissions (Scope 1) 67-74, 109 305-2 Indirect GHG Emissions (Scope 2) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 127 of 132 INDICE CONTENUTI GRI 305-3 Other Indirect GHG Emissions (Scope 3) 305-4 Intensity of GHG emissions 305-5 Reduction of the GHG Emissions 305-6 Emissions of substances that damage the ozone layer (ODS) Not reported 305-7 NO, SO, and other significant emissions Not reported 306-1 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 306-2 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 306-3 Total number and volume of significant spills. 76, 109 306-4 Hazardous waste transport 306-5 Water structures affected by discharges and / or outflow 307-1 Non-conformities with environmental laws and regulations 101 308-1 45-48, 107 New suppliers assessed on the ground of environmental criteria 308-2 negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 101 401-1 total number of hiring and turnover rate 401-2 Benefit given to full time employees that are not given to short term or 81, part-time employees 104-106 401-3 Parental leave 402-1 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes 83 403-1 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees 403-2 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 83-84,105, 403-3 Workers with a high incidence or high risk of accident or occupational 107 disease 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 404-2 Programs for skills management and career endings. 85-88, 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 105 development reviews. 405-1 Composition of the governing bodies and employees breakdown 81-83 405-2 Ratio between male and female basic salary 406-1 Accidents on discrimination and actions taken 89-90 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining can be at risk 90 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for accidents on child labour 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for accidents on forced or 91 compulsory labour 410-1 Safety personnel who have received training on human rights Not reported procedures and policies 411-1 Number of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions 49 taken 412-1 Number and percentage of operational areas subjected to screening 91 on human rights 412-2 83-84, Employees training on human rights policies and procedures 105 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human 45-48 rights clauses or that are subject to evaluation 413-1 Operation with implementation of local community involvement programs, impact and development assessment 94-95 413-2 Operational areas with actual or potential significant negative impacts on local communities 414-1 New supplier assessed on the ground of social criteria 45-48, Page 128 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 INDICE CONTENUTI GRI 95-96, 101 414-2 45-48, negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 101 415-1 Political contributions 96-97 416-1 Assessment of Health and safety impact of the products and services 42 categories 416-2 Non-conformities related to impacts on Health and safety of the products and services 417-1 Requirements for information on products and services and labelling 101 417-2 Non-conformities related to information on products and services and labelling 417-3 Accidents of non-compliance related to marketing communications 418-1 Complaints about breaches of customer privacy and loss of customer 43, 101 data 419-1 Failure to comply with social and economic laws and regulations 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 129 of 132 INDICE CONTENUTI GRI Page 130 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019 QUESTIONNAIRE Assessment Questionnaire To allow all interested readers to express their opinion about the compliance of the Sustainability Report with the principles of guarantee and quality of the information provided in this edition, we have inserted the following questionnaire in order to receive any useful suggestions to clarify and improve the contents of these financial statements. The questionnaire can be completed and sent by e-mail to the following address: sustainability@palladiogroup.com. Thank you for your attention and time. 1) Indicate the belonging category of Stakeholders □ Shareholders □ Suppliers □ Customer □ Employees (specify plant)_____________ □ Community □ Institutions □ Business Partner □ Other 2) Assessment of the current sustainability report Completeness of information □ □ □ Clarity of information □ □ □ Transparency of information □ □ □ Economical □ □ □ Environmental □ □ □ Social □ □ □ 3) In what extent this Sustainability Report has met your information needs? 4) Which information would you like to be deepening to improve next year's Sustainability Report?? 5) Do you believe that this Sustainability Report is a useful tool to gain a better knowledge of the Palladio Group business reality? 6) Any other comment and/or suggestion? SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Page 131 of 132 QUESTIONNAIRE Notes Page 132 of 132 REPORT SOSTENIBILITÀ 2019
