COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) BLEU NETWORK INC. December 18, 2018 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that once again Bleu Network, Inc. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. In this 2018 Communication on Progress (COP), we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders, partners, clients using our primary channels of communication. We are proud to support the United Nations Global Compact and look forward to continued the commitment of this great organization. Respectfully, Bleu Network Inc. Janet Legrand President BLEU NETWORK INC. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals Bleu Network is committed to protecting and respecting Human Rights. As a multi-cultural company, we value the diversity of our people, clients and partners. We remain committed to continue to support our diversity efforts as we strive towards inclusion in race, gender, age, color, creed, nationality, sexual orientation, religion, marital status, political beliefs, and disability. Our annual goals focus on preventing Human Rights discrimination by fellow employees or customers Implementation Bleu Network continues to uphold the United Global Compact Human rights principles by adhering to the highest standards. We believe in educating our employees in the principles of diversity in the workforce and the protection of human rights. By maintaining an open door policy at all office locations we reduce the risk of encountering violations of human rights. We encourage and promote growth from our employees as we are committed in providing cross-training amongst our departments. HUMAN RIGHTS Measurement of Outcomes Bleu Network's systematic approach for the management of human rights throughout the entire company is fundamental. This approach focuses on proactive diversity recognition, risk assessment and control to prevent human rights violations. In addition, we encourage and empower our employees to utilize Lessons Learned and Best Practices guidelines as a regular health and safety management system; an approach that has helped us protect our most valuable resourceour employees. We are honored to have implemented a new plan to continue to promote diversity in our workforce. We seek to continue to support equality in all our business units irregarless of race, gender or sexual orientation. The rights of every man are diminished when the rights of one man are threatened. ― John F. Kennedy LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of a association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals Bleu Network continues to strive to exceed labor law requirements throughout every business unit. As a very culturally diverse business, we are well-versed in advocacy of diversity, inclusion, wellness and professional development in the workforce. We are committed to promoting and protecting the health and wellness of our employees and the communities where we live and work. We are proud of our Core Values and promote our Comprehensive Ethics and Compliance Program. Implementation Bleu Network is committed to upholding labor rights, including the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. We adhere to the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. LABOUR Implementation Con't Proactive management of health, safety, environment and the community is core to Bleu Network's team, our business and the outcomes we achieve for our clients. They are embedded in our values and the way we work, everyday in every project. Measurement of Outcomes Bleu Network is at the forefront of workplace diversity and will continue to establish itself as a leader in labour principles in accordance with the UN Global Compact. As the company grows and expands its business and operations globally, Bleu Network will strive to remain a culturally diverse organization with opportunities at the center of its core values. Bleu Network's Code of Ethics and Business Conduct (“our Code”) seeks to ensure integrity and transparency in the conduct of our business and in our relationships with others. Some girls cannot go to school because of the child labor and child trafficking. ― Malala Yousafzai ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals Bleu Network is committed to conserving our environmental resources and modeling sustainable practices, promoting clean air through our company's collective effort for preservation. We support all efforts to promote green building and to create a sustainable environment. We believe sustainability is key to the betterment of our planet and that Environmental consciousness is everyone's business. As LEED® professionals, sustainability is at the core of our values and principles of our organization and a core part of our corporate culture. Bleu Network takes pride in sharing under our Ethics & Compliance strict values for the adoption of appropriate business pratices and enviromental protection. Implementation Conservation, Recycle and Reuse. We are proud to plan and act to reduce our social impacts. Proactive management of health, safety, environment and the community is core to Bleu Network's team, our business and the outcomes we achieve for our clients. They are embedded in our values and the way we work, every day in every project. ENVIRONMENT Measurement of Outcomes We continue to uphold our commitment to Sustainability as key to 21st Century, as we aim to underline the social impacts within our communities in which we thrieve. Enviromental responsibility is the key driver of culture, which in turn drives our performance and efficiency as a whole. We keep building towards Vision 2020 with steadfast support onto every project we support through innovative and sustainable applications. Such goals can only be achieved with all our people’s full support andparticipation, including effective leadership of our managers. We must always observe and comply with the applicable laws as well as thestandards and practices adopted by Bleu Network relating to the protection of the environment. I only feel angry when I see waste. When I see people throwing away things we could use. — Mother Teresa ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals Bleu Network is committed to conducting business with integrity and therefore strictly prohibits corruption and bribery in all its forms. Implementation In order to succeed in a globally competitive marketplace, Bleu Network continually acts to identify and address new threats and intelligently adapts to the changing risk profile of our operations. Bribery, corruption and program integrity risk, must be vigilantly practiced and managed equally by every member of our organization. Bleu Network takes pride to adhere to the guidelines of our AntiCorruption Compliance Program within each country we operate. Our Anti-Corruption Compliance Program is available in 6 languages to our employees. Measurement of Outcomes Bleu Networks takes many measures to maintain transparency and accountability. We diligently work on a daily basis against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. An Ethics and Compliance Officer provides oversight, support, and resources to maintain Bleu’s culture of integrity sound and clear throughout every business unit. ANTI-CORRUPTION Measurement of Outcomes Con't Bleu Networks takes many measures to maintain transparency and accountability. We diligently work on a daily basis against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We must not, directly or indirectly, accept, offer, promise, grant or authorize the giving of any bribe, kickback, payment or anything that can be construed as such (gifts, entertainment, employment, contracts or benefits of any kind) to any third party in order to influence or appear to influence action, inaction or a decision, with the intent to obtain an improper advantage or to retain business. We are all responsible for educating ourselves on how to recognize corrupt activities and ensure that we are not involved in any such type of activities, whether directly or indirectly. In the real world, as lived and experienced by real people, the demand for human rights and dignity, the longing for liberty and justice and opportunity, the hatred of oppression and corruption and cruelty is reality. — John McCain COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017-2018 BLEU NETWORK INC.
