The Blue Circle Sustainability Report 2019 Page 0 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 THE BLUE CIRCLE | 9/11/19 Environment, Social & Governance Sustainability Report ­ 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Dear Stakeholder, I am pleased to confirm that The Blue Circle reaffirms its support of Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment & Anti­Corruption. In this annual communication on progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Warm Regards Olivier Duguet Chief Executive Officer Page 1 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Content Index Page Our Company………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 3 Key – Highlights……………..…………………………………………………………………………………………… 3 Our Culture ­ Vision & Mission…………………………………………………………………………………… 4 Core Values………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 4 Our Approach……………………………………………………………………………………………………………... 5 Identification of Stakeholders …………………………………………………………………………………………. 6 Human Rights…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 9 Goals & Targets 2020…………………………………………………………………………………………………. 12 Labour……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 12 Goals & Targets 2020………………………………………………………………………………………………… 18 Environment………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 18 Goals & Targets 2020………………………………………………………………………………………………… 21 Anti­Corruption……………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 22 Goals & Targets 2020………………………………………………………………………………………………… 23 Health & Safety at TBC …………………………………………………………………………………………………… 23 Sustainability at TBC………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 26 Commitment to Sustainable Development Goals………………………………………………………… 28 Approach & Initiatives against SDGs…………………………………………………………………………… 30 CSR Initiatives…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 33 Plans & Policies……………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 39 Glossary………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 41 References………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 43 Page 2 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Our Company Company name: The Blue Circle Pte. Ltd. Headquarters at: 51 Goldhill Plaza, #19­06, Singapore 308900 The Blue Circle (TBC) was born in 2013 and is headquartered in Singapore. TBC is the leading developer of wind energy projects in Southeast Asia with the spirit of making impossible possible. TBC has established its presence across Southeast Asia having offices in Ho Chi Minh City, Bangkok and Phnom Penh and soon in Myanmar The Singapore­based company looks to bridge the gap in project development in the region by bringing international project development experience, financial expertise and capabilities together with local market understanding. Its growth strategy is based on a local presence in each of its markets through its own team and offices as well as a network of local partners while keeping sustainability at the heart of our growth strategy. TBC is committed to the international community’s sustainable development agenda. We strongly believe that through our pioneering action in the renewable energy sector, we can contribute and play an important role in achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) of 2030. Our commitment to sustainability is also reflected in our vision, core values and code of conduct. We support human rights, health safety and the environment. Key Highlights TBC commissioned Phase 1 of its first Dam Nai wind power project in October 2017, featuring the largest wind turbine in Southeast Asia. The construction of Phase II was completed in October 2018, marking the completion of the first foreign owned wind power project in Vietnam. Page 3 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Our Culture ­ Vision & Mission Statement Mission: To responsibly bring clean, renewable and affordable energy to the world Vision: • Renewable electric power will be the ultimate source of energy for all future human activities • A combination of hydro, solar and wind power, coupled with peaking capacity, will be the new standard. • Electric transportation will revolutionize the way we travel and will be fuelled by renewables. • We must take responsibility for changing the world and educate citizens as well as governments. • We are building The Blue Circle as the ultimate 21st century power utility company with sustainable development goals at heart. Our Culture ­ Values Our Core Values Be visionary: We are inventing the future of power generation and participating in the new energy revolution every day Be professional: We are setting the benchmark for ourselves and the sector at the highest level of excellence Be responsible: We must treat our partners, our project communities and the planet with consideration and respect, focussing on building long term sustainable relationships Be conscious: We are driven by higher purposes, which include stakeholders' consideration and holistic project impact assessments Page 4 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Our Approach Our approach focusses on enhancing affordable, local renewable energy and being at the forefront of climate change and global warming action. We strive for driving social and environmental sustainability in operating the business and our impact on the local community. This approach endeavours to achieve the company’s vision of benefiting the future generation by giving renewable and sustainable energy as a solution to power human activities. We at TBC acknowledge that although we harness renewable source of energy and invest in green energy, we must still combat any negative impact on the environment Environment: We care for the environment. As an organization we believe in protecting the environment and reducing our impact to the greatest extent possible. We strongly advocate reducing, reusing and recycling and aim to combat climate change and reduce dependencies on fossil fuels, thereby reducing our carbon footprint. We strongly feel that raising awareness and reminding ourselves and our people about the importance of the environment and wildlife is our responsibility. We share articles and blogs with our mailing list subscribers to remind them to take their part in the fight. Page 5 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Social: The prime component of our sustainable practice/strategy is to engage with our stakeholders. Our stakeholders are the cornerstones of our business and so our policies and practices reflect transparency and conscious communication with them. We have identified our major stakeholders and we ensure that we have regular and meaningful communication with them. Our ethical practices and trusted relationships have helped us in maintaining these relationships with our stakeholders. TBC follows a specific mode of engagement with each of our identified stakeholders. Identification of Stakeholders Stakeholder Group Mode of Engagement Area of Interest Shareholders Regular board meetings (quarterly) written Group Performance Investors Communication (Annual Report) Policy Compliance Financial Institution Discussions with CEO/CFO Project Milestones Page 6 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Business Sustainability Regulatory One­to one engagement Permits & licenses (Compliance) Authorities Annual report Employees Performance review & feedback Career development Trainings Skill enhancement Inter­departmental meetings Business goals Achievements celebrations Suppliers / Sub­ Contract discussion Product quality, costing, Contractors One to one engagement environment and safety aspects payment terms Local Communities One to one meeting Community issues & concerns Public consultation Community support programs Grievance redressal meetings Livelihood restoration Focused group discussion Grievance mechanism plans Environmental protection Towards our goal to attain social sustainability, we conduct social due­diligence and prepare a risk mitigation plan to identify and mitigate the maximum risks possible. We prepare a stakeholder engagement plan from project to project and maintain a detailed record of all stakeholder engagements. Stakeholder Engagement for Local Communities: We perform a detailed study to demonstrate how stakeholder engagement processes have been undertaken to keep the local community informed of project developments, and to integrate feedback received during these engagements in the development of the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) to create more effective management, mitigation and monitoring measures. Page 7 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Grievance Mechanism Community support is not an indifferent for us. We care for the people, their problems and their concerns are our concerns. Keeping this in mind, we have formulated grievance mechanism plans, adjusted and customised as per the project geographical location and needs of the local community. For each of our project under operation and under construction, we have a dedicated hotline and a mechanism that is shared at various notice boards near the site and is shared with farmers/landowners/local community at various stakeholder engagements. Page 8 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Human Rights We as an organization respect the values and cultures of the people and the communities in which we operate in, and we aim to serve and make a positive mark. We believe in creating an inclusive workplace where every employee is valued and respected. This section of the report highlights TBC’s actions to address and monitor human rights principles. Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuse Relevant Document: ­ Code of Conduct ­ Human Resource Policy TBC respects the fundamental principles set out in the UN Universal declaration of human rights and International Labour Organization (ILO) on fundamental principles and rights at work. Some initiatives taken by TBC includes ­ Page 9 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Right of Self Determination: We give special care and attention to the community where we operate. The rights of the community is preserved and we value the culture and belief of the group. As TBC engages in project activity on the land, we appoint a social expert to do a first round of survey which emphasises on understanding the traditional significance of the land for the people, organise a due­consultation to give a detail understanding of the upcoming project activities. We also do an Impact Assessment in which each household and nearby households that are potentially to be affected by the presence of the project are consulted to understand their perspectives and to take their opinion into consideration. Based on the outcomes of the survey, the project layout is finalised. We give special attention to vulnerable/indigenous groups (if any) close to our project location. The affected communities are not only compensated for the land, but we also ensure livelihood restorations for the most affected and needful group. In the second round of stakeholder engagement, during the land acquisition phase, we do detailed research to understand the socio­economic conditions of the community affected. Our Community Support Responsibility (CSR) practices are in consultation with Heads of Commune/Village and the local communities. We invite opinions to understand how we can make a positive impact on people. How we preserve the rights of people Page 10 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Identification of the Identification of project Discussions with authorities Identification of indigenous landowners and affected boundaries on socio­economic profile groups (if any) community Stakeholder Engagement/ Second round of survey to Stakeholder survey (one­to­ Public Hearing/ Grievance Land Acquisition Meetings ensure the satiety level & one discussion) Mechanism Plan understand the need Stakeholder Engagement CSR Plan (on the basis of Livelihood restoration plan Community engagement Plan identified outcome) Right to Non­Discrimination and Equality We place great emphasis on maintaining a harmonious and collaborative relationships with our personnel. We value and recognise the contributions of our employees and strive to provide safe and conducive working environment. We are committed to the principle of equality and non­ discrimination. TBC is committed to providing a workplace free from discrimination, sexual harassment and bullying. Behaviour that constitutes discrimination, sexual harassment or bullying will not be tolerated and will lead to action being taken, which may include dismissal. Respect for others is a priority in our business practice. TBC does not allow any kind of disrespect whether done verbally or in writings. Inappropriate acts, abuse of power or immoral behaviour are not toleratde and will result in a disciplinary measure as seen below: 1. Verbal warning to employee who misbehaved 2. Written warning 3. Work suspension of seven (7) days without pay 4. Termination without compensation Page 11 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Everyone is entitled to all rights and freedom, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national/social origin, property, birth or other statuses. Right to Health, Safety and Wellbeing Our company sets a high standard of sustainability and maintain a strong emphasis on health and safety. We are committed to provide safe working conditions to our people and we ensure full compliance with national and international Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability (EHS&S) regulations and third party standards. We also focus on providing healthy workplaces and providing employees and contractors with adequate facilities. TBC offices offer spacious and bright desks to ensure each team member’s wellbeing. The company also provides medical insurance to all employees in order to make sure they are covered for health issues and can have access to medical care. Additionally, we have a compensation policy in case any employees may be injured at work. TBC has implemented regular office hours and compensation system for overtime. All employee’s hours are monitored in our Human Resource (HR) Online system. Moreover, all employees get weekly rest days. In the case of exceptional work during the weekend, employees will receive extra paid leave as compensation. All employees also have annual leaves that are encouraged to be taken in order to ensure good health and mental stability. The TBC management supports the right of expression and free speech from employees. In order to support the freedom of association, two employee Trade Union currently exist in our Vietnam office in order to make sure collaborators’ rights are respected. These Unions are composed of a president, an accountant and a secretary. The Trade Unions are free to submit feedback and requests to the company and also are allowed a budget for employees’ activities. The Trade Union is also free to hold assemblies as per their calendar. TBC protects and supports individuals for: ­ The right to privacy by maintaining confidentiality at the highest level, related to personal information, contract or other individuals ­ The right to freedom of thoughts, consciousness and religion ­ The right to equality Page 12 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 ­ The right to enjoy favourable conditions of work ­ The right to social security ­ The right to education and health Goals & Targets 2020 ­ Prepare sub­contractor’s Code of Conduct ­ Sub­contractors to sign and accept the code of conduct ­ Plan/Policy on human rights ­ Trainings Labour Sustainability is at the forefront of our business relationships with all our stakeholders. As an organisation, we respect the fundamental principles set out in the UN Universal declaration of International Labour Organization’s (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. This section of the report will highlight how we manage the following identified principles by UN: Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Related policies at TBC ­ Code of Conduct Page 13 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 ­ HR manual/Grievance Mechanism ­ Health and Safety ­ Group Internship Policy ­ Group Business Travel Policy ­ Communication & Training ­ Equal Opportunity Policy Our presence in countries (Human Resource) 12% 2% 18% 16% 52% Corporate Vietnam Site VN Thailand Cambodia Our company upholds the freedom of association. In order to support the freedom of association, two employees Trade Union are currently in place in our Vietnam office in order to make sure collaborators’ rights are respected. We have zero tolerance for unethical labour practices such as child labour, forced labour slavery and human trafficking in any of our operations. TBC has implemented regular office hours and a compensation system for overtime. All employee’s hours are monitored in our HR online system. Moreover, all employees get weekly rest days. In the case of exceptional work during the weekend, employees will receive extra paid leave as compensation. All employees also have annual leaves that are encouraged to be taken in order to ensure good health and mental stability. Page 14 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Child labour in TBC is not permitted. It is part of the recruitment process to verify the candidates’ identity and age. Underaged candidates will not be hired. High disciplinary measures will be taken if an underaged person is hired. At TBC, we work closely with our sub­contractors for civil, electrical and other installation works. As a part of contract negotiation, we clarify that they need to adhere to national labour laws which hold them accountable to responsible labour practices during the operations. We pay special attention to the labour practices followed by our sub­contractors: ­ Daily site­walk to ensure safe working environment of labours. ­ The labour contract established by and between our sub­con and staff are verified by our legal experts. ­ The labour contract ensures to respect the national labour laws. ­ Audit by the (Environmental, Social and Governance) ESG team – Labour camp is inspected and verified in accordance with the best practices. Any red flags identified are communicated to the sub­contractors with a deadline to meet the requirements. ­ Labour camp layout and other facilities are monitored to maintain the cleanliness and hygiene for the camp. At TBC we make sure that all our employees are provided with an individual employment agreement along with a copy of the HR manual, which stipulates their employment rights: ­ Probation period ­ Salary ­ Insurance benefits ­ Working hours and location of work ­ Leave entitlement Our company always respects the principle of equal opportunity. This is applied from the recruitment process to the career development. We aim to employ the best candidates based on merit and competence. As shown in our recruitment procedure ­ discriminatory advertisement is forbidden as well as selection according to gender or nationality. ­ To ensure this principle is applied we have an Equal Opportunity Policy. The company is also committed to make reasonable adjustments in order to allow people with disability to work safely and productively. Page 15 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Employee Engagement With the philosophy of “Our people our asset”, we at TBC recognise the value to keep our people motivated, happy and contented. With a very open culture practiced within the organisation, everyone is approachable for everyone. With the initiative of employee engagement, we try our best to create the conditions in which employee feel comfortable to offer more of their potential. TBC commits to comply with all local, state and federal laws and regulation for stipulating working conditions. We support the right of every employee to lodge a grievance with their manager if they believe a decision, behaviour or action affecting their employment is unfair. An employee may raise grievance about any performance improvement action taken against them. When necessary, TBC will escalate a grievance to the higher level of authority for more discussions towards resolution and to continue escalating it to the level above until it the grievance is resolved. The sentiment behind the pillar of relationship between management and employees is two­way commitment and communication between management and its members. To ensure the engagement, we have implemented performance review meetings to be processed twice a year. In this meeting, the employee is expected to discuss frankly about ­ Goals and targets ­ Issues/grievances, if any ­ Any challenges or difficulties that the employee may be facing to meet their work targets ­ Employee benefit discussion Trainings and other feedback Managers will do their utmost to act on grievances objectively, discreetly and promptly. Be aware that grievances that are misconceived, vexatious, and lacking substance may result in disciplinary actions being taken against the employee lodging the grievance. Training Trainings are an integral part of our system to keep our team up to date with the world. Annual training analysis and planning process is carried out every year to identify, plan and execute a total company training plan. Trainings can either be proposed by respective managers or the employee depending Page 16 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 upon the need of business. The proposal for the training goes through the direct manager. Upon the manager’s approval, our HR department processes it further for the benefit of all. Some of the trainings attended by our members include: ­ Leadership training from Dale Carnegie (training centre) ­ Global Reporting Index training for sustainable development ­ Training for working at heights ­ Safety trainings ­ ESG trainings ­ Wind resource trainings In order to ensure a safe environment, TBC has established the following rules: ­ Prohibition of alcohol and consumption of illicit substances while on duty ­ Maintenance and strong security around construction and maintenance equipment, and generally on the wind farm sites ­ Assessment of all risks before work starts on new areas of operation, for example, buying new equipment and setting up new work methods, and regularly reviewing these risks TBC demands a positive, proactive attitude and performance with respect to protecting health, safety and the environment by all employees, irrespective of their position. Our business always respect the principle of equal opportunity. This is applied from the recruitment process to the career development. We aim to employ the best candidates based on merit and competence. As shown in our recruitment procedure, discriminatory advertisement is forbidden as well as selection according to gender or nationality. To ensure this principle is applied, we have an Equal Opportunity Policy. The company is also committed to make reasonable adjustments in order to allow people with disability to work safely and productively. Page 17 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Page 18 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Goals & Targets for 2020: ­ Data protections terms and procedure ­ Code of Ethics ­ Employee benefit policy ­ Grievance Mechanism policy (for employees) ­ Aim to have zero fatal accidents and lost time injury ­ Trainings and sessions to share practical implementations Environment We give utmost importance to the environment. As an owner of clean energy projects, we produce only renewable form of energy but still we clearly recognise that our projects have direct and indirect impacts in the environment. We protect our environment and reduce our impact by adopting internationally recognised principles throughout our operations. We strongly advocate to reduce dependencies on fossil fuels, with our responsible investments in the field of renewable energy. This section highlights TBC’s actions to address and monitor environmental efforts with a focus on following principles: Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; and Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Related Documents: ­ Environment and Social Policy Statement ­ Environment and Social Management System ­ Health and Safety Policy Our approach towards a green and clean environment aims to meet the highest standard of sustainable practice and ethical investing, maintaining a strong emphasis on health and safety. Wind and solar projects in our portfolio also result in Certified Emission Reductions (CER) which contribute to the fight against climate change, as well as provide numerous benefits to the local communities. Page 19 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Fostering our commitment to responsible corporate ethics, TBC has established an environmental management system that supports its assessments of all investments against the following Applicable Standard for all renewable energy project portfolio of TBC. • Equator Principles III (2013) • IFC Performance Standards (2012) • World Bank Group (WBG) General Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) Guidelines (2007) • WBG EHS Guidelines for Wind Energy (2015) • WBG EHS Guidelines for Electric Power Transmission and Distribution (2007) • Applicable laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which country the project operates Our investment approval process ensures that we carry our necessary due diligence before finalising the investment. We perform a detailed environmental study in collaboration with environmental experts across all the projects. The EIA (Environment Impact Assessment) is divided into two stages: baseline studies that include impact identification, followed by cumulative impact mitigation measures and its management. The sentiments behind doing a detailed Environment & Social Impact Assessment is to: ­ Comply with the requirements of the GoV legal and institutional framework, Equator Principles as well as IFC PS for undertaking an ESIA ­ Identify and assess Environmental and Social (E&S) impacts, adverses, positive, and cumulative, within the projects’ Area of Influence (AoI) ­ Identify opportunities to avoid, or where avoidance is not possible, develop measures to minimise, mitigate or compensate for likely adverse impacts on sensitive social and environmental receptors. ­ Promote improved E&S performance through the effective use of natural resources, social networks and management systems by integrating all identified management, mitigation and monitoring measures into an Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) The detailed environmental studies include ­ Air quality ­ Noise and vibration survey ­ Hydrological survey, surface water quality and flow Page 20 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 ­ Biodiversity studies (flora and fauna) o We also perform bird and bat (B&B) monitoring under which experts study the species of birds and bats and the path they follow to ensure that the project does not create hinderance in the ecological system ­ Waste management ­ Archaeological and historical site (if any) Management, mitigation and monitoring measures are developed to reduce residual impacts towards being negligible, thus ensuring impacts from our projects are not significant. Project Screening •EIB Exclusion list •IFC •Preliminary Impact Assessment Mitigation Measures Environment Impact Performance Assessment Monitoring Air quality, •Monthly Report Noise & vibration survey Hydrological survey Biodiversity studies Page 21 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Energy Consumption and Management TBC’s projects produce clean energy that is consumed by off­takers and by local communities (using the grid). Our projects are at the forefront of mitigating climate change overall and our day­ to­day business. TBC has also taken an initiative to use renewable energy in the Head Office by signing a contract with our service provider to channel renewable energy the Singapore office. Page 22 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Goals and Targets for 2020 ­ Ensure all of TBC’s employees and our sub­contractors of projects under construction are trained on EHSS topics. ­ Conduct ESIA/ESDD of all pipeline projects as per the IFC performance standard. ­ Maintain and monitor environmental and social action plans through regular reviews and audits. ­ Ensure stakeholder engagement for all projects and address any grievances or other issues to ensure they are resolved to best of satisfaction of local community. ­ Ensure 100% compliance with national labour laws within company and for our sub­contractors. ­ Ensure standards are followed for safe storage and disposal of hazardous material for all projects under construction and operations. ­ Ensure compliance with labour laws and IFC PS 2, across the company. ­ Initiate CSR programs for new projects. ­ Conversion of source of electricity at our branch offices to renewable form of energy (if available). Anti­Corruption TBC management focuses on maintaining high standards of corporate governance. The management and Board Members of TBC strongly support good business ethics. We support: Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We continue to maintain clear and regular communication with our stakeholders. Our ESG team is set up since the time of inception and is responsible to recognise and manage the environmental and social issues at project level. The team is reporting to the management of TBC. We carry out an internal due diligence at the planning stage of any potential/proposed project. We implement Plan­Do­Check­Act methodology at the highest level of management. Our Executive Committee includes Group CEO, Group CDO, Group CFO and Group Head of Project Finance. Reports identifying how the project could potentially affect the regional area in which it operates and a Page 23 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 detailed discussion on factors we must consider ensures minimum negative impacts in the community we operate. TBC has recently introduced a Code of Conduct for employees under which employees are encouraged to consult with respective managers or HR for compliance concerns. Compliance with conduct will be a factor for consideration in evaluating employee’s performance. Employees are expected to treat everyone with respect, and act in good faith and with integrity and sense of professionalism. The company adopts a zero­tolerance policy against bribery and corruption. a. Not offering, promising or giving bribes to obtain, retain or facilitate business or any transaction of the company; and, b. Not requesting, agreeing to, accepting, or take bribes from any person or organization. Goals and Targets for 2020 ­ Trainings and awareness sessions to be organised for employees on ethical practice and Code of Conduct. ­ Acceptance & ratification of company’s Code of Conduct by existing employees and new employee. Health and Safety at TBC At TBC, safety is of utmost importance to us, hence we have a site safety manager dedicated for each project and is supervised by the site project manager. A team of health and safety personnel is responsible for checking and educating everyone from vistors to workers. We work closely with our local sub­contractors to provide safe working conditions and maintain conducive working environment. We review and update the health and safety procedures with every new project and customise the, as per the need of the project. We comply with national labour laws and practices. Page 24 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Health and safety are at the heart of our operations We organise periodic trainings such as health and safety training, emergency response courses and induction trainings to ensure everyone upholds the best internationally­recognised practices. We also organize cross departmental trainings to give a clear and transparent platform to all employees. PPE training for workers on Dam Nai Site Safety training at Dai Phong Site Page 25 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Environment awareness training by environmental experts Health and safety performance A few initiatives taken up to maintain the safety of the site includes: • HSE training • PPE training and its uses • Guidance to improve health and safety in the organisation • Rules to follow when on site • Daily safety induction • Safety induction for new employee • Audit/Inspection – daily site walk • Commitment from owner’s engineers and sub­contractors on safety management Page 26 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 H & S Performance 25 25 20 15 10 3 5 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 2018 2019 (until Aug) The data shown above is from years 2018 and 2019, when construction was at peak for our wind power projects. We are happy to share that we have encountered zero fatal accidents and we aim to maintain zero accidents for our projects across Southeast Asia. In the year 2018, we recorded 25 near­miss cases which includes our precautionary measures to prevent any accidents. We thank our HSE Manager and every individual at on site for maintaining the highest standard of safety practices. Sustainability at TBC Sustainability is at the very heart of TBC. Our Board of Directors and Management treat sustainability issues with utmost importance. We acknowledge that the sustainable development and our values go hand in hand. For us, sustainability in business means to responsibly respond to growing demand of electricity, to build a team that is well educated and to be aware of the risks and its mitigation measures and finally, to respond to social and environmental issues. Our company’s ESMS is designed to help to assess and manage environmental and social risks. This is a key feature of the idea of continual improvement – an ongoing process of reviewing, correcting and improving our system. The methodology is based on the PDCA Approach: Page 27 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 • Plan: TBC will identify how its operations might harm the environment and develop methods to minimise any negative environmental and social impact. • Do: TBC will implement methods to minimise any negative environmental and social impact. • Check: TBC will assess whether the methods that it is using are effective in minimising any negative impact. • Act: TBC will determine what actions are required to reduce any negative impact. Understanding the factors that are affecting our business is not enough ­ we invest in understanding how our actions can affect other factors. We identify the risks that represent potential threats to sustainability and work to mitigate them. Page 28 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 We as an organisation are committed to play our role in Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of 2030’s agenda for sustainable development – adopted by world leaders at the United Nations Summit. We are responsible and accountable to cater to the needs of current generation without affecting the future generations. We have initiated to identify and prioritise the global goals most relevant to our business and our core values. This way, we have identified the role that we can play and at the same time engaging the SDGs in effective ways. We call it our SDGs commitment and in past year, we worked closely with our teams, stakeholders and local communities to help us strategically prioritise our goals in informed way. We have identified some of the initiatives and actions that we practice based on the most relevant sustainable development goals. Page 29 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 United Nations Global Compact TBS has endorsed and is committed to the 10 principles of United Nation Global Compact Goals. TBC is registered as a signatory with UNGC since October 2018. UNGC provides a governance framework for the sustainable development at business level. At TBC, we are committed to strengthen our corporate sustainability and are ready to take responsible actions to support identified and most relevant SDGs. Page 30 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Actions and Initiatives: SDGs Approach Action & Initiatives Goal 1: We identify that we are a part of the community TBC has started a “Donation Drive” from September 2019, under which we encourage our team and we work to take our step to achieve the goal. members to donate unused things they have at home, which can be of much use for the needy. Across all the offices in TBC we have identified a local Non­Governmental Organisation (NGO) that can channel donated items to the right people. Donation was organised for the unprivileged and eventually we hope to lend our hand to the global goal of ‘No Poverty’. Goal 3: The management of TBC regards any potential We provide safe work environments for our people and actively promote occupational health and risks to the health and safety of our people very safety. We conduct mandatory trainings on health and safety for field operations employees and seriously, hence we proactively promote health, for all our visitors. safety and wellbeing at the workplace and for the EHS & ESG teams ensure that all personnel are surrounding community. ­ Well rested ­ Have enough water ­ Wearing proper PPE ­ Aware or and protected from local weather ­ Consolidating and disposing all rubbish properly Goal 4: TBC keeps it employees at the forefront and Managers of TBC takes the initiative to host educational programmes for students, which includes: works for the development and training of the • Learning and hands­on experience on site. staff members. • Lectures/Experience sharing by experienced professional • Visit to wind farms Page 31 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Exploration sessions organised by TBC for the school students from Liger leadership academy. Participated in a training session organised in collaboration with W NGO on the introduction of solar lamps to rural women while supporting the livelihood of their families. Trainings for staff members are arranged depending upon the specialisations and business needs. Goal 7 The goal to reach affordable and clean energy lies TBC is the leading developer of wind and solar energy projects in Southeast Asia. TBC has at the very heart of our business. TBC invests all developed pipeline of wind and solar projects across Southeast Asia. its time and resources in giving the world a greener tomorrow. At the head office in Singapore, electricity usage is 100% from renewable source of energy. Goal 8 TBC is committed to grow with its people and We provide fair and flexible employment opportunities to our people. We strive to create an open make the work environment friendly and vibrant and trustworthy environment focused on equal opportunity and employee’s interest. across our offices in SEA. Volunteering opportunity: We recognise that every individual has their specific passions and purposes in life. At TBC, we provide an opportunity to live these passions if they benefit the community or Mother Earth. TBC donates man­hours for volunteering initiatives taken by its employees. Page 32 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Goal 13 TBC recognises the need to minimise our carbon We follow the IFC performance standards to measure and minimise all our impacts on air quality, footprint and to care for our environment. ground water, noise level and flora and fauna. Pollution prevention measures are implemented during construction phase. General and hazardous waste management are implemented on site. Goal 14 We care for our environment; we care for the At TBC, we celebrate ‘No Plastic Day’ as an annual event. This is to promote the awareness for our species that are affected by human interference. dear friends below water. The event starts with a training session on what we can do to help We also care for life below water. underwater species, followed by a beach clean­up day. This day is endorsed by the head of the group and is celebrated across all the offices of TBC. Also, we encourage more participation from our employees. Goal 15 TBC has identified that even after being a green TBC conducts detailed flora and fauna studies to minimise the impact on local biodiversity across energy developer, we still have some impacts on all our projects in advanced development stage. our environment and on biodiversity. ­ Bird and bat studies (during development and during operation phase) ­ Mitigation measures (suggested by experts) are implemented throughout the life cycle of the project. Awareness – TBC also plays our part to encourage our stakeholders and our followers to save wildlife and other small species sharing our planet with us. We took this initiative of sharing articles/write ups and emails to remind people of our duty towards this planet. Supported and participated in the reforestation project event in Thailand. Page 33 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 We Care for the Community Around Us: Some Initiatives Zero Waste Initiative – Volunteering activity – donated man­hours to create awareness for responsible consumption as well as raising funds for the Children’s Charities Association of Singapore (CCA). Being Eco­Friendly – Our employees are aware and promote the use of eco­friendly materials in day­to day use. We use eco­friendly, disposable garbage bags. Beach Cleanup Day – Together with our people across all TBC offices, we preserve a day annually to raise awareness and clean the beach. THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Page 34 of 44 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Recycle – An initiative by our staff to do the best we can make out of waste and relating this back to the nature of our business. Participation in reforestation event – Joined hands with the Chaiyaphum governer at Kok Noi forest. Recycle Paper Drive – We care for our environment and motivate our colleagues and friends to reduce and reuse paper. If this cannot be avoided at some of our facilities, we donate the materials to have them recycled. Getting eco­friendly: We reduces the use of platic straws as much as possible ­ bamboo straws to the rescue! Page 35 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 A piece of art using disposable plastics and plastic straws. Collected by TBC Vietnam team. Artwork created by an NGO. Preserving local culture – Celebration of Tet fesival with the farmers and local community, Nurturing the future generation: Construction of a canopy for a kindergarten funded by TBC. Educational trips – Hands­on experince: We facilitated a wind farm visit ­ students near the local community visited our wind farm and our experts gave the briefing of general wind technology and the operational principles. Page 36 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Chapter W introduced solar lamps and water filters to the locals. Volunteers gave a one­day training on the use of solar lamp. Solar lamps were supplied to the community at a subsidised cost. This program aimed to raise awareness, empower women and promote renewable power. TBC has taken the Eco­Pledge to take green initiatives with Eco­Business and is committed to be a green warrior TBC donates man­hours for creating a campaign to raise awareness of the adverse conditions of wildlife due to our actions. Page 37 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Infrastructure development: Our post­construction survey resulted in a high satisfaction level of the local community. The internal roads built for the project is now donated to the commune and can be used by the local people. The locals have mentioned that that this has eased transportation of crops from their fields to the marketplace. Construction of culverts: To improvise the irrigation facilities for the community around us. Local businesses are improved. For example, subcontracting local labourers for construction activities. Celebrated Mid­Autumn festival with children from the local community Co­celebrated International Day of Persons with Disabilities with The Disabled and Orphan Protection Organization in Binh Thuan province by providing on­ ground support and donations (Activity on 12 Dec) Page 38 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Team visited and gave presents and donations to children with disability to help the community. Joined hands with Vietnam Renewable Energy Community to support the scholarship program, ultimately promoting the use of green energy and helping to give them hands­on experience in the field. An initiative at our site office, our team joined hands with a local NGO to motivate our employees and local partners participated in exchanging used papers to small trees. Improved tourism: Our wind farm proved to an attractive tourist destination. This helps to contrubute cash flow to locals via service industry. Page 39 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Polices and Plans Initiated by TBC: Relevant Polices Environmental and Social Management Policy This policy was developed to address environmental and social issues developed during the life cycle of the project. TBC ensures effective management of all identified environmental and social risks. Employee Volunteering Program TBC encourages its employees to participate in volunteer activities and gives an opportunity to advocate the cause that one is personally passionate about. TBC aims to strengthen its relationship with communities and takes concrete steps to preserve our environment and wildlife. This policy motivates employees to volunteer activities by providing flexibility in work schedules and paid leave opportunities. It establishes guidelines for the administration of an environment or community service program. Work leaves to provide environment or community service allows full­time/part­time employees to take time off from work to perform services within the community. Maximum number of hours that can be used will depend on management discretion. Environment & Social Management System The Environment & Social Management System outlines the management process to deliver environmental and social sustainability of the project. Our company’s ESMS is designed to help assess and manage environmental and social risks. A key feature of the idea of continual improvement – an ongoing process of reviewing, correcting and improving our system. Grievance Mechanism Plan The purpose of this document is to formalise the management of grievances from project stakeholders to minimise social risks possibly caused by the project. The grievance process that is outlined in the document gives an understanding for stakeholders to raise and discuss their concerns. This also gives transparency on how grievances will be managed and solved internally, which aims to reduce the conflict and satisfy the stakeholder. Stakeholder Engagement Plan (Project­Specific) This presents a consolidated stakeholder engagement plan (SEP) for the project. It forms part of the environmental and social management system (ESMS) that will be used to guide the project’s environmental and social management throughout the construction and operation phases. It is a live document to be used by our team and will be updated at key points in the project lifecycle to ensure appropriate phase management and to reflect contextual conditions. Human Resource Procedure & Manual Page 40 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 TBC’s Human Resources Policy and Procedure Manual provides the policies and procedures for managing and developing staff. It also provides guidelines that TBC will use to administer these policies, with the correct procedures to follow. Code of Conduct The objective of establishing this code of conduct is to promote ethics, honesty and professionalism within the company and its employees. TBC believes in being an integrated organisation and it also recognises that the action of every employee affects the entire organisation and reputation, hence employees are expected to know and adhere to the Code of Conduct of the company. Health & Safety Plan This document is to provide practical guidance for people who understand the principles of health and safety management and wish to improve the health and safety in the organisation. It provides an overview on health and safety practices accepted worldwide and gives an in­depth understanding of its importance for an organization. Induction Training Plan This training plan is a mandatory training to provide a guideline and understanding to the visitors and our employees regarding site conditions, required PPE and rules and regulation to follow during their presence at the site. It also gives a detailed understanding on responses during an emergency. Page 41 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 GLOSSARY AoI Area of Interest B&B Bird and Bat CA Cambodia CCA Children’s Charities Association CEO Chief Executive Officer CER Certified Emission Reduction CFO Chief Financial Officer CoC Code of Conduct CSR Community Support Responsibility E&S Environment and Social EHS Environment, Health and Safety EHS&S Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability EIB European Investment Bank EP Equator Principles ESDD Environment and Social Due diligence ESG Environment Social and Governance ESMP Environment and Social Management Plan ESMS Environment and Social Management System GoV Government GRM Grievance Mechanism Plan HR Human Resource IFC International Finance Corporation ILO International Labour Organisation NGO Non­ Governmental Organization PDCA Plan­Do­Check­approach PS Performance Standard SDG Sustainable Development Goals SEP Stakeholder Engagement Plan SG Singapore TBC The Blue Circle Page 42 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 ESIA Environmental and Social Impact Assessment TH Thailand UN United Nation UNGC United Nations Global Compact VN Vietnam WBG World Bank Guidelines CERs Carbon Emission Reductions ILO International Labour’s Organization Page 43 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 References https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what­is­gc/mission/principles https://www.unglobalcompact.org/take­action/action­platforms/low­carbon­development https://www.unglobalcompact.org/library/2971 https://www.unglobalcompact.org/docs/publications/Decent­Work­in­Global­Supply­Chains_UN­Global­ Compact.pdf http://www.thebluecircle.sg/ https://www.unglobalcompact.org/docs/about_the_gc/MakingGlobalGoalsLocalsBusiness2017.pdf https://www.globalreporting.org/network/Community/Pages/Online­Program.aspx https://www.ungpreporting.org/resources/how­businesses­impact­human­rights/ Internal policies and documents (pages 39 and 40 of report) Page 44 of 44 THE BLUE CIRCLE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2019 Doc ID: 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Audit Trail Title Sustainability Report 2019 (from Priyanka) File Name 20102019_UNGC_COP_TBC_Final.pdf Document ID 3f42ec3593bb52283c5b4a482ef8df5ae2219dd0 Audit Trail Date Format MM / DD / YYYY Status Completed 10 / 22 / 2019 Sent for signature to Olivier 01:17:08 UTC (olivier.duguet@thebluecircle.sg) from yunice.low@thebluecircle.sg IP: 220.255.136.129 10 / 22 / 2019 Viewed by Olivier (olivier.duguet@thebluecircle.sg) 08:34:51 UTC IP: 88.142.200.72 10 / 22 / 2019 Signed by Olivier (olivier.duguet@thebluecircle.sg) 08:35:32 UTC IP: 88.142.200.72 10 / 22 / 2019 The document has been completed. 08:35:32 UTC
