Engineering: people’s work Annual Report 2018 Project Afsluitdijk, the Netherlands Engineering: people’s work Annual Report 2018 2 CONTENT 4 Report of the Board of Directors 6 Report of the Supervisory Board 7 Report of the Stakeholder panel 8 Mission and vision 12 Corporate objectives 16 Objective 1: Societal value through projects 18 Applying the sustainable design principles 20 Interview: Antwerp Water Plan 32 Interview: Milestones in construction 38 Objective 2: Talent development 8 12 40 Interview: The entrepreneurial project engineer 44 Personnel key figures 52 Objective 3: Sustainable business operations 54 Business operations key figures 58 Objective 4: Economic value 59 Summarised annual results 2018 60 Financial key figures 62 Interview: Employee of the Year and CEO of the Year 16 18 22 27 40 53 58 2 3 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Amsterdam North-South Metro Line The manner in which we organise our business (Noord/Zuidlijn) is one of the Netherlands’ operations also creates value, which is our third most complex infrastructure projects and corporate objective. In late March, our sustainably was successfully opened in July 2018. renovated office at Leeuwenbrug in Deventer Witteveen+Bos worked on this project with was opened. In part thanks to these renovations, partners for 25 years, so the opening was the we have exceeded our target of a 28 % highlight of 2018 for us. Throughout the year, reduction in CO2 emissions per capita compared we contributed to challenges of the future, to the reference year 2007. In September, such as the energy transition. This includes Witteveen+Bos opened a pop-up office at the projects such as electric transportation, campus of Wageningen University & Research, reducing CO2 emissions in both the industrial and our new corporate website went live at the and public sector, and making residential end of this year. areas independent of natural gas. The increase of our work in the context of the We are committed to working worldwide in a energy transition resulted in launching a culture where compliance and adherence to the product-market combination in this area in Company Code of Conduct are part of our daily early 2019. On balance, we closed 2018 with routine. In 2018, we appointed an Ethics and a total revenue of 132.9 million euros and a Compliance Officer, responsible for preparing and net result of 11.3 million euros. executing the Corporate Compliance Programme. Witteveen+Bos is an engineering consultancy Creating economic value has been defined as our company offering solutions to social challenges fourth corporate objective. Witteveen+Bos N.V. in the fields of water, infrastructure, environment worked on approximately 4,000 ongoing and new and construction projects. For our employees, we projects in 2018, generating a total revenue of are a platform for discovering, developing and EUR 132.9 million. Internal revenue accounted for deploying talents to create social value. Based EUR 101.1 million of this total. The net result in on these elements in our mission, four corporate 2018 amounted to EUR 11.3 million, yielding a net objectives were defined, about which we write in profit margin of 8.5 %. this annual report. In 2018, we prepared a ten year outlook for Our first corporate objective is to create added Witteveen+Bos. We reserved a key role for our value for society through our projects. The social neWBies employees that have been with us for goals are based on the SDGs (Sustainable less than five years to be part of this process. In Development Goals) of the United Nations. Our summary, we see Witteveen+Bos as a worldwide seven sustainable design principles (SDPs) integrated company with a sustainable and enable us to put sustainability into practice. At the innovative profile. We are developing into an end of 2018, 87 % of all colleagues worldwide initiator of solutions to social issues and a learning were already familiar with the SDPs. Furthermore, place for professionals. we developed an SDG Impact Tool in 2018 for determining and increasing the contribution of our We are pleased to share our work and results for projects to achieving the SDGs. 2018 in terms of our four corporate objectives with you. We have indicated for each corporate In 2018, Witteveen+Bos again carried out the objective which initial steps we take in 2019 in successful Plus+ Innovation Programme, which order to achieve our vision of Witteveen+Bos in is aimed at developing new solutions for today’s ten years’ time. This is part of the preparations for challenges in river deltas, infrastructure, ‘closing our formal ‘Integrated Reporting’. This concerns a the loops’, and sustainable cities. The winner summary annual account allowing organisations was +Circular Design, a tool visualising the to present their sustainable operations and how circular potential of a design and comparing their strategy, governance, performance and improvements. This and various other innovations outlook create social and economic value in the have been applied for clients already. short, medium and long term. Talent development is our second corporate We are convinced that Witteveen+Bos is wellobjective. The economy and the labour positioned to address the challenges of the future. market improved in 2018, which resulted in an We are looking forward to 2019, which we expect increased inflow of personnel (226) as well as to be positive in all respects. a higher outflow (155). On balance, the size of our workforce grew from 1,054 to 1,125 Deventer, The Netherlands, 23 March 2019 employees. This growth was mainly realised in the Project Flood channel Veessen-Wapenveld Netherlands and Belgium. Via the PLUSschool Board of Directors of Witteveen+Bos N.V. (in the framework of the Room for the River programme) for Professionals, we reinforced the substantive Karin Sluis won the Dutch Building Prize in the beginning of 2019 in development, leadership and engagement of our Stephan van der Biezen the category Civil Works of Art employees. 4 5 REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD REPORT OF THE STAKEHOLDER PANEL The Supervisory Board of Witteveen+Bos N.V. is pleased to present this On Tuesday 5 March 2019, a draft version of the 2018 Annual Report was report to the stakeholders of Witteveen+Bos in order to provide insight discussed with a panel consisting of four external stakeholders. Four members of into the performance of our supervisory duties in 2018. Witteveen+Bos’ corporate social responsibility (CSR) team were also present. The stakeholders reviewed the report with a positive yet critical view, and advised on Four regular meetings with the Board of Supervisory Directors were held in points for improvement. Their recommendations have been directly incorporated into 2018. In each meeting, the four corporate objectives of Witteveen+Bos were on the final version of this Annual Report where possible, while others will be used as the agenda: social value through projects, developing talent, sustainable recommendations for next year. business operations and economic value. We discussed the strategy to achieve these corporate objectives with the Board of Directors, and reviewed progress. Report of the Supervisory Board We subscribe to the Board’s choice to develop a sustainable and innovative The stakeholder panel concludes that the Supervisory Board’s report is mainly process-based corporate profile, and support its course to also view Witteveen+Bos as a and does not offer much content. The panel advises to set out the Supervisory Board’s opinion training institute. on Witteveen+Bos’ chosen objectives and strategy. The panel also suggests outlining the role of the Supervisory Board in relation to the participation system. We received detailed quarterly financial reports, and in the meantime we were kept up-to-date with summaries of relevant financial information. At every Sustainable Development Goals and sustainable design principles meeting, we discussed developments in work in progress, invoicing, liquidity The fact that Witteveen+Bos is working on translating the SDGs (Sustainable Development and the result with the CFO and the Board of Directors. We have repeatedly Goals) into practical applications is perceived as a positive development. The panel asked attention for financial hygiene within Witteveen+Bos, and we advises explicitly showing that the organisation is experimenting to find the right format, wholeheartedly support the choice of reducing the working capital as a communicating that the SDG Impact Tool is in development. spearhead for 2019. The sustainable design principles are a key tool in creating social value and increasing the Regarding personnel, issues such as diversity, management development and contribution to the SDGs, and play a justified key role in Witteveen+Bos’ work. The principles the PLUSschool for Professionals were discussed. Furthermore, we discussed are clear and well-conceived and help the organisation make a concrete contribution to the long-term surveys of employee participation in greater detail. Other key sustainability. The application of the sustainable design principles in the project InnovA58 issues during the past year were the corporate compliance programme and risk provides a clear example of the contribution of the design principles. management. Finally, we frequently discussed internationalisation and housing. CO2 reduction In 2018, in addition to the regular Supervisory Board meetings we attended Adjusting Witteveen+Bos’ business operations result in a relatively minor CO2 reduction in meetings with employees and management to discuss the above points of comparison with the potential CO2 reduction ensuing from consultancy and design. The panel attention and other issues. Such meetings also enabled us to become aware of recommends creating more insight into the emissions in scope 3 of the CO2 performance other issues within Witteveen+Bos. We are pleased with the open, transparent ladder in order to manage on CO2 reduction in projects. communication between the Supervisory Board and the Board of Directors in the past year, and we regularly provided unsolicited advice on various topics. Safety The stakeholder panel notes scant reporting on safety, whereas this is a hot topic in Inca van Uuden requested discharge as a Supervisory Board member. In 2018, Witteveen+Bos operational ecosystem. The panel advises setting out Witteveen+Bos’ a new Supervisory Board member was recruited. This person will be nominated activities as three pillars (environment, design and occupational health and safety). This at the General Meeting of Shareholders in April 2019. is in line with the Governance Code Health and safety in construction that was signed by Witteveen+Bos; Witteveen+Bos is part of this lead group. The panel suggests including The financial statements were prepared by the Board of Directors and audited available key ratios on internal occupational health in the annual report. by the company’s external auditor, Deloitte. The financial statements were discussed in the presence of the external auditor. The Supervisory Board Transparency supports the Board of Director’s proposal for dividend distribution. We propose The annual report provides an accurate impression of Witteveen+Bos, but does not offer much that the General Meeting of Shareholders adopt the annual financial insight into the dilemmas that the organisation experiences. For example, it would be good to statements, discharge the Board of Directors from liability for its management mention the company’s major staff turnover in the past few years. The panel also recommends and policies, and discharge the Supervisory Board from liability for the writing about measures implemented in the context of the GDPR. This was a major issue in 2018. performance of its supervisory duties. Another great addition to the report could be a description of the acceptance policy of In the run-up to 2019, the 2019 business plan and budgets for the coming year projects. The reasoning and considerations of whether or not to accept a project would create were reviewed. The Board of Directors has defined the digital transition and more clarity about the organisation’s strategy. working capital as key focal areas in 2019, and the Supervisory Board will be closely involved in this process. Other themes on the agenda include Integral reporting internationalisation, ICT policy, risk management, diversity and inclusiveness. The members of the stakeholder panel indicate that Witteveen+Bos’ reporting about its four corporate objectives can be classed as integral reporting. The stakeholder panel makes a We would like to thank the Board of Directors and the employees of few suggestions for further development of annual reporting, with the advice to consider an Witteveen+Bos for their commitment and enthusiasm in the year under review, external audit of non-financial information. and we look forward to a successful, healthy 2019 for the company and its staff. Stakeholder panel Deventer, The Netherlands, 23 March 2019 Machiel Crielaard, Directorate-General of Public Works and Water Management Eibert Jongsma, Overijssel Nature Conservation Organisation Supervisory Board Robert Koolen, Heijmans Hans van der Ven (Chairman) Remco Neumann, Port Authorities Rotterdam Gerard van de Aast Inca van Uuden 6 7 MISSION AND VISION Organisation The Board of Directors is in charge We have a clear mission statement: ‘Witteveen+Bos offers of the day-to-day management of its clients value-added consultancy and top-quality designs Witteveen+Bos N.V. The Supervisory for water, infrastructure, environment and construction Board monitors the company’s continuity projects. We use our high-end expertise to resolve complex by providing external supervision. With issues and are a committed partner for our clients. We attach over 1,100 colleagues, we operate close great importance to our independence and to our corporate to our clients, projects, partners and the culture, allowing all our employees to excel, fully utilising employment market. Our 21 offices are their talents and maximising value for clients.’ located in eleven countries worldwide, with seven permanent offices and a Vision pop-up office in the Netherlands. We Witteveen+Bos is an engineering consultancy that seeks to offer have organised employee participation the very highest level of quality. To us, being top class means: to in Belgium, Indonesia, Kazakhstan and excel in your own work, collaborating with other top class partners the Netherlands. In the other offices, and working in a culture based on entrepreneurship and trust. consultations are held directly with the These elements form our DNA, and are the strengths enabling employees. us to distinguish ourselves in the market, allowing for long-term independent continuity. Our 36 small organisational units the Product-Market Combinations or PMCs Knowledge development and innovation are responsible for contract management At the core, our work is about knowledge: bringing together the right and acquisition. These PMCs are expertise to help solve challenging issues in water, infrastructure, clustered into four business lines focusing environment and construction projects. We set high standards. At on the following areas of expertise: Built Witteveen+Bos, state-of-the-art expertise is based on passion for Environment; Deltas, Coasts and Rivers; the profession. Our employees want to know everything there is to Energy, Water and Environment; and know in their field, from geotechnical engineering to mechanical Infrastructure and Mobility. Worldwide, engineering and from water management to environmental law. By the business lines form a matrix structure sharing and developing knowledge and deploying it worldwide, we within the regions. This creates a can devise the most effective solution for each client’s project. network allowing employees from various disciplines and different countries to Sustainable collaboration collaborate on projects. The issues we tackle are becoming increasingly bigger and complex. To develop sustainable solutions, our staff works in The business lines and the management international and multidisciplinary project teams alongside are supported and advised by the colleagues from various backgrounds. We always try to assemble corporate departments Communications, the best possible team. We regularly collaborate with external Facilities, Finance, Human Resources, partners, either on specific projects or in formal strategic ICT and Legal and Quality. alliances and joint ventures with other leading consultancies and complementary organisations. Compliance and integrity The Company Code describes our Entrepreneurship and trust principles and how we do business Our corporate culture is characterised by trust and scope for at Witteveen+Bos, including our entrepreneurship. We work in an informal atmosphere, and individual and collective responsibilities employees indicate that they feel engaged with the organisation. to all our stakeholders. In addition to Together we are Witteveen+Bos connected worldwide. It is our own values and convictions, the essential that everyone is allowed to do what he or she does best, Company Code is based on the OECD and that we offer an environment that promotes creativity and Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. innovation. We are convinced that professionals know best how Witteveen+Bos is a member of the to do their jobs. They have the intrinsic motivation to develop and United Nations Global Compact. We contribute to a better society with their work. By pursuing mainly have adopted the ten UNGC principles in organic growth, we can retain our identity and safeguard our the areas of human rights, labour rights, corporate culture. environment and anti-corruption. Clients All our Witteveen+Bos people together Both public and private sector clients call on us to help resolve the can realise our mission and vision. This challenges they face. In the public sector, we work for the national is why we are committed to working government, water boards, and provincial and local authorities. worldwide in a proactive compliance We provide advice to contractors, engineering and architectural culture in accordance with the Company firms, energy and water companies, railway and port authorities, Code of Conduct and the associated and industry. Our activities cover the entire chain, from policy policies. In 2018, we appointed an Ethics development and design to contracting and supervising the and Compliance Officer, responsible for performance of work. We aim to establish long-term relationships preparing and executing the Corporate with our clients that enable us to meet their needs and expectations Compliance Programme. as effectively as possible while delivering maximum added value. 8 9 Overview business lines and PMCs as at 1 January 2019 directors The Netherlands Afrika, Europa and the CIS-countries Middle East South-East Asia and OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE Americas (Commonwealth of Australia Independent States) Witteveen+Bos N.V. is fully owned Area Development Resilient Infrastructures Water and Urban by its employees, since in 1992 an Business line United Kingdom Development Dubai employee share ownership system Buildings was introduced. Built environment Employees in the Netherlands with an Environmental Law and Permits indefinite-term contract and a part-time factor of at least 20 % are invited to Planning Studies and buy shares. Outside the Netherlands, Process Management employees can buy notes, which are Urban Development similar to share certificates. Additionally, employees can be invited to participate as a partner, premium partner or senior Energy Transition partner. Ecology Water and Infrastructure Water and Infrastructure Hydraulic Infrastructure and The employee participation supports Business line Latvia Russia Geotechnical Engineering our company culture, which is based on Indonesia Coasts, Rivers and Land entrepreneurship and trust. This is why Reclamation Water Management we aim for a high participation degree Deltas, coasts and rivers Indonesia and want the number of subscribers to Flood Protection and Land be higher than the available number of Development Water and Infrastructure Singapore Witteveen+Bos shares. For a healthy Hydraulic Structures and participation system, it is important to have Geotechnical Engineering sufficient shares available in the future for new members and sufficient room for new Ports and Waterways partners. This is why we are conducting a long-term survey of the participation Water Management system since 2018. Wastewater Sustainable Environmental W  ater and Environment Water and Environment The net profit is distributed annually Business line Solutions Belgium Kazakhstan Vietnam through a profit-sharing scheme for all employees and dividend allocations to Assetmanagement all shareholders. This reflects a central tenet of the Witteveen+Bos philosophy: Soil Remediation and Sustainable Energy, water and environment everyone within the company contributes Land Management to our success, and hence everyone Digital Technologies should share in the benefits of that success. Drinking Water Industry and Energy International Technical Assistance Civil Structures for Railways Business line Construction Management Infrastructure and Spatial Design Belgium Infrastructure and mobility Infrastructural Engineering Smart Infra Systems Traffic and Roads Underground Infrastructure product market combination (PMCs) 10 11 CORPORATE OBJECTIVES Witteveen+Bos has a dual mission: we develop sustainable solutions to complex challenges in the fields of water, infrastructure, the environment and construction, and we want to enable all our employees to excel. To fulfil this mission, we have committed to dedicating ongoing attention to four corporate objectives: adding societal value through projects, developing talent, sustainable operations, and economic value. Objective 1: Societal value through projects Our primary corporate objective is based on the first part of our mission: to add value to water, infrastructure, environment and construction projects. The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations (UN) constitute the starting point of our objective: a worldwide action plan to ensure a socially, ecologically and economically sustainable world by 2030. Based on a materiality analysis in 2016, we consulted with internal and external stakeholders to investigate how Witteveen+Bos can maximise its contribution to these goals. In 2017, all four business lines determined which of the 17 SDGs they could most contribute to through their projects and with their knowledge. In the coming years, we plan to assess all completed projects using a SDG Impact Tool, which was developed internally at Witteveen+Bos. This will enable us to increase the impact generated through our project work. As SDGs focus on developing countries, Witteveen+Bos translated the SDGs into ‘hot topics’ relevant to our projects. We translated the seven sustainable design principles (SDPs), ensuring maximum contribution to these societal goals in each project. These SDPs are: designing with nature, flexible design, circular design, multifunctional design, participative design, social design and Trias (use of energy and raw materials is limited and optimised). These SDPs are part of our Quality System, which is based on the most recent ISO 9001 and SCC standards. Objective 2: Talent development Our second corporate objective is based on the second part of our mission: we want to provide a platform for our staff to achieve their ambitions and fully develop their talents. We aim to be a good employer by promoting diversity and enabling our employees to realise their full potential. Our corporate culture of trust and entrepreneurship is aimed at ensuring good in-company relationships and caring for each other. We also aim to ensure that employees gain optimal satisfaction from their work and that we have sufficient in-house talent for career development and promotion to management or other positions. Finally, Witteveen+Bos contributes to high-quality technical education and training programmes, and events designed to encourage young people to study technical subjects. Objective 3: Sustainable business operations Sustainable business operations was defined as our third corporate objective. In order to work on projects and develop talent, we must have professional ICT systems, comfortable business premises and effective operational processes. This means that our departments provide professional support to each business line and offices, with a view to maximum value creation. Ensuring our mobility is more sustainable, reducing our CO2 emissions and promoting corporate social responsibility (CSR) in the supply chain are other key pillars. Objective 4: Economic value Achieving healthy financial results is essential to ensure the company’s long-term continuity. Good financial results are necessary to ensure sufficient scope for innovation and other new developments, and to invest in people. We therefore aim to realise a healthy annual net profit margin of at least 8 % and an annual workforce and revenue growth of 3 to 5 %. Ten-year vision In 2018, we outlined a vision for what Witteveen+Bos will look like ten years from now. Our neWBies employees that have been with us for less than five years helped develop this vision. In summary, we see Witteveen+Bos as a worldwide integrated company with a sustainable and innovative profile. We are developing into an initiator of solutions to societal issues and a learning place for professionals. In the sections below, we report on the progress on our four corporate objectives. For each objective, we set out the activities and progress on a set of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). Furthermore, for each objective, we detail where we aim to be in ten years’ time, and the first steps needed in 2019 to realise this ambition. 12 13 Objective 1 Societal value through projects Bangladesh Delta plan 2100 14 15 SOCIETAL VALUE THROUGH PROJECTS To this end, we signed the Governance Code for Safety in Construction. In 2018, we joined a lead group for enforcement of the Code. In parallel, we were issued a Level 3 In 2018, we worked on approximately 4,000 projects in 41 countries certification on the Safety Ladder: this certifies safety in our own operations. In 2019, worldwide. According to our internal and external stakeholders, we will complete an integrated safety programme converging both tracks in order to Witteveen+Bos can create the highest societal value and make the greatest improve our worldwide and company-wide safety. contribution to the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals by offering sustainable solutions in its projects. Our seven sustainable design A special safety programme is IMPAKT. In the past four years, Witteveen+Bos, with principles are a key tool in that regard. its partners Royal HaskoningDHV and Pilz Netherlands, carried out the IMPAKT programme at the instructions of the Secure Work programme of Rijkswaterstaat Sustainable design principles (the Directorate-General of Public Works and Water Management), surveying and In March 2018, we highlighted the Sustainable Design Principles (SDPs) internally improving the functional equipment safety, cyber security, physical security and asset and externally with the W+B special ‘Sustainable design’. This edition set out management of 460 assets in the Netherlands. Based on this successful partnership, appealing projects where the principles had been applied. The SDPs were the parties decided to combine their expertise, experience and capacity into a new highlighted internally to design leaders by having them attend specific training, partnership: IMPAKT IB. increasing awareness of the design principles. By late 2018, 87 % of employees indicated they were familiar with the SDPs. 46 % of them actually considered Innovation the principles in projects. In order to ensure more frequent and more structural In 2018, we sought to embed our market-driven innovation into our regular operations application of the principles, we will conduct a pilot in four PMCs in 2019 to with the Plus+ Innovation programme. Based on the five Innovation Hubs (Smart determine the most effective approach. Cities, Smart Cycles, Smart Deltas, Smart Infra & Mobility and Smart Company), 58 innovation teams took part in a competition to develop the best innovations brought forward by the business lines and departments of Witteveen+Bos. KPI 2018 Result Internal and external innovation jury panels and a competitive innovation bootcamp 100 % of employees are familiar with the 87 % of employees are familiar with the selected the nine best innovations for the five-month accelerator phase in order to sustainable design principles. sustainable design principles (measured in a develop a prototype and get it ready for market. We intensively collaborated with survey among all employees worldwide). innovation partners such as Hogeschool Saxion, Delft University of Technology, Wageningen University & Research, Business Innovation Centre De Gasfabriek in 100 % of employees considered and/or applied 46 % of employees applied the sustainable Deventer and Cleantech Centre Zutphen. the sustainable design principles in projects. design principles in projects (measured in a survey among all employees worldwide). During the Innovation Week, +Circular Design was elected the overall winner. In addition to new innovations, we also continued development of innovations from the previous innovation programme in 2018. For example the Automated Quay Wall Design tool, automating the design of quay walls to reduce the risk of human errors. SDG Impact Tool Naturally, we also want to know the societal value of applying our SDPs. This is why Awards we developed the SDG Impact Tool in 2018. This is an instrument to measure our In Singapore, Witteveen+Bos won the Winsemius Award for the Virtual Design & contribution to realisation of the Sustainable Development Goals. In 2019, we will Digital Construction project. This involves smart application of digital data from perform a baseline measurement, enabling us to determine our ambition at corporate the design phase to allow for a high degree of digitisation and automation of the level based on that outcome. construction phase. In collaboration with Nijhuis Industries, Cabot Norit Activated Carbon, Waternet and TU Delft, Witteveen+Bos also took home the Innovation Many SDG sub-objectives were defined specifically for developing countries. This Award for the 1-STEP® filter for post-treatment of wastewater purification effluent. In is why in 2019, we are also working on a method to determine our contribution to a compact system, the filter dramatically decreases the levels of floating particles, other challenges, focusing on the countries where we have our offices and where we phosphate, nitrogen, metals, organic micro-pollution and medication residue. undertake our projects. Ten-year vision This approach was informed by a first materiality analysis conducted in 2015 which If you walk into Witteveen+Bos in ten years’ time, all project activities will make a helped to identify our potential contribution to the SDGs. In 2019, we will update this significant contribution to sustainability: circular, at least CO2 neutral, socially and analysis, to assess both our potential contribution to the SDGs and to other societal financially sustainable. We will operate supply-driven, generating complete solutions challenges. This updated analysis will form the basis of our first result-KPIs for this and investible propositions based on our domain knowledge and data. For example corporate objective. for the development of a fully climate-neutral circular urban district. We are looking for the right partners and work in different roles: sometimes as an advisor, in other Dilemmas cases as a developer or co-contractor. Potential projects frequently pose dilemmas. This involves issues such as ‘Do we want to work on all projects, even if these are a source of social unrest?’ Or ‘Do we want Spearhead for 2019: CO2 neutrality and circular design to work in all countries, in principle, even if there is a regime that is controversial, or if The first step we are taking towards the ten-year vision is improving our knowledge the country’s standards and values are dissimilar to ours?’ We have become used to of CO2 neutral and circular design. The Netherlands aims to be a circular economy adequately discussing such aspects and issues from all perspectives before deciding by 2050. The national government developed the nationwide Circular Economy to put in a bid for a potential project. We will continue this type of discussion in 2019. Programme for this purpose. Rijkswaterstaat aims to have circular operations by 2030, without any waste flows. Demand for knowledge and expertise regarding Safety circular design is also huge in other places in the world, for example in Dubai and Construction is one of the most unsafe sectors for occupational health. Annually, the Singapore, and we aim to make a significant contribution in the context of this number of fatal and major injury accidents is still unacceptably high. As consultants spearhead. We will make our sustainable design principle ‘Circular Design’ ready for and engineers, we are able to contribute to making the construction sector safer by application worldwide for all our colleagues. We expect that the +Circular Design Tool considering safety aspects in our design, during the construction phase and during will be a very useful instrument in this context. supervision and management. 16 17 APPLYING THE SUSTAINABLE DESIGN PRINCIPLES Witteveen+Bos is conducting a plan study for Rijkswaterstaat for expansion of several lanes on the A58 motorway. In addition to ‘regular road widening’, innovation plays a key role in the A58 project, causing the project to be renamed ‘InnovA58’. The goal is to turn the A58 motorway into a smart, sustainable and future-proof road. A large part of the innovative power in this road widening project is planning space in a smart and multifunctional way. In this project, Witteveen+Bos applies three of its seven sustainable design principles. Circular design Project InnovA58 was the first time Rijkswaterstaat ever asked for a circular design for a road widening. Witteveen+Bos and Rijkswaterstaat distinguished between prevention (not doing what does not really have to be done), value preservation (of existing objects) and value creation (of new buildings). For road design, road layout and new artworks, the most circular variants have been mapped out. Project InnovA58 has been an inspiration to develop the +Circular Design Tool (see page 41), a programme that shows the circular potential of a design and compares improvements. A reuse scan has also been developed for InnovA58, which is applied to every work of art to be replaced. This provides an approximate insight into the possibilities for 1-on-1 reuse of released components. Because the entire planning study is flexible, there is still room for circular and other innovations in later project phases. Participative design For InnovA58, Witteveen+Bos created an interactive online information portal for e-participation to allow residents to react to the designs in their own area. An interactive participation option was added to reach a larger, more diverse feedback base (more young people, more parents, more working people) than the customary participation instruments. For a challenging part of the road section, design workshops were held in order to come to the best solution together with the municipal authorities and the water boards. Trias InnovA58 investigated which infrastructure works (particularly viaducts and flyovers) of the current road system could be maintained in the new design, thus limiting the demand for new raw materials and energy. Witteveen+Bos advised on how the energy infrastructure for the collection, transport and storage of renewable energy could be realised. This made the design as energy and resource efficient as possible. With the intervention of InnovA58 an ‘energy corridor’ will be facilitated, enabling various regional stakeholders to actively contribute to the energy transition. Finally, at the object level, the multifunctional use of asphalt, for example for heat extraction, was also considered. This also yielded energy savings. Scan the QR code for a video about the seven sustainable design principles. 18 19 INTERVIEW Antwerp Water Plan Our climate is changing worldwide. Urban areas become subject to major social, ecological and economic challenges. Antwerp Water Plan offers a long-term framework to give water a new place in the city, countering flooding and increasing the residents’ water awareness. Witteveen+Bos is collaborating with the firms De Urbanisten and Common Ground in the Water Plan, which is designed to help the city evolve into a water-safe and attractive living environment. Wim Debucquoy, project leader, and Thomas Alderweireldt, hydrologist and GIS expert, are working on developing an innovative methodology from both Belgium and the Netherlands to provide cities with a robust climate plan. ‘We are merging the spatial and technical aspects into a single plan’ 20 21 ‘This is a wonderful instrument to contribute to SDG 11: safe, resilient and sustainable cities.’ The Antwerp Water Plan requires a new Thomas, hydrologist: ‘The city of Antwerp is research cases for a precipitation cascading software and takes out the errors. The liveability and water awareness. To achieve completely different groundwater system than approach. It is a climate plan, rather than a larger than just the city centre. It is spread out scenario and for a densely populated urban collaboration with the Dutch colleagues is these goals, we have focused on the Antwerp, so you need to make that a key classic sewer plan. The plan unites several over nine districts, including more suburban district. This allows for researching the plan’s also special in this project. The work was principles of flexible design and participatory focus. Certain building blocks can be further aspects: spatial planning quality, flooding and areas.’ Wim, project leader, adds: ‘There is a benefits if carried out, in terms of spatial distributed over the various experts in design. The Water Plan is based on building specified. Upscaling the methodology in other water awareness of the residents, linking various cohesion between the urban design of the city planning, reduced flooding and water consultation, and we had a fixed project day blocks such as infiltration crates, water cities in Belgium or the Netherlands would building blocks for countering flooding to the and how we organise the water systems. We awareness. in the Rotterdam office.’ squares, draining channels and green roofs. make perfect sense.’ Wim: ‘We made a city’s urban architectural structures. Linking the aim to shift from the artificial water city, with Such building block are soon accessible to proposal for a project in Brussels, inspired by measures to ‘city typologies’, you can see which extensive underground sewer networks, to a The Antwerp Water Plan project has The two collaborated with other groups within everyone getting to work in the city. In the the insights we gained with the Antwerp Water measures will best be applied where. natural water city, where existing water flows highlighted the talents of the Witteveen+Bos Witteveen+Bos for various specialist fields. future, with each restructuring of the city, the Plan. We will be applying our experience now.’ such as stream beds, the river Scheldt and the experts. Thomas: ‘Wim is excellent in Thomas: ‘Here in Belgium, we tend to work in Water Plan will be used as a guideline for In this project, Witteveen+Bos is responsible docks of the Port of Antwerp can be used for communication with the client, and also a broader field. But now I know how to find the every square, street, pavement or parking The next phase of the Water Plan is scheduled for the technical, hydrological components of drainage. The link with the upscaled level was connecting to the urban architect and right person for a more specific question. That space.’ for completion in the summer of 2019. Wim: the project: flood calculations, sewer models, integrated into the project during the ensuring true integration. Wim is the perfect is also useful in the future. We can already see ‘We will effectively redesign, calculate and risk and damage charts. The result is a realisation.’ ‘translator’. Wim: ‘Thomas is solid as a rock in new projects arising due to this collaboration.’ Thomas: ‘The methodology we developed can check to see if our conceptual ideas will work hydrological map combined with the spatial modelling and at home in the GIS work’. be applied in any big city. This is a wonderful in three project areas. This is where we gain planning analysis prepared by De Urbanisten Meanwhile, a vision and a flexible plan on how Thomas: ‘GIS as in ArcGIS mapping and The Antwerp Water Plan project applied instrument to contribute to SDG 11: safe, insights and we will use these to sharpen our design consultants: the basis for the vision. the water systems in Antwerp can be better analytics, not GI’s.’ Wim smiles and sustainable design principles. As Wim resilient and sustainable cities. Working with current vision. I dream that everything we The firm Common Ground is responsible for structured and made more robust has been continues: ‘And of course the new damage explains: ‘The project intended climate blocks, it allows for adjustment to the local came up with in this Water Plan will be the external communication and participation. prepared. This is further specified into calculation tool. Thomas dives into the adaptation, sustainability and spatial planning, situation. For example, Jakarta has a ‘common sense’ in Antwerp by 2030.’ 22 23 PROJECTS 2018 Russia United Kingdom Latvia The Netherlands (8 offices) Belgium (2 offices) Kazakhstan (3 offices) CIS countries Dubai Vietnam Ghana Middle East Singapore Indonesia South-East Asia and Australia 3.927 Africa, Europe and the Americas Africa, Europe and the Americas 3.820 projects CIS countries 4 projects Witteveen+Bos projects Middle East 17 projects Witteveen+Bos offices, including one South-East Asia and Australia 86 projects 1-4 5 10 11 20 21 50 51 80 81 300 2.827 projects in the Netherlands pop-up office Region classification 24 25 + Back-office for technical issues + Residual heat of industrial plants heats 500,000 homes + Replacement issue energy sector + Sustainable wastewater purification plants for breweries The Utrecht Ring road merges a large amount of regional and through traffic. Various industrial plants and government bodies are collaborating In this emerging period of energy transition, power generation is After the successful start-up of the new water purification plant at the Duvel Moortgat About 180,000 vehicles pass the A27/A12 on a daily basis. This results in in setting up a regional heat network in the province of Zuidincreasingly decentralised. Combined with the current condition Brewery in Puurs, Belgium, Witteveen+Bos worked on sustainability projects for another congestion, noise, air pollution and rat-running traffic on surrounding roads. Holland. The companies that will supply heat to the network each of the grid, there is a major replacement and renovation issue. five breweries in 2018. On a weekly basis, the quantity of water purified in Puurs This is why the Utrecht Ring road is set for a major upgrade. Witteveen+Bos have between 5 and 200 MW of residual heat available. This Different heavy-duty high-voltage power stations are required; equals four Olympic swimming pools. Biogas is generated from the wastewater that has been selected to provide expert services to Rijkswaterstaat as a technical could potentially provide heat to 500,000 households, to some major parts, including transformers and circuit breakers, need is used to generate steam necessary in the production process. Based on intensive help desk during the upgrade. We will provide technical advice, prepare request of the regional greenhouse companies as well as other energy replacing. In partnership with Bilfinger Tebodin and Petersburg purification, some of the purified water can be used as recuperation water for nonspecifications, provide advice on pipe and cable relocation, and manage a consumers. Witteveen+Bos and its partner Rotterdam Engineering Consultants, Witteveen+Bos has created an engineering process food related applications. The remaining purified water that fulfils strict discharge BIM data room. Additionally, we will support Rijkswaterstaat during the tender are presenting the business case for these connections based on for this purpose. We also perform inspections of the current standards can be returned to the environment. The Puurs brewery continues its journey procedures, commissioning and construction. Rijkswaterstaat has stated that our knowledge of industrial residual heat recovery and linking up conditions of the installed infrastructure, creating designs and toward sustainability in close collaboration with Witteveen+Bos. In 2018, we worked on Witteveen+Bos has provided a major contribution to previous milestones these systems. including issues such as safety, security of supply specifications to enable contractors to safely and adequately expansion of the wastewater purification plant for the Achouffe brewery and the design of achieved. and feasibility. replace the selected parts. a purification plant for the Birrificio Del Ducato brewery. Utrecht the Netherlands province of Zuid-Holland the Netherlands southern region the Netherlands various locations Belgium and Italy 26 27 + Controlled dyke subsidence + Infrastructure ecoresort + Vibrations research metro + Impulse economy and logistics due to shipping bypass As a component of the Flood Protection Programme, Witteveen+Bos collaborated On Mahé Island, the largest island of the Seychelles, Jamal Upon completion, the Cross Island Line will be the longest metro The Itaipu dam in the river Paraná is the world’s largest hydro power station. with Deltares on the POVM Eemdijk trial. This trial researches how and when a Al-Ghurair Est. is developing a luxury sustainable ecoresort. line in Singapore, with about 50 kilometres of tracks. Witteveen+Bos It generates 75 % of Paraguay’s power requirement and 17 % of Brazil’s structurally reinforced dyke subsides to flooding. This is simulated by increasing Witteveen+Bos is designing the required infrastructure to researched the effect of vibrations of the operation of the future line on power requirement. Witteveen+Bos researched the technical, economic, extreme water loads against the trial dyke in combination with excavating at the connect the one hundred villas located on a steep, rocky the environment, for example the low-frequency noise that passengers environmental and social viability of constructing a bypass for shipping traffic. toe. The first controlled subsidence trial was a trial dyke made of sand and clay mountain to the existing water system, power grid and road feel or hear due to vibrations of trains passing by. Two calculation In our design, the 125 meter elevation differential was bridged by a sixwithout any structural reinforcement. Subsequently, a pull-over test was used to network. Power is fully generated off-grid, mainly based on steps were completed. A general assessment calculation model was kilometre channel with four locks. The construction of this bypass will result in test the strength of various sheet pile panels in combination with the soil. The third solar energy. The drinking water is fully captured from rain prepared using a combination of ArcGIS and two-dimensional finite sustainable water management, based on a water displacement loss of under trial was a trial dyke structurally reinforced with a steel sheet pile wall. Intensive water. We designed a network of pedestrian paths, roads element models, and an evaluation model with measured vibration data. 0.6 % of the water volume required to generate power. On the other hand, it monitoring, analysis of the measurements and comparison with calculation models for light electric vehicles, suspended bridges, sky walks and The sensitive locations that were highlighted in this evaluation were allows for sustainable water transport as an alternative to road transport. The allowed us to generate a high volume of useful knowledge that can make dyke lookout platforms to allow visitors to fully enjoy the views of subsequently researched further in order to prevent vibration impact of bypass drives economic development for five countries in the drainage basin reinforcement better, quicker and cheaper in the future. the Indian Ocean. the metro line. of the Paraná: Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay. Eemdijk the Netherlands Mahé Island Seychellen Singapore Singapore border area between Paraguay and Brazil 28 29 + Anticipating climate change + Knowledge and technology as the new standard + District of the Future + Increasing liveability based on redesign Sea levels are rising and in the future, weather Witteveen+Bos has been working on the North-South Metro Line (Noord/Zuidlijn), a The Netherlands has the challenge to make 7 million homes independent of natural In 2010, the City of Haarlem prepared an area vision for the city conditions will tend toward more frequent 9-kilometre metro line connecting Amsterdam’s North and South districts via eight stations, gas. The District of the Future programme in the province of Gelderland and the centre of Haarlem. This aim is to minimise car traffic in the city centre extremes. This is why the 32-kilometre Afsluitdijk for almost 25 years in the project consultancy group (Adviesbureau Noord/Zuidlijn). The Gelderland Energy Deal is assisting forty pioneering residential districts in this as much as possible to increase liveability. Although part of the city road will be upgraded: the dyke will be raised opening in July 2018 completed one of the Netherlands’ most challenging infrastructure process. Witteveen+Bos is supporting district teams in the development of their centre had been redesigned this way already, the entrance into the city at parts of the crest and the Wadden Sea side projects. The incredible range of technologies in the design and realisation of drilled tunnels, plans to ensure that the transition is technically feasible, affordable and has full centre, including the Houtplein square, has not yet been redesigned. will be provided by the applying new cladding. sunken tunnels, extremely deep construction sites, pneumatic caissons, soil freezing and support of residents. Retrofitting existing residential areas to disconnect from natural Together with OKRA Landschapsarchitecten (Landscape Architects), The draining capacity will be increased by monitoring, were updated and improved to accommodate the exceptional local conditions gas is a challenge because in addition to the technical transition, such a change has Witteveen+Bos is working on developing preliminary design through expanding the drain locks and integrating pumps. (weak soil base and high water levels). As an additional challenge to this, the impact of financial, organisational, social and economic impacts. Our task is to identify the to final design for Houtplein. The brief is to design a square that At the behest of construction consortium Levvel, construction on train and metro traffic and as well as impact on buildings in the historic optimal balance. For some homes, residual heat is available; for others connection to accommodates a substantial number of buses while simultaneously Witteveen+Bos worked on the design of the dyke city centre had to be minimised. The knowledge gained was shared with others in the geothermal energy is more viable. In order to reduce costs, it is crucial to transition keeping it safe enough for ongoing bicycles and enough space for and existing and new draining complexes. The field and research committees, and even resulted in updated guidelines for underground the energy system during natural replacement moments or other infrastructure pedestrians. Residents were consulted during various stakeholder design work will continue until late 2019 and the construction. Witteveen+Bos will use its knowledge and experience in a design for the next upgrades. It is expected local community support for the transition will increase, if it engagement events and via the online participation platform houtpleinconstruction started in April 2019. ground-breaking iconic project: the Oosterweel connection, near Antwerp, Belgium. is linked to other improvements such as reducing traffic load of the local roads. inbeeld.nl Afsluitdijk the Netherlands Amsterdam the Netherlands province of Gelderland the Netherlands Haarlem the Netherlands 30 31 INTERVIEW Milestones in construction 3D printing is an enthralling technology. You can print medical prostheses, food, but also parts of transistor radios that have not been manufactured in years. Or homes. Unless you have spent the past few years under a proverbial rock, you will have noticed it: 3D concrete printing (3DCP) is bound to become the disruptive innovation to turn the construction sector upside down. In 2018, the plans for project Milestone were presented to the world: five boulder-shaped homes will be realised using a 3D concrete printer at a plush, tree-studded development location in Meerhoven, a district of Eindhoven, the Netherlands. Theo Salet, senior advisor, forms the bridge between science and industry. Marijn Bruurs is involved in various 3DCP projects for Witteveen+Bos. ‘Project Milestone is a wonderful example of bringing together knowledge institutions and industrial parties on a project basis to develop new technologies.’ 32 33 ‘The higher goal is digitising construction. 3D concrete printing is just an example.’ Technology development in this project is still in construction. Printing is a way to enable digital mixtures that may not require cement, for Theo adds: ‘3D concrete printing is the first step can expect from 3D concrete printing? Theo: And in the short run? Marijn: ‘It would be full swing. The various components of the first work. Digitisation of construction has three example.’ towards digitisation of construction. We should ‘Digitisation absolutely has implications to amazing if this technology is picked up by Milestone homes are still made in the print lab. aspects for me: economic (productivity), be realistic; just concrete printing will not fully aesthetics in construction. It allows for more passionate entrepreneurs who see The last home is set to be fully printed on site. sustainability and social impact. In addition to the potential sustainability digitise construction. We are now gaining aesthetically pleasing structures. Homes that opportunities for 3D concrete printing within This project is an initiative of Eindhoven advantages, digitisation in construction can experience in digital production in construction do something to people’s experience and have their sector or company. This takes the University of Technology (TU/e), Witteveen+Bos, The sustainability aspect is key. Printing is an also have a major economic impact. Marijn with 3D concrete printing. But to make an impact on people that way, on their welltechnology to the next level.’ Theo: ‘This is Weber Beamix, Van Wijnen, Vesteda and the interesting technology because this is a form of Bruurs, advisor digital construction, says: digitisation a real success, we need to digitise being. This may sound soft, but still: a thing of why all my research data and accumulated City of Eindhoven. These parties are additive manufacturing: it places materials ‘Construction is now running at high capacity, as many steps in the process as possible, beauty makes you smile, doesn’t it? We can knowledge are available to the public. This will collaborating in researching 3D concrete exactly and only where it is necessary. This is but labour productivity in construction has been including groundworks, installations and provide the growing world population with a roof help the distribution of technology. Everyone printing at TU/e, which is set to take technology the opposite of substractive manufacturing, more or less constant over the past twenty finishing. Sometimes people ask me if this is over their heads by fitting people into huge can get to work with it, and help it spread. I to the next level. In mid-2019, the first home, the where you remove materials that are not years. Other industries applied digital about to cost a lot of jobs in construction for skyscrapers, but that may not make them see that the industry is picking this up, that is ‘flat boulder’, is scheduled for realisation, and necessary to come to a product, for example if technology to become 30 to 50 percent more people who don’t have many alternatives in the happier. The natural social context that people the goal. But now the next step is coming. the other homes will follow quickly. you are milling something. Additive productive. The new housing target is expected job market. However, soon it will not be need is not an easy commodity in flats, for Construction is like a huge ocean-going manufacturing leads to using less material. to increase worldwide by about 30 percent in necessary for construction workers to overtax example. I think, people are just ‘not built’ for tanker that does not easily veer off its Theo Salet is senior advisor at Witteveen+Bos, This is a major advantage in sustainability. The the coming three decades, while the number of their bodies, as in particular the heavy loads that type of home. ‘Well,’ says Marijn, ‘Perhaps scheduled course. It takes a lot of time and and is also the professor leading the research. production of concrete is the source of 5 % of construction workers is set to decrease by the work will be taken over by robots. The work is that is too philosophical. Plenty of architects work. Bringing knowledge institutions together He can explain exactly what this technology is CO2 emissions produced by humans. We have same percentage. This means that unless we not going to disappear. It will just change.’ would disagree.’ Theo: ‘Undoubtedly. But it is with industrial parties on a project basis helps adding. Theo: ‘I happened to fall in love with to do something about that. Developing this increase productivity in construction by safe to conclude that digitisation allows for develop new technology. Milestone is a concrete printing, but that is not the final goal. technology can contribute to that. Think about application of digitisation, buildings will become The design of the Milestone homes by architect industrial customisation, for designs catering to wonderful example of that.’ For me, the key theme is the digital transition in the development of more sustainable print prohibitively expensive to many people.’ Jelle Houben is rather striking. Is this what we human and individual needs.’ 34 35 Objective 2 Talent development VAM-Berg Wijster From waste disposal to cycling track 36 37 TALENT DEVELOPMENT KPI 2018 Result Developing top talent is a key corporate objective of Witteveen+Bos, The number of interns and final-year In 2018, Witteveen+Bos hosted 299 arising directly from our mission. We are committed to training students must equal or exceed 20 % of interns and final-year students. and developing top talent, increasing diversity, and ensuring an the total workforce of Witteveen+Bos Compared with our total worldwide adequate inflow of employees with the right technical baggage. This (at 31 December 2018). workforce of 1,125 employees, this is designed to result in a group of expert employees who are very amounts to 27 %. engaged in their work, with their colleagues, the company, and their own talent development. At least 80 % of all employees have had 56 % of all employees have had a job a job performance interview in the past performance interview in the past two Workforce two years. years. In 2018, job performance On 31 December 2018, Witteveen+Bos had 1,125 employees worldwide. interviews were conducted with 28 % This corresponds to a net workforce increase of 71 employees or 6.7 %, of all employees. which is well over the targeted workforce increase of 3 to 5 %. This growth was mainly realised in the Netherlands and Belgium. It is the net result of an We aim for female employees to account 14 new partners were appointed in extremely high inflow of 226 new colleagues. The large outflow of 155 people for 25 % of future partner nominations. 2018: 3 women and 11 men. Although is similar to last year’s outflow level. This means that the 2018 outflow This is a male-female ratio that the absolute number of female partners percentage is 14.7 %. The ideal percentage of people leaving the company corresponds to the gender ratio among has increased, the ratio of 21 % falls annually is under 10 %, allowing for balanced employee dynamics. For this new colleagues joining the company. short of the target percentage. reason, we are not happy with the large outflow and will continue to focus on reducing this percentage. Personnel key figures that provide insight into the Employees can use a ‘Talent The Talent Development Score is composition of our workforce may be found on pages 44 and 45. Development Score’ to indicate whether determined on the basis of three they have been given every opportunity questions: PLUSschool for Professionals to utilise and develop their talents. We to what degree do you feel able to The substantive development of Witteveen+Bos employees was a key focus aim for an average score of 8 or more utilise your talents at Witteveen+Bos? in the form of the PLUSschool for Professionals. The internal project on all three components. Average score: 7.48 management courses were updated, with a specific variant for the to what degree do you feel able to departments. Specific development processes were created for designers develop your talents at and group leaders. Additionally, colleagues were coached in having soWitteveen+Bos? Average score: 7.40 called +TALKs to display their knowledge of and passion for their field. how do you rate the working Finally, we focused on international talent development, among other things atmosphere at Witteveen+Bos? by organising extra training worldwide and working with personal Average score: 7.68 development plans in an increasing number of countries. The overall score for these three elements is 7.52. Diversity Our workforce is becoming more diversified. This is a desirable development. In our view, higher diversity of our project teams adds major value in projects. Mental ownership and ‘shared impact’ are key instruments Vissering pumping station and making it more sustainable. In Slovenia, in this respect. This is why diversity was once again a key focal point. The Manca Petek won the Preseren Award for her master thesis about rain share of women among partners and senior partners has increased, and is water erosivity. She was the first woman to win this award. Witteveen+Bos gradually more in line with the gender ratio in the workforce overall. An graduate Stefan Gerrits won the Hydraulic Engineering Award with his English starter programme was launched. Communication tools (including thesis about offshore wind farms with an energy island. the corporate website) were improved, and needs and ideas were captured from our internationals stationed in the Netherlands. The insights gained will Ten-year vision be set out in a vision on diversity in the coming year. If you walk into Witteveen+Bos in ten years’ time, you will meet a highly diverse group of people. The diversity on the work floor will be even higher Measuring talent development than it is now, and we will be working with a broad range of external Our annual talent development score achieved is our indicator for talent professionals. You will more frequently run into people with a background development. Our 2018 talent development score of 7.5 indicates that in digital technology, the financial or social sector. Everyone you meet Witteveen+Bos makes a very satisfactory contribution to the development focuses on maximum professional and personal development: of our employees’ talents. However, we have not achieved our target of an Witteveen+Bos is the place to be for best development after your full-time average score of 8 or more on the three components. Another point of education, and the PLUSschool is an established brand. attention is the fact that the percentage of employees who participated in job performance interviews falls far short of the target (48 % in the past two Spearhead for 2019: Onboarding and Development years compared to the target of 80 %). The first step we take towards the ten-year vision is improving how people join Witteveen+Bos. We have concluded that our labour market Awards communication allows for a great ability to recruit new talents. In the Our CEO, Karin Sluis, won the 2018 European CEO of the Year Award, a coming year, we aim to improve and monitor the onboarding experience competition organised by the British Association of Consulting Engineers of new colleagues worldwide. This will accelerate their bond with our (ACE). Karin Sluis won the award for her contribution to the engineering company and enhance our mutual relations. Our internal training in the sector and connecting the Sustainable Development Goals with starter programme will be on the agenda continuously for the first two engineering work. years of joining the company. In the subsequent period, we will set up a Medior programme, explicitly focusing on personal and career In 2018, our colleague Emiel van Druten won the Delfland Thesis Award development. for his thesis ‘Pumping Stations for the Future’ about renovating the 38 39 INTERVIEW The entrepreneurial project engineer The world around us is changing and Witteveen+Bos sees it as its task to ensure its engineers and advisors evolve in response to this. This implies seeking answers to current challenges, innovating, and offering our colleagues plenty of room for developing new products and tools. Joris van den Acker and Milicia de Kok demonstrated how this came together in the second edition of our innovation programme. With some help from Evan Low of the Plus+ Innovation programme, they developed +Circular Design: a programme that charts the circular potential of a design and compares improvements. They showed in-depth knowledge and their skills as a product developer and entrepreneur. ‘Entrepreneurship is really part of our daily routine now.’ 40 41 MEASURING CIRCULARITY +Circular Design is an easy-to-use tool that provides insight into the use of materials in design projects. The visualisations generated by the programme enable the designers to measure and compare the circularity of a design, and to explore the potential for improvement. The programme explores whether the materials used for the construction of a new bridge, for example, can be dismantled, transported and reused at another location at the end of the bridge’s lifespan. PLUS+ INNOVATION PROGRAMME The internal Plus+ Innovation programme challenges colleagues to develop their innovative ideas bottom up into concrete products and services in line with the needs of our clients and market developments. The second edition resulted in 58 registrations. The top 15 most innovative ideas were offered a development process. The +Circular Design tool was chosen as the winner by the external jury panel, the programme leaders and the Witteveen+Bos colleagues. ‘Based on the confidence that the organisation gives us, we will continue developing our tool, and ourselves’ As specialists in circular economy and the Milicia: ‘This programme enabled us to easily we had to change gears. The innovation Witteveen+Bos is committed to giving the program to explain to clients how +Circular Smart Cycles Innovation Campaign. ‘As a coach, reuse of residual substances, challenges contact specialists within Witteveen+Bos, for programme team pressed on us to start colleagues room for developing new products Design can offer insight into their circular I helped them specify the ideas, for example by regarding circular construction are daily example regarding construction physics and specifying our idea towards a usable product and services, encouraging entrepreneurship in improvement potential. Entrepreneurship is asking critical questions. Our innovation routine for Joris and Milicia. ‘Measuring data science, reinforcing our team.’ if we wanted to achieve something real. In the full breadth of the organisation. This is even really part of our daily routine now.’ programme is not a step by step plan based on circularity and making it readily comprehensible connection with requests from internal more successful if we align to the perspective of a fixed scenario. Naturally, there are sessions is fairly challenging,’ says Joris. ‘We experimented During the seven-month cycle time of the assignments, this gave our team the impulse the client, generating enthusiasm for new Evan is a mechanical engineer, and was mainly about content. But mainly, it is offering a playing with Sankey diagrams to visualise energy and programme, Joris and Milicia’s team to accelerate development.’ Milicia adds: products and services. Milicia: ‘We discussed active as a soundboard via the online innovation field to develop internal ideas. They had to do material flows. But we were looking to develop developed an MVP (Minimum Viable Product) ‘Precisely because our confidence is growing the details of what the program should offer with platform during the first edition of the innovation the playing. My role was mainly about our very own in-house method for actual of their +Circular Design programme. Joris: and demand is increasing, we are still being various people, and we integrated their input in programme. ‘When I was asked to be a coach in connecting and motivating people.’ integration of circularity into design processes ‘It was a unique process. We started with an enabled to further develop our product. We new versions. It is great to be able to do this. We the second edition, I felt privileged. I learned so and easy visualisation. Only then upscaling abstract idea. At that point, we were not are also reviewing new internal partnerships really have full responsibility for the product. This much about leadership and being in charge in The product video of +Circular Design and the becomes possible.’ The innovation programme convinced that we could win the programme to link our programme to other programmes also requires different skills. Pitching at trade this role.’ Evan collaborated extensively with other innovations are available at vimeo.com/ proved to be a good platform to develop this. with the idea. When we were about mid-way, and fields of expertise.’ events, for example. Customised presentation of Joris and Milicia’s team as the manager of the album/5579944. 42 43 PERSONNEL KEY FIGURES Number of employees in Number of Male/female Average Sick leave rate Full-Time Equivalents (FTEs) employees ratio age (The Netherlands) 1,025 > 1,125 > 70/30 37.6 > 2.8 % > (2017: 977) (2017: 1,054) (2017: 70/30) (2017: 38.0) (2017: 2.5 %) Staff age distribution Level of Education the Netherlands 84 62 Intermediate voc-ed over 60 45 59 year > > under 30 4% university 142 93 15 % Different Employees Employees 22 % 29 % 140 > 55 % nationalities hired leaving 30 % (2017: 135) 28 226 155 45 % > > > 507 > higher voc-ed (2017: 454) (2017: 25) (2017: 160) (2017: 135) 30 44 year 273 > (2017: 253) Employment contracts Workforce by country The Netherlands Latvia part-time full-time In-company training and education 2018: 920 / 2017: 842 2018: 6 / 2017: 6 987 Kazakhstan Belgium > 2018: 50 / 2017: 65 2018: 89 / 2017: 74 37 % Russia United Kingdom 2018: 2 / 2017: 1 63 % (2017: 1,182) 419 > 706 > 2018: 2 / 2017: 1 Dubai Ghana 2018: 4 / 2017: 8 (2017: 385) (2017: 669) 2018: 7 / 2017: 6 Vietnam 2018: 3 / 2017: 2 Indonesia fixed-term contract indefinite-term 2018: 32 / 2017: 41 contract Singapore Investment training and education (euro) 14 % 2018: 10 / 2017:8 163 > 86 % 962 > 765,959 > (2017: 587,313) (2017: 134) (2017: 920) 44 45 Taking charge of your career Scope for cross-over Gaining experience abroad in Indonesia was My graduation period with Witteveen+Bos was a great something I was very interested in taking up. I was welcome! With my ‘cross-over’ background in water able to arrange for just that in close consultation. That and energy, I had two coaches, one from the DKR is an example of how Witteveen+Bos gives you the sector and one from the GOM sector. I soon received opportunity to take charge of your own career. The key a zero hours contract, and that work was so theme in my work is that I want to contribute to a captivating that I almost forgot to graduate over the sustainable world. Not just in terms of technology, but summer holidays. The Delfland thesis award was a also in terms of the environment and ecology. great appreciation. In my job at Witteveen+Bos, I try to Previously, I was part of our CSR team. Now, I am the put the findings from the thesis into practice as much leader of further development of the sustainable as I can. Meanwhile, I am in the new Energy Transition design principles. Together, we research what is PMC, and serve as a student coach myself, which I working well and what could be improved within the enjoy very much. I recommend starters to be gutsy, various business units. Going deeper into the right take up the challenges and do fun stuff. Don’t be choices, promoting awareness and making results afraid to hear ‘no’ or to make a mistake. more explicit. That is a very positive thing. I have learned so much by taking sneak peeks into other people’s ‘kitchens’, so to speak, and by becoming the group head. Tom Wilms Emiel van Druten Transferring knowledge Dynamics and challenges A presentation training we received to prepare for our My master thesis was based on a very scientific +TALKs in September was a great help in sharpening approach. It was an honour that my alma mater, up my story and approach. It is important to Ljubljana University, awarded me the Preseren Prize understand how to efficiently get your idea across to a for best master thesis. After graduating, I went to look broader audience. This experience is now helping me for a job in the Netherlands for further professional in my daily work. Effectively transferring and using development. I knew Witteveen+Bos through my knowledge is essential to me. After obtaining my internship in the Netherlands and various projects. doctorate in Applied Marine Sciences and having Naturally, moving from Slovenia to the Netherlands is worked at University, I wanted to find a job to apply my a major step. There are differences in projects and knowledge and expertise in a more impactful way. And culture, and learning a new language can be also to gain new knowledge. The consultancy work I challenging. My W+B colleagues were very do at Witteveen+Bos, in particular regarding offshore understanding and supportive. The chance to have development, gives me the option of collaborating with Dutch language training one day per week was the entire chain of stakeholders involved in projects: incredibly helpful. I think it is highly valuable to work in government bodies, NGOs, private companies. For various roles in different projects. What I love about me, that cohesion is necessary to go forward and working for Witteveen+Bos is that it is very dynamic make valuable steps for society. And for nature! and we always aim for new challenges in our projects. That stimulates developing my talents. Ivana Prusina Manca Petek 46 47 At home and on adventures Seeing opportunities and taking them I see my career as a great adventure. My job satisfaction highlights the choices I made so far. I love When I joined Witteveen+Bos as a designer, I was ‘building’ and doing what really interests me. That is immediately encouraged to make my ambitions come how I can best develop myself and make worthy true. So I graduated in Structural Engineering at Delft contributions. I was trained as a business economist. I University of Technology based on evening studies. joined the company in 2007 as an HR advisor, and was Because I am interested in the full breadth of the immediately impressed with the wonderful engineering organisation, I have served as the Secretary of the work. That should be more visible! The switch to Head Works Council for the past six years. To transfer of Communication after two-and-a-half years felt logical specialist knowledge, I have been working as a partto me, even though it was a very different field of time Mechanics teacher to foreign students at Saxion expertise. A great job where I could use all my energy University of Applied Sciences for the past four years. in professionalisation of our corporate communications This has also proven a wonderful way to keep my for over nine years now. The ambitions of edge. At Witteveen+Bos, I have been able to develop Witteveen+Bos are very much in line with my own, and a wide range of skills and expertise. I can recommend I feel at home with the people working here. I am very everyone to become part of large projects where pleased with my new challenge as the programme possible, because you learn so much from that. And manager of our digital transition. It is very special that keep your eyes peeled for development opportunities. Witteveen+Bos truly gives you the opportunity to shape your own career! Antoinette van Kolthoorn Marc Taken Knowledge development Innovation and cooperation plays a key role In the first few months of joining Witteveen+Bos, I was What I love about Witteveen+Bos is that there is plenty also completing my promotion research focusing on of room for pioneering. I was working on a major project innovative technology and processes for nitrogen for Rijkswaterstaat when it became clear that recovery from human urine and its valorisation as a raw knowledge development was required to create new material. For me, it is really interesting and fun to have guidelines. I initiated a promotion research project at time for further innovation and knowledge development. Delft University of Technology, combining science and In the industrial water field, we have extensive and practical application. The knowledge we gained was excellent collaborations between the Witteveen+Bos subsequently used by Rijkswaterstaat to improve the offices in Belgium and the Netherlands. Another bonus guidelines. This was a great challenge and logical is the low threshold in the organisational culture. That is follow-up step for me. Do not be afraid to take the lead very pleasant. I love contributing to Dutch research in your development. What opportunities do you see? projects. In Antwerp, I am primarily focusing on clientWhat ideas do you have? Discuss it with your driven solutions, although innovative research is colleagues and your manager, because often you will making headway here as well. What I love about find there is room to do it. As a PMC manager, I try to working for Witteveen+Bos is the wide range of communicate that. To all colleagues of all ages. projects. The dynamic environment keeps up the challenge. Aries van Beinum Marlies Christiaens 48 49 Objective 3 Sustainable business operations Solar panels on the sustainably renovated office Leeuwenbrug Deventer (energy label A+++) 50 51 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS OPERATIONS 2018 (in the form of the CO2 Awareness Certificate) at Level 5 of the CO2 Performance Ladder. All measures that Witteveen+Bos can create value based on sustainable we took in 2018 to limit CO2 emissions are set out in a operations, among other things by increasing separately published footprint, which is available sustainability of buildings and mobility. We seek to reduce at www.witteveenbos.com/co2-performanceladder. our environmental footprint and to promote reduction of CO2 emissions throughout the entire supply chain. Development of corporate departments Improvements in business processes and work methods In 2018, we finetuned the alignment of the departments also contribute to more sustainable business operations. to the business. The departments were restructured and redesigned into six key functions. Communications, Facility Renovation of Leeuwenbrug office in Deventer Management, Finance, Human Resources, ICT and Legal In 2018, we moved back into our largest office, Leeuwenbrug and Quality. We made progress in process management, in Deventer, after completion of a large-scale renovation. The project management including contracting, international building is now almost energy-neutral (BENG): fully free from integration and also career development within the gas, reduced from 55,000 m3 of gas per year previously, and departments. equipped with 326 solar panels and an innovative TripleAqua heat pump. This pump can heat and cool the building and has Good Governance internal heat and cold storage. In combination with a substantial In early 2018, the governance model for our international increase of the building’s insulation value, a major improvement entities was updated. This model discerns three independent in energy performance was realised. roles in the management of these offices, i.e. the management role (by the executive board); the controlling A number of years ago, we introduced the PLUSworking and advisory role (by the departments); and the role of the concept. Our Leeuwenbrug office was renovated in accordance shareholder we are accountable to. with this formula. The superfluous office furniture that no longer fitted in with PLUSworking was donated to the DeventerCompliance Romania foundation to enter a second life as school furniture. We are committed to ethics and compliance. This is embedded in our Company Code of Conduct and the CO2-footprint associated policies. In 2018, we appointed an Ethics We annually establish our CO2 footprint in order to gain insight and Compliance Officer, responsible for preparing and into our operational CO2 emissions. In 2018, we calculated the executing the Corporate Compliance Programme. In footprint using conversion factors in accordance with the values 2018, training and awareness of our employees regarding at co2emissiefactoren.nl. The reported CO2 footprint per FTE compliance was a special focal point. This included an relates to all Witteveen+Bos employees worldwide. The footprint e-learning module to be completed by all employees from consists of three main elements: business premises, car use, 2018 onwards. In 2018, attention was also paid to privacy and air travel. We aim to reduce emissions in all three areas. legislation. In the Netherlands, for example, we have complied with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) since the beginning of 2018. KPI 2018 Result Safety Our internal CO2 emissions reduction In 2018, a reduction of 40 % per Safety is a key component in our business operations. In is in line with the overall target of a FTE was achieved compared to April 2018, the first five product-market combinations were 30 % reduction by 2020 compared the reference year 2007. certified for Step 3 of the Safety Culture Ladder with full to the reference year 2007. roll-out in the near future. This is designed to reinforce our safety culture and to prevent and limit the incidents as much Maintain our CO2 Awareness Our certification at Level 5 of the as possible, both on the work floor and on project sites. Certificate at Level 5 of the SKAO CO2 Performance Ladder was CO2 Performance Ladder, and renewed in 2018. Ten-year vision obtain certification in accordance If you walk into Witteveen+Bos in ten years’ time, you will with the new Quality Manual 3.0. experience fully sustainable operations: circular, at least CO2 neutral, socially and financially sustainable. Additionally, in ten years’ time, we are in the vanguard with our innovative operations and maximum use of digital options. With our The renovation of the Leeuwenbrug office in Deventer resulted sustainable and innovative operations, we are a leading in a significant decrease in gas consumption. We used less example, increasing our brand appeal in the market and the air travel by making a well-considered choice in whether or labour market. not to visit sites, and by taking the train more often. The CO2 reduction is mainly due to autonomous reduction caused by Spearhead for 2019: Digital transition developments outside Witteveen+Bos’ sphere of influence, The first step we take towards the ten-year vision is such as the national rail road company switching to sustainable accelerating our digital transition. We have the ambition power. to upscale digital entrepreneurship in 2019 and 2020. We have defined three pillars: digital organisation, digital The CO2 Performance Ladder is an instrument that encourages service provision and digital talent development. These are environmental awareness on the part of private-sector focused on improving our digital operational organisational companies, both in their own business operations and in project efficiency, increasing sales from digital services, and realisation. We are proud to have retained full certification in training all Witteveen+Bos people in the digital domain. 52 53 BUSINESS OPERATIONS KEY FIGURES EMISSIONS PER SCOPE IN TONNES OF CO2 SCOPE 1 377 > 468 Use of public transport for business and Use of private cars for business District heating commuting purposes (km) purposes (km) (hot water in gigajoule) > 696 > 692 8,064,502 > 2,924,410 548 > 2018 Subtotal: 1,073 2017 Subtotal: 1,160 Company cars for business purposes Gas consumption (2017: 8,060,806) (2017: 3,299,532) (2017: 38) Use of company cars for business purposes (km) * The number for 2018 includes the energie SCOPE 2 Business purposes concumption of our Amsterdam office. 2018: 2,280,764 (2017: 2,382,545) > 869,160 > 29 > 174 > 108 138 Commuting purposes (2017: 790,631) 2018: 5,783,738 > (2017: 5,678,261) Use of company cars for business purposes (l) Electricity consumption 169,831 > Gas consumption in office buildings (m 3) 578 > 662 Air travel District heating (2017: 144,990) 199,490 > 748 > 897 Use of private cars for business purposes (2017: 247,730) 9 > 1 2018 2017 Use of public transport for Subtotal: 1,538 Subtotal: 1,806 business purposes Use of private cars for commuting SCOPE 3 purposes (km) 2 > 1 Air travel (km) 140 > 130 3,240,623 > 4,659,354 > Electricity consumption (kWh) (2017: 3.134.609) (2017: 5,714,772) 1,479,264 > Paper use Use of company cars for commuting (2017: 1,455,966) Use of private car for purposes (km) 103 > 273 commuting purposes 699,251 > 643 > 629 Use of public transport for commuting purposes (2017: 629.918) 2018 2017 Use of company cars for Subtotal: 888 Subtotal: 1,033 commuting purposes Emissie per fte in ton CO 2 Paper use (kg)* 3,41 > 23,638 > TOTAL total: 3,999 2017 (2017: 4.09) (2017: 15,381) 3,499 > * The number for 2018 also include the books that were 2018 published 54 55 Objective 4 Economic value North-South Metro Line Amsterdam 56 57 ECONOMIC VALUE SUMMARISED ANNUAL RESULTS 2018 Witteveen+Bos aims to realise healthy financial results. A sound financial CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (before profit appropriation) 31 DECEMBER 2018 31 DECEMBER 2017 basis is an important basic requirement that enables the company to create long-term value for our stakeholders and contribute to economic Assets growth. Intangible fixed assets 2.123 2.844 Financial results Tangible fixed assets 21.268 17.557 The total of assets decreased compared with 2017, in particular due the Financial fixed assets + 2.204 1.870 reduction of the total of provisions and work in progress. This is the result of the extra attention we have been giving since autumn 2018 to reduce our working Fixed assets 25.595 22.271 capital. The solvency rate decreased to 41.5 % (2017: 42.7 %). Other financial key figures can be found on page 60. Work in progress 11.986 11.719 Accounts receivable 23.816 26.545 The 2018 profit-and-loss account shows that we generated higher sales Cash and cash equivalents + 14.738 16.631 in the past year. Our revenue excluding subcontractors decreased slightly. Productivity increased, provisions had a negative effect, combining higher Current assets + 50.540 54.895 sales with a lower result. Compared with 2017, the net profit margin decreased due to an increase of provisions for work in progress, an increase in friction 76.135 77.166 cost due to staff turnover, and a higher effective tax rate. Although the net profit margin stayed just above our minimum target of 8 %, we are not fully content with this result. In 2019, we aim to improve our profit margin, in particular Liabilities based on better project controlling and reducing the outflow of employees. Group equity 31.595 32.973 KPI 2018 Result Provisions 5.278 5.223 Annual growth of own Witteveen+Bos N.V. has a total revenue for the 2018 Long-term liabilities 10.045 11.160 revenue of 3 to 5 % financial year of EUR 132,9 million, an increase of 1.6 %. Current liabilities + 29.217 27.810 compared to 2017 (2017: 130,8 million euros). Revenue excluding subcontractors amounted to 101.1 million euros, Total liabilities + 39.262 38.970 a decrease of 3.0 % compared to 2017 (2017: 104,2 million). 76.135 77.166 Annual workforce growth of The workforce grew by 6.7 % from 1,054 to 1,125 3 to 5 % employees. CONSOLIDATED PROFT-AND-LOSS ACCOUNT 2018 2017 Annual net profit margin of The net result in 2018 amounted to EUR 11.3 million, Net turnover at least 8 % yielding a net profit margin of 8.5 %. Net turnover including changes in work in progress 132.857 130.806 Costs Risk management Subcontracted work 31.787 26.572 In 2018, we devoted special attention to corporate risk management. We Salaries and wages 49.563 48.632 charted the top risks for our four corporate objectives and we completed a first Social security and pension premiums 12.647 12.174 risk management cycle. The analysis showed that low liquidity will be our key Depreciation of (in)tangible fixed assets 2.320 2.203 short-term risk. Other changes in the value of (in)tangible fixed assets 0 1.660 Other operating costs + 20.886 22.641 Ten-year vision If you walk into Witteveen+Bos in ten years’ time, you will immediately see that 117.203 113.882 we are working on design and consultancy projects similar to the current ones. We are also continuously developing new products and services in a mix of Operating result 15.654 16.924 earning models. We are collaborating with many partners in an ecosystem that allows us to be joint shareholders of a development, earning profits together. Interest paid (on balance) 308 300 Spearhead for 2019: Working capital Result before taxation 15.346 16.624 Before intensively focusing on new earning models, we focus on reducing our working capital in order to reduce our liquidity risk. The amount of work Results of other participations + -/103 -/283 in progress and debtors has continually increased in the past few years, and overall it is now classed as undesirably high. This is why we are starting Result before taxation 15.449 16.341 improvements in processes at project level, PMC level and corporate level. (including other participations) Since autumn 2018, a lead group with members from four PMCs and the Finance department has studied which measures are effective. Their findings Taxation 4.185 3.818 and best practises will be shared and rolled out in the other PMCs and at corporate level. Net profit 11.264 12.523 (amounts in thousands of euros) 58 59 FINANCIAL KEY FIGURES NOTES TO THE ANNUAL RESULTS 2018 AUDITOR’S REPORT This annual report contains the balance sheet and profit-and-loss account Auditor’s opinion of Witteveen+Bos N.V., and the accounting principles for preparing the The summarised annual results for 2018 consolidated key figures. Please refer to the consolidated 2018 annual report as presented on pages 59 and 61 (hereinafter lodged with the Chamber of Commerce Trade Register for full disclosure of the referred to as the ‘summarised annual results’) assets and the results of Witteveen+Bos N.V. are derived from the audited annual results of Witteveen+Bos N.V. for 2018. Preparation of the consolidated annual figures Turnover EBITDA Net profit The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Part 9 of Book In our opinion, the enclosed summarised in thousands of euros in thousands of euros in thousands of euros 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. They are based on historical costs. annual results are consistent with the audited 2018 annual figures of Witteveen+Bos N.V. 132,857 > 18,077 > 11,264 > Change of accounting policies Company premises and land were measured at actual cost up to the financial year 2017. Pursuant to RJ-Uiting 2017-2 (Dutch Accounting Board), the in all material respects and are based on the accounting principles as set out in the notes. (2017: 130,806) (2017: 20,505) (2017: 12,523) accounting policies have been updated as from the 2018 financial year. From The summarised annual results comprise: now on, company premises and land will be measured at acquisition cost. The consolidated balance sheet as at 31 The update of this policy was prospectively recognised in compliance with the December 2018; transition provision set out in RJ 212.8. This update of the accounting policy for The consolidated profit-and-loss account for Solvency Net working capital Net profit margin this item does not affect the opening position of 1 January 2018. The existing 2018; as a percentage in thousands of euros as a percentage revaluation reserve will be released upon realisation. The accompanying notes. 41.5 % > 21,324 > 8.5 % > Consolidation Insofar as actual policy-making influence exists, subsidiaries have been included in the consolidated annual accounts. Joint ventures have been consolidated in Summarised annual results The summarised annual results do not contain all the disclosures required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the (2017: 42.7 %) (2017: 27,085) (2017: 9.6 %) proportion to the share held in the company. Dutch Civil Code. Reading the summarised annual results and this accompanying auditor’s report, Principles for the measurement of assets and liabilities therefore, is not a substitute for reading the audited Land and buildings are valued at acquisition cost, minus the cumulative annual figures of Witteveen+Bos N.V. and the depreciations and impairments, if any. The depreciations are based on the accompanying auditor’s report. The summarised forecast future economic life, applying a fixed percentage of the acquisition cost annual results and the audited annual results Participation in employee share ownership and taking into account any residual value. Depreciation starts on the date of do not reflect the effects of events that occurred scheme at 1 July 2018 first use. Land is not subject to depreciation. The cost of major maintenance is subsequent to the date of our auditor’s report on charged to the operating result on the date this occurs. those audited annual results (23 March 2019). participants seniorand Financial fixed assets include unconsolidated interests in participations and Audited annual results and our premiumpartnership firms. Participating interests are measured according to the equity accompanying auditor’s report for the partners method. summarised annual results 17 % We expressed an unqualified audit opinion on the 551 Projects in progress for third parties are valued based on incurred costs, plus audited annual results of Witteveen+Bos N.V. for 61,2 % the profit assignable to the performed projects, minus losses foreseeable at 2018 in our auditor’s report dated 23 March 2019. 21,8 % (2017: 547) the balance sheet date. Profits attributed to projects in progress are recognised 20 and 10 based on the percentage of completion of the projects at the balance sheet date. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors partners Invoiced instalments for projects in progress are deducted from the projects in and Supervisory Board (2017: 19 and 10) progress. Trade accounts receivable included in receivables are recognised less The Board of Directors is responsible for the a provision for doubtful accounts. preparation of the summarised annual figures on the basis of the accounting principles as Provisions are created for deferred tax liabilities, tax risks, warranties, claims, set out in the notes. The Supervisory Board 82 procedures and investigations, deferred employee remuneration, and liabilities in is responsible for supervising the company’s respect of participating interests. financial reporting processes. (2017: 78) Principles for determination of the consolidated financial result Auditor’s responsibilities Net turnover and changes in work in progress include the services invoiced Our responsibility is to express an opinion on excluding value-added tax, and include the changes in work in progress. whether the summarised annual figures are Internal price of Witteveen+Bos N.V. Revenues of projects are presented in proportion to the work completed. Salaries consistent in all material respects with the share at 1 July 2018 in euros include remuneration paid to the Board of Directors. The pension obligations are audited annual results, based on our procedures, valued according to the ‘valuation to the pension fund’ approach. which were conducted in accordance with Dutch 5.83 > law, including the Dutch Standard on Auditing 810 ‘Engagements to report on summary financial statements’. (2017: 6.25) Amsterdam, the Netherlands, 23 March 2019 Deloitte Accountants B.V. Signed on the original: A.J. Heitink 60 61 INTERVIEW Employee of the Year and CEO of the Year Every year at the annual company conference, Witteveen+Bos selects an employee for the Employee of the Year Award. Legal specialist Barbara Zantinge-van der Staak is the 2018 winner of the Employee of the Year award. She has worked with Witteveen+Bos since 2007. Our CEO, Karin Sluis, was awarded the 2018 CEO of the Year by ACE, the British Association for Consultancy and Engineering for consultancy, management and engineering firms. This distinction is awarded to the person classed as the best European ambassador for the sector. In the past six years, Barbara and Karin offers us the opportunities and the possibilities, intensively collaborated on subjects such as they create space for that. In my experience, redesigning the legal entity of the company and Witteveen+Bos is a low-threshold organisation the Supervisory Board. where everyone is accessible, and people feel interconnected and collegial.’ Barbara Zantinge: ‘I have a background in company law and contracts, with extensive The importance of the human dimension also experience in incorporating legal entities and shows in the jury report of the CEO of the Year shareholder structures. Based on my knowledge award. Jacolien Eijer, Director of the association and interests, I liked being involved in Royal Dutch Engineers (Koninklijke NLingenieurs), Witteveen+Bos’ ownership structure and working nominated Karin. She wrote that Karin is capable on the legal restructuring in 2012. We went from a of continuously combining inspirational leadership single limited liability company to a public limited with a personable human touch, and that she is an liability company with underlying limited liability accessible example to many, both inside and companies. This was a project where I could use outside of Witteveen+Bos. all my previous experience and interests. According to the Royal Dutch Engineers sector The challenge of the past few years was to board, Karin reinforces the connection between redesign the Supervisory Board. How can we societal challenges, scientific research, higher make a workable, viable structure with Articles of education and professional development and Association and effective working platforms with applied engineering. Karin: ‘That is in line with the Board of Directors? The collaboration between Witteveen+Bos’ DNA. We are an engineering the executives and the Supervisory Board, and consultancy that is all about content. It then makes also my role as the Supervisory Board Secretary, sense that I want to do something in the knowledge is still in development. This offers opportunities world, making connections wherever I can. That’s and challenges that make my work very why I find a lot of satisfaction in my roles for Saxion interesting. The goal is further professionalisation, University of Applied Sciences, the Netherlands both for me personally and for the organisation.’ Organisation for Scientific Research (NOW) and the Topsector Water and Marine in the Netherlands. Karin: ‘For a director, having an expert, reliable advisor is both essential and a luxury. In particular What did Karin think was the best thing about ‘For me, the essence of learning and on key issues like changing the company winning this Award? ‘Being recognised by our structure. In this respect, Barbara is a true role peers for what we do as a company. Engineering performing is that you are always premodel for optimal contribution of departments to consultancy firms can contribute so much to the greater Witteveen+Bos organisation. She is making the world a better place. Witteveen+Bos pared to collaborate and embrace new pro-active, continuously expands her knowledge uses its sustainable design principles to where required, and is always prepared to contribute to contemporary societal challenges insights.’ Karin Sluis collaborate with anyone. The entrepreneurial in all of our projects, based on the Sustainable character of the departments keeps us sharp, Development Goals. On that stage in London, both as the Board of Directors and as part of the I was just one person representing the whole organisation.’ Barbara adds: ‘The organisation Witteveen+Bos story.’ 62 63 COLOPHON Text Witteveen+Bos Layout and design Houdbaar Printed by Ovimex Photos and Illustrations Bram Goots Bart van Overbeeke Fotografie Cynthia Boll De Urbanisten Evert van de Worp Houben Van Mierlo Architecten Isabelle Renate la Poutré Levvel OKRA Landschapsarchitecten Rijkswaterstaat Shutterstock.com Viorica Cernica Witteveen+Bos Witteveen+Bos N.V. Leeuwenbrug 8 Postbus 233 7400 AE Deventer The Netherlands t +31 570 69 79 11 e info@witteveenbos.com Milestone Eindhoven the Netherlands i www.witteveenbos.com Enschede Trade Register no. 55094503 WE SUPPORT 64 65 www.witteveenbos.com
