UCONNECT ELECTRONICS PTE. LTD. BLK 1, KAKI BUKIT AVE 3 #04-01 KB-1 SINGAPORE 416087 TEL : 67448917 / FAX : 67441392 Statement of Support from CEO Dear Stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that UCONNECT is fully committed to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. These principles has always been incorporated into the company’s strategy, culture and daily operations. In this our first annual Communication of Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our company’s strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours Sincerely, June Yong Managing Directors UCONNECT ELECTRONICS PTE. LTD. BLK 1, KAKI BUKIT AVE 3 #04-01 KB-1 SINGAPORE 416087 TEL : 67448917 / FAX : 67441392 Human Right Assessment, policy, and goals  Although the government has the primary duty to protect and ensure the fulfillment of human rights, UCONNECT also has a responsibility to respect human rights and play a positive role in the communities in which we operate. Therefore, our conduct in operations is always consistent with the spirit and purpose of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights; Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work of the International Labor Organization (ILO), appropriate to business; and other applicable international principles, including the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights.  UCONNECT strongly supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and seeks to avoid involvement in human rights violations.  We are fully committed to conducting our business ethically and responsibly that supports and respects the protection of human rights. Implementation  Strengthen existing policies, processes and activities that support our human rights values and commitments, which include specific policies on employment, contract and procurement, operational excellence, and security.  Identify specific new needs for training and operating assessments specific to the operating environment whose human rights issues may be more popular.  Establish clear accountability for line management to implement policies and for our corporate commitment to provide management with the necessary resources, support and reviews.  Our employees are required to adhere to the Code of Conduct where it is stated that we are committed to treat everyone with dignity and respect regardless of level or circumstance. UCONNECT ELECTRONICS PTE. LTD. BLK 1, KAKI BUKIT AVE 3 #04-01 KB-1 SINGAPORE 416087 TEL : 67448917 / FAX : 67441392  When resolving the problem, we aim to do so in a way that respects individuals and pursues solutions that, to the extent possible, adequately consider the interests and requirements of the individual concerned.  Ensure that we maintain an open policy for employees to freely voice any issues they may have. This is then solved seriously, confidentially and as quickly as possible. Measurement of results All employees are required to comply with this policy, whose key elements are as follows:  Employees We treat all our employees with respect and dignity and promote diversity in the workplace. The policies and procedures of our company comply with all applicable domestic laws and in accordance with ILO basic working principles of freedom of association and collective bargaining, non-discrimination, forced labor, and underage workers in the workplace.  Security We protect our personnel and assets and provide a safe environment for successful business operations. Our guidelines and management processes for security in our operating areas are in accordance with the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights.  Community We respect human rights in the following ways: 1. Through our contribution to socio-economic development in the communities in which we operate 2. By encouraging sustainable proactive two-way communication with community and knowledgeable stakeholders 3. Through the Environmental, Social and Health Impact Assessment (ESHIA) Environmental Impact Assessment process, 4. Through our corporate practices, in accordance with relevant external guidelines UCONNECT ELECTRONICS PTE. LTD. BLK 1, KAKI BUKIT AVE 3 #04-01 KB-1 SINGAPORE 416087 TEL : 67448917 / FAX : 67441392  Suppliers We encourage our suppliers to treat their employees and to interact with communities in a manner that respects human rights and in accordance with the spirit and objectives of this policy. We require major suppliers to comply with all applicable domestic laws and encourage them to comply with the ILO's basic labor principles. We also work with key suppliers to strengthen awareness of potential human rights issues. UCONNECT ELECTRONICS PTE. LTD. BLK 1, KAKI BUKIT AVE 3 #04-01 KB-1 SINGAPORE 416087 TEL : 67448917 / FAX : 67441392 Labour Assessment, policy, and goals  UCONNECT is a strong supporter of the principles of manpower. We do not tolerate child use or forced labor, slavery or human trafficking. This also includes the exploitation of children, their involvement in hazardous work, or trafficking, corporal punishment, harassment, or other workers' forced labor.  We are committed to providing equal employment and progress for all individuals without distinction or discrimination based on race, color, sex, national origin, age, religion or belief, disability, marital status, pregnancy, sexual orientation, veteran status, citizenship individuals or other characteristics that are protected by law.  We cross-check with the Department of Labor to ensure that labor laws are adhered to and conforming to Ministry standards.  The well-being, health and happiness of our employees are important to us and there are open channels for every issue that will be discussed. Implementation  UCONNECT has adopted Fair Employment Practices as required by Indonesian law in our Internal Code of Conduct Policy.  Management is required to operate in accordance with the principles upheld by us. No child labor or working conditions such as 'slavery' exist in our investment. Measurement of results  None of UCONNECT employees reported any deviations in Labor practices.  Holidays and work schedules are relatively flexible because we have employees pursuing their higher education and we understand the importance of family. The communication channel for any problem is also readily available and the management team is ready to listen.  We support the needs of women in the emerging industry and currently have women's Directors, Purchasing, Accountants and projects associated with our team. UCONNECT ELECTRONICS PTE. LTD. BLK 1, KAKI BUKIT AVE 3 #04-01 KB-1 SINGAPORE 416087 TEL : 67448917 / FAX : 67441392 Environmental Assessment, policy, and goals.  Business should support the approach to the environment.  Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility.  Encourage the development and dysfunction of environmentally friendly technologies.  Strongly supports environmental principles and we are committed to leading the industry in reducing the impact of its activities on the environment.  We aim to minimize greenhouse gas emissions, reduce waste by actively promoting recycling, and to meet or exceed all environmental legislation relating to the company.  UCONNECT is also very active within the scope of Environment, Social and Corporate Governance (ESG) as we understand the importance of sustainable investment. We are deeply involved in incorporating ESG factors into our investment policies and processes if necessary. Implementation  In the company, we encourage employee online as communication.  All the documents are stored in storage server and we print as needed only.  Our meetings with people from around the world are also held online and working remotely is also a viable option at UCONNECT, and through this we reduce the general CO2 emissions by traveling less.  In addition, we have adapted the Environmental and Social Review Procedure (ESRP) established and developed by the Batam Environmental Agency to assess the potential environmental and social impacts of our investments. UCONNECT ELECTRONICS PTE. LTD. BLK 1, KAKI BUKIT AVE 3 #04-01 KB-1 SINGAPORE 416087 TEL : 67448917 / FAX : 67441392 Measurement of Results  There is no violation of environmental principles at UCONNECT.  We are keeping very strict local laws and refuse to participate in projects that do not comply with the Environment.  UCONNECT are certified ISO 14001 which is the international standard that specifies requirements for an effective environmental management system (EMS).  UCONNECT requires all the raw materials’ maker to submit material report RoHS 3 compliance which restrict use of six hazardous materials found in electrical and electronic products and specifies maximum levels for the following 10 restricted substances. 1) Cadmium (Cd): < 100 ppm 2) Lead (Pb): < 1000 ppm 3) Mercury (Hg): < 1000 ppm 4) Hexavalent Chromium: (Cr VI) < 1000 ppm 5) Polybrominated Biphenyls (PBB): < 1000 ppm 6) Polybrominated Diphenyl Ethers (PBDE): < 1000 ppm 7) Bis(2-Ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP): < 1000 ppm 8) Benzyl butyl phthalate (BBP): < 1000 ppm 9) Dibutyl phthalate (DBP): < 1000 ppm 10) Diisobutyl phthalate (DIBP): < 1000 ppm UCONNECT ELECTRONICS PTE. LTD. BLK 1, KAKI BUKIT AVE 3 #04-01 KB-1 SINGAPORE 416087 TEL : 67448917 / FAX : 67441392 Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy, and goals  Business must work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery.  UCONNECT does not allow to work with or receive money from suppliers or customers that do not comply with anti-corruption laws.  UCONNECT is fully committed to supporting anti-corruption principles.  We fully comply with Indonesia's Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery laws. This includes the prohibition of acceptance, bidding, payment or bribery authorization and other forms of corruption as defined in the Anti-Corruption Policy found in our Main Operating Procedures.  We prohibit the granting of direct or indirect, promising, authorizing, or offering any remuneration that is inconsistent with the Anti-Corruption Policy.  We make every effort necessary to avoid conflicts of interest. As stated in our Internal Code of Conduct Policy, our employees do not conduct business for themselves or third parties. Implementation  All complaints are resolved on time and completed within 7 working days of receipt of the complaint.  Our team conducts a comprehensive background check on the supplier for any criminal record or anything that is against the law.  All employees are required to report annually that they have read and understand the Handling of Conflict of Interest, Anti-Corruption, Anti-Fraud, Gifts and Entertainment, Client Handling of Complaints and Anti-Money Laundering Policy. UCONNECT ELECTRONICS PTE. LTD. BLK 1, KAKI BUKIT AVE 3 #04-01 KB-1 SINGAPORE 416087 TEL : 67448917 / FAX : 67441392 Measurement of Outcomes  There is no case of conflict of interest in the UCONNECT Company.  There are no cases of corruption in our operations.  There are no cases related to bribery or fraud attempts and complaints at UCONNECT.  No violation of the Code nor any regulation or sanction against UCONNECT.
