2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Digital Innovation Global Expansion Future Strategy Trusted Banking THE GREAT VALUE DGB SEEKS SUSTAINABLE VALUE OF FINANCE. 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Questions and Comments This report is published in both Korean and English and can be downloaded from the DGB Financial Group homepage (www.dgbfg.co.kr). Questions and comments about the report can be submitted using the contact information below. The symbol of DGB Financial Group’s sustainability report is a fourDGB Financial Group, leaf clover, each leaf representing one of four core values: ethics DGB Economic Research Institute and corporate culture, sustainable finance, social contribution and Buk-gu, Oksan-ro 111 environmental management. This represents DGB Financial Group’s goal Daegu, Republic of Korea of building a happier and healthier future through balanced growth. Tel: +82-53-740-7971 / Fax: +82-53-740-7997 E-mail: sustainability@dgbfn.com The blue bird symbolizes an ethical corporate culture taking flight. DGB Financial Group strives to create a workplace where all employees DGB Financial Group and stakeholders can find happiness through a Homepage balance of work and life. DGB Financial Group www.dgbfg.co.kr DGB Daegu The Bank seed stands for sustainable finance developed together with www.dgb.co.kr local communities. Hi Investment & Securities Wewww.hi-ib.com do our best to offer finance that is caring, like planting the seeds of a local economy that will grow and be DGB Life Insurance www.dgbfnlife.com nurtured. DGB Capital www.dgbcap.co.kr The flower DGB Asset Management signifies our pledge to contribute by serving and www.dgbam.com sharing. DGB Financial Group promotes the blooming of local ww.dgbupay.com DGB U-Pay culture, the arts, education and sports. DGB Data System www.dgbds.co.kr DGB Credit budding sproutwww.dgbci.co.kr TheInformation signifies the emphasis we place on conservation and environmental management. Caring for the environment will ensure that future generations can enjoy a Design cleaner and greener world. Reddotbranding(02-584-0418) ABOUT THIS REPORT Overview First published in 2006 by Daegu Bank, this sustainability report has been issued at the group level since the founding of DGB Financial Group in 2011, making this the 13th report. Published every year, these reports cover the main issues affecting our stakeholders and the results of DGB Financial Group’s sustainability efforts. The main issues, as confirmed through communication with internal and external stakeholders, are presented in the table of contents. The subject matter carries over from last year’s report to enable consistent management of the issues. Questions and Comments This report is published in both Korean and English and can be downloaded from the DGB Financial Reporting Period Group homepage (www.dgbfg.co.kr). Questions This report covers DGB Financial Group’s performance from January 1 to and comments about the report can be submitted December 31, 2018. These quantitative results include more than three using the contact information below. years of data to enable the identification of trends. Partial qualitative results are also included through the first half of 2019. DGB Financial Group, DGB Economic Research Institute Reporting Scope Buk-gu, Oksan-ro 111 This report covers the sustainable management activities and achievements Daegu, Republic of Korea of DGB Financial Group and our eight subsidiaries*, including Hi Investment Tel: +82-53-740-7971 / Fax: +82-53-740-7997 & Securities, which joined the Group in 2018. Some of these areas are preE-mail: sustainability@dgbfn.com sented in the report under separate headings. *DGB Daegu Bank, Hi Investment & Securities, DGB Life Insurance, DGB Capital, DGB Financial Group Homepage DGB Asset Management, DGB U-Pay, DGB Data System, DGB Credit Information DGB Financial Group www.dgbfg.co.kr DGB Daegu Bank www.dgb.co.kr Reporting Guidelines and Assurance Hi Investment & Securities www.hi-ib.com This report was written in accordance with the Core Option of the Standards DGB Life Insurance www.dgbfnlife.com issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the accepted framework for DGB Capital www.dgbcap.co.kr sustainability reporting. It follows the comprehensive reporting framework DGB Asset Management www.dgbam.com of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), ISO 26000 (GuidDGB U-Pay ww.dgbupay.com ance on social responsibility), the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact DGB Data System www.dgbds.co.kr (UNGC) and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). As an addiDGB Credit Information www.dgbci.co.kr tional assurance, third-party verification has been obtained from the Korea Productivity Center. The results of this verification can be found on The Third Party Assurance. Design Reddotbranding(02-584-0418) 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP CONTENTS CEO MESSAGE 02 BUSINESS OVERVIEW DGB FINANCIAL GROUP OVERVIEW 06 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 08 AFFILIATES 10 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP 2018 22 HIGHLIGHTS CORE ISSUES GENERAL ISSUES PIONEERING FUTURE FINANCE 26 ROBUST ORGANIZATIONAL 46 FINANCE FOR HAPPINESS OF 32 STRUCTURE CUSTOMERS COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 50 SUSTAINABLE AND 36 RESPONSIBLE FINANCING ALL-BAREUN DGB 40 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT ANALYSIS SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 56 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 96 OF DGB FINANCIAL GROUP DIAGNOSIS AND ANALYSIS 79 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF 99 IMPACT VALUATION 58 OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL POSITION MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF 100 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 60 DIAGNOSIS AND ANALYSIS OF 84 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME NON-FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CSR EXPERT MEETING 62 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF 102 PERFORMANCE MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT 64 CHANGES IN EQUITY HI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 92 DGB SDGs COMMITMENT 66 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF 103 NON-FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CASH FLOWS GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE 68 PERFORMANCE NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 106 RISK MANAGEMENT 70 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GREEN MANAGEMENT 72 WIN-WIN PARTNERSHIPS 74 HUMAN RIGHTS MANAGEMENT 75 LABOR-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 76 APPENDIX INFORMATION SECURITY 77 GRI STANDARDS INDEX 218 THIRD-PARTY ASSURANCE 220 STATEMENT THIRD-PARTY VERIFICATION 222 STATEMENT OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 223 INITIATIVES 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CEO MESSAGE 02 CEO MESSAGE Thank you, DGB Financial Group stakeholders, for your steadfast interest and support. Last year, DGB Financial Group faced rising interest rates, stricter Third, prepare for the future by innovating. financial regulation, uncertainty in the global economy and a changing As a leader in the digital ecosystem, we will build a new future for our financial paradigm. Despite this, as Korea’s representative regional Group through innovative thinking and fast execution. On the basis of financial institution, we achieved outstanding results in 2018 with the mutual respect and communication as we will continue changing the interest and support of our stakeholders. Also, we successfully entered way we work and encourage innovation in the way we think. the Southeast Asian financial market and acquired the Hi Investment & Securities, which created the basis for our leap forward as a comprehensive financial group. Fourth, lay the groundwork for sustainable management to integrate the Group. Since our commitment to sustainable management in 2006, we have been We will work to integrate our affiliates by building a mature culture dedicated to fulfilling finance-related social responsibilities as a member of of open-minded communication, and through organizational vitality, the local community and have exerted efforts to respond to climate change forge a new, integrated identity. As we bring the whole Group such as reducing green house gas emissions. In 2018, our anti-corruption together in system that fosters talent, and thereby nurtures finance system received international certification as a world-class mechanism for professionals, we will lead the way to sustainable growth. ethical management. We are committed to the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact, With devotion and trust at the foundation of our management goals, starting with human rights. Going forward, on the basis of Group we will strive to create sustainable value in 2019 by doing the following: synergy, achieved through wide-ranging and active communication, we will reach out beyond our local community to become a financial group First, focus our management on the customers. for the world. By focusing on the customers, the bedrock of finance, we plan to Stakeholders, thank you again for your trust and support. To you we offer value that is unique to DGB, thereby raising our brand value. At pledge our utmost efforts to the opening of a new era. the same time, by expanding the “ALL-Bareun” ethical management Thank you. campaign we initiated last year to all our affiliates, we will lead the financial industry with the trust of our customers. Second, strengthen our financial competitiveness by maximizing synergy. Kim Tae-oh Chairman, DGB Financial Group Based on strength in the core businesses of each affiliate, we will increase the effectiveness of three areas of synergy – Branch in Branch, business connectivity and joint marketing. By providing a stable profit base, we will secure the profit competitiveness of our non-banking affiliates. 03 F O C U S O N T H E BA S I C S T U R DY G R OW T H DGB FINANCIAL GROUP BUSINESS OVERVIEW DGB FINANCIAL GROUP OVERVIEW 06 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 08 AFFILIATES 10 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP 2018 HIGHLIGHTS 22 B R A N D VA L U E C R E AT I O N 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DGB FINANCIAL GROUP OVERVIEW Introduction Global Network DGB Financial Group was founded in 2011 to provide better financial services and to prepare for a new leap forward. With Daegu Bank at our DGB Daegu Bank, core, we combined the capabilities of DGB U-Pay, and DGB Credit InforShanghai Branch DGB Capital, China mation and launched DGB Financial Group. We established DGB Data DGB Lao Leasing Co. Ltd. System and added DGB Life Insurance, DGB Capital and DGB Asset Laos Management. And in 2018 we acquired Hi Investment & Securities, DGB Daegu Bank, Ho Chi Minh City Representative Office becoming as a comprehensive financial group. Going forward, by maxVietnam imizing inter-affiliate synergy and leading the way in digital finance, the DGB Daegu Bank, DGB Specialized Bank Group will go beyond regional markets and reach out to the world as a Cambodia global comprehensive financial group. *Two overseas corporation, one overseas office DGB Financial Group Business Performance No. of Employees No. of Customers / Total Assets (KRW bil.) No. of Branches / Countries Online Customers* 4,606 3.77 /2.23 64,917.6 336 / 4 million million (Two overseas corporation, one overseas office) Net Income (KRW bil.) Operating Profit (KRW bil.) Current Net Profit (KRW bil.)** Credit Rating* Domestic AAA (Korea Ratings Corporation) 4,160.7 336.6 383.5 International (Moody’s) A2 *For Daegu Bank **For controlling shareholders of the Group History Oct. 1967 May 2011 Mar. 2013 Oct. 2016 DGB Daegu Bank DGB Financial M&A between Incorporation of subsidfounded as Korea’s first Group established Kardnet and U-Payment iary DGB Asset Manageregional bank ment Jan. 2012 Incorporation of subsidiary DGB Capital Jan. 2015 Oct. 2018 Jul. 2000 Oct. 2010 Apr. 2012 Incorporation of Acquisition of Hi DGB Credit Kardnet founded Establishment of subsidiary DGB Life Investment & SecuInformation established as subsidiary DGB Data System Insurance rity 06 BUSINESS OVERVIEW DGB FINANCIAL GROUP BOARD OF DIRECTORS AFFILIATES DGB FINANCIAL GROUP OVERVIEW 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Vision & Strategy Under our corporate vision of being the “Best Partner for the Future,” DGB Financial Group has laid out three management principles – communication, accomplishment and talent. In 2019, the Group aims to build trust by listening to the voices of our customers, who are the basis of finance, and to completely integrate the Group on a foundation of balanced and stable growth. To achieve this effectively, the Group has set up new offices for Digital Innovation, Management Innovation and Corporate Ethics Innovation. With new ways of thinking, we aim to be a first-class financial group. Vision Best Partner for the Future Towards the next 50 years – DGB Financial Group is ready. Philosophy Sharing Dreams and Prosperity with the Local Community Vision Best Partner for the Future Policy DGB Get Best [ DGB be One ] [ Growth Engine ] [ Trusted Partners ] [ The Best ] Communication Accomplishment Talent Establishing responsible Synergy enhancement among subFostering financial experts management sidiaries Raise labor productivity ONE DGB culture settlement Digital finance level up Innovative human resource manExpansion of Communication network Systematic risk management agement 2019 Management Goals & Strategies Trust is the foundation at DGB BASIC BAse Strong Innovation Combine (Customer-intimate (Achievement of (Design our (Group Business) Financial Competitiveness) Future Innovatively) Integration) Ethical management/ Strengthen core business Innovation of sales channels Improve management  Restore trust of subsidiaries Expansion of future efficiency Responsible management/ Synergy enhancement business territory Risk management/Human Brand strategy among subsidiaries Innovation in ways of resource development Expand customer base Improvement of profit thinking and working Create a DGB culture competitiveness DGB Core Values CORE WAVE Service Passion Honesty A warm company that promotes a culture A dynamic company that creates new values A company that builds solid trust based on of communication among employees and based on creative thinking and ownership honesty and ethics and serves as a model for serves customers and the local community customers, communities, and even finance 07 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS DGB Financial Group Board of Directors Kim Tae-oh Executive Director (CEO) Lee Yong-do Independent Director · CEO, DGB Financial Group (Current) · Professor Emeritus, Daegu University (Current) Suh In-duk Independent Director · CEO, Hana HSBC Life Insurance · Director, Korea Foundation for Cultures and Ethics · Professor Emeritus, Yeungnam University (Current) · President, The Korean Studies Institute · Executive Vice President, Hana Bank · Public Interest Member, Gyeongbuk Regional Labor · Director, Yeonggwang Educational Foundation (Customer Support Group) · Director, Daegu Gyeongbuk Development Institute Relations Commission (Current) · Vice President, Hana Financial Group · Vice Chairman, The Korean Academy of Business History · Dean, College of Business & Economics and Graduate School of Business Administration, Yeungnam University Cho Sun-ho Independent Director Lee Sang-yeop Independent Director · Auditor, Shinhung Co., Ltd. (Current) · Standing Auditor and Advisor, Hana Bank · Executive Director and Country HR Lead, · Vice President, Credit Counseling & Recovery Service, Lee Dam Independent Director CBRE Korea Financial Supervisory Service · HR Director, Hewlett Packard Enterprise Korea · Attorney, A&K Partners (Current) · Director, Securities Inspection Department 2, · Head of Human Resources, Financial Supervisory Service · President, Daegu District Bar Association RBS Korea (fmr. ABN AMRO Korea) · Judge, Daegu District Court · HR Director, Motorola Korea · Judge, Ulsan Branch, Busan District Court Lee Jin-bok Independent Director · Vice President, Korean Accounting Association (Current) Kim Taek-dong Independent Director(Group/Bank) · President, The Korean Institute of Certified Public · CEO, Lake Investment Advisors Co., Ltd. (Current) Accountants, Daegu Branch (Current) · Kosdaq Listings Committee Member, Korea Exchange · Independent Director, Daeho AL Inc. · Fund Evaluation Advisor, · Expert Advisor, National Court Administration Korea Venture Investment Corporation · Advisor, Korea Customs Service · Director of Asset Management, Hyundai Securities 08 BUSINESS OVERVIEW DGB FINANCIAL GROUP BOARD OF DIRECTORS AFFILIATES DGB FINANCIAL GROUP OVERVIEW 2018 HIGHLIGHTS DGB Daegu Bank Board of Directors Kim Tae-oh Executive Director (CEO) Suh Kyun-suk Independent Director · CEO, DGB Financial Group (Current) · Professor Emeritus, Andong National University · CEO, Hana HSBC Life Insurance Jon Kyong-tae Independent Director School of Business Administration & Accounting (Current) · Executive Vice President, Hana Bank · Professor Emeritus, Keimyung University (Current) · Advisor, Gyeongbuk Future Strategy Planning (Customer Support Group) · Director, Kyungchon Educational Foundation (Current) Committee (Current) · Auditor, Kumbokju Scholarship Foundation (Current) · Andong National University: Professor of Business · Vice President, Hana Financial Group · Professor of Commerce, Management, Dean of College of Social Science, Dean Dean of College of Economics and Commerce of Graduate School of Administration and Management, Head of Business Administration Research Center Kim Yong-sin Independent Director · CEO, Offices of Kim Yong-sin, Kim Taek-dong Independent Director(Group/Bank) Certified Public Accountant (Current) · Government-Appointed Deputy, Tax Tribunal Lee Jae-Dong Independent Director · CEO, Lake Investment Advisors Co., Ltd. (Current) · Auditor, Yeungnam Educational Foundation · Kosdaq Listings Committee Member, Korea · President, The Korean Institute of Certified Public · Attorney, Daegu Law Offices (Current) Exchange Accountants, Daegu Branch · President, Daegu District Bar Association · Fund Evaluation Advisor, · CEO, DG Lifeline Korea Venture Investment Corporation · Adjunct Professor, Kyungpook National University, · Director of Asset Management, Hyundai Securities Graduate Department of Law (Current) Kim Yoon-guk Executive Director (Bank Vice President) · Bank Vice President (Director of Management Planning Division) Byun Dae-suk Executive Audito · Risk Management Division · Standing Member, Daegu Bank Audit Committee (Current) · Director (Daegu Headquarters) · Standing Advisor on Finance, Doosan Infracore · Branch Manager, Dongseong-ro Branch · Vice President of Management Support, · Branch Manager, Siji Branch Taihan Electric Wire · Advisor to Jeju Provincial Office, Financial Supervisory Service · Head of Beijing Office, Financial Supervisory Service · Director of Special Bank Service, Financial Supervisory Service 09 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 자회사 소개 AFFILIATES DGB Financial Group, with our eight subsidiaries, is sound and resilient. In October 2018, with the acquisition of Hi Investment & Securities, DGB set the stage for a leap forward as a comprehensive financial group. By boosting inter-affiliate synergy, the Group will strengthen our competitiveness. 10 INTRODUCTION OF DGB Credit Information DGB Data System DGB FINANCIAL GROUP DGB U-Pay DGB Asset Management DGB Capital DGB Life Insurance Hi Investment & Securities DGB Daegu Bank 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 01 Closer to you with Larger Benefits, DGB Daegu Bank DGB Daegu Bank aims to contribute to and fulfill our responsibility for regional development Under the management philosophy of “sharing dreams and prosperity DGB Daegu Bank CEO with the local community,” DGB Daegu Bank has provided local residents with the best financial services for over 50 years, and has served as Kim Tae-oh a foundation for regional development. To be the world’s greatest sustainably managed regional bank, Daegu Bank not only looks after DGB Daegu Bank’s our financial performance, but always strives to lead the way ethically, Business Performance (2018) environmentally and socially. Moreover, we will strive to actively carry out touching management No. of Branches with the local community, value management for our shareholders and communication management with our staff. 249 Founded Oct. 7, 1967 Total Assets (KRW bil.) Address 2310, Dalgubeol-daero, Suseong-gu, Daegu, Republic of Korea 49,785.3 Phone No. 1566-5050, 1588-5050 Website www.dgb.co.kr Current Net Profit (KRW bil.) Services Deposits, loans, foreign exchange, financial products 234.8 (investment funds, bancassurance), asset management, online banking 2019 Objectives and Implementation Strategies “Taking steps towards a 100-year future” We are GROWING! Growth Renovation With DGB Optimization Revenue centered, Digital finance Strengthen group profitable growth innovation Streamline management integration · Increase ratio of high· Enhance digital foundation · Streamline channels · Expand global strategy grade loans · Strengthen digital · Streamline costs · Strengthen integrated · Strengthen customer base marketing branding management · Human resource · Expand new digital development · Healthy corporate culture · Run flexible interest rates enterprises 12 BUSINESS OVERVIEW DGB FINANCIAL GROUP BOARD OF DIRECTORS AFFILIATES DGB FINANCIAL GROUP OVERVIEW 2018 HIGHLIGHTS 02 Trusted Investment Partner, Hi Investment & Securities Hi Investment & Securities provides competitive investment solutions, striving for socially responsible banking. Hi Investment & Securities began as Jeil Investment Trust and grew as a trusted financial investment company. Based on a foundation of solid growth in the investment banking sector CEO of Hi Investment & Securities and diversification in the bond management sector, we have been continKim Kyung-kyu uously improving our performance. And with over 30 years of experience in the asset management sector, we work to provide our customers with the best investment solutions. Hi Investment & Securities’ In October 2018, Hi Investment & Securities began a new journey by Business Performance (2018) becoming a member of DGB Financial Group. Using this synergy from subsidiaries and the expansion of capital, we are striving to become a No. of Branches mid-to-large securities firm, increase our market share, and venture into new enterprises, all as part of our strategy for becoming a top 10 financial 29 investment firm. Founded Oct. 28, 1989 Total Assets (KRW bil.) Address Seoul office] 61, Yeouinaru-ro, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea 6,088 Busan office] 121, Oncheonjang-ro, Dongnae-gu, Busan, Republic of Korea 1588-7171 Current Net Profit (KRW bil.) 43.3 Phone No. Website www.hi-ib.com Services Investment trading, investment brokerage, discretionary investment, investment advisory 2019 Objectives and Implementation Strategies Building towards long-term growth Expand Secure core wealth Expand business management synergy profitability business · Focus on asset management · Real estate finance business /diversify products · Wealth management and corporate · Corporate finance · Strengthen general consulting capacity  finance cooperation · Bond management / sales · Strengthen external activity 13 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 03 A Trusted Life Partner, DGB Life Insurance DGB Life Insurance contributes to the local community through a wide variety of philanthropic activities for the socially vulnerable group to fulfill our philosophy of sharing. DGB Life Insurance has developed and grown with the Korean life insurDGB Life CEO ance industry over the past 30 years. After we joined DGB Financial Group Min Ki-sik in January 2015, we have continued to grow steadily. In the spirit of the group’s management philosophy of “sharing dreams and prosperity with the local community,” all employees practice ‘FC-ship’ which is a unique DGB Life Insurance action plan of DGB Life Insurance. We offer the true value of insurance Business Performance (2018) and customer care, and through sharing and innovation, we are striving to become a trusted Life Partner. No. of Branches Founded Feb. 22, 1988 42 Address Seoul office] 125, Namdaemun-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea Total Assets (KRW bil.) Busan office] 14, Jungang-daero 361beon-gil, Dong-gu, Busan, Republic of Korea 6,152 Phone No. 1588-4770 Website www.dgbfnlife.com Current Net Profit (KRW bil.) Services Insurance product sales (guarantee, endowment, pension, variable), asset management services, insurance policy 0.02 loans, etc. 2019 Objectives and Implementation Strategies DGB Life Insurance – Strength on a Digital Foundation Choice and Positive, Culture of concentration “One Team” future-oriented innovation and through pulling together thinking new horizons differentiation · Focus on strengths · Change is possible · Work and act with · Complacency has no and promising areas only going forward a unified purpose part in success 14 BUSINESS OVERVIEW DGB FINANCIAL GROUP BOARD OF DIRECTORS AFFILIATES DGB FINANCIAL GROUP OVERVIEW 2018 HIGHLIGHTS 04 Growing Together with the Customer, DGB Capital DGB Capital is leading the way to the future based on the love and trust of our customers. DGB Capital joined DGB Financial Group family in January 2012 as a speDGB Capital CEO cialized credit finance business. We are the top financial company that Lee Jae-young customers can trust. Through secure financing and thorough risk management, we pursue growth that balances profitability and stability. And by harnessing synergy DGB Capital with our affiliates, we provide top-notch credit finance services that match Business Performance (2018) the diverse needs of our customers. No. of Branches 12 Founded Sep. 14, 2009 Address 125, Namdaemun-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea Total Assets (KRW bil.) Phone No. 1566-0050 2,762.1 Website www.dgbcap.co.kr Services Lease, Installment finance, Automobile finance, Corporate loans, Personal loans, New technology business finance Current Net Profit (KRW bil.) 22.4 2019 Objectives and Implementation Strategies Responsive and Dynamic DGB Capital Strengthen business competitiveness Respond to change <Improve competitiveness by business sector> <Active/Innovative change> · Differentiated business · Strengthen risk · Regulate portfolio · Digital transformation competitiveness management capabilities · Expand affiliate synergy · Modernize corporate culture · Increase financial capacity · Explore new businesses 15 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 05 The Company that Works Together with the Customer, DGB Asset Management DGB Asset Management will become an asset management company that earns customers’ trust through the ethical awareness of employees and the highest levels of competence. DGB Asset Management joined DGB Financial Group in October 2016. DGB Asset Management CEO Since then, we have taken a major leap forward under our management Lee Yoon-kyu philosophy of “creating greater value through faith and trust” to become the top comprehensive asset management company for customers who seek better value. DGB Asset Management does our utmost to provide the best asset management tools to our valued customers to make sure their assets are carefully looked after. We understand deeply that our company’s future lies in successful and safe investment for our customers. Through a strong ethical code and the unmatched capabilities of our staff, we will DGB Asset Management Business Performance (2018) earn and keep our customers’ trust. Total Assets (KRW bil.) 39 Founded March 3, 2000 Address 97, Uisadang-daero, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea Phone No. 02-707-4200 Current Net Profit (KRW bil.) Website Services www.dgbam.com Collective investment, discretionary investment, 6.4 investment advisory 2019 Objectives and Implementation Strategies DGB Asset Management – “Earning trust” Strengthen Increase assets Future-proofing Risk management group synergy · Launch national and · Select and focus on sales · Establish infrastructure · Strengthen risk/ public bond MMF channels for sales compliance · Alternative investment · Develop products accord· Secure competitiveness ‘Blind’ fund ing to market changes of alternative investment · Develop products in cooperation with affiliates 16 BUSINESS OVERVIEW DGB FINANCIAL GROUP BOARD OF DIRECTORS AFFILIATES DGB FINANCIAL GROUP OVERVIEW 2018 HIGHLIGHTS 06 Anytime, Anywhere Be With Onepass, DGB U Pay DGB U Pay strives for the convenient use of all citizens and fulfills our social responsibilities. DGB U-Pay has created an electronic payment system for everyday life. DGB U Pay CEO We provide a safe and convenient service for micro payments, access conSoh Keun trol and security based on transportation infrastructure like buses, metros and taxis. DGB Upay will keep providing convenient services to all customers using our electronic payment system, and as a socially responsible company, we will do our best to bring more joy to local communities. DGB U Pay Business Performance (2018) Total Assets (KRW bil.) 36.4 Founded Dec. 27, 1999 Address 2503, Dalgubeol-daero, Suseong-gu, Daegu, Republic of Korea Phone No. 080-427-2342 Current Net Profit (KRW bil.) Website Services www.dgbupay.com Issuing and managing electronic payment services, 0.2 electronic payment settlement agency services 2019 Objectives and Implementation Strategies A leap to secure future growth engines Develop Upgrade Increase new markets infrastructure group synergy · Boost competitiveness in mobile cards · Accelerate taxi-linked sales growth · Build customer reward scheme · Enhance versatility in payments · Increase distribution channels · Examine businesses connected to affiliates · Develop new payment markets (goods) · Strengthen group co-marketing · Examine entry into overseas market 17 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 07 Smart Work, Smart IT! DGB Data System DGB Data System creates a dream and a new future values of the customer with IT which leads the 4th industrial revolution. DGB Data System is an IT-specialist company established to provide our DGB Data System customers with the highest quality IT services, such as data system develCEO Kim Hyeong-sig opment, IT consolidation management, IT consulting and IT training. Through dedication and creativity, DGB Data System promises to reward our customers by developing the best IT solutions, and we promise to contribute to the development of the IT industry community. DGB Data System Business Performance (2018) Total Assets (KRW bil.) 10.6 Founded April 9, 2012 Address 70, Palgong-ro 53-gil, Dong-gu, Daegu, Republic of Korea Phone No. 053-718-1400 Website www.dgbds.co.kr Current Net Profit (KRW bil.) Services Data system development, management, maintenance, IT consulting 0.4 2019 Objectives and Implementation Strategies “Trusted” IT that is true to the “Essentials (GPS)” Growth UP Power UP Synergy UP Growth engines Competitiveness IT Synergy · Develop data solutions for DGB · Improve satisfaction level in IT services · Expand IT services among affiliates Financial Group · Strengthen organizational · Improve infrastructure of shared · Expand affiliate business in Seoul competitiveness services 18 BUSINESS OVERVIEW DGB FINANCIAL GROUP BOARD OF DIRECTORS AFFILIATES DGB FINANCIAL GROUP OVERVIEW 2018 HIGHLIGHTS 08 Building a credit society with a winning partner, DGB Credit Information DGB Credit Information strive to be a business trusted by customers and the market. DGB Credit Information specializes in the collection of non-performDGB Credit Information ing loans, including financial institution bonds, commercial bonds and CEO Min Gu-sik civil debts. We also conduct credit investigations and provide civil affairs agency. Under DGB Financial Group’s management philosophy of “Sharing Dreams and Prosperity with the Local Community,” everyone at DGB Credit Information is doing their best for the customer’s fortunes and future, and to establish a credit society. We promise to provide the best service, to put customer satisfaction and fairness first, and to take the lead in the development of the local community. DGB Credit Information Business Performance (2018) Total Assets (KRW bil.) 5 Founded July 5, 2000 Address 183, Dalseo-ro, Seo-gu, Daegu, Republic of Korea Phone No. 053-573-7700 Website www.dgbci.co.kr Current Net Profit (KRW bil.) Services Claim collection, credit check, lease inspection, civil affairs agency 0.2 2019 Objectives and Implementation Strategies A new leap through maximization of sales synergy Precision Securing Innovative Group integration management in action competitiveness future-proofing · Realize precision · Strengthen existing · Discover new growth · Synergized profits & management businesses businesses cost-cutting · Building customer trust · Maximize debt collection · Organizational · Carry out integration with restructuring DGB Financial Group 19 DGB Financial 1 2 DGB Daegu Bank Hi Investment & Securities Group’s Subsidiary Ownership* 100 % 85.32 % 3 4 5 DGB Life Insurance DGB Capital DGB Asset Management 100 % 100 % 100 % 6 7 8 DGB U-Pay DGB Data System DGB Credit Information 100 % 100 % 100 % *As of the end of Dec. 2018 Hi Investment & Securities acquired in 2018 21 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DGB FINANCIAL GROUP 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Highlight .1 Acquisition of Hi Investment & Securities Through the acquisition of Hi Investment & Securities in October 2018, DGB Financial Group became the Korea’s first regional financial group to build a foundation for a comprehensive financial group, with a solid profit base and a balanced business lineup covering banking, insurance, securities, asset management, etc. DGB Financial Group is planning to enhance the group's competitiveness by maximizing our sales capability and strengthening synergy among affiliates. By utilizing Hi Investment&Securities' customer base in capital and south-east area and DGB's own customer base in Daegu and Gyeongbuk area, DGB has started a combined branch in the BWB(Bank+Securities) form. Highlight .2 Anti-corruption Management System Certification DGB Financial Group is the first Korean financial holding company to obtain certification (ISO37001) for our anti-corruption management system. The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) grants the ISO37001 certification validates an organization’s ethical management, corruption prevention, internal controls, regulatory compliance, etc. By obtaining this certification, DGB Financial Group elevated the groundwork of ethical management required for financial organizations, and strengthened our ability to prevent corruption risks through the establishment of anti-corruption management system which is consistent with the international standards. Highlight .3 DGB Innovation Center Established To respond actively to the fast-changing financial environment, DGB Financial Group has established the DGB Innovation Center (DIC). By moving all the computer systems of the Group and our affiliates to the financial industry’s best IT center, DGB has made our IT services even more reliable. Through the resulting improvement in intra-Group synergy, we will establish a foundation for the move to digital global banking. Highlight .4 Dow Jones Sustainability Index: 10 Straight Years DGB Financial Group was listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) for 10 consecutive years. The DJSI is compiled jointly by the S&P and Dow Jones indices in the United States and RobecoSAM of Switzerland, which evaluate sustainable management. Uniquely among Korea’s regional banks, DGB Financial Group is also listed on the DJSI AsiaPacific with 600 of the region’s biggest companies, and the DJSI Korea with Korea’s top 200 firms. We have been listed on both indices for 9 and 10 years, respectively, confirming that DGB upholds the world’s highest standards of sustainable management. 22 BUSINESS OVERVIEW DGB FINANCIAL GROUP BOARD OF DIRECTORS AFFILIATES DGB FINANCIAL GROUP OVERVIEW 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Highlight .5 CDP Award for Excellence in Climate Change Response In 2018, DGB Financial Group was recognized by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP Korea) with an award for excellence for our response to climate change. In 2006, in the pursuit of environmental management, DGB established the Green Finance Group, and since 2008 has been carrying out the “DGB STOP CO2 Plan.” Going forward, DGB will continue to be a leader of low-carbon local communities and a model for environmental management in the financial sector. HIGHLIGHT .6 Principles of Responsible Banking DGB Financial Group promised to uphold the Principles of Responsible Banking (PRB) established by the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) and fulfill its responsibility through finance. The PRB is an international framework establishing the roles and responsibilities of the financial industry in implementing the Paris Climate Accords and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). DGB Financial Group will continue to devote our efforts to sustainable social development and a future of common prosperity by expanding our positive influence on society through active implementation of the PRB 6 Principles*. * UNEP FI PRB 6 Principles : 1. Alignment 2. Impact 3. Clients & Customers 4. Stakeholder 5. Governance & Target setting 6. Transparency & Accountability HIGHLIGHT .7 Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Since 2018, DGB Financial Group has been a member of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) in support of its recommendations. The TCFD, established by the Financial Stability Board at the request of the G20, analyzes the financial impact of climate change scenarios. It makes recommendations for transparent disclosure related to corporate governance, strategy, risk management, indicators, targets, etc. We will continue our active compliance by forming a TCFD implementation roadmap and by strengthening our climate change corporate governance, strategy and risk management. HIGHLIGHT .8 Science Based Targets (SBTi) In 2018, DGB Financial Group became the first Korean signatory to the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). SBTi establishes the science-based greenhouse gas reduction targets needed to limit global warming to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels. It is a joint initiative of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), the UN Global Compact (UNGC), the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Wildlife Fund (WWF). We aim to lead the building of a low-carbon society by establishing and implementing science-based emissions reduction goals in line with the 2°C limit. 23 Based on materiality tests considering business impact and stakeholder interest, we have laid out six issues that are expected to have a material effect on the Group. In the “General Issues”, these six issues are divided into four main topics in which we explain the ways we are responding and our future strategies. B U S I N E S S E X PA N S I O N CUSTOMER TRUSTED DGB FINANCIAL GROUP CORE ISSUES PIONEERING FUTURE FINANCE 26 FINANCE FOR HAPPINESS OF CUSTOMERS 32 SUSTAINABLE AND RESPONSIBLE FINANCING 36 ALL-BAREUN DGB 40 R E S P O N S I B L E BA N K I N G 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 01 PIONEERING FUTURE FINANCE A recent financial paradigm shift is quickly changing the financial environment. We believe that it is important to implement big data and other new technologies to keep business growing while uncovering new growth engines to actively prepare for the future. Management Approaches DGB Financial Group has stepped up as an international company by entering the markets of Cambodia and Laos. The Group has also been making efforts to actively prepare for the Fourth Industrial Revolution through steps such as building the DGB Innovation Center to consolidate IT management and expanding non-face-to-face channels. Future Direction By expanding our business in Cambodia and entering the new market in Myanmar, DGB Cam Capital Specialized Bank Net Profit Financial Group is planning to build a Southeast Asian Financial hub. Meanwhile in Korea, the Group plans to expand the scope of our business throughout the country by establishing combined branch services and implementing a diverse range of digital strategies $ 3,395,000 utilizing the synergy between our affiliates. Preparation to launch 2018 Performance 2019 Target KPIs the Myanmar business Market Share in Daegu Gyeongbuk (Loan, %) Market Share in Daegu Gyeongbuk (Deposit, %) 24.8% 36.5% 25% 38% NBFI NON-BANK BIS Ratio (%) 12.82% 12.9% FINANCIAL INSTITUTE ROA/ROE 0.64%/9.27% 0.65%/9.30% 26 CORE ISSUES PIONEERING FINANCE FOR SUSTAINABLE AND ALL-BAREUN DGB FUTURE FINANCE HAPPINESS OF CUSTOMERS RESPONSIBLE FINANCING Leap Forward as a Comprehensive Financial Group With the acquisition of Hi Investment & Securities in 2018, DGB Financial Group now comprises eight affiliates. By maximizing the synergy effect among the affiliates, the Group will be able to strengthen our sales channels by expanding external business and marketing at the bank teller window. By securing new sources of revenue, we will diversify our internal portfolio, which we plan to use to achieve sustainable results. Entering the Global Market Global Entry Strategy As a sustainable business, DGB Financial Group continuously strives to strengthen our competitiveness. Therefore, we have established a global entry strategy of Glocalization (globalization while promoting local characteristics) and Digital Transformation (digitizing existing offline networks). we strive to rise from a regional to a global business. By enhancing the independence of foreign branches and implementing a specialized digital finance service to match the needs of local customers, DGB Financial Group will implement a unique strategy to grow into a company that leads the global market. CAMBODIA P H N U M P E N H Acquiring the Cam Capital Specialized Bank In October 2017, DGB Daegu Bank signed the SPA to take over the Cambodian financial firm Cam Capital Specialized Bank, and in December received approval from the National Bank of Cambodia to trade stocks. By January 2018, registration with Cambodia’s Ministry of Commerce was finalized and the acquisition of Cam Capital Specialized Bank was complete, officially allowing entry into the Cambodian financial market. After acquiring a 100% stake in Cam Capital, DGB Daegu Bank changed the business name to DGB Specialized Bank, and DGB Daegu Bank’s first overseas corporation was established. DGB Financial Group has continued to expand into the global market, and by adding Cambodia to the Group’s presence in China, Vietnam and Laos, we have further solidified the basis for growth in the Southeast Asian region. By exploring new markets and starting new businesses, DGB Financial Group will continue to expand our global network. DGB Specialized Bank 27 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MYANMAR NON-BANKING FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS Entering the Myanmar NBFI by Opening a Local Office On the back of DGB Capital’s successful market entry experience with Laos DLLC (DGB Lao Leasing Co., Ltd.), we are preparing to enter the Myanmar NBFI (Non-Banking Financial Institutions). Located in a strategically well-placed position in Southeast Asia bordering China and India, and with the growing buying power with a population of 5.4 million, Myanmar is seen as a new “land of opportunity.” But the NBFI has not yet opened to foreign capital, being a non-bank financial group. By establishing an overseas office in Myanmar, DGB Capital will be the first to react to a change in policy and preemptively secure opportunities in the NBFI market. To this end, in March 2019, we completed the acceptance report with the financial supervisory authorities to set up an overseas office in Myanmar and we have relocated employees to proceed with its establishment. This is a preemptive measure knowing that the Myanmar policy-making authorities usually take more than 200 days to reach a decision on the establishment of overseas offices. Through that office, DGB Capital will thoroughly prepare for the approval of a NBFI license in Myanmar and be ready to take this business opportunity. The drive to enter the Myanmar NBFI is for DGB Capital to secure future growth engines by expanding our overseas network, and we are sure this will contribute to the development of DGB Financial Group’s “Indochina Financial Belt,” which extends into Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam. LAOS DGB LAO LEASING CO.,LTD. Securing the Competitiveness of DGB Lao Leasing Co. (DLLC) DGB Lao Leasing Co.,Ltd. (DLLC), which was established in Laos by DGB Capital in December 2016, returned a positive net profit within one year of establishment. In 2018, net profit totaled US $499,000, making it the first Korean financial leasing company to make a cumulative gain in Laos. With total assets of around US $41 million as of March 2019, DLLC has become a leading foreign financial leasing company in Laos. DLLC is currently strengthening the core competencies of its financial businesses, credit screening and bond management. By gathering and analyzing the types of transactions made, and using the basic data of existing customers, we are currently developing a screening system exclusively for Laos. Through cooperation with local bond management companies we have also been sending employees of the DLLC to those companies to acquire necessary skills for local bond management. We trust that our active efforts in localization, taken to strengthen our core capabilities, will raise DLLC’s continuous growth potential. DLLC, DGB Lao Leasing Co.,Ltd. Aside from this, DLLC also believes the finding of new profitable businesses to diversify its portfolio will become an important aspect of securing business growth in the future. To this end, a company-wide workshop was held in December 2018 under the theme of preparing for business expansion and strengthening work capabilities. Moreover, Net Profit of DLLC in 2018 in order to inspire a sense of belonging with the local employees, in April 2018 we launched the “DLLC Loyalty Program,” which provided the select staff with opportuni499,000 ties for training in Korea, and we plan to expand this program in the future. US $ With the synergy of parent companies DGB Capital and DGB Daegu Bank, DLLC will focus on its core competencies, cooperate with diverse partners, discover new markets and new businesses, and do everything we can to prepare for future growth. 28 CORE ISSUES PIONEERING FINANCE FOR SUSTAINABLE AND ALL-BAREUN DGB FUTURE FINANCE HAPPINESS OF CUSTOMERS RESPONSIBLE FINANCING Expanding Fields of Business Acquiring Hi Investment & Securities In October 2018, DGB Financial Group acquired Hi Investment & Securities, and through this became the Korea's first regional financial group to have a balanced business line consisting of banking, insurance, stocks and asset management, and a stable profit base, which jumped to some 70 trillion won. By entering the securities business, DGB Financial Group expects to expand the Corporate Investment Banking business, including IPOs, corporate bond issuance, underwriting and securities brokerage. Moreover, by utilizing the existing Group’s customer base in the Daegu/North Gyeongsang province and Hi Securities & Investment’s customer base in Seoul and Southeast Asia, we believe we can establish a combined bank in the form of BWB (banking + securities) system, maximizing our sales capacity. Additionally, not only will we be able to expand our existing strength in the Investment Banking (IB) sector through the synergy of selling combined securities products and Launch Ceremony of Hi Securities & Investment services via our Group affiliates, we expect to become a securities firm that is also competitive in the retail and Principal Investment (PI) sectors. Strengthening Group Synergy To build practical cooperative relationships between the affiliates, DGB Financial Group DGB Daegu Bank and Hi Securities & has produced a joint product guide and has been carrying out joint marketing. MoreInvestment’s Combined branch over, through a CI renewal, the Group’s previously Daegu Bank-centered image has expanded to include all the affiliates. Opening of 1 branch in Seoul In 2018, DGB Financial Group acquired Hi Investment & Securities, and became the first regional bank to operate in all sectors of the financial business line, including bank2 ing, securities and insurance. With 2019 as its first year as a comprehensive financial Opening of branch in Daegu group, DGB Financial Group has established a DGB Synergy Strategy Office to help create synergy between the affiliates. DGB Financial Group established 3 BIBs (Branch-In Branch) of DGB Daegu Bank and Hi Investment& Securities (2 in Daegu, 1 in Seoul) in Expanding Synergy between 2019. Through this, we will expand the synergy between banking and securities. banks and securities Expanding Business Networks in the Capital To overcome the limitations of regionalism and become a pioneering national bank, DGB Financial Group is moving forward to expand its business networks in the Seoul metropolitan area. To achieve this objective, we purchased the Daewoo Shipbuilding and Marine Engineering building, into which DGB Life Insurance and DGB Capital have moved. By 2020, DGB Financial Group aims to gather all the affiliates scattered throughout Seoul to one location to strengthen the Group’s competitiveness. To expand the Group’s business foundation and in the metropolitan area, and to vitalize business, a Seoul business innovation office has been established. DGB Financial Group has hired the former branch manager of a commercial bank, and by launching a two-in-one mobile business (mobile branches) the first of its kind for a financial organization we will expand our business to the capital. 29 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Strengthening Competitiveness in Digital Finance Digitalization Strategy To allow greater convenience in financial transactions and BEST Digital Bank greater rewards, there has been a relaxation and opening up of regulations for digital finance laws. This has inevitably led to Foundations of Digital Transformation competition in the digital banking sector with fintech companies and internet-only banks. Therefore, we are pursuing a Digital Transformation to re-center our business structure on digital, · I ncrease digital ·C hange to remote · I mprove long-term corand to modernize our organization, processes, business models points of contact channel profitability porate culture and our business culture. ·R  ebuild data-cen·A cquire wider cus·C  reate opportunities to tered value tomer base nurture internal talent Preparing for the Fourth Industrial Revolution Fintech, artificial intelligence and big data-based marketing, and Strengthen digital Digital Marketing InnoImproving capabilities other new technologies are creating a new digital financial envibased business vation of digital staff ronment for businesses in Korea. This change heralds a great upheaval in the financial world. · Create combined DGB · Increase competitive· Data analyst training mobile platform ness of non-face-to-face · Upgrade “Vision” proproducts To stay ahead of these market changes, DGB Financial Group · Create big data platform gram has established a digital innovation office. Marking 2019 as the · Secure differentiation of · Launch corporate bank· Invigorate digital trainfirst year of the Digital Transformation, we plan to lay the foundigital content ing upgrade business ing system dation for the next 10 years to come. · Increase business activities of non-face-to-face channels * Specialists of non-face-to-face products Relocating and Building the DGB Innovation Center To actively prepare for the digital financial environment that is prompted by the Fourth Industrial Revolution, DGB Financial Group has completed the new DGB Innovation Center(DIC). The new IT center has 9 above-ground floors and 1 below-ground floor. It has been built to withstand a magnitude 9.0 earthquake, has the highest quality information and communication equipment, and has been certified as environmentally friendly. Computer equipment from all of the DGB Financial Group affiliates have been moved to the DGB Innovation Center. Not only does the DGB Innovation Center provide more secure and efficient IT services, it will contribute to synergy among the affiliates by consolidating the Group’s IT management. Digital IT R&D Center DGB Daegu Bank is responding to the Fourth Industrial Revolution by consistently conducting R&D in the central areas of IT and new technology. To raise our competitiveness, we have been Industry-Academia operating the Digital R&D Center since 2016. joint lab in Daegu and North Gyeongsang Province In 2018, the second IT R&D Center examined ideas such as the utilization of map APIs and vitalizing local culture. For example, 16 teams from 6 universities in Daegu and North Gyeongsang 16 teams from Province formed a joint lab to study QR code payments for traditional markets and street vendors. In 2019, we intend to strengthen the capabilities of our staff by holding monthly IT semi6 nars. We expect such cooperation with businesses and universities in the region will help grow the local economy. As competition intensifies in digital banking, we will continue to lay the foununiversities dation for innovation in digital finance through R&D into IT and new technologies. 30 CORE ISSUES PIONEERING FINANCE FOR SUSTAINABLE AND ALL-BAREUN DGB FUTURE FINANCE HAPPINESS OF CUSTOMERS RESPONSIBLE FINANCING Launching Mobile Services DGB Financial Group is enhancing customer accessibility by launching various mobile services. After 8 months in development, DGB Life Insurance unveiled its mobile platform service last year. The service consists of a mobile business system (M-Smart), a mobile counter for customers, electronic document delivery, and monitoring for completion of sales. Unlike traditional electronic subscription methods, the DGB Life Insurance mobile platform was developed exclusively for smartphones, so the process is 100% paper-free, from registration to payment. In January 2019, Hi Investment & Securities launched a new-concept mobile trading system (MTS) called Hi-M. It is designed for customers to harness their power as investors with a focus on convenience. Hi-M enables remote account set-up, fingerprint authentication, simplified log-in and simplified transfers without the need for a digital certificate, all with an easy-to-use, minimalist design. DGB Life Insurance’s mobile platform service / Hi Investment & Securities’ mobile trading system, Hi-M DGB Digital Fashionista In April 2018, DGB Financial Group launched Digital Fashionista, which will pioneer the development of digital finance by leading the digital culture of the Group. Digital Fashionista is a group of staff who study digital technologies and other trends to nurture group-wide staff capabilities. By pushing ideas from inside and outside the organization, they attempt to discover new, unique business models for DGB Financial Group. Its 22 young members come from across our affiliates, bringing with them an interest in all things digital and an adventurous spirit. While in the group, they manage and participate in the DGB Platform-Fintech competition, propose new digital products and services, and grow our digital culture. Digital Fashionista Platform-Fintech Competition To respond quickly to the Fourth Industrial Revolution and thereby become a global financial group, we held the first DGB Financial Group Platform and Fintech Competition in June 2018, targeting smart companies in the platform/fintech sector, ordinary citizens and university students. Divided into two areas, the Technology category Platform-Fintech Competition accepted submissions of websites, applications, prototypes and so on. Those with just 97 107 an idea or a proposal competed in the Idea category. In total, 97 teams took part, submitting 107 proposals to great fanfare. By partnering with the winners, DGB Financial teams proposals Group will strengthen its digitalization, and by forming connections with the participants in general, we will discover new business models and talent. 31 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 02 FINANCE FOR HAPPINESS OF CUSTOMERS The top priority at DGB Financial Group is customer satisfaction and trust. Having a direct effect on business results, Customer Satisfaction Management is an important element of sustainable management. In 2018, with a focus on protecting consumer rights, we implemented Finance for Happiness of Customers. Management Approaches We are responding to the diversification of consumer demands through our customer satisfaction efforts, such as strengthening communications, and are thereby preempting complaints. Moreover, when damages to the customers occur, we are consistently quick to respond. In this way, we are striving to raise our competitiveness and win the trust of consumers, boosting our value as a financial company. Future Direction As our digital business grows, so does the importance of security and the protection of 2019 Target personal information. We are therefore putting a wide range of efforts into consumer Assessment of Financial Conprotection, including, for example, expanding the financial education and consulting sersumer Protection Activities GOOD vices we provide for those disadvantaged by digitalization. 2018 Performance 2019 Target IN ALL CATEGORIES Assessment of Financial Consumer Protection Activities Assessment of Financial Consumer Protection Activities “Good” 8, “Fair” 2 “Good” in all categories Leaks of Personal Information (Case) Leaks of Personal Information (Case) Leaks of Personal Information (Case) 0 Customer Satisfaction (%) 0 Customer Satisfaction (%) ZERO 93.2 93.5 32 CORE ISSUES PIONEERING FINANCE FOR SUSTAINABLE AND ALL-BAREUN DGB FUTURE FINANCE HAPPINESS OF CUSTOMERS RESPONSIBLE FINANCING Improving Customer Satisfaction DGB Financial Group recognizes customer satisfaction as a top business strategy and is striving to raise it. By listening to the voices of our customers, we are able to provide the many kinds of services they want. We aim to implement customer satisfaction management through a diverse range of systems and initiatives. Customer Satisfaction Initiatives DGB Chamsori Advisory Panel To better listen to our customers and improve our management processes, DGB Daegu Bank has set up a customer group called the DGB Chamsori Advisory Panel. They seek out and inform the company about practices and systems that are illogical, cumbersome or outdated from the customer’s point of view. Customers on the Chamsori Advisory Panel express their opinions about new financial products in On-site Training development, suggest ideas for new services and help monitor our branches, among 69 Branch staff receive 1:1 coaching other roles. Training tailored to improve each branch’s weak points Sessions Customer Satisfaction Training (69 branches, 734 staff) DGB Daegu Bank conducts an array of on-going training activities such as on-site training, group training for customer Security Guard Training satisfaction. Customer Satisfaction 51 Sessions Training for new security staff and refreshers for current staff (51 sessions) Training DGB Total Care Service 155 DGB Life Insurance is managed with customers at the core. Group Training Under the DGB Total Care Service, our Financial Consultants Training to improve staff mindset and call responses to increase internal take responsibility for their customers by explaining policies to them and guiding them through financial planning. FinanSessions 27 Sessions and external customers’ satisfaction (Head office: 5 sessions, customer satisfacAnnually cial Consultants visit their customers to explain their covtion managers: 6 sessions, erage and in the event of an accident or illness help them regional headquarters: 3 sessions, etc.) receive their claims. On these visits, they also help customNew Employee Training ers update their information, plan for retirement and old age, Training on the customer service provide consulting and a range of other services, which all help raise customer satisfaction. 8 manual, role-playing, workplace etiSessions quette, situational response drills, etc. (8 sessions) Higher Returns for Customers The highest customer satisfaction comes from a return on investment. Hi Investment & Securities reflects those returns in quarterly evaluations of its branches. Our focus Customer Satisfaction going forward will be on raising value for the customer, not only through evaluations of (Satisfied Customer)(%) customer ROI, but through constant development of new products, research, analysis 92.8 93.2 and employee training. 92.0 Customer Satisfaction Survey Through NICE D&R, we conduct a phone survey and do on-site monitoring every month to raise customer satisfaction and improve the quality of our services. By sympathizing with our customers, we scored 93.2% in 2018. 2016 2017 2018 33 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Consumer Protection To prevent harm to consumers in the financial industry, DGB Financial Group is making a wide range of efforts, including the provision of financial information and the establishment of systems for consumer protection. To minimize harm and grievances, and to protect consumers’ rights and interests, DGB Financial Group is managed according to the “Guidelines for Financial Consumer Protection.” Through the establishment of a consumer protection system and integrated system, we are strengthening our consumer satisfaction management by actively responding to consumer demands for customer information protection. Consumer Protection System and Strategy Internally, DGB Daegu Bank protects consumers through a stage-by-stage Consumer Protection Structure consumer protection system for each financial product. Our system protects consumers by following rules and regulations from the product development stage to sales. Customer Also, to rectify practices seen as illogical or cumbersome, we are implementing an improvement system called VOC (Voice of the Customer). Our other efforts Branches and Head Office include operating the Chamsori Advisory Panel, a group made up of our cusFinancial Consumer Pro(Consumer tomers, holding internal campaigns and soliciting ideas from our employees, tection Council Protection PIC) designating a counter for consumer protection, organizing a Consumer Protection Day each month, and initiating support groups for civil complaints. Supreme decisionFinancial These are some of the practical ways in which we protect our consumers. Consumer Protection making body for Department consumer protection To protect the rights and interests of financial consumers, the Compliance Team at Hi Investment & Securities, led by the Chief Consumer Officer, operChaired by Chief Conates a section devoted to consumer protection. The related processes and Chief Consumer sumer Officer (CCO) standards are established by the CCO, who is also responsible for managing Officer (CCO)/ Executive and supervising consumer protection systems in each step of the financial Vice President product sales process, and overseeing consumer protection training. When consumer protection issues arise, the Financial Consumer Protection Council President convenes a meeting with the responsible department(s) to resolve the issue in the most effective way possible. Consumer Protection ABC News Letter DGB Daegu Bank publishes a monthly magazine with information for financial consumers called Consumer Protection ABC News Letter. It provides updates on finance-related law, financial tips, and cases of financial crimes and ways to prevent them. Through each branch, we are helping to prevent financial loss by providing knowledge suited to all groups, including youth, students, and adults. Integrated System for Consumer Protecon DGB Daegu Bank has established and is running an “Integrated System for Consumer Protection” to protect consumers’ rights and interests. It enables one-stop handling of consumer protection-related issues by reflecting consumer voices in the development of financial products, ensuring that sufficient explanation is given in the sales process, and providing follow-up customer service. Through alerts, the system prevents situations that could lead to civil complaints, which enables us to make sure our customers are satisfied. Preventing Telecommunications Fraud To prevent fraud committed on the pretext of lending, we send text messages to our customers about ways to protect themselves, and distribute guidelines to prevent loss due to voice phishing at traditional markets before the holidays. We diligently update our manuals on phone fraud, inform our branches of cases of fraud and fraud prevention, and reward staff who have excelled in preventing such cases. 34 CORE ISSUES PIONEERING FINANCE FOR SUSTAINABLE AND ALL-BAREUN DGB FUTURE FINANCE HAPPINESS OF CUSTOMERS RESPONSIBLE FINANCING Expanding Customer Accessibility As part of efforts to improve convenience for our customers, DGB Financial Group strives to strengthen accessibility, which we are doing in conjunction with company-wide digital innovation. We are expanding the features of our products through non-face-to-face channels such as internet banking, mobile banking and iMBank 2.0. At the same time, we are improving accessibility by offering services on holidays, opening self-service kiosks and providing services after hours. Accessibility Expansion Program DGB Self-Service Kiosks To improve convenience, DGB Daegu Bank has set up the first DGB Self-Service Kiosk at Dongdaegu Station. As a Branch-in-Branch, it offers both self-service and teller services. Video consultation, using bio-authentication, enables customers to conduct 90% of banking transactions without the need for staff assistance. The Self-Service Kiosks are open 365 days a year. Customer can access the ATM from 10 AM to 7 AM using Bio (palm verification) and can also using kiosks during non-operating hours (weekdays after 9 PM, weekends and holidays 12 PM to 6 PM), which greatly improves convenience for office workers and others who cannot visit during business hours. Five additional Self-Service Kiosks opened in 2017 and eight in 2018. In 2019, we plan to add more kiosks that are tailored to each branch, to make them even more efficient and specialized. DGB Self-Service Kiosks Branch Office at HomePlus Seongseo Holiday Operations Saturdays from 1 6PM to PM DGB Daegu Bank is strengthening accessibility for customers unable to visit on weekdays. Our branch office at HomePlus Seongseo is open on non-business days (1PM – 6PM) with the same services as weekdays. The Seongseo Operating Office, near the Seongseo Industrial Complex, provides exchange and remittance services on Sundays Seongseo Operating Office (10 AM – 4PM) for foreign workers at the complex who cannot visit the bank on week10 4 days. We are making the holidays more convenient through mobile branches at highway rest areas. Also, when millions of Koreans travel across the country for the holiSundays from AM to PM days, a range of events will make the journey more enjoyable. DGB Quick Service DGB Quick Service enables customers to make and receive payments using a simple six-digit password. This is Korea’s first transfer service to accept simple passwords as digital signatures. Customers signed up for digital finance services can use the service by downloading the iMBank or DGB SmartBank applications on a smartphone registered in their own name. DGB Financial Group will continue to strengthen accessibility through a wide range of electronic services. 35 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 03 SUSTAINABLE AND RESPONSIBLE FINANCING In line with the social atmosphere that emphasizes corporate social responsibility, the DGB Financial Group, as a financial group, aims to achieve positive social impacts while fulfilling corporate social responsibility through sustainable responsible finance. Management Approaches DGB Financial Group is pursuing synergy and mutual growth with regional communities by introducing various financial products to promote the public interest, support promising small and medium-sized businesses and provide assistance to marginalized income groups. Future Direction DGB Financial Group prioritizes mutual growth with regional communities. We will proDGB NEW vide socially responsible financial services by expanding our support for local citizens and small businesses in the region. BEGINNING CREDIT RECOVERY PROGRAM KPIs 2018 Performance 2019 Target DGB Cyber Green Branch (No. of Accounts) 3,242 3,566 DGB DGB Cyber Green Branch (Sales Amount) SME Loan Amount KRW 3.186 bil. KRW 22 tril. KRW 3.504 bil. KRW 23 tril. TECH BIZ LOAN SME Loan Ratio 63% 63% 36 CORE ISSUES PIONEERING FINANCE FOR SUSTAINABLE AND ALL-BAREUN DGB FUTURE FINANCE HAPPINESS OF CUSTOMERS RESPONSIBLE FINANCING Inclusive Finance Technology Financing DGB Financial Group is taking a socially responsible stance in providing susDGB Daegu Bank offers low-interest technology financing loans for small tainable financial products that promote harmony and mutual growth. For and medium-sized enterprises with high growth potential and competitive this purpose, we are offering products and support tailored to the common technology. DGB Tech Biz Loans offer low-interest, high-limit credit lines to people and putting into practice our mission of sharing dreams and prosoutstanding SMEs and maintain close mutual cooperation with these firms. perity with the local community. DGB Financial Group continues to verify and renew these technology financing products to ensure that they stay competitive. Inclusive Finance In 2019, DGB Daegu Bank introduced the DGB New Beginning credit recovery program for the financially vulnerable. The program was launched in March, and in the four months through June, it helped marginalized income earners in the region by restructuring loans using the industry’s highest loan reduction rate. A flexible reduction rate of between 40% and 90% was applied for clients with long-term loans, depending on their various needs, and refinancing measures were also offered, including 5-year installment programs and incentives for on-time payments. We will continue to support Specialized Institution for Technology Commercialization the common people and small and medium-sized enterprises in the future DGB Daegu Bank has been designated as a specialized institution for techthrough an array of credit recovery programs. nology commercialization by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy. As the first financial company to be designated as such, DGB Daegu Bank offers tech-related consulting services for business clients, who use them to attain specialized technology and market competitiveness. Major Products for Inclusive Finance 2016 2017 2018 Division No. of Total Amount No. of Total Amount No. of Total Amount Accounts (KRW 100 mil.) Accounts (KRW 100 mil.) Accounts (KRW 100 mil.) DGB Seeds of New Hope Loans 20,556 1,335 21,180 1,305 22,428 1,328 DGB Conversion Loans 1,127 68 827 42 510 38 Special Guarantee Loans for SMEs in North Gyeong1,799 193 1,660 157 1,491 135 sang Province Sunshine Loans for University Students 852 266 1,254 33 1,593 40 Agreement Warranty of Jointly Support Startups 14 35 15 38 15 37 Special Guarantee for Restarting after Startup Failure 0 0 2 1 9 3 Special Guarantee Restructuring and Job Support 1,330 332 1,260 303 1,102 221 Special Guarantee for Stabilization of Small Business 1,700 374 1,466 284 1,273 209 Special Guarantee for Hope Share of Small Business 925 203 788 170 678 144 DGB Bridge Loan with Mid-Interest 61 6 234 24 343 31 DGB Smart & Secure Mid-range Interest Rate Loan 256 17 555 29 1,280 94 Workers e-Start Loan 290 11 518 17 528 17 Major Products for Tech Loans (KRW mil.) Division 2016 2017 2018 DGB Tech Biz Loans 1,023,922 1,311,744 1,371,079 Technology Start-up Loans 73,714 63,058 44,491 37 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DGB Cyber DGB Cyber Green Finance Green Branches: Green Branches: No. of Accounts Amount of Sales (KRW mil.) DGB Financial Group offers financial services and products that take into account their environmental impact. DGB Daegu Bank has signed an agreement 3,316 3,298 with the Daegu city government to support an initiative to widen the distribution 3,242 3,186 of electric cars by providing low-interest loans in the 3% range for electric vehi2,711 cle buyers, installing charging stations at bank branches, and purchasing electric 2,292 cars for company use. DGB Cyber Green Branches The DGB Cyber Green branches of DGB Daegu Bank specialize in environmental protection. DGB Cyber Green offers eco-friendly financial products, such as Green Deposits, Green Health Installment Savings, DGB Green Loans and DGB Green Cards, all of which raise environmental awareness among customers. DGB Daegu Bank’s Green Card accrues eco-friendly mileage, and its Green 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Deposits offer prime rates for account holders who engage in eco-friendly activities. Some revenues from these products are allocated to a fund that supports *Annual performance recalculated based on changes and environmental protection efforts in the region. terminations of Cyber Green products Supporting Eco-Friendly Companies DGB Financial Group offers a variety of benefits and incentives for eco-friendly companies. DGB Daegu Bank offers special, low-interest loans to environmentally sustainable firms in cooperation with the Korea Environmental Industry & Technology Institute. It utilizes the enViance system (financial support for green management) operated by the Ministry of Environment to identity eco-friendly companies that have reduced pollutant emissions and taken preventative measures against environmental damage. DGB Daegu Bank provides 1 ~ 2% interest rate benefits within the limit of KRW 300 million to eco-friendly companies. DGB Financial Group will continue to promote eco-friendly management of local companies through the discovery of ecofriendly companies and the preferential treatment with financial support. Green Financial Product Sales Division 2016 2017 2018 No. of Total Amount No. of Total Amount No. of Total Amount Accounts (KRW mil.) Accounts (KRW mil.) Accounts (KRW mil.) Eco-friendly Green 66 97 34 42 24 30 Green Health 627 4,041 440 3,103 428 2,889 Installment Dokdo Savings 8,929 9,340 171 590 27,663 19,767 In My Hands 15,555 44,607 16,317 64,389 18,481 70,962 e-U Savings 8,617 26,724 10,427 47,248 14,922 72,318 I-M Savings (Launched Aug. 2, 2017) 2,503 3,276 7,502 25,564 Eco-friendly Green 96 1,855 31 355 18 250 Dokdo Savings 16,392 303,870 282 3,694 26,471 492,409 Financial In My Hands 14,459 282,745 14,345 286,146 14,766 261,012 Technique e-U Deposits 7,292 118,986 6,077 110,925 8,379 147,973 I-M Deposits (Launched Aug. 2, 2017) 2,419 29,820 8,754 172,562 38 CORE ISSUES PIONEERING FINANCE FOR SUSTAINABLE AND ALL-BAREUN DGB FUTURE FINANCE HAPPINESS OF CUSTOMERS RESPONSIBLE FINANCING Financing for Social Responsibility DGB Financial Group offers a variety of financial products to promote socially DGB Daegu Bank Public Service Fund Products (KRW mil.) responsible finance, such as Social Responsible Investment (SRI) funds. DGB Daegu Bank offers the Woori Frontier Sustainable Business SRI Equity Fund Division 2016 2017 2018 and the Mirae Asset Love Sharing ETF Fund, which set aside 10% of their profits and their 0.5% management fees for donations made in the client’s name. Midas Responsible Investment Equity Investment Trust 94 69 84 DGB Daegu Bank also provides special guarantees for pro bono businesses, supports job-creating firms and young entrepreneurs, and provides special Mirae Asset Love Sharing ETF guarantee loans to help create new jobs. Through such endeavors, DGB Daegu Equity Investment Trust 1,551 558 450 Bank is working to address social issues and aid the development of regional Allianz Active SRI Securities communities. We will continue to build a model that creates shared value to Investment Trust 80 47 53 induce positive social changes and enhance our business performance as a socially responsible financial company. Included in FTSE4Good Index for 8th Straight Year In 2018, DGB Financial Group was included in the FTSE4Good Index for an FTSE4Good Index eighth consecutive year. The index was created to encourage more investment in firms with an outstanding record in corporate social responsibility. The FTSE4Good Index is an important global barometer of social responsibility released by the Financial Times Stock Exchange (FTSE), and DGB Financial Group’s inclusion is a recognition of its efforts to fulfill its social responsibility obligations. 8TH STRAIGHT YEAR Support for SMEs Cooperation Agreement: DGB Daegu Bank – Korea Credit Guarantee Fund – Korea Technology Finance Corporation DGB Daegu Bank signed an agreement with the Korea Credit Guarantee Fund (KODIT) and the Korea Technology Finance Corporation (KOTEC) in March 2019 to provide guarantees for small businesses including those that create jobs. DGB Daegu Bank will allocate KRW 2.6 billion to these two institutions and support SME Loans (KRW tril.) loans based on the KRW 36 billion worth of guarantees issued by them. In accordance with KODIT and KOTEC standards, guaranteed loans will be extended to 2016 21.0 job-creating firms, pro bono businesses and the self-employed recommended by 2017 22.0 DGB Daegu Bank. On the basis of this agreement, DGB Daegu Bank plans to further extend its financial support for these businesses as a part of building friendly 2018 22.0 finance. SME Loan Ratio (%) Ranked 1st Again for SME Support in 2018 At the 2018 Financial Consumer Protection Awards, DGB Daegu Bank was ranked 2016 64.9 1st in the category of SMEs. This was in recognition of DGB Daegu Bank’s contri2017 64.5 butions to relationship-based finance through which it identifies regional businesses with high growth potential and offers long-term financing. We are working 2018 63.0 to build long-term, trust-based relationships with companies, through which we can provide long-term loans, equity investment and consulting services, and share successful business strategies. 39 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 04 ALL-BAREUN DGB A company’s ethical management standards are an important criterion that determines its reputation. In recent years, many local firms have faced intense demands from society that they meet global ethical management standards. DGB Financial Group must take a proactive stance in order to build a relationship of trust with its clients. Management Approaches DGB Financial Group has launched the ALL-Bareun DGB ethical management brand and engaged in system reforms to establish ethical management practices across the entire organization. It has set up a globally-standardized process to block and prevent corruption risks, becoming the first Korean financial company to receive the ISO37001 certification for its anti-corruption management systems as it pioneers ethical management practices in the financial industry. Verification of the Future Direction ISO37001 DGB Financial Group is working to widen the adoption of the ISO37001 certification, certification obtained in 2018, to all of our affiliated entities. DGB employees and executives will strive to continue these reform efforts in order to become a more trusted firm. ALL2018 Performance 2019 Target BAREUN KPIs Number of corruption cases and DGB legal violations 0 0 Average number of ethics classes taken per person 56 58 40 CORE ISSUES PIONEERING FINANCE FOR SUSTAINABLE AND ALL-BAREUN DGB FUTURE FINANCE HAPPINESS OF CUSTOMERS RESPONSIBLE FINANCING Promoting Ethical Management DGB Financial Group is building a company culture that values ethical management above all, to fulfill its stated goal of being a trusted, sustainably managed and upright business. In 2018, the Group established an ethical management brand and was internationally certified (ISO37001) for its anti-corruption management system, both of which are firsts for a Korean financial company. In 2019, the Group plans to widen the adoption of its anti-corruption management systems to all affiliated entities. Launch of the “ALL-Bareun DGB” Ethical Management Brand DGB Financial Group has embarked on a systematic reform drive to rectify the organizational practices of the past and establish a transparent and ethical management process. As part of these efforts, we launched the industry’s first ethical management Ethical Management brand, “ALL-Bareun DGB.” The brand reflects the company’s determination to take Brand Promotional Video an honorable path with the cooperation of all employees and executives, and will be https://youtu.be/3L6DxYj5U6U the focal point in the company’s drive to establish ethical management practices. The brand was unveiled at a meeting of company presidents at the start of 2019. Going forward, the ALL-Bareun DGB movement will be extended to all affiliated entities to promote ethical, righteous and sustainable management practices. Timeline of the Promting 2018. 12. 28 2019. 01. 03 Ethical Management Electronic signature of the Announcement of ethical Group’s 2019 ethics charter management brand promotion video 2018. 10. 04 2018. 12. 27 2019. 01. 04 Announcement of plan to Announcement of ethical Announcement of distribution of advance ethical management management brand “ALL-Bareun DGB” promotional plaques for being (Group ethical management Manufacture and installation of a brand of ethical management master plan) banners promoting the ethical management brand 2018. 10. 12 2018. 12. 26 2019. 01. 18 Public idea contest for Launched a campaign to Announcement of Group’s advancement DGB Financial Group’s implement ethical management of ethical management leadership program ethical management practices within the Group in 2019 Start of ethical management brand usage on employee business cards 2018. 11. 28 2018. 12. 18 2019. 01. 29 Announcement of new employment Received industry’s first Announcement of Group’s advancement contracts for executives outlining certification (ISO37001) for of ethical management target program ethical job responsibilities anti-corruption management [Setting of Group’s ethical management vision] 41 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Ethical Management System DGB Financial Group has announced its determination to establish ethical management practices through the drafting of a relevant charter and code of conduct. Also, we provided and shared guidelines on the code of conduct, including specific action measures that employees and executives can take to do their jobs ethically. The guidelines stipulate that any violations must be reported to legal monitors, who must also be consulted regarding any action where legality is uncertain. DGB Ethics Charter DGB Ethics Code of Conduct http://www.dgbfg.co.kr/ad1001.fg http://www.dgbfg.co.kr/ad1002.fg#none Ethical Management in Practice DGB Financial Group promotes ethical management practices from all of its employees and executives. We will take the initiative in respecting social values, abiding by laws and regulations, and establishing a fair financial order. Internal Reporting System We operate an internal reporting system to prevent or resolve illegal and unjustified actions in an expedient manner, and minimize any losses stemming from such incidents. All employees and board members are obligated to report any information they have related to actions that violate corporate ethics and harm the public interest. DGB Financial Group practices ethical management by protecting the identity of the internal whistleblower and ensuring confidentiality. *Reporting channels: postal service, hotline, e-mail, electronic system, homepage, DGB mobile office Ethical Employment Contracts for Executives Internal Control System The new employment contracts with our executives obligate them to perform their (Number of Audits Performed) jobs ethically to ensure that the top management sets a good example for others. All executives at DGB Financial Group are required to sign a contract prohibiting them Classification 2016 2017 2018 from engaging in acts of corruption such as bribe-taking, influence-peddling, and subNormal Audit 1,471 1,541 1,707 jects them to severe punishment in case of violations. General Audit 240 221 218 Training on Money Laundry Prevention Special Audit 14 18 14 Mandatory education and training are provided for money-laundering prevention. Regular Audit* 331,231 284,892 292,850 Self-monitoring with respect to corporate policy compliance is carried out monthly on all employees and executives to prevent these persons from being involved in any * Since regular audit items are determined by concerns about financial crimes or accidents, either directly or indirectly. The firm also shares real-time accidents and changes in regulations, there are discrepancies in information on all financial crimes and accidents that occur within the industry. the number of cases by year. 42 CORE ISSUES PIONEERING FINANCE FOR SUSTAINABLE AND ALL-BAREUN DGB FUTURE FINANCE HAPPINESS OF CUSTOMERS RESPONSIBLE FINANCING INTERNATIONALLY CERTIFIED ANTI-CORRUPTION MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS Internationally Certified Anti-corruption Management Systems In December 2018, DGB Financial Group became the first South Korean financial company to earn ISO37001 certification for its anti-corruption management systems. ISO37001 is a global standard established by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) governing an organization’s ethical management, corruption prevention, internal control and legal compliance. DGB Financial Group created a task force and consulted with experts to analyze its corruption risk, draft regulations and adopt monitoring and improvement measures, and underwent strict evaluations for the ISO37001 certification. It is the culmination of DGB Financial Group’s organizational reform efforts, signifying its adoption of a globally-recognized process to minimize corruption risk. The program will be widened to all affiliated entities so that they can be equipped with systems that meet ISO37001 standards, and they will serve as a foundation for the Group’s industry leadership in terms of ethical management. Major Programs Campaign to Adopt Ethical Management within 2019 Each affiliate is taking specific actions in line with the overarching goal of ‘promoting clear ethical awareness, strong ethical execution, LEADERS IN and confidently transparent DGB. ETHICAL MANAGEMENT ’ Leaders in Ethical Management Leaders in Ethical Management Ethical management role models help lead the group and its affiliates’ ethical management policies, promoting their implementation and reporting on their progress. They are expected to play a central role in the Group’s establishment of ethical management practices. Ethical Management Education and Training Ethical management education is mandatory for all employees and executives. Training is provided not only in traditional forms, but also online and through specialized courses. Group legal compliEthical Management Awards Legal compliance ance support department department Starting in 2019, DGB Financial Group plans to present annual awards in ethical management after evaluating the Group’s various affiliates. Through such recognition, the Group plans to encourage more ethical management practices from its affiliates and promote better ethics and legal compliance from its executives. 43 Based on materiality tests considering business impact and stakeholder interest, we have laid out six issues that are expected to have a material effect on the Group. In the “General Issues” section, we have laid out the main issues of the previous year, but we also report on issues not selected for this year. This section covers our efforts to manage important issues in a continuous manner. B U S I N E S S E X PA N S I O N CUSTOMER TRUSTED DGB FINANCIAL GROUP GENERAL ISSUES ROBUST ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE 46 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 50 R E S P O N S I B L E BA N K I N G 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 01 ROBUST Human Resource Management ORGANIZATIONAL DGB Financial Group understands that the acquisition of a STRUCTURE talented workforce leads directly to higher competitiveness. We are making efforts to bolster the competence of each employee and executive, to hire new employees best suited to DGB’s requirements through a fair recruitment process and to It has become more important than ever, carry out various education programs to cultivate a talented for sustainable growth, to improve competitiveness workforce. through the acquisition and cultivation of superior talent. There is also growing social demand for recruitment based on capabilities and creation of jobs, as well Securing Talent as the promotion of a family-oriented organizational culture. DGB Financial Group is staying on top of these Right Talent for DGB Financial Group changes through the reorganization of our policies and DGB Financial Group is looking for employees who can create new value the creation of new programs. based on devotion and honesty. We are looking for talent with humility to respect others and serve our clients and our community, honest employees with a strong sense of responsibility and inspire trust, as well Materiality matrix as those who are willing and able to think creatively and independently. Fair Recruitment Procedures Business Impact DGB Financial Group aims to establish a fair recruitment procedure. DGB Work-life balDaegu Bank comprehensively revamped our recruitment process in the ance second half of 2018. The final interviews are accompanied by an external interviewer and the entire interview is also monitored internally by the Group’s legal affairs department, guaranteeing transparency. Strengthened education programs to Employment Stability cultivate future talent DGB Financial Group is making efforts to bolster employment stability in line with ongoing social concerns such as the vulnerability of irregular workers. DGB Daegu Bank understands that addressing employment Social Interest stability is necessary to encourage employees’ motivation and raise pride to their jobs. To this end, the bank has hired all new employees as fullDirection of Sustainable Management time, regular employees and is working to convert our irregular workers into regular workers. DGB Financial Group is making efforts to work together with our employees to ensure a sustainable future. We will establish a corporate culture that employees want Fair Evaluation and Compensation to be a part of by undertaking organizational reform and DGB Financial Group conducts performance evaluations based on indiexpanding our program to promote a better work-life vidual competence, using a range of appraisals to ensure fairness and objectivity. Performance evaluations are based on MBO and KPI that balance. reflect the unique characteristics of different departments and branches, and the results are used to determine promotions, remuneration, bonus payments and job assignments. Also, the individual strengths and weakKPIs 2018 Perfor2019 nesses of employees are identified and shared through feedback, assistmance Target ing in long-term self-improvement measures and future performance Training hours per person (Hour) 80 82 achievements. Employee satisfaction (Point) 95 96 Rate of parental leave 95.5% 100% uptake and return (%) 46 GENERAL ISSUES ROBUST ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Human Resource Development DGB Daegu Bank is also working to improve accessibility to education. Based on LMS (Learning Management System), we are developing a self-diStrengthening Employee Competencies rected learning culture. In line with the latest education trends, we are operDGB Financial Group provides education and training programs to maxating an online-based learning platform that integrates financial processes imize each individual’s specialized talents. DGB Daegu Bank operates a such as job training and certification preparation as well as non-financial mentor program for new employees and a CDP (Career Development Proprocesses such as IT and foreign language courses. gram) for specialized personnel. We are also strengthening on-the-job training as it looks to shift away from traditional, theory-based education. We have appointed professors and lecturers in the bank in accordance with DGB HIPO Program the Knowledge Sharing Program to conduct practical training and improve To achieve our long-term vision and successfully execute our business stratpractical business skills for the training of the Universal Banker. egy, DGB Financial Group understands the need to form a leadership pipeline centered on core talent. For this purpose, we have established the DGB HIPO Program. HIPO is an abbreviation of “High Potential,” and is intended DGB Daegu Bank training hours to recruit and cultivate employees that will form the Group’s core talent. The main idea of the HIPO Program is recruiting employees in four categories, [Average training [Average training cost depending on the organizational level, who are then managed collectively hours per person (Hour)] per person (KRW 1,000)] by the Group. Selected employees are developed into industry-leading tal1,000 ent through a systematic cultivation process, including management of the 80 925 CDP (Career Development Program), performance in challenging assign70 68 600 ments and projects, and various training programs. Future DGB Financial Group employees will be selected from this HIPO talent pool through a rigorous evaluation process. The HIPO Program is part of DGB Financial Group’s efforts to employ human resources in a fair and transparent manner, and it is expected that the program will boost employee performance and morale for wider competitive benefits to the Group overall. 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Right Talent for DGB Financial Group DGB Financial Group’s Future DGB Financial Group seeks those with humility, honesty and an enterprising spirit Core Respect Integrity Passion Competencies Service mind / Professionalism Understanding of principles / Pride / Insight / Creativity / / Sense of duty / Teamwork Integrity and trust / Challenge Spirit (open mind) Strong will to achieve goals Sense of vocation Right Talent RESPECT INTEGRITY PASSION Human resources who respect Human resources with a strong Human resources with creativpeople and contribute to local sense of responsibility and ity, positive mindset, communities and customers are virtuous and reliable and a challenging spirit Statement Human resources who can create new value based on respect and integrity 47 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT A Corporate Culture Employees Flexible Corporate Culture DGB Financial Group has a Casual Friday dress code policy, which is Want to Join observed every week to boost work efficiency. DGB Daegu Bank adopted Casual Friday in 2006, as did Hi Investment & Securities in November 2018. DGB Financial Group is working to nurture self-confidence in our employees along with an enthusiasm for work by expanding DGB Daegu Bank also adopted a No-Tie policy in 2018. This was also the kind of world-class culture they want to be a part of. To do extended to employees at headquarters who do not attend client meetings. In loosening the dress code, the executives are leading by example, and are this, we are pursuing innovation in work culture and providing a creating a more comfortable and flexible work environment. range of programs to enable employees to achieve work-life balance and do their jobs with joy and vigor. DGB Youth Frontier DGB Financial Group aims to fulfill our motto of creating a “New DGB” based on creative ideas and on-the-spot feedback through DGB Youth Frontier, made up of employees in their 20s and 30s. In its 5th iteration from February to December 2018, the opinion group led many efforts to reform the organizational culture through practical proposals. We have also proReform of Corporate Culture moted a culture of leading by example through various campaigns and programs. Sound Corporate Culture DGB Financial Group aims to establish a sound corporate culture by engagStronger Synergy Among Employees ing in reform campaigns and ending outdated practices. DGB Financial Group aims to strengthen internal synergy by establishing an organizational culture that emphasizes the value of communication. DGB Organizational Culture Reform Programs Financial Group’s “DGB Be One” initiative has identified six components that must be consolidated in this regard, including organizational culture, Division Details joint enterprises, IT integration, social contributions, treating of employees like family, and sharing a common pool of resources. DGB Financial Group Redesign 6 guidelines for company dinners hopes to induce positive changes in the future through communication and Company 119 Principle (1 type of drink at 1 venue until 9 PM) Dinners Themed dinners (leisure, culture, trending etc.) understanding, and to reflect employee opinions to strengthen internal synNo coercion (no mandatory attendance, ergy and boost job satisfaction. short notices or pressure to drink) 1-night, 2-day excursions prohibited Driving under the influence strictly prohibited Employee suggestions reflected in company dinners DGB Daegu Bank Employee Satisfaction (Point) Ease Formality Reducing formality to improve labor productivity Reducing MS PowerPoint use by HQ and better use of MS Word 95 95 Banning the drafting of speeches for manager-level 90 employees by subordinates during corporate events Banning gift-giving customs for anniversaries and other dates Promote Split Pay Discouraging the use of wire transfers Use of IM Bank bill-splitting functions Disband Eliminating nepotism based on academic Internal Alumni and regional ties 2016 2017 2018 48 GENERAL ISSUES ROBUST ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Employee Satisfaction Management No. of childcare personnel (Person) DGB Family Happiness Center 129 DGB Daegu Bank operates the DGB Family Happiness Center to support 115 that employees are happy both at home and work. This is part of the firm’s 108 wider EAP (Employee Assistance Program) framework, which allows employees and their families to consult with experts on various issues .All DGB employees can access the services of the center through the DGB Family website, a telephone hotline and face-to-face meetings. The experts work with the objective of boosting employees’ overall life satisfaction. The firm also operates many employee-oriented programs, such as concerts, which improve job satisfaction. As part of our efforts to create happiness in the workplace, the DGB Family Happiness Center has held five 2016 2017 2018 employee engagement events in which a total of 337 employees participated in 2018. Healthcare of Employees Expansion of Family-Oriented Culture DGB Daegu Bank provides employee healthcare services to ensure that our DGB Financial Group has adopted a variety of programs to promote better workers are healthy. We provide diagnoses and individual health consultawork-life balance, revitalize the Group’s operations and establish a familytions through our 'On-Demand Healthcare' program and also conduct tests oriented culture. on their stress levels. We are promoting better employee health through programs that set metabolic and immune system health goals, where donations are triggered when they are met. DGB Daegu Bank’s Family-Oriented Programs Employee Healthcare Programs Division Details Division Beneficiary Details Family Day Promote better family relationships by expanding time at home Metabolic Employees with high blood Body fat management Employees encouraged not to work overtime Syndrome pressure, high blood sugar and diet therapy at least twice a week (Wednesday, Friday) and triglyceride levels SMART Establish a culture where employees are free to Enhancement Employees with a low Immunity Enhancement Program Relaxation take vacations at any time of Immunity level of white blood cells Campaign 3 unconditional principles (Unconditional application for leave, On-Demand Branches requested for Blood pressure, blood sugar, approval of leave and enjoyment of leave) Health-Care the service and target and body composition branches for each month measurement service 10 AM Clock-in Improvement of job satisfaction for Sympathetic and parasymTimes for Parents working parents pathetic (serotonin) test For 10 days in March, 10 AM clock-in times Health consulting for DGB for parents with children in elementary school employees and their family Automatic Flexible work-hour adjustments PC Shutdown (Log-ins possible only after 8:40 AM / Workstations automatically shut down after 6 PM) Long-term incentive system Childcare Center in Operating DGB Child Dream daycare DGB Financial Group understands that long-term employment improves workplace centers – Suseong (Center #1)/ Dalseo (Center #2) job satisfaction, which has the added benefit of ensuring work continuity and increased efficiency. With this in mind, long-term employment incenFlexible Work Pregnant workers prohibited from working tives are being provided to help employees stay motivated and remain Hours for overtime Pregnant Workers Workers 12 to 36 weeks pregnant can apply for with the firm. Engagement programs both at home and abroad are being 2-hour daily work reductions offered to employees who have worked for more than 20 years, and bonus payments are being provided to employees who meet sales and other targets to instill a sense of accomplishment and company loyalty. This has allowed the Group to maintain a high employee retention rate. 49 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 02 Supporting Regional Communities COMMUNITY DGB Financial Group understands that our future growth ENGAGEMENT prospects are directly linked to the realization of sustainable growth in the Daegu/Gyeongbuk region. We are making efforts to promote mutual growth alongside the local community and to contribute to economic development by actively In recent years, corporate entities have been supporting the region in boosting productivity and job creexpected to create social value, in addition to profits, ation. by tackling various issues in support of regional communities. DGB Financial Group understands the importance of forging a close bond of trust with the regional community by participating in activities to promote DGB Companion Volunteer Corps mutual prosperity. DGB Financial Group has been supporting the activities of the DGB Volunteer Corps, which was first established by DGB Daegu Bank in 2002 in an effort to promote mutual prosperity with the regional community. It was renamed the DGB Companion Volunteer Corps in 2012. Materiality matrix Various community engagement actions that had been conducted separately by individual departments, branches and employees was orgaBusiness Impact nized as the DGB Companion Volunteer Corps and is continuing the CSR activities. As of 2019, the DGB Companion Volunteer Corps includes 54 groups (51 regional and HQ teams, 3 specialized teams), including the newest group from Hi Investment & Securities incorporated in February 2019. They are working to share value and build healthy regional communities. Activities that benefit Efforts to stimulate regional communities the local economy by leveraging DGB’s Main Activities of the DGB Companion Volunteer Corps business competency Social Interest Sustainable Management Direction DGB Financial Group aims to deliver consistent and long-term support for the regional community through the creation of a foundation. Rather than simply providing donations, we will expand our social contributions from the community level to countries abroad to tackle a range of social issues and create social value. KPIs 2018 Performance 2019 Target Management con99 100 sulting(No. of Company) Contribution to KRW 30.8 bil. KRW 31.0 bil. Local Communities 50 GENERAL ISSUES ROBUST ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Corporate Management Consulting Center Mecenat Activities DGB Financial Group provides free, specialized consulting services for SMEs DGB Wednesday Lectures and the self-employed, that form the backbone of the regional economy. DGB Financial Group has provided free Wednesday lectures for local citiDGB’s Corporate Management Consulting Center is made up of specialists, zens since 2016 to provide them with culture experiences. The Wednesday who pass on valuable knowledge from many disciplines, including manlectures cover many disciplines including management, the arts, humanagement consulting, strategy, human resource planning and production. ities and sociology, and include guest speakers as well as various perforAround 900 companies have been provided with consulting services over a mances. These provide local citizens with diverse, high-quality cultural expe10-year period. riences. We will continue to provide various programs in the future to allow those in the community to enjoy more culture in their lives. In 2018, the services of DGB’s Corporate Management Consulting Center were used by 10 out of the 30 firms selected as leading design innovation firms by Korea’s Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy. Number of Companies Received Number of DGB Wednesday Lectures Held Management Consulting Services 19 99 11 5 94 92 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 DGB CEO Forum DGB Culture and Art DGB Financial Group hosts the DGB CEO Forum on a regular basis in DGB Financial Group is making efforts to create a thriving cultural scene in order to promote mutual growth between regional businesses and the the region by providing experience centers and organizing various arts and financial sector. The forum invites regional business leaders and related culture events. DGB Financial Group has opened an art gallery on the 1st parties to share market information and enhance local firms’ competitivefloor of the DGB Daegu Bank 2nd Head Office, which displays the works of ness. We hope the forum will continue to serve as a platform for regional regional artists and holds various events such as free theater performances. businesses to overcome challenging market environments and find new sources of growth. We will continue to engage in further activities to benefit local businesses to co-prosper with the financial sector. Number of CEO Forums Held Division 2016 2017 2018 Daegu 3 3 1 DGB Gumi 2 2 2 CEO Pohang 1 1 1 Forum Gimcheon 1 Total 6 6 5 51 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DGB Social Contribution Foundation With-U Foster Home Total-Care Through the With-U Foster Home Total-Care, which provides total care for To promote friendly finance with local communities and to foster children and adolescents, the DGB Social Contribution Foundation is strengthen the role of our partners in those communities, in practicing friendly finance by sharing dreams and happiness. The With-U Foster Home Total-Care, founded at the one-year mark of the DGB Social 2011 DGB Financial Group set up the financial sector’s first comContribution Foundation in 2012, involves all the employees and executives prehensive social contribution foundation. Using 1% of Group of DGB Financial Group, who form one-to-one mentoring relationships with resources and employee compensation, we continue to carry out children and young people to support their development in terms of life, these specialized and systematized community-based social conhealth, education culture and more. tribution activities. With-U Foster Home Total-Care Division Details Lifestyle Support side dishes and daily supplies (twice a year) DGB Social Contribution Health Employees mentoring Foundation Projects Support (Support pocket money once a month) Contributions Support health checkup (once a year) ❶ Social Welfare by DGB Financial ❷ Culture/Arts/Athletics Group in 2018 Educational Scholarship for students with excellent academic talents ❸ Environment/Global Projects Support in art, music and physical education KRW 30.8 1:1 partnership with students in the local universities and ❹ Education and Scholarships children and adolescents for academic mentoring ❺ Social Entrepreneurship BILLION (four times a month regularly) ❻ DGB With-U Volunteer Corps Cultural Provide opportunities for cultural events with employees, Support local college students and children (once every quarter) Bluebird Dream Community Children’s Center DGB Social Contribution Foundation: No. of Jobs Created* The DGB Social Contribution Foundation established the Bluebird Dream Special Project Performance Proceeds (KRW mil.) Community Children’s Center on March 21, 2012, making it the first child [ Dream Tree Educational Foundation ] welfare center set up and run by a financial institution. The Center prevents local children from low-income households from being neglected after 210 170 school and helps ensure their healthy development. 145 9 9 8 2016 2017 2018 [ Bluebird Senior Happy Workplace ] 50 51 Bluebird Senior Happy Workplace 30 As Korean society rapidly ages and the elderly population grows, their wel15 15 15 fare is becoming a social issue. To create jobs for senior citizens, the DGB Social Contribution Foundation established the Bluebird Senior Happy Workplace, a first in the financial sector. This has enabled senior citizens to put themselves to work through a range of projects like providing toys, free disinfectants and sanitizers to area kindergartens and daycares, while at the same time making a clean and healthy environment for children. 2016 2017 2018 *Jobs created through nurturing by social enterprises 52 GENERAL ISSUES ROBUST ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Educational Projects DGB Financial Education Center DGB Financial Group carries out educational programs related to the finanFor the sustainable growth of local communities, DGB Financial industry, sharing know-how related to sound personal finance and the cial Group understands the need to work for the development economy. At the DGB Financial Education Center, children and youth, as the of the young people of these communities. To be a pillar for the consumers of the future, gain financial knowledge and learn about healthy local youth, we continue to operate and develop a range of proconsumer habits. The “One Branch, One School,” which is a joint project between DGB Daegu Bank and a near-by school, provides education to stugrams to support them. At the core of the Group’s social contridents on common financial sense and healthy personal finance. bution projects is financial education, focused on the consumer. Also, the With-U Financial Education Volunteer Corps, made up of staff from the Center and local university students, provide financial and economic education to local residents. In particular, local middle and high school student groups developed their own program to be used for financial educaDream Tree Educational Foundation tion called “Let’s Play Finance,” which can also be used to make lesson plans. The Dream Tree Educational Foundation got its start in February 2012 with In recognition for their efforts, the program was given an Excellence Award the establishment of the DGB Child Welfare Agency, funded entirely by DGB in 2018 by the Financial Supervisory Service. Financial Group and DGB Daegu Bank, and which was recognized in June 2014 as the financial industry’s first social enterprise. The goal of the Dream Tree Educational Foundation is to enable children and young people to grow up with dreams and hope by providing community-based educational services. To do this, the Foundation provides a comprehensive education service that includes career education, hands-on experience and counseling. Furthermore, at the Dream Tree Career Experience Center, kids get a chance to explore by experiencing a range of jobs in finance and beyond, which enables them to form a sound understanding and approach to the idea of a career. In 2018, the scope of support was expanded to help young people not in school participate in society through the DGB Growing Dreams Project. Together with local social organizations, the Project’s participatory programs help unenrolled children develop through cultural and social activities, work and entrepreneurship. DGB Scholarship Cultural Foundation To find and nurture local talent, DGB Financial Group founded the Scholarship Cultural Foundation in 1990, through which we have supported excellent students in local communities through scholarships and other assistance. The foundation has funded the development of local schools, putting on seminars, conferences, cultural events and so on to create more opportunities. DGB Daegu Bank Scholarship Cultural Foundation Division 2016 2017 2018 High Schools No. of Beneficiaries 101 94 94 Scholarship Amount 159 147 146 (KRW mil.) Universities No. of Beneficiaries 92 88 87 Scholarship Amount 229 215 206 (KRW mil.) 53 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DGB GLOBAL VOLUNTEER CORPS August 2-4 Vietnam Ben Tre City, building houses for the underprivileged Repainting schools Presenting sports equipments Educational programs DGB Dream Concert Donation ceremony Celebratory dinner DGB Financial Group is taking our sustainable management from the local to the global level by engaging in social contribution activities overseas. In 2017, we launched the DGB Global Volunteer Corps, composed of some 50 members. It August 6-9 includes DGB employees and students from the DGB UniLaos versity Student Supporters (With-U Volunteer Corps, Student PR Ambassadors, Green University Press Corps). In August 2018, the DGB Global Volunteer Corps carried out Wall painting with the Lao volunteer work for a second consecutive year in Vietnam J Brothers baseball team and Laos. In these two countries, the volunteers helped the Building a library at Phonsinouan underprivileged through activities such as building homes Elementary School and cleaning up elementary school grounds so that chilGarden landscaping dren can study in a pleasant environment. Other projects Ducational programs ranged from educational programs to K-Pop performances. Furthermore, DGB Financial Group donated KRW 50 for the Laos dam collapse in 2018. Through our continued sharing work around the world, DGB Financial Group will practice sustainable management for a hundred years to come. August 10 Return to Korea 54 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT OF DGB FINANCIAL GROUP 56 IMPACT VALUATION MANAGEMENT 58 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 60 CSR EXPERT MEETING 62 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT 64 DGB SDGs COMMITMENT 66 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE 68 RISK MANAGEMENT 70 GREEN MANAGEMENT 72 WIN-WIN PARTNERSHIPS 74 HUMAN RIGHTS MANAGEMENT 75 LABOR-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 76 INFORMATION SECURITY 77 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT OF DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Sustainability Management Strategy For “Sharing Dreams and Prosperity with the Local Community”, which is the Group’s management philosophy, DGB Financial Group established a corporate sustainability management strategy by incorporating management policy. In order to execute the management vision of “Building the Future Together with the Best Partner,” five strategic directions have been drawn up, along with 10 strategic tasks and corresponding action plans, which we plan to carry out through clearly defined goals and reliable performance indicators. Sustainability Management Strategy Directions Management Philosophy Sharing Dreams and Prosperity with the Local Community Management Vision Best Partner Building the Future Together Management Policy Communication Achievement Talent · Establishment of Proper and · Escalating Group Synergy · Nurturing Finance Experts Responsible Management · Digital Finance Level-up · Activating Proactive Organization · Dynamic DGB Embodiment · Systematic Risk Management · Noticeable Innovation Challenge · Communication Network Expansion Sustainability ManageFuture-Oriented Strategic Management ment 1. Sustainable Performance 2. Sound Governance Continue to grow business networks in Daegu/ Independence and transparency of the BOD Gyeongbuk and other regions Enhancement of the Sustainable R&D enhancement to respond to market changes Management Committee operation Customer Satisfaction Management 3. Creating Customer Value 4. Sustainable Finance Improvement of stakeholders’ accessibility Sustainable development and sale of Prevention of financial accidents through socially responsible products IT security enhancement Education program operation for sustainable consumption Enhancement of Organizational Competence 5. Human Resource Development and Support 6. Employee Satisfaction Management Reinforcement of talent cultivation system Establishment of human rights Fair performance evaluation and management system compensation system Pursuit of work-life balance Risk Management 7. Crisis and Change Management 8. Enhancement of Environmental Management Establishment of integrated risk management Efficient resource use and response to system climate change Compliance with the Codes of Conduct and Expansion of eco-friendly culture enhancement of ethical management and awareness of environment Creating Shared Value 9. Win-Win Partnerships 10. Community Engagement and Development Laying the foundation for shared growth Community-tailored social contribution with partners activities Supports for partners’ CSR education and Social contribution programs that reflect competence enhancement the characteristics of financial business 56 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT OF DGB FINANCIAL GROUP Sustainability Management Initiatives In order to monitor and improve DGB Financial Group’s progress on sustainability management, a Sustainable Management Committee was established. The chairman of the Group serves as the chair of the committee and is responsible for making the primary decisions related to sustainable management activities. And through the committee’s Working Council, the committee establishes strategies and programs to achieve sustainable management. The Working Council is scheduled to convene at least twice a year to identify any sustainable management issues or related effects, opportunities or risks, and through the council’s four sub-councils (Sustainable Finance Council, Ethical Corporate Culture Council, Social Contribution Council, Environmental Management Council) to pursue more detailed strategies and action plans. After the council chair reviews the status of the sustainable management strategies drawn up by the Working Council, reports are submitted to the Sustainable Management Committee, where the committee chair makes the final review and approvals. DGB Financial Group Sustainable Management Committee Sustainable Finance Council Sustainable Management Committee Chair: Group Chairman Ethical Corporate Culture Council Social Contribution Sustainable Management Working Council Council Chair: Director of DGB Research Institute (Director of Holding Company) Environmental Working Group: Green Finance Group Management Council DGB Daegu Hi Investment DGB Life InsurDGB Asset DGB Credit DGB Capital DGB U-Pay DGB Data System Bank & Securities ance Management Information Sustainable Management Achievements Date Details Organization 2018.02.27 Daegu Bank, 2017 award for outstanding finance education for “One Branch, One School” program Financial Supervisory Service 2018.02.28 2017 Korean Business Ethics Index (KoBEX) highest ‘AAA’ rating for 8 consecutive years Institute for Industrial Policy Studies 2018.09.10 Included in the global social investment index FTSE4Good for 8 consecutive years FTSE International/EIRIS 2018.10.17 Included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) Korea list for 10 consecutive years S&P Dow Jones Indices/RobecoSAM/ and the Asia-Pacific list for 9 consecutive years Korea Productivity Center 2018.11.22 Awarded the Korean Sustainability Conference’s “Korean Reader’s Choice Award (KRCA)” for 5 Korean Standards Association consecutive years 2018.12.13 Daegu Bank, 1st place in SME sector for 2 consecutive years at the 2018 Financial Consumer Financial Supervisory Service Protection Sector Merit Awards 2019.04.24 Chosen as an “exceptional business” by the 2018 Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) CDP Korea 57 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT IMPACT VALUATION MANAGEMENT Sustainability Management Impact Valuation DGB Financial Group not only considers the economic value we gain through our business activities, we also measure the possible positive and negative external effects we might have on the community and the environment. We continue to comprehensively analyze the actual impact of our business activities. Through self-assessments and examinations that meet domestically and internationally recognized regulations and standards of objectivity, we have measured and calculated the actual impact value, and we are transparently revealing those findings in this report. Impact Measurement Framework INPUTS To categorize the financial and non-financial resources invested by DGB Financial Group into our Resources invested business activities to create sustainable value, our self-assessment uses the basic framework provided by the International Integrated Reporting Committee (IIRC) defining six types of capital (financial, manufactured, intellectual, human, natural, social) Taking the six forms of capital, the Group undertakes various direct and indirect business activiBusiness activities: planning and operation ties to create value within our value chain, from the development and sales of services and products to contributions to local communities. DGB FINANCIAL GROUP VALUE CHAIN Planning and strategy Development of Marketing activity ACTIVITIES financial products · Stable performance · Customer-oriented Detailed management · Develop financial service management business activities · Expand business networks products that create · Protect financial · Improve responsiveness to social value consumers market changes · Identify customer needs · Improve accessibility Social contribution Risk management Financial product sales · Create jobs for seniors · Efficient use of capital · Sell financial products · Support the socially · Voluntarily agree to tailored to local residents vulnerable buy green · Support eco-friendly · Support local community · Undertake climate companies education/culture change action activities · Support skills-based SMEs OUTPUTS All natural resources used for business activities, such as water and energy, and all social outResults from business activities comes created through support for partner companies or contributions to local communities, Value creation are being managing by the relevant departments within the company. and assessment OUTCOMES We use objective standards to measure the social and environmental impact of the products Changes due to business activities and services that we develop and sell, and convert them into non-financial indicators to evaluate their positive and negative outcomes. IMPACTS Impact Macro-effects from In this report we have disclosed the outcomes of our business activities converted into financial measurement company activities indicators. We will endeavor to maximize the positive impacts, minimize the negative ones, and carry out our corporate responsibility to continue to create value. 58 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE IMPACT VALUATION MANAGEMENT Consolidated Value Assessment To continue developing sustainable management, DGB Financial Group is analyzing and presenting the quantitative value of related activities. Using formulas based on international standards and legal criteria, we have calculated the positive and negative outcomes of our businesses activities and submitted it with related evidence. In areas where there is not yet a social consensus or outcomes cannot be measured due to technical limitations, we will view it as a long-term assignment and continue to find a way to present the information in objective figures. Value Created by Resource (Period: 2018 Jan-Dec, Unit: KRW mil.) Financial Environmental Social Total value created 30,800 919,372 82,043 57,510 343,579 406,000 599.9 0 Net profit Greenhouse Violation of Labor Shareholders Governmental Local Social value gas emission environmental welfare and investors effects community creation effects regulations effects effects effects outcome Index and Calculation Methods Greenhouse gas Other social costs related to greenhouse gas emissions emission effects (Volume of greenhouse gas emissions x price of emissions trading permit) Violation of Other social costs related to violation of environmental regulations environmental regulations (Penalties for violation of environmental regulations) Effects of improving quality of life for employees Labor welfare effects (Wage costs minimum earned income (annual) x number of employees) Shareholders and Shareholders and investors income increase effect investors effects (Cash dividend per share x number of shares issued) Performance of responsibilities as a corporate citizen through fair tax payment Governmental effects (Corporate tax costs) Contribution to local communities through social investment Local community effects (Total social contribution investment*) *Daegu Bank criteria 59 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Stakeholder Classification and Communication Using the framework provided by ISO 26000, DGB Financial Group has categorized our stakeholders into three major groups of core, strategic and other stakeholders. Through annual surveys and communication channels tailored to each stakeholder group, we gather the views of our stakeholders. Relevant departments carry out initial reviews of the collected information, and important issues are raised and reported to the board of directors and senior management. Business action plans are then formed and actively circulated, which we share in a transparent manner. Stakeholder Survey DGB Financial Group has been carrying out a stakeholder survey every year since 2006, and based on the issues that stakeholders identify the Group has been pursuing sustainable management. The results of the stakeholder survey are shared in the materiality assessment and sustainable management strategies. Survey results Division Sustainability Management Issues Stakeholders Develop eco-friendly financial products and services 752 Employees 516(68.62%) Create a corporate culture that respects work-life balance Total participants Customers 126(16.76%) Strengthen competitiveness in digital finance Local Communities 47(6.25%) Expand anti-corruption activities and responses Central/local government 44(5.85%) Increase financial investment and activities to protect the environand related organizations ment Other (Stakeholders/ 19(2.53%) Achieve stable business performance centered on profitability and business partners, etc.) integrity Improve efficiency in operational and organizational culture Communication Channels Division Stakeholders Communication channels (regular) Issues of interest DGB’s response Core stakeEmployees · Intranet (Please Help, Please Change/ · Encourage horizontal corporate · Operate DGB Youth Frontier holders (incl. labor union) Employees’ Wish Letters) culture/communication · Hold Face-to-face talks with president · Employee Satisfaction Survey · Working environment/welfare benefits of the bank · Labor Management Meeting and Conference · Develop and strengthen capabilities · Execute “SMART Leisure-Tech” · Vice-manager Meeting / · CEO Meeting · Fair assessment and compensation campaign Customers · Website / · ‘DGB Chamsori Advisory Panel’ · Quality and safety management of · Operate DGB Chamsori Advisory Panel · Customer Satisfaction Survey products and services · Appoint one CS manager per branch · Financial Service Customer Protection Education · Customer information protection · Operate during weekends/holidays · Customer Protection Report, ‘Caring Companion’ · Resolve complaints · CEO Forums (Daegu, Gumi, Pohang, Gimcheon) · Strengthen communication with · Honorary Branch Manager Meeting customers · Superior Small & Medium Business CEO Meeting · Business Consulting Service Strategic Stakeholders · DGB Financial Group Website (DGB IR) · Improve profitability/dividend policy · Expand entry into global markets stakeholders and investors · General Shareholders' Meeting · Sustainable growth/risk management · Provide management transparency, · Board Meeting · Secure management transparency assessment results and IR data · IR Activities (greater disclosure) · Practice sound governance Local communities · Website (Online Civil Petition, Financial Accident & · Win-win cooperation/mutual growth · Hold DGB Financial Group business Irrationality Report) · Fair trade partners’ win-win meeting · Business Partners' Meeting · Provide management consulting service for business partners Other stakePartner Companies · Website (DGB Social Contribution to Local Community) · Expand social contribution · Operate DGB Companion Volunteer Corps holders · DGB Daegu Bank Social Contribution Activity Report · Create jobs and boost investment · Operate Bluebird Senior Happy Work · DGB Companion Corps/DGB Economic Education · Continuous communication program Corps / · Love Your Hometown Campaign · Hold NIE Energy Diary Contest · Dream Education Project / · DGB University Student · Operate Dream Tree Educational Supporters / · DGB Wednesday Lewture Foundation Central/local govern· Website · Compliance with laws and regulations · Compliance with code of ethics ment and · Government-Funded Research Project · Tax payments / policy cooperation · Improper Solicitation and related organizations · Hearing & Conference / · Interview and Survey · Public-private cooperative partnership Graft Act education 60 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Stakeholder Interviews As part of practicing sustainable management, we have conducted interviews to gather the opinions of our stakeholders, including customers, employees, partner companies, NGOs and others. The stakeholders' opinions identified through the interview are used to establish a sustainable management strategy for the DGB Financial Group. As a local customer, I think DGB Financial Group is doing a lot for its customers and the local community. For one thing, a lot of people I know use the rest areas DGB sets up in the summer to escape the heat. They also go to the Wednesday Lectures, the cultural performances and so on, which of course people are very satisfied with. In addition to customer satisfaction, I would like to see DGB do CUSTOMER more as a member of the community to be a role model for local business. One of the biggest issues right now is balancing work and family, so I would like to see DGB become known as a family-friendly company by, for example, providing childcare leave for its male employees. I do look forward to their efforts to make sustainable management a bigger part of our community. LEE Jung-hyun Right now, DGB Financial Group is collecting ideas from all across the company about things like work efficiency, benefits and so on, and these ideas are being implemented. The process is not top-down but bottom-up, and I think this will lead to great improvements in terms of employee needs. DGB employees include a high proportion of women. I think it’s important to find solutions to the difficulEMPLOYEE ties faced by some of them, like the worry that childbirth and childcare could become competitive disadvantages. In addition to child care facilities and its family-friendly culture, I think things can get even better if we find innovative ways to manage human resources together. The company offers the kind of jobs employees want to do, so I think DGB Financial Group has a happy future. Assistant Manager LEE Sang-jun, DGB Financial Group The Daegu Council for Sustainable Management is working with DGB Financial Group to build a network to activate corporate social responsibility in the local community. In terms of sustainable management, the most important issue right now globally is climate change. The government is creating a coal-free and nuclear-free policy framework, but many domestic and international financial institutions have a great deal of money invested in coal power. There is a need for a financial group to lead the way by shifting its NGO investments into sustainable businesses. Furthermore, sustainability efforts to benefit employees internally are just as important as efforts directed externally. My hope is that DGB Financial Group, with a work culture that is good for its employees, will stand tall as a leader of sustainable management inside and out. Chairman OH Yong-Seok, Daegu Council for Sustainable Management The Bluebird Dream Community Children’s Center cares for underprivileged local children by providing a safe place for afterschool study and other activities. The DGB Social Contribution Foundation supports the center in a variety of ways, including in its operations and through the efforts of the With-U Volunteer Corps. This enables us to provide a high level of service to the children of our commuLOCAL COMnity. I would like to thank the DGB Social Contribution Foundation for their active contributions to an area of public service that is often MUNITY overlooked. We ask for your continued support for the local community, and we hope that your systematic approach to environmental pollution will contribute to the good of the world as a whole for the next hundred, or even two-hundred years. Director LEE Sung-hye, Bluebird Dream Community Children’s Center 61 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CSR EXPERT MEETING We hold discussions aimed at moving toward sustainable management by bringing together experts in economics, society and the environment in the 2019 DGB Financial Group Sustainable Management Expert Meeting. Through the meeting, we gather opinions that help develop our sustainable management activities and reporting. The opinions expressed in the forum are studied and reflected in our sustainable management strategies and operations, and will be reflected in the current year’s report where possible. DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABLE 01 Kang Joo-Hyun 02 Park Ju-won MANAGEMENT Global Competitiveness Empowerment Forum, Executive President Sustainable Management Foundation, Head of CSR Management Center SPECIALIST MEETING Date & Time March 14, 2019 (Thursday) 15:00 Location DGB Seoul Headquarters, 5FL Board Room Q. DGB Financial Group has engaged in a Q. What do you think of DGB Financial Group’s range of ethical management efforts, which reporting and efforts for sustainable manageinclude securing ISO37001 certification. In what ment? direction do you think DGB needs to go in terms of ethical management? A. First of all, in terms of ethical management A. I think the stakeholders reading your susI respect the path DGB has taken in publishing tainable management reports want to see conits 13th annual sustainable management report tent about DGB’s status quo and future direcand receiving the ISO37001 certification. Going tion. There need to be quantitative sustainable forward to achieve ethical management, and management targets and, at the same time, in terms of putting this certification to practical efforts to track and achieve these. Reports work, I think it is important to continue manshould also contain information on past diffiaging anti-corruption risk. As it relates to the culties and what is being done to prevent them human rights of DGB employees and those of from recurring. its business partners, I think efforts are needed to make sure their voices are heard in the workplace. 62 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE CSR EXPERT MEETING Attendees Kang Joo-Hyun Global Competitiveness Empowerment Forum, Executive President Human Rights / Ethical Management Park Ju-won Sustainable Management Foundation,Head of CSR Management Center ESG Evaluation Lee Jong-oh KoSIF, Executive Secretary Climate Change / Energy Kwon Dong-Hyeok Eco & Partners, Group Manager Green Finance Lee Eunkyung UN Global Compact Network Korea, Chief Researcher CSR / SDGs 03 04 05 Lee Jong-oh Kwon Dong-Hyeok Lee Eunkyung KoSIF, Executive Secretary Eco & Partners,Group Manager UN Global Compact Network Korea, Chief Researcher Q. We are actively reporting our activities Q. How would you propose that DGB Financial Q. What should DGB pursue in terms of Susrelated to climate change, such as our participaGroup should move forward with green finance? tainable Development Goals (SDGs)? tion in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). What are your thoughts on our future direction A. There are growing calls from society to A. As a financial group, there is a need not just A. As far as SDG activity is concerned, simply consider ESG (Environmental, Social and Govfor one-off reporting on GHG emissions but on put, the social contributions in reports should ernance) in business activities. The plans laid in the business activities the Group is investing be managed according to quantitative indireports, of course, and actual business endeavin. Long term, I think responsible, sustainable cators. I would like to see DGB report data in ors need to reflect ESG. Especially when it finance is built on continuous management and which targets are set and stakeholders are comes to climate change, it is not merely about analysis of the impact activities like investing informed of where you stand now and what responding to evaluations, but also finding ways and lending have on climate change. changes could come in the future. to analyze climate change-related risk financially. 63 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT Materiality Analysis Process DGB Financial Group has conducted a materiality assessment taking into consideration factors recommended by ISO 26000 and GRI Standards, which include sustainability context, materiality, stakeholder participation and completion. To identify the Group’s key sustainable management issues, we have carried out a range of research, such as an analysis of international standards, benchmarking of leading companies in sustainable management, media research, and stakeholder surveys. We have also done a complete assessment of our stakeholder interests and business impacts. Our report on that basis has been organized by issue in order of importance, followed by a final review. Identifying the Issues STEP 1 Through an analysis of international standards, media research, global benchmarking and stakeder surveys, 30 sets of issues have been identified. Global Standards Analysis Media Research Global Benchmarking • Analysis of international • Analysis of new reports on DGB • Analysis of sustainability directions and requirements for sustainable Financial Group in economic, trends among leading sustainable managemanagement and issue identification environmental and social sectors ment businesses in the financial sector • Analysis of GRI Standards, DJSI, ISO • No. of media articles: 4,813 • Analysis of the top 5 global sustainable 26000, UN SDGs, SASB, etc. (Period: 2018 Jan. 2018 Dec.) management companies Prioritizing the Issues STEP 2 Within the identified issue sets, DGB Financial Group has further distinguished issues that need to be consistently managed. This was achieved through analyzes of the interests of both internal and external stakeholders, as well as expert opinions and internal reviews. Stakeholder Survey • DGB Financial Group carried out an online/offline survey with 752 internal and external stakeholders between Jan. 29 and Feb. 22 on the 30 sustainable management issue pools. • Identified 6 key sustainable management issues Validating Effectiveness STEP 3 Through meetings of task forces and experts, DGB Financial Group was able to review and identify 6 key sustainable management issues. After deciding on the scope, parameters and timescale for review, we produced a report. Report Topics Impact on Stakeholders No. Material Issue1) Customers Employees Partners Shareholders Local Government /Investors Community 1 Strengthening competitiveness in digital finance ● ● 2 Achieving stable business performance centered on profitability and integrity ● ● ● 3 Retaining customers through customer satisfaction services ● ● ● 4 Financial investment and activities for environmental protection ● ● 5 Development of eco-friendly financial products and services ● ● ● 6 Expand anti-corruption activities and measures ● ● ● ● ● 1) 6 main topics chosen among 30 sustainable management issues 64 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT Materiality Assessment Results After a comprehensive consideration of social interests and business impacts, a total of 6 main issues were chosen. The chosen issues have been addressed in 4 main report topics, and last year’s issues have been addressed in a separate chapter. In this way, DGB Financial Group’s sustainable management activities and results are shown transparently throughout the report. Materiality Assessment Matrix 〈 Business Impact 5.00 ❺ ▲ Strengthening NEW Development 4.50 of ❸ competitiveness ▲ Retaining ❶ in digital finance eco-friendly financustomers through cial products and customer satisfaction services 4.00 services ❹ ❷ NEW Financial investment and ▲ Achievingstable busi3.50 activities for environmenness performance cental protection tered on profitability and ❻ integrity 3.00 ▲ Expanding anti-corruption activities and measures 2.50 2.00 1.50 1.00 0.50 0.00 0.50 1.00 1.50 2.00 2.50 3.00 3.50 4.00 4.50 Social Interest 〉 Impact Characteristics2) Material Topic GRI Topic3) Report Location Cost Revenue Risk ●● ●●● ● ❶ Pioneering Future Finance (Strengthening competitiveness in digital finance) Economic Performance 27-29 ●● ●●● ● ❷ Pioneering Future Finance (Leap forward as a comprehensive financial group) Economic Performance 30-31 ●● ●●● ● ❸ Finance for happiness of customers Stakeholder Engagement 32-35 ●●● ●● ● ❹ Sustainable and responsible financing Financial Services Standard 36-39 ●●● ●● ● ❺ Sustainable and responsible financing Financial Services Standard 36-39 ● ●● ●●● ❻ ALL-Bareun DGB Anti-corruption 40-43 2) Latent business impact of issues, categorized into cost, revenue and risk/ The impact characteristics of the issue are divided into three levels 3) GRI Standards Topic 65 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DGB SDGs COMMITMENT In September 2015, 193 nations around the world adopted the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) to eradicate global poverty and develop the world’s economy by the year 2030. The SDGs comprise 17 goals, including universal humanitarian issues such as poverty, disease and education, as well as global environmental issues such as climate change, energy and water resources. There are also other economic and social goals. By setting targets in line with the SDGs and implementing them, DGB Financial Group is working to help realize a sustainable society. Therefore, through this implementation report on related targets, we plan to carry forward the Sustainable Management Goals. DGB’s CSR 2020 DGB 2018 DGB DGB Midto SDGs Description Implementation Progress Long-term Strategy Implementation Plan Performance Strategy (2025) Ensure inclusive and equitable Strengthen Quality quality education and organizational Expand education and 4,106 4,600 educapromote lifelong learning scholarship support mil. KRW capabilities mil. KRW 89% tion opportunities for all 1. I ncrease percentage Gender Achieve gender equality and Strengthen organizational of female staff 48.3 % 98.5% 49% equality empower all women and girls 2. I ncrease percentage capabilities of female managers 24.8 % 27% 91.8% Affordable Ensure access to affordable, Risk manageIncrease use of and Clean Energy reliable, sustainable and ment renewable energy to 0.2TJ 0.13 TJ 32.5% 0.4TJ modern energy for all Promote sustained, inclusive 1. Reduce percentage Decent work and and sustainable economic Future-Oriented Strateof non-regular workers to 3.9% 4.3% 74% 3.2% growth, full and productive economic growth employment gic Manage2. Create 25 positions 24 29 and decent work for all ment through the DGB Social positions positions 83% Contribution Foundation Industry, innoBuild resilient infrastructure, 1. Technology financial support of 1,590bil. KRW 1,559.2 1,700 vation promote inclusive and Creating bil. KRW 92% bil. KRW 2. Provide management and infrastrucsustainable industrialization shared value ture and foster innovation consulting to 99 109 102 companies companies 91% companies 1. Expand finance and economic education to 37,000 people 36,227 95% 38,000 Reduced Reduce inequality within Creating persons persons inequalities and among countries shared value 2. Pre-consultation rate of human rights center to 27.87% 91% 30.7% 28.4% Responsible Financial support for the production Ensure sustainable consumption Customer satisfaction socially vulnerable of 229.7 280.0 and consumpand production patterns bil. KRW 82% bil. KRW tion management 250 bil. KRW Carbon emissions Carbon emissions Take urgent action to comReduce carbon reduced by reduced by Climate Risk manageaction bat climate change and its ment emissions by 8.83% 2.13 % 14% 15 % impacts (compared to 2015) (compared to (compared to 2015) 2018) Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosysLife on tems, sustainably manage forests, Risk manageCarry out 120 environ115 135 mental conservation projects projects land combat desertification, and halt and ment 85% projects carried out carried out reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss 66 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE DGB SDGS COMMITMENT DGB SDGs Story GOAL 4: Quality Education -Scholarship programs Education is the main factor in self-development and in building a career. It not only changes lives, but encourages social equality and economic growth, which are key driving factors behind regional and social development. Therefore, as one of our main social contribution projects, DGB Financial Group has been running an education scholarship program since 2003. Moreover, in order to operate existing social contribution projects in a more organized and systematic manner, and to provide more substantive help to the local community, since 2011 the Group has been running a social welfare foundation called the DGB Social Contribution Foundation, the first of its kind in the finance sector. GOAL 10: Reduced Inequalities Finance and economic education programs DGB Financial Group is running a variety of finance and economic education programs to help consumers live healthy financial lives. To support the fostering of financially capable individuals, education programs have been provided to students from elementary to higher education, the future generation of local communities. We provide finance and economic education programs to the financially vulnerable, such as the disabled, multicultural families and the elderly. Through these activities, the Group has helped prevent financial isolation in the community and contributed to the reduction of inequality. GOAL 12: Responsible Consumption and Production Green Finance Prime Fund DGB Financial Group has been looking for ways to resolve regional environmental issues and to boost the local economy. In July 2016, a green financial agreement was signed with the Ministry of Environment and the Korea Environmental Industry and Technology Institute to create the Green Finance Prime Fund, which offers lending rates of 1.0% to 2.0% to regional SMEs with the best environmental management practices. This fund was applied to businesses in the Daegu Dyeing Industrial Cluster. Furthermore, firms that have reduced pollution emissions, established environmental accident prevention systems, etc. have been recognized for excellence in environmental management. In this way, local businesses have begun actively participating in environmental management. As a financial institution concerned with sustainable consumption and production, DGB Financial Group is continuously promoting investment activities that consider the environment. 67 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE DGB Financial Group cultivates sound governance by practicing transparent management and working towards rational decision-making. To this end, the Group has increased the number of our independent directors from 5 to 7 to strengthen their supervisory function. They consist of experts from a variety of fields, such as financial regulation, the public sector, other areas of the financial sector and IT companies. Composition of Board of Directors Diversity and Expertise of the Board of Directors The board of directors is DGB Financial Group’s highest decision-making To ensure the expertise and independence of our board members, DGB body, and is made up of 1 executive director and 7 independent directors. Financial Group runs the Group Executive Candidate Recommendation In order to ensure the smooth operation of the board and the fulfillment Committee, which is made up of 4 independent directors. The Group also of our legal and regulatory responsibilities, the chairman of the board has runs a Preliminary Non-executive Director Recommendation System, givbeen appointed from among the independent directors every year since ing voting rights at the shareholders’ general meeting to shareholders who 2016. Also, 87.5% of the Board comprises independent directors. have held at least one share. Moreover, to ensure the expertise and diversity of the board, the members have been chosen from a number of fields, such *As of March 28, 2019 as finance, accounting/financial, legal, IT/digital, HR/risk, etc., so as not to be Division Name Tenure Background too heavily concentrated in one specialist background or profession. When Executive Kim, Tae-Oh 2018.05.312021 · CEO, DGB Financial Group a independent director is chosen, the Group Executive Candidate RecomDirector (regular shareholders’ · Fmr. Vice President, Hana Financial Group mendation Committee conducts a review that takes into account the Act on meeting) Corporate Governance of Financial Companies , commercial law, and reguSuh, In-deok 2018.03.23~ · Public Interest Member, Gyeongbuk (Chairman) 2020.03.23 National Labour Relations Commission lations concerning articles of association. The candidate is then appointed · Honorary Professor, Yeungnam University based on their business experience or professional expertise in their field, · Fmr. Dean, College of Commerce and Graduate School of Business at Yeungnam University without discrimination in regard to gender, ethnicity, nationality or cultural Lee, 2019.3.28~ · Honorary Professor, Daegu University background. Yong-doo 2021. 3.28 · Fmr. President, Daegu University Cho, Sun-ho 2019.3.28~ · Auditor, Shinhung Co. Ltd. 2021. 3.28 · Fmr. Statutory Auditor and Advisory Number of Board meetings held (Times) Committee Member, Hana Bank · Fmr. Secretary-General of Credit Counseling and Recovery Service, 16 14 Financial Supervisory Service Independent 10 Director Lee, Dam 2018.03.23~ · Representative Lawyer, A&K Partners 2020.03.23 · Fmr. Judge, Daegu District Court · Fmr. President, Daegu Bar Association Lee, 2019.3.28~ · Fmr. Director of Human Resources, CBRE Korea Sang-yeop 2021. 3.28 · Fmr. Director of Human Resources (Vice President), Hewlett-Packard Korea 2016 2017 2018 Kim, 2019.3.28~ · CEO, Lake Investment Advisors Taek-dong 2021. 3.28 · Fmr. Review Member of KOSDAQ Listings Board Meeting Attendance (%) Committee, Korea Exchange · Fmr. Review Member of Investment Funds, Korea Venture Investment Corporation 97.9 100 100 Lee, Jin-bok 2019.3.28~ · Vice President, Korean Accounting Association 2021. 3.28 · Chairman, Daegu Regional Institute of Certified Public Accountants · Fmr. Professional Standards Committee Member, National Court Administration 2016 2017 2018 Operation of Board Meetings and Internal Committees Board meetings are divided into regular and non-regular meetings, and majority attendance and majority approval of the attending directors are needed to pass board resolutions. Below the board level, there are also seven committees, which are being operated independently and transparently. Board Operations & Appointment of Independent Directors • Remuneration Committee General Shareholders’ Meeting • Risk Management Committee Report Appointment Recommen• Audit Committee Report • Independent dation • Group Executive Candidate Recommendation Committee Board Meeting Director Candidate Recommendation • CEO Candidate Recommendation Committee Report Report Advice and Supervision Committee • Independent Director Candidate Recommendation Committee • Audit Committee Member Candidate Recommendation Committee Administration Audit 68 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Internal Committees Committee Name Composition Primary Roles Remuneration Chair: Lee Dam Decisions related to compensation changes, Committee Members: Suh In-deok, Lee Jin-bok employee pay, etc. Risk Management Chair: Kim Taek-dong Establish base risk management policy and strategy to Committee Members: Suh In-deok, Lee Yong-doo, Lee Sang-yeop, Kim Tae-oh maintain Group’s management soundness and stability Audit Committee Chair: Cho Sun-ho Carry out audits of company and affiliates’ business Members: Lee Dam, Lee Jin-bok and assets, and subsequent review and resolution Group Executive Candidate RecChair: Suh In-deok Tasks related to affiliate CEO candidate ommendation Committee Members: Lee Yong-doo, Lee Sang-yeop, Kim Tae-oh recommendations CEO Candidate Chair: Suh In-deok Tasks related to CEO candidate recommendations Recommendation Members: Lee Yong-doo, Cho Sun-ho, Lee Dam, Lee Sang-yeop, Committee Kim Taek-dong, Lee Jin-bok Independent Director Candidate Chair: Suh In-deok Tasks related to independent directors candidate Recommendation Committee Members: Cho Sun-ho, Lee Dam, Lee Sang-yeop recommendations Audit Committee Member RecChair: Lee Yong-doo Tasks related to audit committee member ommendation Committee Members: Suh In-deok, Cho Sun-ho, Lee Dam, Lee Sang-yeop, Kim recommendations Taek-dong, Lee Jin-bok Decisions related to remuneration changes, by their original company and then compensated according to the proporemployee pay, etc. tion of duties performed. In 2018, the highest salary remuneration was 5.4 Remuneration to directors is made in the form of a basic salary and perfortimes of the total employee average. mance-based bonuses (short-term incentives, long-term incentives coupled with cash compensation). Short-term incentives are decided by the Board of Shareholder Composition Directors based on management performance evaluations and remuneration guidelines, while long-term incentives are paid in a fixed amount based As of December 31, 2018, DGB Financial Group had issued 169,145,833 on long-term performance evaluations and directors’ service terms. shares. The largest shareholder is Samsung Life Insurance with 6.95% of total shares. The largest foreign shareholder is the Oakmark International 40% of long-term incentives will be paid in cash, while the rest will be conSmall Cap Fund with 2.48% of total shares verted into shares to be paid after 3 years according to the price of the shares. In addition, we have implemented policies that allow reclamation of bonuses in case of personal business negligence or deterioration in manShare agement performance, which strengthens transparency in remuneration. Executive directors who hold additional positions (President) are first paid Division 2016 2017 2018 Board of Directors Evaluation and Criteria Foreign 59.86 60.8 65.01 shareholders (%) Executive Quantitative Qualitative Competency Largest 4.52 4.83 2.48 Director assessment assessment assessment shareholders in The Oakmark The Oakmark The Oakmark Overseas (%) International International International Samll Cap Fund Small Cap Fund Small Cap Fund External Assessment Domestic 40.14 39.2 34.99 Level of contribution shareholders (%) Largest 8.87 6.95 6.95 Independent Level of expertise shareholders in National Pension Samsung Life Samsung Life Director Domestic (%) Service Insurance Insurance Level of trust Actual activity time committed compared to initial plan 69 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT DGB Financial Group is take systematic risk management to minimize damages by preemptively managing a wide range of environmental, financial and non-financial risks, including the economy, climate change and social issues. Categories and Definitions of Risk We distinguish between primary risk (capital adequacy, credit, market, operations, credit concentration) and general risk (liquidity, strategic, reputational, etc.). Primary Risk Credit Risk The risk that a counterparty to a transaction fails to meet its contractual obligations, including residual risk, liquidity risk and credit risk originating in other countries Market Risk Disadvantageous changes in market prices, e.g. to interest rates, shares and exchange rates Operation Risk The risk of loss caused by internal processes, employees and systems or outside events, including legal risk Credit The possibility of losses that could undermine a firm’s soundness due to overexposure to one or too few Concentration Risk counterparties, sectors or other categories; risk stemming from factors shared with a borrower (business, collateral, region, etc.) that raise the borrower’s overall risk of default Interest Rate Risk Risk of a fall in asset value or net interest margin caused by an unfavorable discrepancy between maturity and market rates Insurance Risk Risk stemming from a rise in damage claims; insurance price risk from claims exceeding insurance premiums, or reinsurance risk arising from disadvantageous reinsurance premium calculations or reinsurer insolvency, etc. General Risk Liquidity Risk Funding Liquidity Risk due to an inability to repay present or future liabilities, or Market Liquidity Risk, i.e. risk of loss occurring in the process of liquidating assets because of insufficient transactions or market collapse, etc. Strategic Risk Risk of loss from unsound management decision-making or failure to respond to market changes. Reputational Risk Risk of losses due to negative public sentiment caused by social criticism, financial mistakes and/or misdeeds or poor management Other Risk The possibility of losses occurring due to residual or transaction risk Emerging Risk Risk potentially affecting DGB Financial Group in the long term is categorized as emerging risk, which we are actively working to manage. The main emerging risks are digital risk, and information-sharing based on TCFD recommendations. Category Risk Explanation Impact on Business Risk Mitigation Methods Digital Risk The digitalization of finance and -N  on-face to face channels: Elevated risk from Supplementary risk governance: the use of sophisticated IT presents Know-Your-Customer (KYC) and Anti-Money Enhance internal notification system a high level of complex risks to Laundering (AML) measures and decision-making/reporting system financial companies Open API: Difficulty in information management Product/service safety: Invest in and financial incident prevention technology and assign trained -P  roducts/services: Increased possibility of personnel unsafe or unlawful sales, intended or otherwise Information-disclosure TCFD recommendations require S tronger calls to implement the Set strategies to respond to requirement based on to disclose financial information recommendations of foreign investors and climate change and establish risk TCFD recommendations related to climate change and to regulators management processes set strategies Establish and systematically manage climate change indicators 70 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT Risk Management System and Organization As part of efforts to achieve sustainable growth, DGB Financial Group pursues a balance of risk and profitability, part of which means keeping risk at a tolerable level. To do this, we operate the Risk Management Committee, the Group’s highest level entity tasked with supervising risk management in all areas, including risk perception, evaluation and management. The Risk Management Committee meets every quarter to decide on risk management measures and strategies. It also sets risk guidelines and limits, and carries out regular checks on the overall risk situation. To improve work efficiency, the Risk Management Committee operates the Risk Management Council. The Council handles the details of risk within the Group by measuring and managing risk to inform the Group’s strategic decision-making. Major Activities of the Risk Management Committee in 2018 Risk Management Process Division Date Contents Primary Risk Management 1st 2018.2.8 Categorize asset quality and revise rules on appropriations for bad assets Credit Risk Board of Directors 2nd 2018.2.13 Revise goals for fundraising through Market Risk contingent convertible capital bonds (draft) 3rd 2018.3.23 Appoint Risk Management Operation Risk Risk Management Committee Committee Chairman Credit Concentration Risk 4th 2018.05.03 Assessment of the Group’s integrated crisis situation for December 2018 Insurance Risk Risk Management Council 5th 2018.08.09 Partial revision of risk management regulations 6th 2018.11.12 Set risk limits for new affiliates Assessment of the Group’s integrated crisis situation for the 2nd half of 2018 Financial Accidents/ Crime Prevention Program DGB Financial Group operates various policies in effort to prevent finan7th 2018.12.19 Approve basic plan for Group’s cial accidents and crimes, in addition to periodic employee training. risk management in 2019 Identification For newly joining customers or customers that Risk Management Council Conformation requires identification confirmation, DGC Financial Procedure Group validates identification in the procedure DGB Financial Group operates an integrated risk management system to consist of CDD, WLF, RA, EDD and report any enable effective management of risk by our affiliates and comprehensive suspicious incidence. risk management on the group level. Through the system, we have integrated the data of our affiliates, which facilitates the analysis of risk from a Money Laundry It is required for to operate training and education range of perspectives. At the same time, we have approved accessibility for Prevention for Money Laundry Prevention. For employees, risk-related employees, thereby supporting our affiliates’ efforts to manage policy standard self assessment is performed and monitor risk across the board. in order to distance themselves from financial accidents or crimes directly and indirectly. In addition, accidents or crimes happens in similar industry, the contents are shared real-time base. Credit Risk Management System Development DGB Daegu Bank spent 9 months, through May 2019, developing a credit risk management system. The goal was to enhance credit risk management in terms of business/retail credit evaluations, gauging risk factors, improving calculations for credit risk-weighted assets, retail lending limits, etc. Daegu Bank has used a credit risk management system since 2013. The development of this new credit risk management system will reflect recent portfolio and regulatory changes, improving overall systematization. 71 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GREEN MANAGEMENT To tackle the increasingly serious issue of climate change caused by global warming, there is a need for current and future generations to improve environmental awareness and change their actions. DGB Financial Group has established corporate management strategies that take into account the risks and opportunities that arise from institutional and physical effects of environmental change. Furthermore, the Group is putting into practice a range of initiatives to minimize the environmental effects of business activities. Greenhouse Gas Management and Reporting To systematically track our greenhouse gas emissions, DGB Financial Group has created a greenhouse gas inventory system. The objectivity and reliability of our energy reduction and emissions reports are secured through the third party verification every year. Greenhouse Gas Inventory Control System Head in Charge of Climate Change Responses (Chairman of Sustainable Management Committee: CEO) Head in Charge of Operation Working Level (Director of Green Finance Corps) (Green Finance Corps) Activity Data Collection Emission Calculation Activity Data Gathering Inventory Management (Bank general affairs dept., (DGB Financial Group (DGB Daegu Bank) (DGB Data system) channel planning dept. / Affiliates) DGB Research Institute) Environmental Management System Daegu Bank has been operating solar energy equipment at the Banyawol DGB Financial Group considers green management first in all of our manand Gyeongju branches since 2008, and the second head office has been agement processes. In 2011, DGB Daegu Bank obtained certification for our running a combined solar and geothermal energy system since 2016. In environmental management system (ISO14001), and was the first finanaddition, for business purchases, we have encouraged the buying of ecocial institution to be certified for our green management system (GMS: friendly products. Green-buying has been expanded according to the Green KSⅠ 7001 /7002). Since then, we have upheld the international standards of Purchasing Guidelines, and we are raising the rate of staff participation in environmental management systems through regular follow-up reviews and green-buying training. re-certification reviews. In March 2018, a review of the bank’s environmental management system and green management system found that there were Building a Paperless Office Environment no areas of non-conformity, but 24 recommendations were given in areas such as environmental performance, development activities, effects review DGB Financial Group is making efforts to reduce paper usage, such as and strengthening prevention. replacing our customers’ paper bills with e-mails. Also, to prepare for the digitization of the fast-changing financial industry, DGB Daegu Bank is in the process of establishing a paperless office culture. From early 2019, it will Green Management Activities and Performance be applied to all branches in a phased manner. Paper documents, such as The Green Touch Program is software that minimizes CO2 emissions by application forms filled in by customers at teller windows, will become elecreducing the power consumption of computers when they are not in use. tronic documents as part of a digital teller system. A tablet-branch system It is installed on 7,059 computers at our head office and branches. DGB has also been established where bank employees visit customers in per72 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE GREEN MANAGEMENT son to provide one-on-one consultations on financial products using tablets The NIE Energy Journal Contest equipped to carry out financial transactions. Through this, DGB Daegu Bank To help young people incorporate eco-friendly practices into their everyday is improving customer convenience as well as reducing the environmental lives, every year DGB Financial Group presents the nationwide NIE (Newspaimpact of business activities. per in Education) Energy Journal Contest for elementary, middle and high school students. A Culture of Environmental Awareness The NIE Energy Journal Contest has students gather newspaper clippings To pass on a sustainable environment to future generations, DGB Finanon environmental stories and write their thoughts and opinions in a jourcial Group understands that there is a need to boost awareness of climate nal format. It has been running since 2009 and is now in its 10th year. change and environmental issues, and to change behaviors. We therefore Some 2,500 students have taken part, and competition among the entries provide a range education programs to foster a culture of environmental is strong. awareness. Environmental Education for Employees DGB Financial Group is expanding employee education on green manageThe 9th DGB Student Green Press Corps ment and green finance. The Group is providing various training courses in DGB Financial Group is sharing the Group’s green management activities areas such as the greenhouse gas inventory system and our internal audits with local communities. To raise local awareness of climate change and enviof the green management system. ronmental issues, the DGB Student Green Press Corps has been in operation since 2010, made up of university students from the Daegu and GyeoAnnual Training Hours on Green (Hour) ngbuk regions. The DGB Student Green Press Corps has been consistently reporting on eco-friendly activities and local environment-related events, 500 500 and they have also provided education programs for young people to pro450 mote a culture of environmental awareness. In 2018, the 9th DGB Student Green Press Corps provided environmental education programs for elementary, middle and high school students at four local schools. 2016 2017 2018 Environmental Conservation in Local Communities DGB Financial Group has launched a variety of engagement activities for environmental conservation in local communities. In 2018, a total of 3,795 employees took part in various environmental conservation activities, such as tree-planting and side-street gardening in spring, eradicating alien species that damage the ecosystem, and refurbishing the popular Sincheon river. Moreover, a group composed of employees and local residents make an annual visit to Dokdo Island to help restore the ecosystem of one of the world's rarest plant species, the Ulleungdo turk’s cap lily. In addition, the Group has worked to prevent desertification in the Mongomorit area of Mongolia by planting and managing forests since 2009. More than 60,000 pine, larch and beech trees have been planted each year since 2012, and more than 5,000 seaberry trees have been planted to help provide income for local residents. In 2014, we published the white paper “DGB Forest Creation for Desertification Prevention.” In addition to follow-up management for the region, we have carried out a range of initiatives such as providing scholarships to local students, donating winter clothes, and providing wells for drinking water. 73 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT WIN-WIN PARTNERSHIPS Through win-win management with our partners, DGB Financial Group is helping to develop the local economy. Through an annual satisfaction survey and suggestions collected at partner meetings, we are building relationships. In addition, the Group is working to grow with our partners through training programs to strengthen partner capabilities and improve sustainable management. Meetings with Business Partners Partners Satisfaction Survey DGB Financial Group holds regular business partner meetings every year to Based on the results of the annual partner satisfaction survey, DGB Finanlisten to proposals and suggestions from our partners. cial Group strives to improve relations with our business partners. Dividing the satisfaction levels of the partners by category, in 2018 a score of 98 points was given for “general matters,” 98 points for “contract criteria and Number of Meeting with Business Partners procedures,” 95 points for “rewards system,” and 100 points for “determination for win-win growth.” Division 2016 2017 2018 Suggestions 1/ 1/ 1/ Business Partner Satisfaction by Category (Point) by business To apply consistent Strengthening Sustainability partners standards when it communication management comes to selecting by providing training for Division 2016 2017 2018 partners and platforms partners calculating costs for mutual General matters 95 98 98 information Contract criteria and procedures 100 95 98 exchanges such as round-table Rewards system 98 95 95 meetings Determination for win-win growth 98 100 100 Proposals 1/ 1/ 1/ by DGB Continue efforts Efforts to provide Efforts to organize Financial towards partner a wide range of meetings to Group win-win information that actually helpful for Principles of DGB Financial Group’s management will help partner partners Win-Win Partner Management management Actions Execution of one Execution of one Execution of one taken suggestion suggestion suggestion 01 Stronger win-win partnerships 02 Transparent transactions 03 Fair price compensation 04 Zero Unfair Practice in Trade 05 Stronger Eco-friendly Activities 74 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE WIN-WIN PARTNERSHIPS / HUMAN RIGHTS MANAGEMENT HUMAN RIGHTS MANAGEMENT DGB Financial Group supports global human rights protection standards, such as the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the convention banning child labor established by the International Labour Organization (ILO). We also signed up to the UN Global Compact and declared that we would faithfully implement social responsibilities related to human rights and labor. Moreover, to take more practical steps, we established the DGB Human Rights Center, the first human rights center among general companies, and have been carrying out activities to protect the rights of our workers. DGB Human Rights Center Traveling Counselor System DGB Financial Group deeply regrets a human rights violation that occurred The DGB Human Rights Center operates a “traveling counselor” system in 2017 at a DGB Financial Group affiliate, DGB Daegu Bank. Wrongful pracunder which the director of the Human Rights Center personally visits office tices have been abolished, and to prevent a recurrence of such an incident, branches around the country to provide counseling for any employees facthe DGB Human Rights Center was established under the direct responsiing difficulties. This makes the reporting of violations more accessible, and bility of the bank President. The DGB Human Rights Center is the first of its through one-on-one, face-to-face discussions, it protects the anonymity of kind to be established by a general company as opposed to a national instithe informants. The DGB Human Rights Center is analyzing the outcomes tution, and has been working in practical ways to protect the rights of the of these consultations and incorporating them into action plans to protect Group’s employees. human rights. Human Rights Center Organizational Chart Traveling Counselor System (Education courses) Period 2017* 2018 President of DGB Daegu Bank No. of Branches 23 83 Staff reached(Person) 196 821 *Aug. to Dec. DGB Human Rights Center Compliance Officer Strengthening Expertise of Human Rights Managers Inspection Room DGB Financial Group is working to strengthen human rights expertise within the company in order to better systematize counseling and human rights-related tasks. Our Human Rights Managers have earned teaching Main Activities of Human Rights Center licenses on sexual harassment prevention, and have strengthened their capabilities through training courses with specialist organizations such as the Korea Management Association. The Group plans to continue send01 02 03 ing managers to specialist training courses and to expand such training to other directors and administrators as part of our continuing efforts to Counseling on Management of Appointment and manhuman rights and human rights-reagement of staff for strengthen human rights management within the company. sexual harassment lated tasks for the human rights coun/abuse heads of every seling branch office (female manager) Annual human rights training (Hour) 62 04 05 56 52 Human rights-related tasks Human rights violation report(monitoring, prevention activities, ing, consulting, aid, etc. reporting, counseling) 2016 2017 2018 75 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LABOR-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS DGB Financial Group is pursuing mutual growth based on sound relations between management and labor. We will use a range of communication channels to listen to the voices of our members, and through firm ties of trust, continue to maintain win-win labor management relations. Strengthening Labor-Management Communications DGB Financial Group is building cooperative labor-management relations on the basis of harmonious communication. DGB Daegu Bank holds regular labor-management meetings, prior to which any important business-related changes are shared with our labor union so that our members can examine and understand the issues. At the same time, the bank holds quarterly briefings on the state of our business in which we explains the company’s current status and main direction and invites feedback. Social Contributions of Union Members Employees of DGB Daegu Bank have been participating in voluntary sharing activities since 2006. In 2013, they instituted a program for union members to share 1% of their pay, which is used to help our neighbors in need through projects like the Green Umbrella Child Fund. Social Contribution Expenses from DGB Daegu Bank Labor Union (KRW mil.) In 2018, these activities were expanded to provide KRW 50 million worth of air purifiers for disabled people and to fund excursions for them. The union Division 2016 2017 2018 also provided KRW 30 million in donations to help 5 fellow employees who had suffered accidents, illnesses or other misfortunes. DGB employees look Sponsoring children from low-income families forward to their generosity sparking a sharing movement in the local comHeating costs for low-income households 223 235 250 Developing human resources in local communities munity, and will strive to grow this movement in 2019. 76 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE LABOR-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS / INFORMATION SECURITY INFORMATION SECURITY The expansion of digital, non-face to face services is raising concerns about information security. DGB Financial Group recognizes that information security is an important factor in securing the trust of its customers. Therefore, all affiliates are engaged in continuous efforts to keep information secure. Information Security Governance In terms of information security, we are not simply protecting information DGB Financial Group is taking information security management of all our from electronic theft and misuse; we have built an organization that serves affiliates to prevent the risk of information security throughout the group. A as a control tower for the comprehensive protection of credit information working consultative group establishes cooperative systems to share inforand customer data, thereby strengthening our information protection sysmation security-related issues and discuss solutions. It also manages intertems. Through these efforts, we are expanding our work-related expertise, nal and external information-related risk factors and devises response stratobjectivity and independence. We have assigned an executive responsiegies. In this way, we are building a solid information security culture. ble for the protection of information and personal data. All branch managers have been designated managers of personal information protection, We are doing our utmost to make our security stronger. Our data resources and one level-4 responsible manager has been put in charge of personal and information undergo regular security inspections by the DGB Innovadata protection. All departments at headquarters and all branches are fully tion Center, which was established in 2018 to ensure the highest security engaged in protecting information. standards. We monitor and manage compliance with regulations in the sharing and use of customer information by our affiliates. These efforts include analyses and evaluations carried out every year to identify weakInformation Security Efforts nesses related to our homepages and electronic financial infrastructure. We are taking a wide range of approaches to the security of our customers’ information. Internally, we systematically check to ensure that our employees are abiding by laws and internal rules related to personal information. We have also improved training in many ways, and we have minimized interDGB Daegu Bank’s Information Security Systems actions with customer data so that it is accessed only when necessary. The and Strategy use of portable storage devices is restricted, and there is an approval proDGB Daegu Bank has clearly defined roles and responsibilities when it cess when sending e-mails to external recipients. Printed materials containcomes to information security. By improving systems for preventing thefts ing personal data are redacted, and there is an inspection process for faxes and leaks of customer data and internal data, we are able to provide our as well. There are systems in place restricting access to databases and our customers with services that are secure. We respond quickly to changes in networks, and our internal office network is separated from the Internet, the finance industry brought about by digital finance, and we strive ceasewhich prevents hacking and information leaks. Regular checks of these syslessly to strengthen security while also supporting financial innovation. tems are also performed to find weaknesses. Data Security System Management and Operation • Establish two-step emergency • Real-time automated back-up system Disruption Backup and backup system • Build a whole-system mirroring Response Recovery • Remote backup and • Operate disruption recovery system (BRS) management system • Automated backup system Financial Management System Stability • Strengthen security • Physical security system parameters • Administrative security • Prevent disruption of • Technological security Security Cyber electronic systems Measures security • Prevent customer data leaks and damage 77 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS DIAGNOSIS AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE 79 DIAGNOSIS AND ANALYSIS OF NON-FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE 84 HI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES NON-FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE 92 * DGB Financial Group acquired Hi Investment & Securities at the end of October 2018. Hi Investment & Securities reported a separate non-financial management performance due to the short reporting period. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS DIAGNOSIS AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DIAGNOSIS AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DGB Financial Group DGB Financial Group was established on May 17, 2011, in Suseong-gu, Daegu city, as a financial holding company, with capital of KRW 670.3 billion transferred through stocks in Daegu Bank, Kardnet Corporation, and DGB Credit Information Corporation. DGB Financial Group was listed on the Korea Exchange on June 7, 2011. Since then, the Group has incorporated subsidiaries including DGB Capital in January 2012, DGB Data System in April 2012. Kardnet later withdrew as a subsidiary, at which point DGB U-Pay was incorporated in March 2013. DGB Life Insurance was incorporated in January 2015, followed in October 2016 by the acquisition of DGB Asset Management and Hi Investment & Securities in October 2018. These latter acquisitions helped strengthen the Group’s non-banking business and diversify revenue sources. By December 2018, DGB Financial Group had grown into a comprehensive financial group with eight subsidiaries. We are achieving quantitative growth, but also qualitative growth under the philosophy of Sharing Dreams and Prosperity with the Local Community, and the vision of Best Partner for the Future. As of the end of 2018, the total assets of DGB Financial Group recorded KRW 64.9176 trillion, an increase of 14.4% from the previous year due to the acquisition of Hi Investment & Securities. The Group recorded a net income of KRW 383.5 billion backed by Negative Goodwill following the acquisition of Hi Investment & Securities. This is despite the harsh financial environment contributed to by the downturn of the local economy, the intensified competition in the financial market due to the emergence of internet banking, and the trade war between the U.S. and China. (Unit: KRW bil.) Group DGB DGB Hi DGB DGB DGB DGB DGB DGB ConsolidaTotal Financial Daegu Investment & Life Capital Asset ManU-Pay Data Credit Infortion Group Bank Securities Insurance agement System mation adjustments Gross Operating 1,340.6 114.2 1,141.4 57.8 58.5 80.2 14.7 4.0 1.6 1.1 -132.9 Income(A) Interest Income 1,382.6 -7.7 1,162.9 16.7 155.7 81.1 0.4 0.1 0.1 0.1 -26.8 Non-interest Income -42.0 121.9 -21.5 41.1 -97.2 -0.9 14.3 3.9 1.5 1.0 -106.1 Administrative 817.0 15.6 659.5 38.7 64.5 27.6 6.5 3.8 1.0 0.8 -1.0 Expenses(B) Provisions(C) 187.0 -0.2 160.3 5.0 -0.7 22.7 -0.1 Operating Income 336.6 98.8 321.6 14.1 -5.3 29.9 8.2 0.2 0.6 0.3 -131.8 (A-B-C) Non-operating 151.4 0.2 -12.8 0.5 0.4 -0.7 163.8 Income Total Net Income 406.0 99.1 234.8 11.3 0 22.4 6.4 0.2 0.4 0.2 31.2 Non-controlling 22.5 interests Controlling net 383.5 interests ※ The above financial information was prepared in accordance with the consolidated financial statements classification of the holding company. (*As of October 2018, Hi Investment & Securities was incorporated as a subsidiary of the Group. Only the net income of November and December of 2018 were included in the group performance.) The ROA and ROE of DGB Financial Group in 2018 were 0.64% and 9.27% respectively, up slightly from the previous year, but asset quality indicators were slightly down from the previous year. NPL Ratio was 1.05%, an improvement of 0.19%p from the previous year. The delinquency rate was 0.73%, an increase of 0.11% due to a rise in bad debts caused by a slowing local economy. In addition, BIS owner's capital, an indicator of capital quality, also largely increased as risk-weighted assets rose dramatically following the growth of total assets and the acquisition of Hi Investment & Securities. However, BIS owner's capital rose 0.23%p from the previous year to 12.82% owing to the issue of hybrid bonds and satisfactory performance. Dividend Payout in 2018 was 15.88%, down by 3.12%p. (Unit: %) Indicator Account (%) Profitability ROA 0.64 ROE 9.27 CIR 60.94 Asset Quality NPL Ratio 1.05 Delinquency Rate 0.73 Capital Adequacy Capital Adequacy Ratio (Basel III) 12.82 Tier I CAR 11.36 Dividend Payout Denomination Dividend Rate 7.2 Dividend Payout 15.88 Credit Ratings NICE Investor Service, Korea Ratings* AAA Moody's** A2 *Consolidated basis **Overseas credit rating corresponds to DGB Daegu Bank 79 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DIAGNOSIS AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DGB Daegu Bank I. Operating Results (Management Performance) The interest income of DGB Daegu Bank was KRW 1,716.5 billion, an increase of 9.8% from the previous year. Net interest income was KRW 1,162.9 billion increased by 6.2% from the previous year due to stabilized deposit cost ratio and loan yield. In addition, the net interest margin was 2.26%, up by 0.05%p from the previous year by getting out of the impact of low interest rates. Net interest assets were KRW 44 trillion, a rise of 3.1% from the previous year, and net interest spread increased by 0.10%p from the previous year. The net interest margin of DGB Daegu Bank is sensitive to changes in market interest rates due to the relatively high proportion of short-term loans. The net interest margin increased due to recent interest rate movements. Net Interest Income & Net Interest Margin (NIM) (Unit: KRW bil.) YoY Change 2018 2017 Amount (%, %p) Interest revenue 1,716.5 1,563.9 152.6 9.8% Cash & due from banks 5.2 4.8 0.4 8.3% Securities 165.9 172.6 -6.7 -3.9% Loans 1,541.2 1,383.9 157.3 11.4% Others 4.2 2.7 1.5 55.6% Interest expenses 553.6 468.6 85 18.1% Deposits 430.1 360.6 69.5 19.3% Borrowings 57.1 43.5 13.6 31.3% Bonds 58.2 60.7 -2.5 -4.1% Others 8.2 3.8 4.4 115.8% Net interest income 1,162.9 1,095.4 67.5 6.2% Net interest Margin 2.26% 2.21% 0.05%p NIS 2.67% 2.57% 0.10%p (Unit: KRW bil.) YoY Change 2018 2017 Amount (%,%p) Average lending rate 3.97% 3.72% 0.25%p Average deposit rate 1.30% 1.15% 0.15%p Net interest-bearing assets 44,778.8 43,442.4 1,336.4 3.1% 80 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS DIAGNOSIS AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DGB Daegu Bank’s Net interest margin posted an increase of Net Interest Income Over 5 Years 2.26% in 2018, marking a 0.05%p rise from 2.21% of the previous year. Net interest margins are projected to rise steadily, 2.54% given the high level of loan growth and interest rate hikes driven by changes in the local economy. In 2019, DGB Daegu 2.22% 2.21% 2.26% Bank plans to avoid deterioration in profitability caused by 2.15% unreasonable competition and maintain stability through aggressive spread management. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Non-interest income in 2018 decreased by 191% from the previous year to KRW -21.5 billion. By item, commission income increased slightly due to various factors, including an increase in beneficiary interest sales commission fees due to a strong stock market. Because of a decrease in interest income from securities, foreign exchange transactions and derivatives, total non-interest income declined to KRW 45.2 billion. (Unit: KRW bil.) Non-Interest Income YoY Change 2018 2017 Amount (%) Non-interest income -21.5 23.7 -45.2 -190.7% Commission income 76.3 74.7 1.6 2.1% Gain on securities 8.8 48 -39.2 -81.7% Gain on foreign currency transactions & derivatives 16 18.3 -2.3 -12.6% products Gain on disposition of loans -11.9 -9.9 -2.0 20.2% Other operating expenses -110.7 -107.5 -3.2 3.0% In 2018, sales and administrative expenses stood at KRW 659.6 billion, up 14% year-on-year, resulting in the sales and administrative expenses ratio to jump from 51.6% to 57.8%. Voluntary retirement and the transfer of allowance for bad debts contributed to the growth, however management efficiency can be seen as gradually improving. In particular, retirement benefits and personnel expenses increased 61% and 8%, respectively. DGB Daegu Bank continuously strives to strengthen its network and reform organizational operations to improve business efficiency and productivity. (Unit: KRW bil.) Selling and Administrative Expenses YoY Change 2018 2017 Amount (%, %p) Sales and administrative expenses 659.6 577.4 82.2 14.2% Salaries and employee benefits 319.3 294.6 24.7 8.4% Taxes and dues 70.3 63.0 7.3 11.6% Retirement allowances 85.8 53.3 32.5 61.0% Other G&A expenses 184.2 166.5 17.7 10.6% Cost-income ratio 57.8% 51.6% 6.2%p DGB Daegu Bank’s operating income in 2018, before provisioning, was KRW 481.8 billion, down 11% year-on-year. Although non-interest income decreased, total operating income increased by 2% compared to KRW 1,119.1 billion of the previous year. This resulted from a higher net interest income due to growth in loans and interest rates. On top of general and management expenses, an increase in allowance for possible loan losses offset the increase in total operating income. As a result, operating income in 2018 fell to KRW 321.6 billion, down KRW 64.7 billion from a year earlier. (Unit: KRW bil.) Pre-provisioning operating income Operating income Total operating income YoY Change 2018 2017 Amount (%) 1141.4 1119.1 Pre-provisioning operating income 481.8 541.7 -59.9 -11.1% Total operating income 1,141.4 1,119.1 22.3 2.0% 541.7 G&A expenses 659.6 577.4 82.2 14.2% 481.8 Total provision 160.2 155.4 4.8 3.1% Operating income 321.6 386.3 -64.7 -16.7% 2017 2018 81 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DIAGNOSIS AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE II. Financial Status As of the end of 2018, total assets stood at over KRW 49.7853 trillion, up 3.02% from the previous year. Asset growth was driven by an increase in won-denominated loans (up 2.62% to nearly KRW 35.4165 trillion) and balanced growth between corporate and household loans. (Unit: KRW bil.) Assets YoY Change 2018 2017 Amount (%) Assets 49,785.3 48,325.1 1,460.2 3.0% Cash and due from banks 1,969.5 1,981.0 -11.5 -0.6% Securities 8,325.8 8,106.5 219.3 2.7% Estimated fair value of loans 36.4 36.4 Amortized cost of loans 37,210.1 36,604.6 605.5 1.7% Fixed assets 679.3 527.7 151.6 28.7% Other assets 1,564.2 1,105.3 458.9 41.5% DGB Daegu Bank’s loan amounted to KRW 35,466.0 billion in 2018, marking an increase of KRW 952.9 billion from a year earlier. Corporate loans in 2018 amounted to KRW 24,727.6 billion, contributing to stable export support for local businesses and the development of the domestic economy, and accounted for the biggest portion of total loan receivable interest at 69.7%. In addition, household loans, which accounted for 28.2% of total loans receivable, increased by KRW 455.7 billion year-on-year to reach KRW 9,991.3 billion. Public loans and others with relatively low credit risk amounted to KRW 747.1 billion, up 11% from the previous year. (Unit: KRW bil.) Public and other loans Loans YoY Change 2.1% 2018 2017 Amount (%) Loans in KRW 35,466.0 34,513.1 952.9 2.8% Household loans Corporate loans 24,727.6 24,304.3 423.3 1.7% 28.2% Household loans 9,991.3 9,535.6 455.7 4.8% Corporate loans Public and other loans 747.1 673.2 73.9 11.0% 69.7% DGB Daegu Bank’s total liabilities in 2018 amounted to KRW 45,625.3 billion, up 2% from the KRW 44,546.1 billion recorded in 2017. Low-cost deposits increased 1% from the previous year to KRW 38,345.4 billion, however, high-cost debentures decreased 5% from the previous year to KRW 2,001.5 billion. DGB Daegu Bank’s debt growth, due to a rise in low-cost deposits and others, resulted in an adjustment in asset growth in 2018. (Unit: KRW bil.) Others Liability Structure YoY Change 11.6% 2018 2017 Amount (%) Debentures Total liabilities 45,625.3 44,546.1 1,079.2 2.4% 4.4% Deposits 38,345.4 37,967.2 378.2 1.0% Debentures 2,001.5 2,108.9 -107.4 -5.1% Deposits Others 5,278.4 4,470.0 808.4 18.1% 84.0% 82 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS DIAGNOSIS AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE Core deposits free to deposit and withdraw increased from KRW 14,444.3 billion in 2017 to KRW 14,757.1 billion in 2018, up 2.2% due to DGB Daegu Bank’s aggressive marketing and increase in customer trust. Total deposits also reached KRW 43,680.2 billion, an increase of 3.4% from the previous year. In addition, the contribution rate of core deposits compared to total deposits recorded 33.8%, a decrease of 0.4%p. (Unit: KRW bil.) Core deposits YoY Change 2018 2017 Amount (%, %p) Core deposits (A) 14,757.1 14,444.3 312.8 2.2% Total deposits (in KRW) ((B) 36,540.8 35,193.4 1,347.4 3.8% % of core deposits (A/B) 40.4% 41.0% -0.6%p (*)Total deposits (C) 43,680.2 42,249.0 1,431.2 3.4% Ratio of core deposits (A/C) 33.8% 34.2% -0.4%p * Total deposits = KRW-denominated deposits + CD + RP + notes receivable + financial bonds + money trusts The loan size below standard of DGB Daegu Bank in 2018 was KRW 333.5 billion, up by KRW 39 billion from the previous year, and the NPL ratio was 0.90%, up 0.08%p from the 0.82% recorded in 2017. DGB Daegu Bank keeps its NPL ratio below optimum level by using preemptive risk management through the continuous refunding and selling of distressed debts. (Unit: KRW bil.) Asset Quality YoY Change 2018 2017 Amount (%, %p) Total credit 36,948.9 36,036.9 912.0 2.5% Normal 36,316.7 35,410.7 906.0 2.6% Precautionary 298.7 331.7 -33.0 -9.9% Substandard 223.5 198.1 25.4 12.8% Doubtful 52.1 63.7 -11.6 -18.2% Estimated loss 57.9 32.7 25.2 77.1% NPL Ratio (%) 0.90% 0.82% 0.08%p Delinquency rate (%) 0.60% 0.51% 0.09%p DGB Daegu Bank’s NPL ratio began to decline in 2016 thanks to preemptive risk NPL Ratio over 5 Years management. The ratio fell from 1.23% in 2015 to 1.19% in 2016. In addition, thanks 1.23% 1.16% 1.19% to a focus on risk management, the bank kept the NPL ratio under 1% for a sec0.90% 0.82% ond consecutive year in 2018 despite an increase in household debt and industrial restructuring. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 In 2018, DGB Daegu Bank recorded KRW 4,308.0 billion in capital, up KRW 303.5 billion from 2017. Although the amount of capital in Tier 2 decreased by KRW 83.6 billion from 2017, Tier 1 capital recorded KRW 3,481.4 billion, up KRW 164.9 billion from the previous year, leading to an increase in total capital. DGB Daegu Bank’s Tier 1 capital increased due to an expansion of its sales force and improvement of its profitability through management efficiency. As a result, the capital adequacy ratio in Tier 1 also recorded 13.54% in 2018, up 1.01%p from 2017. This increase means an improvement in capital adequacy, which in turn means that the bank has enough capital to weather a crisis. The BIS ratio in 2018 recorded 15.08%, up 0.67%p from the previous year, showing stability with a much higher figure than the 9.875% proposed in the BIS guidelines. (Unit: KRW bil.) Capital Adequacy YoY Change 2018 2017 Amount (%) Total Capital 4,308.0 4,004.5 303.5 7.6% Tier I Capital 3,868.5 3,481.4 387.1 11.1% Tier II Capital 439.5 523.1 -83.6 -16.0% Risk-weighted Assets 28,571.8 27,785.2 786.6 2.8% Capital Adequacy Ratio (%) 15.08% 14.41% 0.67%p Tier I CAR (%) 13.54% 12.53% 1.01%p Tier II CAR (%) 1.54% 1.88% -0.34%p 83 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DIAGNOSIS AND ANALYSIS OF NON-FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE Human Capital As of the end of 2018, DGB Daegu Bank has a total of 3,091 employees. There are 1,597 males and 1,494 females, 21 employees aged under 20s, 575 employees in 20s, 931 in 30s, 1,087 in 40s and 477 over 50s. What we value is individual ability when it comes to both recruitment and promotion. We do not discriminate with respect to gender or race. The ratio of female workers compared to their male counterparts was 48.3% in 2018, and there is no difference in pay between men and women.(GRI 405-2) DGB Daegu Bank Employees (GRI 102-8) Unit 2016 2017 2018 Total No. of Employees person 3,138 3,186 3,091 Employees Executives* person 43 48 49 Staff person 3,095 3,138 3,042 Gender Male person 1,670 1,686 1,597 Female person 1,468 1,500 1,494 Employment Type Regular employees person 3,006 2,911 2,964 Contract employees person 132 275 127 Ratio of contract % 4.2 8.6 4.3 employees Age Under 20 person 6 2 21 20s person 549 583 575 30s person 954 936 931 40s person 1,097 1,102 1,087 50s and above person 532 563 477 Others High School Graduate person 849 819 768 National Patriots person 209 208 196 Disabled person 33 37 35 Migrant worker person 17 18 17 *Executive: Grade 1 or higher DGB Financial Group has fair recruitment criteria for everyone based only 127 employees retired in 2016, 176 employees retired in 2017, and 198 on ability. DGB Daegu Bank improved its recruitment process in 2018 for employees retired in 2018. The rise in the number of retirements, howbetter transparency and hired 23 new employees. ever, is seen as the temporary result of the introduction of a voluntary retirement system. DGB Daegu Bank New Employment (GRI 401-1) DGB Daegu Bank Retirement (GRI 401-1) Unit 2016 2017 2018 Unit 2016 2017 2018 Male person 82 145 20 Male person 80 129 165 Female person 96 78 3 Female person 47 47 33 Total person 178 223 23 Total person 127 176 198 Ratio (%) % 5.70 7.00 0.70 Ratio (%) % 4.54 5.6 6.4 DGB Daegu Bank Health & Safety (OHS) (GRI 403-2) Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 Industrial accident rate % 0.01 Absence rate % 0.3 0.3 0.3 84 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS DIAGNOSIS AND ANALYSIS OF NON-FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DGB Daegu Bank Female Employees Index (GRI 405-1) Unit 2016 2017 2018 Percentage of female employees % 47.8 48.3 48.3 Percentage of female managers % 21.5 22.6 24.8 Percentage of women in lower Management positions* % 35.9 38.8 42.5 Percentage of women in senior management positions** % 6.2 7.6 9.1 *Lower management: higher than manager, lower than branch sub-manager ** Senior management: branch sub-manager and above DGB Financial Group is working to encourage female employees not to cut their careers short because of pregnancy, childbirth and childcare through the increase an quota of DGB Child Dream-Site, an in-house daycare center of DGB Daegu Bank. We strongly encourage female employees to use maternity leave and childcare leave. In 2018, childcare leave was used by a total of 123 employees, and 112 employees returned the company to continue their careers. The ratio of employees returning after childcare leave in 2018 was 95.5%, up by 7.6%p from 2017. DGB Daegu Bank Maternity Leave & Return to Work Rate Unit 2016 2017 2018 No. of employees on maternity leave person 215 141 123 No. of employees who have returned from maternity leave person 116 124 112 Rate of return to work* % 54.0 87.9 95.5 No. of employees who retired after maternity leave person 12 13 5 * Ratio of those returning after parental leave to those who initiated childcare leave DGB Financial Group strives to ensure employee satisfaction. As a part of our efforts, we are strengthening communication between labor and management and promoting labor union activities. As a result, 2,095 out of the 2,095 employees eligible for membership in the DGB Daegu Bank labor union had joined, resulting in a membership rate of 100%. DGB Financial Group notifies employees of all managerial changes at least 30 days in advance. We are plan to grow by maintaining positive management performance and employment security through the coexistence of labor and management. DGB Daegu Bank Labor-Management Relations (GRI 102-41) Unit 2016 2017 2018 Total number of employees person 3,387 3,254 3,091 No. of union-eligible employees person 2,208 2,190 2,095 No. of labor union members person 2,208 2,190 2,095 Total union participation rate % 65.2 67.3 67.8 Participation rate among eligible employees % 100 100 100 DGB Financial Group considers the competence of our internal employees to be the competitiveness of the company, and invests in employee education. The average time spent in education in 2018 was 80 hours per employee, which marked a 12-hour increase from the previous year. The average educational expense per capita was KRW 1,000,000, up KRW 75,000 from the previous year. DGB Daegu Bank Employee Education (GRI 404-1) Unit 2016 2017 2018 Average education hours per capita hour 70 68 80 Average education expenses per capita KRW 1,000 600 925 1,000 DGB Financial Group is listening to the opinions of its employees through various communication channels. In particular, following the establishment of the DGB Human Rights Center, we actively try to listen to any difficulties that our employees face through 1:1 consultations. DGB Bank Employee Grievance Handling (GRI 102-17) Unit 2016 2017 2018 No. of grievances received case 19 84 56 Rate of grievance resolution % 100 79 70 85 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DIAGNOSIS AND ANALYSIS OF NON-FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE Manufactured Capital DGB Financial Group operates 336 branches as of the end of 2018, with 249 branches under DGB Daegu Bank, 29 under Hi Investment & Securities, 44 under DGB Life Insurance, 12 operated by DGB Capital and one branch each for DGB Asset Management, DGB U-Pay and DGB Credit Information. The Group will continue efforts to provide customers easy access to financial services. DGB Financial Group No. of Branches (GRI 102-7) Unit 2016 2017 2018 DGB Daegu Bank branch 259 253 249 Hi Investment & Securities branch 29 DGB Life Insurance branch 49 44 42 DGB Capital branch 12 11 12 (Including 1 DLLC) (Including 1 DLLC) DGB Asset Management branch 1 1 1 DGB U-Pay branch 1 1 1 DGB Data System branch 1 1 1 DGB Credit Information branch 1 1 1 Total branch 324 312 336 *DGB Financial Group acquired Hi Investment & Securities in 2018 and data is accumulated from 2018 DGB Daegu Bank Instrument Status (GRI 102-7) Unit 2016 2017 2018 CD instrument 166 ATM instrument 1,761 1,783 1,720 Passbook printer instrument 171 163 161 Unmanned payment machine instrument 282 265 262 Total instrument 2,380 2,211 2,143 DGB Financial Group’s customer base is consistently growing, serving 3.68 million customers in 2016, 3.73 million in 2017 and 3.77 million in 2018. With the proliferation of online banks and the declining population, customers under the age of 40 decreased by 30,000. However, the number of customers aged 51 to 60 increased by 20,000 while those aged 61 to 70 rose by 30,000, and clients aged 61 and older jumped by 50,000 for a total on-year increase of 40,000. DGB Daegu Bank Customer Numbers Unit 2016 2017 2018 20 and under 10,000 people 33 31 30 21 to 30 10,000 people 63 63 62 31 to 40 10,000 people 69 69 68 41 to 50 10,000 people 75 75 75 51 to 60 10,000 people 64 66 68 61 to 70 10,000 people 35 38 41 71 and over 10,000 people 29 31 33 Total 10,000 people 368 373 377 * Change in standard calculation of no. of customers 86 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS DIAGNOSIS AND ANALYSIS OF NON-FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE Intellectual Capital DGB Financial Group is responding proactively to the Fourth Industrial Revolution while also promoting Digital Transformation to redefine the existing business structure to create sustainable outcomes. Accordingly, the Group invested KRW 2,346 million in Fintech projects in 2018 in response to the rapidly changing financial markets, and continues to promote digital innovation. Fintech Investment Unit 2016 2017 2018 Investment in Fintech KRW million 2,174 2,712 2,346 DGB Financial Group has more than 2 million online customers with numbers steadily growing from 2.06 million in 2016 to 2.15 million in 2017 and to 2.23 million in 2018. The increase is a result of enhancements to online services for greater convenience, which led to a rise in middle-aged and elderly online customers. No. of Online Customers (Based on Internet Banking Customers) Unit 2016 2017 2018 20 and under 10,000 people 6 6 6 21 to 30 10,000 people 44 44 44 31 to 40 10,000 people 55 56 56 41 to 50 10,000 people 50 51 52 51 to 60 10,000 people 33 36 40 61 to 70 10,000 people 13 16 18 71 and over 10,000 people 5 6 7 Total 10,000 people 206 215 223 * Change in standard calculation of no. of online customers DGB Financial Group has registered 8 patents and applied 10 patents. Through continuous development activities, the Group will lead innovation in products and services and actively respond to the fast-changing financial environment. Patent Registration (Accumulated) Unit 2016 2017 2018 Patent registration case 8 8 8 Patent application case 10 10 10 Natural Capital DGB Daegu Bank Water Usage (GRI 303-5) Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019(Target) 2020(Target) Total usage ton 167,584 168,753 141,045 154,858 154,000 153,000 Usage per branch ton 659.8 651.6 538.3 612.1 608.7 604.7 Data collection ton Headquarters Headquarters, Headquarter, Headquarters, Headquarters, Headquarters, range and 254 Branches 2nd Headquarters 2nd Headquarters 2nd Headquarters 2nd Headquarters 2nd Headquarters and 259 Branches and 262 Branches and 253 Branches and all Branches and all Branches 87 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DIAGNOSIS AND ANALYSIS OF NON-FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE To pass on a sustainable environment to future generations, DGB Financial Group is working to reduce its consumption of resources and to dispose of waste properly. By instituting a paperless office, our consumption of resources like A4 paper has been reduced. Also, to encourage proper waste disposal, we are providing environmental education to suppliers and waste producers alike. As of the end of 2018, our recycling rate for paper, terminal ribbon and print toner stood at 97.2%. DGB Daegu Bank Waste Management (GRI 306-2) Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019(Target) 2020(Target) A4 paper use ton 134 140 138.4 118.9 118 115 A4 paper recycling rate % 100 100 100 100 100 100 Terminal ribbon kg 758 705 698 805 700 680 Terminal ribbon recycling rate % 16 16 16 16 16 17 Print toner ton 3 3 2.99 3.2 3 2.9 Print toner recycling rate % 14 14 14 14 14 15 Total ton 138 144 142 122.9 122 119 Total recycling rate % 97.6 97.7 97.7 97.2 97.3 97.3 DGB Financial Group is making efforts to increase the percentage of green products that are purchased. As a result, the Group’s green product purchasing rate was 83.5% in 2015, 83.7% in 2016, 83.9% in 2017 and 88.8% in 2018, and continues to steadily rise. The green purchasing rate jumped temporarily in 2018 due to building projects, including renovations at Group headquarters and construction of the DIC Center. DGB Daegu Bank Green Product Purchasing Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total purchasing KRW mil. 8,815 8,425 7,242 16,320 Green product purchasing KRW mil. 7,364 7,048 6,075 14,490 Green purchasing rate % 83.5 83.7 83.9 88.8 GHG Reporting Range Notes Notes 1. Headquarters DGB Financial Holding, Headquarters 5. DGB Credit Information DGB Financial Group Subsidiary Annex (Computer Center), Training 6. DGB U-Pay DGB Financial Group Subsidiary Center 7. DGB Data System DGB Financial Group Subsidiary 2. Branches Including all branches 3. Vehicles Company-owned and leased vehicles 4. DGB Child Dreamer Center Daegu Bank Employee Childcare Facilities DGB Financial Group is making a variety of efforts to minimize the environmental footprint of its business activities. The Group introduced the Green Touch Program to promote low-carbon practices that minimize carbon dioxide emissions by reducing power consumption when computers are not in use. Further energy-saving activities were promoted with the installation of a geothermal system and photovoltaic power generation facilities at the Group’s second headquarters in 2016. These efforts enabled the Group to obtain the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System Certification. Energy Reduction (GRI 302-1~4) Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019(Target) 2020(Target) Energy usage Direct TJ 40.7 39.4 41.3 40.9 41.0 41.0 Indirect TJ 118.6 116.2 118.7 123.9 123.0 122.0 Total TJ 159.3 155.6 160.0 164.7 164.0 163.0 Energy intensity Current (Sales) KRW 100 mil. 22,954 24,639 24,487 25,606 26,000 27,000 Intensity rate TJ/KRW 100 mil. 0.7% 0.6% 0.7% 0.6% 0.6% 0.6% Renewable energy TJ 0.10 0.11 0.13 0.19 0.20 0.21 usage Energy intensity % 2.3 -2.8 -3.0 0.4 0.6 * Fuel: Including gasoline, oil, kerosene, LNG, LPG 88 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS DIAGNOSIS AND ANALYSIS OF NON-FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DGB Financial Group established a greenhouse gas (GHG) inventory system to systematically manage greenhouse gas emissions. Third-party verification is conducted annually to ensure objectivity and reliability in energy saving and emissions reporting. We strive to continuously reduce GHG emissions through the establishment of greenhouse gas-related targets and active reduction activities every year. Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GRI 305-1~5) Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019(Target) 2020(Target) GHG Emissions Scope 1 tCO2e 2,770 2,684 2,674 2,625 2,600 2,580 Scope 2 tCO2e 15,364 15,046 15,369 16,041 15,800 15,600 Scope 3 Business trips tCO2e 571 602 650 684 680 680 Commuting tCO2e 1,811 1,732 1,757 3,047 3,020 3,020 Total tCO2e 2,382 2,334 2,407 3,731 3,700 3,700 Total tCO2e 20,514 20,064 20,450 22,396 22,100 22,000 GHG Emissions Base (Sales) KRW 100 mil. 22,954 24,639 24,487 25,606 26,000 27,000 Intensity Scope 1 tCO2e/ KRW 100 mil. 12.1% 10.9% 10.9% 10.3% 10.0% 9.6% Scope 2 tCO2e/ KRW 100 mil. 66.9% 61.1% 62.8% 62.6% 60.8% 57.8% Scope 3 tCO2e/ KRW 100 mil. 10.4% 9.5% 9.8% 14.6% 14.2% 13.7% GHG emissions % -3.7 2.2 -1.9 -9.5 1.3 0.5 reduction rate Details of Indirect GHG Emissions (GRI 305-2) Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019(Target) 2020(Target) Branches tCO2e 7,922 7,603 7,594 7,388 7,277 7,185 ATM tCO2e 2,710 2,552 2,420 2,227 514 514 Daegu Bank tCO2e 4,731 4,892 5,354 6,426 8,853 8,813 Headquarters* * Includes DGB Financial Group, Data System, Credit Information Environmental Protection Activities Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 Number of activities times 95 97 118 115 Participants person 2,120 2,385 4,292 3,795 Environmental protection investment cost KRW mil. 9 35 38 115 Since 2006, DGB Daegu Bank has utilized a corporate credit support system (TCRMS) to reflect the environmental management standards of firms in credit assessments. Evaluations are conducted for all firms that use credit rating systems to encourage the proliferation of eco-friendly companies and environmental negative screening in such a way that those with higher scores earn extra credit rating points. Environmental Management Assessment (GRI 308-2) Units 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019(Target) 2020(Target) No. of firms subject to environmental number 19,244 18,021 20,429 20,560 22,010 22,853 management assessment No. of firms excluded from environmental number 872 358 432 427 457 474 management assessment Rate of environmental management % 95.7 98.1 97.9 98.0 98.0 98.0 assessment 89 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DIAGNOSIS AND ANALYSIS OF NON-FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DGB Daegu Bank converts paper bills to e-mail and other electronic media to reduce paper usage. As a result of the introduction of smart statements and Kakao statements in 2017, the electronic billing rate reached 40.21% in 2018. DGB Daegu Bank Electronic Billing Status* Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total bills sent number 6,896,196 7,095,802 7,605,211 7,568,157 No. of e-mail bills sent case 2,086,803 2,245,081 2,298,864 2,069,332 No. of mobile bills sent case 80,643 90,939 92,813 85,379 No. of Smart bills sent case 214,125 740,964 No. of Kakao bills sent case 16,256 147,388 Electronic billing rate % 31.4 32.9 34.5 40.2 * Change of status to electronic billing Status Of Eco-Friendly Project Financing Project Unit Investment Period Commitment 2018 Amount (Expenditure) Ulsan Resource Recovery Utility Private Investment project KRW mil. 2009.06~2024.03 20,171 13,465 Jeju Seogwipo Gashiri Wind Power Project KRW mil. 2017.08~2025.08 10,000 8,227 Daegu Waste Energy Facility Private Investment Project KRW mil. 2015.09~2029.06 15,000 13,460 Pohang Clean Water Love Private Investment Trust KRW mil. 2014.11~2031.06 8,230 5,210 Daegu Innocity Steam Supply and Power Generation Project KRW mil. 2015.09~2029.06 30,000 27,993 Social Capital DGB Financial Group works actively to create social value as a member of the local community based on its management philosophy of Sharing Dreams and Prosperity with the Local Community. In particular, the Group is planning and conducting strategic social contribution activities, taking into account the characteristics of financial corporations. DGB Financial Group will go beyond simple donation activities as it endeavors to solve social issues and create social value. Social Contribution (GRI 413-1) 2016 2017 2018 Funding No. of Funding No. of Funding No. of (KRW mil.) Volunteers (KRW mil.) Volunteers (KRW mil.) Volunteers Local Communities and Public 12,278 12,057 12,025 11,118 17,412 10,017 Welfare Culture, Arts and Sports 5,140 1,648 7,039 2,461 4,069 2,341 Education and Scholarship 1,393 230 5,209 644 4,106 547 Microcredit / Dormant Deposits 462 7,136 5,098 Youth Startup Foundation / Credit Counseling and Recovery Service Environment and Global 238 5,359 139 4,292 115 3,795 Total 19,511 19,294 31,548 18,515 30,800 16,700 90 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS DIAGNOSIS AND ANALYSIS OF NON-FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE DGB Financial Group is working to build a sound corporate ecosystem and strengthen its industrial competitiveness through mutual growth with its partners. As part of this, the Group provided management consulting support to 99 partners as of the end of 2018. Win-Win Growth Unit 2016 2017 2018 Management case 94 92 99 Consulting Support Energy Material Parts Business of Pohang Small Hidden Champions: 12 Pohang Small Hidden Champions: 11 Gyeongbuk Region: 18 World Star: 4 Comprehensive Diagnosis of Pre-Star Corporation: 6 Design Innovation Corporation: 17 World Class 300: 6 Global Small Hidden Champions: 3 Pre-Star Corporation: 3 Activities case Pohang Small Hidden Champions: 15 Comprehensive Diagnosis of Star Corporation: 8 Star Corporation: 5 Relational and Free: 17 World Star 300: 9 Global Small Hidden Champions: 4 Others: 34 Robot Corporation Management Consulting: 9 Relational and Free: 14 Participating Firms of Sillarian: 10 Others: 45 Relational and Free: 17 Others: 18 DGB Financial Group strives to ensure customer satisfaction in the belief that satisfying customers is the best sales strategy. The Group actively responds to customer demands through consumer protection systems, including CS training and advisory group activities. As a result, satisfaction rate was recorded at 93.2% in 2018. Customer Satisfaction (GRI 102-43) Unit 2016 2017 2018 Customer Satisfaction (Satisfied Customers) % 92 92.8 93.2 DGB Financial Group communicates with customers through various channels and improves practices and systems that are unreasonable or inconvenient from the customer’s point of view. The Group listens to the voice of the customer through the VOC channel, and has handled 1,917 cases in 2016, 1,831 cases in 2017, and 1,966 cases in 2018. Voice of the Customer (GRI 102-43) Unit 2016 2017 2018 Dissatisfaction case 47 76 62 Pending issues case 378 318 317 Compliment case 789 748 818 Others case 709 689 769 Total case 1,917 1,831 1,966 Customer Privacy (GRI 418-1) Legal and Regulatory Violations (GRI 419-1) Unit 2016 2017 2018 Unit 2016 2017 2018 Complaints by outside parties case Violations of major case proven by organization economic, social laws Complaints filed by regulatory case 1 4 3 and regulations of agencies the organization Customer data leaks, theft or case * Based on cases of ongoing litigation loss 91 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Hi INVESTMENT & SECURITIES NON-FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE Economy Social Instrument Status (GRI 102-7) Customer Privacy (GRI 418-1) Unit 2017 2018 Unit 2017 2018 CD instrument Complaints by outside parties case proven by organization ATM instrument 9 9 Complaints filed by regulatory case Passbook printer instrument agencies Unmanned payment machine instrument Customer data leaks,, theft, loss case 47 Total instrument 9 9 Legal And Regulatory Violations (GRI 419-1) Number of Customers Unit 2017 2018 Unit 2017 2018 Major fines case 20 and under person 7,843 7,322 Non-monetary sanctions case Employee Employee Cases: 2, 21 to 30 person 19,316 19,143 Cases: 2 Executive Cases: 2, 31 to 40 person 54,049 56,897 Agency Cases: 6 41 to 50 person 85,042 88,070 Lawsuits (Year-end) case 5 3 51 to 60 person 93,606 95,985 61 to 70 person 64,367 70,310 Mutual Growth 71 and over person 46,937 52,070 Total person 371,160 389,797 Unit 2017 2018 Management Consulting case 3 2 Support No. Of Online Customers (Based on HTS Internet Banking Customer) Activities case Hyundai Hyundai Unit 2017 2018 Heavy Heavy Industries Industries 20 and under person 2,609 2,448 Partners: 2 Partners: 1 21 to 30 person 12,333 11,977 Hyundai Hyundai 31 to 40 person 39,539 42,858 Motor Motor Partners: 1 Partners: 1 41 to 50 person 49,525 54,101 51 to 60 person 42,525 45,836 61 to 70 person 19,163 22,314 71 and over person 6,013 6,906 Operation Status Of Internal Control System Total person 171,707 186,440 Unit 2017 2018 Normal audit 1) case 2,743 3,009 General audit case 21 31 Special audit 2) case 16 10 Environment Running audit 3) case 4,735 5,395 Waste Management (GRI 306-2) 1) Audits for business areas (Management, IT, Finance, Business, Compliance, etc.) Unit 2017 2018 2) Audits for complaints, accidents and individual matters or audits for A4 Paper Use ton 179.4 182.6 executives, board, regulators 3) Continuous monitoring, online auditing to prevent financial acciRecycling rate of terminal ribbon kg 137 113 dents Print toner ton 0.71 0.66 Recycling rate of print toner % 83.7 83.2 E-mail Billing* Unit 2017 2018 Total number of bills sent case 576,392 549,896 No. of e-mail bills sent case 188,907 198,636 E-mail Billing Rate (%) % 33 36 92 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS HI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES NON-FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE Public Interest Fund Products Retirement (GRI 401-1) Unit 2017 2018 Unit 2017 2018 ABL Active SRI Securities Investment KRW mil. 430 319 Male person 103 70 Trust [Stocks] Female person 38 33 Hi Socially Responsible Securities KRW mil. 11,928 8,510 Investment Trust [Stocks] Total person 141 103 Ratio of women to men % 18 13 *B  ased on evaluation amount at the end of the year Employees (GRI 102-8) Maternity Leave And Return to Work Rate Unit 2017 2018 Total No. of Employees person 786 781 Unit 2018 Employees Executives person 20 17 No. of employees on maternity leave person 20 Staff person 766 764 No. of employees who have returned person 11 from maternity leave Gender Male person 550 535 Rate of return to work* % 84.6 Female person 236 246 No. of employees who retired after person 2 Employment Regular employees person 553 572 maternity leave Type Contract employees person 233 209 * Ratio of those returning after parental leave to those who initiated Ratio of contract % 29.6 26.8 childcare leave employees Age Under 20 person 20s (Male/Female) person 23/42 29/39 30s (Male/Female) person 143/97 135/103 Labor Union Status (GRI 102-41) 40s (Male/Female) person 208/94 192/100 Unit 2017 2018 50s and above (Male/ person 176/3 179/4 Female) Total no. of employees person 755 756 Others High School person 52 50 No. of union-eligible person 669 668 Graduate employees National Patriots person No. of labor union members person 431 426 Disabled person 7 8 Union participation rate % 57 56 Migrant Worker person 1 Participation rate among % 64 64 eligible employees Female Talent Promotion (GRI 405-1) Education (GRI 404-1) Unit 2017 2018 Unit 2017 2018 Percentage of female % 33 34 Average education hours hour 10 8 employees per capita Percentage of female % 20 21 Average education KRW 1,000 317 229 managers expenses per capita Percentage of women % 35 37 in lower management positions* Percentage of women % 3 4 in senior management positions** * Lower management: higher than manager but below general manager ** Senior management: higher than general manager 93 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Hi INVESTMENT & SECURITIES NON-FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE New Employment (GRI 401-1) Human Rights Education For Employees (GRI 412-2) Unit 2017 2018 Unit 2017 2018 Male person 103 69 Average no. of sessions of session 18 19 human rights education per Female person 30 45 person Total person 133 114 * Counted by subject (category) Ratio of women to men % 17 15 Health And Safety (OHS) (GRI 403-2) Employee Grievance Handling (GRI 102-17) Unit 2017 2018 Unit 2017 2018 Industrial Accident Rate % No. of grievances received case 84 56 Absence Rate % Rate of grievance resolution % 79 70 Activities to Improve Customer Accessibility Session Activity Session Activity Business site 1 Visit to Busan materials factory Investment 1 Presentation at Mokdong branch on smallvisits presentations scale investing (ISA tax benefits) 2 Visit to Busan materials factory 2 Presentation at Daegu branch on H2 stocks 3 Visit to Nano new materials factory 3 Presentation on stocks at Apgujeong branch 4 Visit to Busan materials factory 4 Presentation at Gupo branch on small-scale 5 Visit to Gyeongnam regional industrial investing complex 5 Presentation at Mokdong branch for Kosqaq Corporate day 1 Future outlook and growth engines for 20 investors firms in promising industries 2 Future outlook and growth engines for 21 firms in promising industries Investment 1 Presentation on industrial technologies at presentations Hyundai Heavy Industries 94 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 96 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION 99 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 100 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 102 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 103 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 106 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT Based on a report originally issued in Korean The Board of Directors and Shareholders DGB Financial Group Co., Ltd.: Opinion We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of DGB Financial Group Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (the “Group”), which comprise the consolidated statements of financial position as at December 31, 2018 and 2017, the consolidated statements of comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the years then ended, and notes, comprising significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Group as at December 31, 2018 and 2017 and its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the years then ended in accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (“K-IFRS”). Basis for Opinion We conducted our audits in accordance with Korean Standards on Auditing (KSAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial statements in Republic of Korea, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Key Audit Matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2018. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. (1) Impairment of Loan Receivables As of December 31, 2018, the Group recognized KRW 40,826,951 million as loans and receivables measured at amortized costs and KRW 338,825 million as allowance for credit loss. The allowances for loan losses under collective assessment is KRW 223,048 million and the allowances for loan losses under individual assessment is KRW 115,777 million (refer to note 15 to the consolidated financial statements, Loans at amortised cost, note 16 to the consolidated financial statements, Allowance). The carrying amount of the loan receivable measured at amortized costs can be significantly distorted if the impairment is not properly identified and estimated. To perform the collective assessment of the allowances for loan losses, the Group groups the loans together with similar risk characteristics, and estimates the possibility of default based on default information (i.e. delinquency status, or settlement history etc.). These estimates are inherently uncertain since it depends on historical and unpredictable data, and the methodology of categorizing loan receivables with similar risk characteristics. In addition, in order to determine the default rate and the recovery rate, it is necessary to make a significant judgment by the management, such as reflecting forward-looking information and setting statistical assumptions. The allowance under individual assessment is subject to significant management’s judgment in identifying impaired loan, estimate of the future cash flows and valuation of collateral. We have identified the impairment on loan receivables as a key audit matter, considering the possibility of errors, the level of involvement of management judgment, and the impact of risks. The primary procedures we performed to address this key audit matter included: • Manual and automated control of individual and collective provisions: We have tested the credit rating process and key controls on monitoring process to assess whether the counterpart’s credit rating were appropriately given in accordance with the policy of the Group and whether the impaired loans were managed on a timely basis. • Assessment of adequacy of credit rating, feasibility of cash flow and appropriateness of collateral valuation by inspecting credit evaluation documentation: In order to test the accuracy of credit ratings and likelihood of loan being recovered, we inspected credit evaluation for control and substantive purposes. Based on the estimation of repayment of cash flows, likelihood of realization, valuation of collateral and other possible repayment measures, we assessed the adequacy of the credit rating granted by the Group using external evidence such as our understanding of the 96 client’s financial condition, related industry and business environment and real estate valuation etc. • Evaluation of appropriateness of valuation allowance calculation model and completeness and accuracy of key inputs: We reviewed the accounting policies of the Group to determine the conformity of K-IFRS and to understand key assumptions for calculation (default rate and recovery rate). We confirmed the completeness and accuracy of the key input variables of the collective assessment allowance model (loan receivable balance, overdue records, credit ratings, etc.), assessed the accuracy of the default rate and recovery rate of corporate and household loans and applied the above factors for recalculation of amount of reserves. • Estimation of future cash flows for individually assessed loan receivable: We assessed the appropriateness of the amount of collateral valuation assessed by the Group if the recoverable amount of the individually assessed loan receivable was the collateral value. We assessed the feasibility of and fairness of the cash flow projections presented by the Group and the adequacy of the discount rate when the recoverable amount of the individually assessed loan receivable is an operating cash flow. (2) Premium reserves among insurance contract liabilities The Group has to reserve premium reserves for the payment of future insurance claims related to insurance contracts, and reserves the net level premium reserve in accordance with the Regulation on Supervision of Insurance Business. The reserve for premiums is the liability arising from operation of the Group’s insurance segment, and since the impact on financial statements is significant and valuation methodology is complex, we have identified the assessment of premium reserves as a key audit matter. We tested the completeness of the premium deposit subject to premium reserve, system logic etc. with our actuarial experts and our audit procedures to address the key audit matter include followings: • We tested the effectiveness of the design and implementation of the internal control related to premium reserves. These internal controls include review and approval procedures for calculating premium reserves and the review of senior actuaries. • We assessed the completeness of the premium reserve. The completeness assessment includes comparing the number of insurance agreements and the amount of premium reserves between the information system and the actuarial system to confirm whether they agree. • We evaluated the adequacy of the Group’s premium reserve calculation logic and the accuracy of the calculation by performing sample test per each insurance product categories. We also evaluated whether the assumptions and valuation methodologies used to assess the adequacy of insurance contract liability comply with the supervisory regulations. • We analyzed the difference between the estimated premium reserves and the actual reserves based on the actual cash flow. Other matter The procedures and practices utilized in the Republic of Korea to audit such consolidated financial statements may differ from those generally accepted and applied in other countries. Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Consolidated Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with K-IFRS, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process. Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with KSAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with KSAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. 97 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management. • Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of and for the year ended December 31, 2018 and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. The engagement partner on the audit resulting in this independent auditors’ report is Jae-Jun Shin. Seoul, Korea March 18, 2019 This report is effective as of March 18, 2019, the audit report date. Certain subsequent events or circumstances, which may occur between the audit report date and the timing of reading this report, could have a material impact on the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Accordingly, the readers of the audit report should understand that the above audit report has not been updated to reflect the impact of such subsequent events or circumstances, if any. 98 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION As of December 31, 2018 and 2017 (In millions of won) Note December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Assets Cash and due from banks 5,29,48,51,52 ￦ 2,601,499 2,254,811 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 8,13,18,29,51,52 6,277,966 Trading assets 6,51,52 510,935 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 7,51,52 79,917 Derivative assets 18,51,52 55,256 119,809 Financial securities at fair value through other comprehensive 10,13,16,29,51,52 4,032,620 imcome Available-for-sale financial assets 9,29,51,52 4,498,996 Securities at amortized cost 12,13,16,29,51,52 7,846,106 Held-to-maturity financial assets 11,29,51,52 7,951,189 Loans at amortized cost 15,16,17,29,50,51,52 40,826,952 Loans 15,16,17,29,50,51,52 39,335,708 Investments in associates 14 27,178 10,357 Property and equipment 19 741,912 475,481 Investment property 21 214,858 93,591 Intangible assets 20 199,753 147,954 Current tax receivable 46 12,961 Deferred tax assets 46 65,244 43,148 Other assets 16,22,29,51,52 2,015,295 1,211,942 Total assets ￦ 64,917,600 56,733,838 Liabilities Deposits 23,29,50,51,52 ￦ 38,729,457 37,839,750 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 8,51,52 551,451 Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss 7,51,52 517,794 Derivative liabilities 18,51,52 109,501 98,577 Borrowings 24,29,48,51,52 6,442,359 3,394,370 Debt securities issued 24,29,48,51,52 5,303,840 4,356,652 Retirement benefit liabilities 26 35,061 14,225 Provisions 25,49 49,075 29,191 Liabilities under insurance contracts 27 5,549,382 5,275,308 Current tax payable 46 4,693 48,229 Deferred tax liabilities 46 2,032 Other liabilities 28,29,48,50,51,52 2,559,877 1,481,745 Total assets ￦ 59,854,522 52,538,047 Equity Total equity attributable to equity holders of DGB Financial Group ￦ 4,344,351 3,905,201 Co., Ltd. Capital stock 1,30 845,729 845,729 Hybrid bonds 30 149,401 Capital surplus 30 1,560,909 1,560,891 Capital adjustments 30 (991) (991) Accumulated other comprehensive loss 32 (79,372) (55,258) Retained earnings 31 1,868,675 1,554,830 Non-controlling interests 718,727 290,590 Total equity ￦ 5,063,078 4,195,791 Total liabilities and equity ￦ 64,917,600 56,733,838 See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 99 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME For the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 (In millions of won, except earnings per share) Note 2018 2017 Interest Income ￦ 2,029,315 1,823,853 Interest income on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 38,861 Interest income on held-for-trading financial instruments 8,338 Interest income on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive 1,990,454 income and at amortized cost Interest income on loans and receivables and investment instruments 1,815,515 Interest expense 4,33,50 646,681 532,504 Net Interest Income 4,33 1,382,634 1,291,349 Fees and commission income 50 207,681 154,016 Fees and commission expense 77,061 73,606 Net fees and commission income 4,34 130,620 80,410 Insurance income 999,624 843,013 Insurance expenses 1,093,245 906,128 Net insurance loss 4,35 (93,621) (63,115) Profit before adjustment for overlay approach 58,368 Loss on adjustment for overlay approach (6,078) Net gain on financial assets at fair value through profit 37 52,290 Net loss on financial instruments held for trading 36 (9,700) Net gain on financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss 38 8,130 Net loss on financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss 38 (2,338) Net gain on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 40 9,862 Net gain on available-for-sale financial assets 39 57,571 Provision for credit loss 4,42 187,063 Impairment loss on financial assets 4,41 188,841 Net gain/loss on foreign currency transactions 29 (13,494) 9,320 General and administrative expenses 4,43 816,969 676,859 Other operating loss, net 44 (135,759) (88,554) Operating income 336,630 409,243 Non-operating net income 45 151,439 1,060 Net income before income tax expense 488,069 410,303 Income tax expense 46 82,043 94,031 Net income attributable to Equity holders of DGB Financial Group Co., Ltd. 383,535 302,208 Net income attributable to non-controlling interest 22,491 14,063 Consolidated net income ￦ 406,026 316,271 Items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Gain on valuation of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive 32,363 income Expected credit loss on financial assets at fair value through other comprehen(213) sive income Loss on valuation of available-for-sale financial assets (20,654) Equity in other comprehensive income (loss) of associates Foreign currency translation adjustments for foreign operations 7,934 (9,621) Gain (loss) on valuation of hedges of net investment in foreign operations (7,149) 6,660 Adjustments for overlay approach 4,632 Gain (loss) on valuation of cash flow hedges 306 37,873 (23,615) See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 100 (In millions of won, except earnings per share) Note 2018 2017 Items that will never be reclassified to profit or loss Gain (loss) on valuation of financial assets at fair value through other ￦ 1,304 comprehensive income Credit risk adjustments on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 23 Factors for remeasurement of defined benefit obligation (27,575) (4,382) (26,248) (4,382) Consolidated other comprehensive income (loss) 32 ￦ 11,625 (27,997) Comprehensive income attributable to Equity holders of DGB Financial Group 395,292 274,335 Co., Ltd. Comprehensive income attributable to on-controlling interests 22,359 13,939 Total consolidated comprehensive income ￦ 417,651 288,274 Basic and diluted earnings per share in won 47 ￦ 2,233 1,787 See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 101 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY For the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 (In millions of won) Capital Hybrid capital capital Accumulated retained NonTotal stock bond surplus adjustments other earnings controlling equity comprehensive interest income Balance at January 1, 2017 ￦845,266 1,560,455 (997) (27,385) 1,303,374 291,620 3,972,333 Hybrid bonds dividends (14,061) (14,061) Consolidated net income 302,208 14,063 316,271 Increase in paid-in-capital 463 436 899 Annual dividend (50,716) (50,716) Loss on valuation of available-for(20,654) (20,654) sale financial assets Profit on translation of overseas (2,837) (124) (2,961) business Factors for remeasurements of (4,382) (4,382) defined benefit obligation Acquisition of treasury stock (6) (6) Disposition of treasury stock 6 6 Additional investment in subsidiaries (908) (908) Others 6 (36) (30) Balance at December 31, 2017 ￦845,729 1,560,891 (991) (55,258) 1,554,830 290,590 4,195,791 Initial application adjustment on (35,871) (6,648) (42,519) K-IFRS No.1109 Balance at January 1, 2018 ￦845,729 1,560,891 (991) (91,129) 1,548,182 290,590 4,153,272 Issue of hybrid capital securities 149,401 299,002 448,403 Hybrid bonds dividends (5,774) (20,917) (26,691) Consolidated net income 383,535 22,491 406,026 Annual dividend (57,510) (57,510) Acquisition of treasury stock Disposition of treasury stock Gain (loss) on valuation of financial 33,545 122 33,667 assets at FVOCI Gain (loss) on disposal of financial 582 582 assets at FVOCI Gain (loss) from cash flow hedging 306 306 Profit on translation of overseas 7,923 11 7,934 business Net investment hedge in foreign (7,149) (7,149) operations Factors for remeasurement (27,307) (268) (27,575) defined benefit obligation Changes in credit risk on financial 19 3 22 liabilities at FVTPL Loss on expected credit of finan(212) (1) (213) cial assets at FVOCI Changes in equity through equity method Effect of profit and loss adjustment 4,632 4,632 approach Changes in scope of consolidation 18 (340) (56) (378) Changes due to business combination 127,748 127,748 Others 2 2 Balance at December 31, 2018 ￦845,729 149,401 1,560,909 (991) (79,372) 1,868,675 718,727 5,063,078 See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 102 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows For the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 (In millions of won) 2018 2017 Cash flows from operating activities (1) Consolidated net Income ￦ 406,027 316,271 (2) Adjustment of profit and loss (860,856) (842,546) Income tax expense 82,043 94,031 Interest expense 646,681 532,504 Loss on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 44,039 Loss on valuation of financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss 6,982 Profit or loss approach Adjusted amount 6,078 Loss on valuation of financial assets held for trading 506 Loss on valuation of derivatives instruments held for trading 53,296 97,766 Recovery of credit risk adjustment allowance on available-for-sale derivatives 138 5 Loss on financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 3,248 Loss on disposal of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 441 Loss on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 230 Impairment loss on available-for-sale financial assets 6,855 Loss on fair value hedges 31 68 Loss on valuation of derivatives on hedge 6,931 Loss on transaction of derivatives on hedge 28,158 6,441 Recovery of allowance for credit loss 187,063 Provision for losses 181,987 Depreciation and amortization cost 69,804 59,229 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2,121 1,134 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 14 21 Impairment loss on intangible assets 13 34 Loss on investment property 1,183 11 Transfer of other provision 556 2,529 Defined benefit plans 34,163 31,853 Loss on foreign exchange transactions 288,079 207,330 Loss on valuation of issued bank debenture 1,105 Loss on repayment of issued bank debenture 1,597 Other operating expenses 2,959 1,469 Loss related to equity method 4,414 46 Amortization expenses on deferred acquisition cost of new or renewal insurance contract 46,105 20,122 Contribution to insurance reserve 272,544 162,990 Interest income (2,029,315) (1,823,853) Dividend income (3,788) (20,196) Gain on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (72,213) Gain on valuation of financial instrument designated at fair value through profit or loss (16,235) Gain on the valuation of financial assets held for trading (2,256) Gain on valuation of derivatives instruments held for trading (44,633) (98,464) Recovery of credit risk adjustment allowance for available-for-sale derivatives (905) Gain on valuation of financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss (327) Gain on disposal of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (7,154) Gain on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets (38,032) Gain on valuation of derivatives on hedge (10,720) (22,367) Gain on transaction of derivatives on hedge (16,220) (15,067) Gain on disposal of tangible assets (463) (8,294) See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 103 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (In millions of won, except earnings per share) 2018 2017 Gain on disposal of intangible assets (332) (19) Gain on disposal of investment property (509) (148) Recovery of provision (752) (2,408) Gain on foreign exchange transaction (274,585) (216,650) Gain on financial assets at amortized cost (4) Earnings related to equity method (818) (4,988) Other operating income (7,209) (86) Gain from bargain purchase (161,344) (3) Changes in assets and liabilities (591,766) (694,985) Decrease in deposits 206,463 309,298 Decrease in financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 536,847 Increase in financial assets held for trading (230,749) Decrease in available-for-sale derivative financial assets 97,484 120,989 Decrease in financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 434 Increase in loan receivables at amortised cost (689,223) Increase in loans and receivables (3,159,166) Increase in deferred loans incidental expenses (54,796) (37,512) Increase in deferred loan incidental income 5,829 6,866 Recovery of amortized loan 39,622 34,719 Decrease in other assets 146,839 106,272 Decrease in derivative financial assets on hedge 1,367 Increase in deferred acquisition cost (60,839) (47,151) Increase in special account assets (23,319) (34,200) Increase(decrease) in depository liabilities (102,142) 2,543,971 Decrease in derivatives financial liabilities held for trading (91,380) (125,195) Decrease in financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss (480,291) Increase in financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss 4,205 Decrease in post-employment benefit liabilities (3,099) (11,608) Decrease in derivatives financial liabilities on hedging (2,171) Increase in plan assets (50,565) (20,537) Decrease in other liabilities (96,436) (185,172) Decrease in provisions (344) Increase in special account liabilities 23,379 34,560 (4) Interest paid (612,309) (535,900) (5) Interest received 2,103,773 1,812,042 (6) Dividend received 3,769 20,196 (7) Income tax paid (79,975) (73,465) Net cash provided by operating activities ￦ 368,663 1,613 See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statement 104 (In millions of won, except earnings per share) 2018 2017 Cash flows from investing activities Increase in financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss ￦ (528,262) Decrease in financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss 466,716 Increase in financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (2,827,858) Increase in available-for-sale financial assets (3,260,904) Decrease in financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income are reduced 2,851,966 Decrease in available-for-sale financial assets 2,829,694 Increase in securities measured at amortised cost (1,168,347) Increase in held-to-maturity financial assets (1,114,433) Decrease in securities measured at amortised cost 941,343 Decrease in held-to-maturity financial assets 1,126,271 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (255,227) (83,068) Disposal of property, plant and equipment 4,267 22,065 Acquisition of intangible Assets (30,414) (50,438) Disposal of intangible assets 3,065 685 Acquisition of investment property (146,331) Disposal of investment property 1,805 3,500 Cash inflows from hedging activities 3,764 86 Decrease in deposit (increase) 784 (5,347) Decrease in other assets (increase) (923) Acquisition of subsidiary Investment Equity (529,404) Acquisition of investment equity in associates (11,000) (230,000) Allotment of investment equity shares in associates 106 Disposal of investment equity in associates 12,275 214,988 Net cash used in investing activities (1,211,675) (546,901) Cash flows from financing activities Increase (decrease) in borrowings (621,861) 318,400 Issuance of debentures 2,484,272 1,292,982 Repayment of debentures (1,747,860) (1,005,780) Increase (decrease) in import deposit (216) 7,758 Increase in trust account payable 2,484 43,113 Increase in fund account payable 169 78 Increase (decrease) in foreign exchange payable 24,281 (6,103) Increase in domestic exchange payable 95,591 72 Issuance of hybrid bonds 448,403 Paid-in-capital increase 903 Cost of issuance of stocks (3) Acquisition of treasury stocks (6) Disposition of treasury stocks 6 Dividends paid to hybrid bonds holders (23,590) (14,061) Annual dividends paid (57,510) (50,716) Net cash provided by financing activities 604,163 586,643 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (238,849) 41,355 Beginning balance of cash and cash equivalents 954,118 930,206 Effects of changes in the exchange rate on cash and cash equivalents 4,030 (17,443) Increase in cash and cash equivalents due to the changes in consolidated scope 103,753 Ending balance of cash and cash equivalents (note 48) ￦ 823,052 954,118 See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statement 105 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As of December 31, 2018 and 2017 1. Reporting Entity The DGB Financial Group Co., Ltd., the controlling company, and its subsidiaries (collectively the “Group”) are as follows. (1-1) Overview of the Group The Group was established on May 17, 2011 by transferring shares from shareholders of Daegu Bank, Daegu Credit Information Corporation, and Cardnet Corporation for the purpose of controlling, managing, and providing financial services to subsidiaries or subsidiaries closely related to the financial business through ownership of stocks. As of the end of the current term, the capital is ￦845,729 million and was listed on the Korea Exchange on June 7, 2011. (1-2) Subsidiaries As of December 31 2018, the consolidated financial information and shareholding status for the Group are as follows. (In millions of won, except share information) Classification Number of Ownership Assets Liabilities Revenue Net income Location Reporting shares (loss) date Daegu Bank 136,125,000 100% ￦49,785,346 45,625,353 2,572,202 234,825 Daegu 31-Dec Hi Investment & Securities 342,437,628 85.32% 6,087,981 5,331,555 213,291 11,223 Busan 31-Dec DGB Life Insurance 34,741,343 100% 6,152,002 5,906,445 1,241,724 21 Busan 31-Dec DGB Capital 25,200,000 100% 2,762,148 2,454,863 155,845 22,392 Seoul 31-Dec DGB Asset Management 2,200,000 100% 38,992 5,433 15,109 6,431 Seoul 31-Dec DGB U-pay 2,511,415 100% 36,395 24,212 15,491 189 Daegu 31-Dec DGB Credit Information 600,000 100% 4,976 239 1,845 196 Daegu 31-Dec DGB Data System 1,200,000 100% 10,619 710 14,464 388 Daegu 31-Dec DGB special investment in pri102,000 mil30-Apr 100% ￦222,867 123,329 6,858 (722) Seoul vate property No.11 lion /31-Oct Daegu Bank’s consolidated subsidiaries as of December 31, 2018 are as follows: ( In millions of won) Classification Ownership Assets Liabilities Revenue Net income Location Reporting Business (loss) date Type Principal guaranteed trusts/ principal and interest guaran￦311,095 301,544 9,431 (67) South Korea 31-Dec Trust teed trusts DGB Long-lived Corporation Focus Securities Investment Collective 73.74% 11,342 1,002 (2,354) South Korea 30-Sep Trust investment DGB ttok-ttok Short-term Collective 66.87% 14,893 28 27 South Korea 23-Feb Bond Securities investment DGB ttok-ttok Dividend SecuriCollective 75.72% 10,785 7 295 (2,437) South Korea 18-Jun ties Feeder investment DGB ttok-ttok Small-mid Cap Collective 53.85% 6,084 1 211 208 South Korea 12-Nov Securities Feeder investment DGB Myungpum KRX 300 Collective 62.25% 96,205 15,404 355 322 South Korea 30-Apr Index Securities investment Specialised DGB Specialized Bank Plc 100% 157,496 51,795 20,887 7,430 Cambodia 31-Dec Bank Best DGB 1st co, Ltd 39,345 39,413 834 21 South Korea Quarterly SPC Best DGB 2nd co, Ltd 11,084 11,159 11 (74) South Korea Jan/Apr/Jul/Oct SPC 106 Hi investment and securities as of December 31, 2018 are as follows: ( In millions of won) Classification Ownership Assets Liabilities Revenue Net income Location Reporting Business (loss) date Type High Asset Management Collective 92.42% ￦50,859 4,126 3,682 180 Seoul 31-Dec Co., Ltd Investment High Investment Futures 65.22% 192,905 149,157 4,663 (181) Seoul 31-Dec Gift Brokerage Collective High Himsen Multi Strategy 54.91% 4,266 321 2,608 (252) Seoul 31-Dec investment & Private Investment Trust 1 Securities Co Collective Hyundai Ship Special Asset 100.00% 14,227 3 107 106 Seoul 31-Dec investment & Investment Trust No. 2 Securities Co Collective Hi KOSDAQ Venture Securi71.76% 6,566 1,300 378 Seoul 31-Dec investment & ties Trust Securities Co Asset-Backed Supreme Misa 1 st Co, Ltd 11,146 11,146 1,749 Seoul 31-Dec securitization Asset-Backed Ivy global 17 th co, Ltd 10,502 10,447 1,185 (45) Seoul 31-Dec securitization Asset-Backed Air First The 1 st Co, Ltd 20,356 20,400 1,039 (44) Seoul 31-Dec securitization Asset-Backed New Hi Ramada Co, Ltd 27,468 27,468 1,895 Seoul 31-Dec securitization New Hi Chungju The Sharp Asset-Backed 5,443 5,443 1,147 Seoul 31-Dec Co, Ltd securitization New Hi Ansan Terrace 1 st Asset-Backed 28,362 28,362 674 Seoul 31-Dec Co, Ltd securitization Asset-Backed GWIMS Co, Ltd 15,592 15,541 943 35 Seoul 31-Dec securitization Asset-Backed Hi Defender 14 th Co, Ltd 7,451 7,453 21 (2) Seoul 31-Dec securitization Asset-Backed New Hi Samsan Medical 13,293 13,293 594 Seoul 31-Dec securitization Asset-Backed New Hi Sachun Industry 12,729 13,022 1,624 60 Seoul 31-Dec securitization Asset-Backed New Hi Baegot 1 st Co, Ltd 15,215 15,215 600 151 Seoul 31-Dec securitization Asset-Backed Jini Forever 1 st Co, Ltd 40,187 40,510 2,076 (31) Seoul 31-Dec securitization Hi investment and securities as of December 31, 2018 are as follows: ( In millions of won) Classification Ownership Assets Liabilities Revenue Net income Location Reporting (loss) date JB Woori Capital Money Receivable Trust 100% ￦55,015 55,015 3,758 Seoul 31-Dec DGB Lao Leasing Co.,Ltd 90% 48,271 37,521 3,829 549 Laos 31-Dec 107 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (1-3) Interests in unconsolidated structured entities The Group has been involved in structured entities through investments in asset-backed securities, project financing, beneficiary certificates, etc., and the main characteristics of those structured entities are as follows: Description Securitization vehicles are established to buy the assets from the originators and issue the asset-backed securities in order to facilitate the originators’ funding activities and enhance their financial soundness. The Group Asset-backed securitization is involved in the securitization vehicles by purchasing the asset-backed securities issued, or providing credit enhancement. Structured entities for project financing are established to raise funds and invest in a specific project such as M&A (Mergers and Acquisitions), BTL (Build-Transfer-Lease), project financing for companies in shipping industry, etc. As a method of financing large scale risk projects, investments are made in the business on the basis of economic feasibility of a particular project, not the credit or material collateral of the project implementer, and investors take Project financing profits from the project. Although there are entities that provide financial support such as funding, joint guarantees, and senior contributions prior to the consolidation entity’s uncertainty for structured financing, the group may be exposed to loss of principal or loan due to falling value of its investment stake in the event of failure to collect funds or suspension of the project due to planned schedule. The structure of investment trust and private equity fund is to invest funds in equity securities and distribute income among investors on the basis of a trust agreement. The Group is an investor of the investment trust and Investment trust and private equity fund private equity fund, and recognizes gain or loss on valuation and dividend income in proportion to the percentage of shareholding. The Group may recognize a loss in principal when the values of relevant trust and fund are decreased. (1) Nature and scope of interests in unconsolidated structured entities As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the carrying amount of assets recognized by the Group in its consolidated financial statements is as follows ( In millions of won) 2018 Classification Asset-backed Project Investment trust and Total securitization financing private equity fund Amortized cost measurement loan ￦ 171,054 1,858,351 2,029,405 Profit or Loss Financial assets measured at 225,729 23,054 808,395 1,057,178 fair value Total ￦ 396,783 1,881,405 808,395 3,086,583 ( In millions of won) 2017 Classification Asset-backed Project Investment trust and Total securitization financing private equity fund Financial assets for trading ￦ 197,365 1,320 198,685 Loan 104,224 1,470,769 1,574,993 Available-for-sale financial assets 23,324 614,315 637,639 Total ￦ 301,589 1,495,413 614,315 2,411,317 The Group’s maximum loss exposure to unconsolidated structured entitiesAs of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) 2018 Classification Asset-backed Project Investment trust and Total securitization financing private equity fund Investment assets ￦396,783 1,881,405 808,395 3,086,583 Purchase commitments 616,400 60,000 130,257 806,657 Credit granting 305,784 305,784 Total ￦1,013,183 2,247,189 938,652 4,199,024 108 ( In millions of won) 2017 Classification Asset-backed Project Investment trust and Total securitization financing private equity fund Investment assets ￦301,589 1,495,413 614,315 2,411,317 Purchase commitments 134,000 86,812 220,812 Credit granting 72,589 72,589 Total ￦435,589 1,568,002 701,127 2,704,718 (1-4) Acquisition of Subsidiaries (A) Acquisition of Hi Investment & Securities (1) General Details On October 30, 2018, the Group acquired 85.32% stake in Hi investments & Securities Co. and gained control. During the two months since the acquisition date, the Group recognized an operating profit of ￦ 13,992 million and a net profit of ￦ 11,223 million through Hi Investment & Securities Co.. The management estimates that if the acquisition of Hi Investment & Securities Co. took place on 1 January 2018, the opening date of the annual reporting period, operating profit would have been ￦ 57,598 million and net profit be ￦ 43,108 million. (2) Consideration transferred As of the acquisition date, the fair value of the consideration transferred is as follows. ( In millions of won) Classification Amount Cash ￦471,988 (3) Identifiable acquired assets and liabilities As of the acquisition date, the acquired assets and liabilities are as follows. ( In millions of won) Classification Amount Acquired asset Cash and deposits ￦920,212 Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss 4,955,879 Financial assets measure at fair value through other comprehensive income 192,596 Securities measured as amortized cost 9,807 Equity method investment interest 21,799 Asset Derivatives 3,963 Loan at amortized cost 755,607 Tangible assets 20,992 Intangible assets 31,387 Other assets 935,541 Acquired liabilities Yielded liabilities 894,222 Financial liabilities measure at fair value through profit or loss 1,031,743 Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss 522,262 Lent liabilities 3,666,710 Derivatives liabilities 54,404 Other derivatives 917,362 Fair value of identifiable assets 761,080 109 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The valuation methodologies used to measure the fair value of important assets and liabilities acquired are as follows Acquired Assets and Liabilities Methodologies used for Valuation Market approach or cost approach: The fair value was determined by reflecting not only functional and economic Tangible assets obsolescence but also physical deterioration as a replacement cost that was generated from market transactions of similar assets available, or considering appropriate depreciation. Loyalty exemption and multiperiod exceeded returns approach: The loyalty exemption was determined by considering the discount of the loyalty expected to be avoided due to the direct possession of the brand. The multi-term Intangible assets exceeded returns approach was determined by considering the present value of the net cash flows expected to arise from customer relationships. The total contractual amount of amortized cost loan receivables is ￦ 769,992 million, of which ￦ 7,385 million expected to be non-recoverable as of the acquisition date. The details of intangible assets recognized as a result of a business combination are as follows. ( In millions of won) Classification Amount Intangible assets related to customer deposits (*1) ￦ 2,596 Brand-related intangible assets (*2) 5,738 Total ￦ 8,334 (*1) The multi-period excess profit method was used to assess the fair value of intangible assets related to customer deposits. (*2) The Loyalty exemption method was used to assess the fair value of brand-related intangible assets. (4) Earnings from bargain purchase profit Earnings from bargain purchases in a business combination are as follows ( In millions of won) Classification Amount Transfer cost (A) ￦471,988 Non-controlling interest (B) 127,748 Fair value of net identifiable assets (C) 761,080 Book value of net assets 746,569 Fair value adjustment 14,511 Profit from bargain purchase (C-B-A) ￦161,344 (5) Costs related to business combination The consolidation entity incurred ￦ 1,426 million in legal fees and due diligence fees in connection with the business combination. The applicable legal fees and due diligence fees were recognized as general administrative expenses. In addition, the acquisition tax of the oligopolistic shareholder was ￦ 45 million, which was added to the carrying amount of the subsidiary’s investment shares. 110 (B) Acquisition of DGB Specialized Bank Plc. (1) General Details On January 26, 2018, the Group acquired a 100% stake in DGB specialized Bank Plc. and gained control. During the 12 months since the acquisition date with the deemed acquisition date of January 1, 2018, the Group has recognized an operating profit of KRW 9,401 million and a net income of KRW 7,426 million through DGB specialized Bank Plc. (2) Transfer cost As of the acquisition date, the fair value of the consideration transferred is as follows. ( In millions of won) Classification Amount Cash ￦68,034 (3) Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed As of the acquisition date, the acquired assets and liabilities are as follows. ( In millions of won) Classification Amount Acquired Assets ￦6 Cash and deposits 1,710 Loans at amortized cost 115,639 Tangible assets 573 Intangible assets 107 Other assets 1,192 Acquired liabilities Borrowing liabilities 77,462 Other liabilities 2,816 Fair value of net identifiable assets 38,943 The valuation methodologies used to measure the fair value of important assets and liabilities are as follows. Acquired Assets and Liabilities Methodologies used for Valuation DCF : In case of loan receivables, the credit risk of the borrower is reflected in the allowance of bad debts, so the change in the fair value of the loan due to changes in market interest rate was evaluated. In order to carry out Loan at amortized cost the process, the present value of the contractual cash flows of the loans and receivables was discounted at the discounted rate calculated by adding the initial residual spread at the time of execution of the loan to the risk-free interest rate on the evaluation date. Loans at amortized cost is ￦ 116,815 million, of which ￦ 1,176 million is not expected to be recoverable as of the acquisition date. There are no intangible assets other than goodwill recognized as a result of the business combination. (4) Goodwill Goodwill recognized by the result of the business combination is as follows. ( In millions of won) Classification Amount Transfer cost (A) 68,034 Fair value of net identifiable assets (B) 38,943 Net asset book value 35,123 Fair value adjustment 3,820 Goodwill (A-B) 29,091 111 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (5) Costs Related to business combinations The Group incurred a cost of ￦ 574 million, including legal fees and due diligence fees in connection with the business combination. The legal fees and due diligence fees were recognized as general administrative expenses. 2. Basis of Preparation (2-1) Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (“K-IFRS”), as prescribed in the Act on External Audits of Corporations in the Republic of Korea. The consolidated financial statements were authorized for issuance by the Board of Directors on February 11, 2019, which will be submitted for approval to the shareholders at a meeting to be held on March 28, 2019. The consolidated financial statements of the Group were initially prepared using K-IFRS No. 1115 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ and K-IFRS No. 1109 ‘ Financial Instruments’. Significant changes in accounting policies are described in Note II-v. (2-2) Basis of measurement The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the following material items in the consolidated statements of financial position: · derivative financial instruments measured at fair value · financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss measured at fair value · financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss measured at other comprehensive income measured at fair value · liabilities for cash-settled share-based payment arrangements measured at fair value · liabilities for defined benefit plans recognized at the net of the total present value of defined benefit obligations less the fair value of plan assets (2-3) Functional and presentation currency These consolidated financial statements are presented in Korean won, which is the Parent Group’s functional currency and the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates. (2-4) Use of estimates and judgments The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with K-IFRS requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognized in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected. (1) Assumptions and estimation uncertainties Information about assumptions and estimation uncertainties that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment within the next financial year are included in the following notes: · Note 1 – Reporting Entity · Note 16 – Allowance · Note 25 – Provisions · Note 26 – Defined Benefit Obligations · Note 27 – Insurance Contract Liabilities · Note 49 – Commitments and Contingencies In preparing these consolidated financial statements, the significant judgments made by management in applying the Group’s accounting policies and the key sources of estimation uncertainty are the same as those applied to the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2017 except newly significant judgement and estimation uncertainties related to K-IFRS No. 1109 and No. 1109, which are explained in Note (II-v). (2) Measurement of fair value The Group has an established control framework with respect to the measurement of fair values. This includes a valuation team that has overall responsibility for overseeing all significant fair value measurements, including Level 3 fair values, and reports directly to the CFO. The valuation team regularly reviews significant unobservable inputs and valuation adjustments. If third party information, such as broker quotes or 112 pricing services, is used to measure fair values, then the valuation team assesses the evidence obtained from the third parties to support the conclusion that such valuations meet the requirements of K-IFRS, including the level in the fair value hierarchy in which such valuations should be classified. When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group uses market observable data as far as possible. Fair values are categorized into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in the valuation techniques as follows. · Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. · Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). · Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). If the inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset or a liability might be categorized in different levels of the fair value hierarchy, then the fair value measurement is categorized in its entirety in the same level of the fair value hierarchy as the lowest level input that is significant to the entire measurement. The Group recognizes transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy at the end of the reporting period during which the change has occurred. (2-5) Changes in accounting policy The Group has applied K-IFRS No. 1109 ‘Financial Instruments’ and K-IFRS No. 1115 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ with a date of initial application of January 1, 2018. Other standards applied initially from January 1, 2018 had no significant impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group. Due to the transition method chosen by the Group in applying these standards, comparative information throughout these financial statements has not been restated to reflect the requirements of new standards, except for certain hedging requirements and separately presenting impairment loss on loans and receivables. Major impacts of initial application of these standards are as follows: K-IFRS 1109 : Financial Instruments K-IFRS No. 1109 sets out requirements for recognising and measuring financial assets, financial liabilities and some contracts to buy or sell non-financial items. This standard replaces K-IFRS No. 1039 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’. Additionally, the Group has adopted consequential amendments to K-IFRS No.1107 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure’ that are applied to disclosures about 2018, but have not been applied to the comparative information. The following table summarizes the effect of applying K-IFRS No. 1109 on accumulated other comprehensive income and retained earnings. (In millions of won) Classification Accumulation of other Retained comprehensive income earnings December 31, 2017 (Before reflecting K-IFRS No.1109) ￦(55,258) 1,554,830 Recognition of expected credit losses on debt instruments measured at fair value through other compre1,131 (1,131) hensive income Changes in measurement category from available-for-sale financial assets to financial assets measured at (17,441) 18,462 fair value through profit or loss Changes in measurement category from loans receivables to financial assets measured at fair value 383 through profit or loss Changes in measurement category from structured deposits to financial assets measured at fair value 704 (1,416) through profit or loss Changes to the measurement category for financial assets measured at amortized cost of available-for(6,611) 8,886 sale securities Changes due to the profit or loss adjustment approach (13,654) (5,028) Adjustment of the current value discount on private bonds 22 Recognition of expected credit losses (26,829) Cancellation of credit risk adjustment allowance by account reclassification 2 January 1, 2018 (after reflecting K-IFRS No.1109) (91,129) 1,548,181 113 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities K-IFRS No. 1109 contains three categories of classification for financial assets: financial assets measured at amortised cost, financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, and financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss. The classification of financial assets in accordance with K-IFRS No. 1109 is generally based on the business model in which the financial assets are managed and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial assets. K-IFRS No. 1109 eliminated the categories of held-to-maturity financial assets, loans and receivables and available-for-sale financial assets in No. 1039. Under K-IFRS No. 1109, derivatives embedded in contracts where main contract is a financial asset within the scope of this standard are never bifurcated. Instead, the whole hybrid instrument is assessed for classification. K-IFRS No.1109 largely retained the existing requirements for the classification and measurement of existing financial liabilities in accordance with No. 1039. The application of K-IFRS No. 1109 has no significant impact on the accounting policies of the Group related to financial liabilities and derivative financial instruments (derivatives used as hedging instruments) The following table describes the initial measurement category in K-IFRS No. 1039 and the new measurement category in accordance with K-IFRS No. 1109 for each distinction between financial assets and financial liabilities of the group as of January 1, 2018. The impact of applying K-IFRS No. 1109 on the carrying amount of a financial asset on January 1, 2018 relates only to the new impairment requirements. Changes to the measurement category of financial assets ( In millions of won) Classification in accordance with Classification in accordance with Book value Book value K-IFRS No. 1039 K-IFRS No. 1109 (K-IFRS No. 1039)(*1) (K-IFRS No.1109)(*1) Cash and deposit Financial assets measured at amortized cost ￦2,119,811 2,119,811 Financial assets measured at fair value through Cash and deposit 135,000 128,977 profit or loss (*2) Financial assets measured at fair value through Trading financial assets 510,935 511,803 profit or loss Trading financial assets (Derivative financial instruFinancial assets measured at fair value through 99,414 97,656 ments for trading) profit or loss Financial assets designated at fair value through Financial assets measured at fair value through 79,917 79,917 profit or loss profit or loss Financial assets measured at fair value through Available-for-sale financial assets (equity securities) 303,459 55,052 other comprehensive income (*3) Financial assets measured at fair value through Available-for-sale financial assets (equity securities) 246,857 profit or loss (*2) Financial assets measured at fair value through Available-for-sale financial assets (debt securities) 3,746,057 3,746,057 other comprehensive income Available-for-sale financial assets (beneficiary secuFinancial assets measured at fair value through 449,480 rities) other comprehensive income Available-for-sale financial assets (beneficiary secuFinancial assets measured at fair value through 449,480 rities) profit or loss (*2) Held for maturity financial assets Financial assets measured at amortized cost 7,951,189 7,623,163 Financial assets measured at fair value through Held for maturity financial assets 308,441 profit or loss (*2) Loans and receivables Financial assets measured at amortized cost 40,278,163 40,206,885 Financial assets measured at fair value through Loans and receivables 49,906 profit or loss Derivative financial instruments for hedging purDerivative financial instruments for hedging pur20,395 20,395 poses poses (*1) The amount was prepared after deducting the provision. (*2) In accordance with K-IFRS No.1104, the Group was designated to apply the Overlay approach to financial assets related to insurance contracts (deposit ￦114,422 million, available-for-sale financial assets ￦127,085 million, and held-to-maturity financial assets ￦308,460 million). For financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, the Group reclassifies the amounts reported in profit or loss under K-IFRS No. 1109 to amounts that would have been reported in profit or loss if K-IFRS 1039 had been applied). (*3) An equity instrument is an investment by the Group for long-term purposes. The Group classified these investments as fair value through other comprehensive income at the date of initial application. 114 Changes in the measurement category of financial liabilities (In millions of won) Classification in accordance with Classification in accordance with Book value Book value K-IFRS No. 1039 K-IFRS No. 1109 (K-IFRS No. 1039)(*1) (K-IFRS No.1109)(*1) Trading financial liabilities (Derivatives financial Financial assets measured at fair value through ￦ 775 instruments for sale) profit or loss Trading financial liabilities (Derivatives financial Financial liabilities measured at fair value through 97,470 96,695 instruments for sale) profit or loss Impairment of a financial asset K-IFRS No. 1109 replaced the ‘incurred loss’ model in K-IFRS No. 1039 into ‘Expected credit loss’(ECL) model. The new impairment model applies to financial assets measured at amortised cost, contract assets and debt investments at fair value through other comprehensive income, but not to investments in equity instruments. Under K-IFRS No. 1109, credit losses are recognised earlier than under K-IFRS No. 1039. For assets in the scope of the K-IFRS No. 1109 impairment model, Impairment losses are generally expected to increase and become more volatile. On January 1, 2018, the Group decided that applying the impairment requirements in K-IFRS No. 1109 would result in additional impairment losses as follows. ( In millions of won) Classification Financial statements Reclassification Remeasurement Financial statements based on K-IFRS No.1039 based on K-IFRS No.1109 Loans and receivables under K-IFRS No. 1039 measured at amortised cost in accordance to K-IFRS No. 1109 Loan receivable ￦39,565,484 (52,766) 39,512,718 LOC/F, etc. 41,179 1,431 42,610 Loan-loss reserves (270,955) (19,970) (290,925) Other receivables 957,204 (80) 957,124 Current value discount, etc. (1,825) (1,825) Other financial asset loss allowance (12,923) 106 (12,817) Held-to-maturity financial assets under K-IFRS No. 1039 measured at amortised cost in accordance to K-IFRS No. 1109 Securities 7,951,189 (320,633) (7,195) 7,623,361 Bad Debt allowance (198) (198) Securities 4,498,996 (697,887) 3,801,109 Bad Debt allowance (1,131) (1,131) Available-for-sale financial assets under K-IFRS No. 1039 measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance to K-IFRS No. 1109 Provision for financial guarantee (223) (223) Payment guarantee (1,716) (285) (2,001) Unused credit commitment (12,880) (13,135) (26,015) Total ￦52,713,530 (1,069,935) (41,808) 51,601,787 Hedge accounting The Group decided to apply the new general hedge accounting model in K-IFRS No. 1109. This requires the Group to ensure that hedge accounting relationships are aligned with tis risk management objectives and strategy and to apply a more qualitative and forward-looking approach to assessing hedge effectiveness. With respect to the application of the new general hedge accounting model in K-IFRS No. 1109, the financial impact of the group’s accounting policies and financial statements based on current circumstances and information available as of the beginning of the current term is not significant. 115 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The application of the new general hedge accounting model in K-IFRS No. 1109 has no significant financial impact on the Group’s accounting policies and their consolidated financial statements based on analysis performed with circumstantive and available information as of January 1, 2018. Transitional Provisions Due to the policy, changes in accounting policies resulting from the adoption of K-IFRS No. 1109 shall be applied retrospectively, except as the following. · The Group has applied an exception not to restate comparative information for prior periods with respect to classification and measurement (including impairment) requirements. The difference in carrying amount of financial assets and financial liabilities under the application of K-IFRS No. 1109 was recognised in retained earnings on January 1, 2018. Consequently, the information presented for 2017 did not reflect the requirements of K-IFRS No. 1109 but reflected the requirements of K-IFRS No. 1039. · The following assessments have been made based on the facts and circumstances existing at the date of initial application. The determination of a business model within which a financial asset is held The designation and revocation of previous designations of certain financial assets and financial liabilities as measured at FVTPL The designation of certain investments in equity instruments not held for trading as at FVOCI · If an investment in debt securities had low credit risk at the date of initial application of K-IFRS No. 1109, the Group has assumed that the credit risk on the asset had not increased significantly since the date of initial recognition. · Changes to hedge accounting policies were applied prospectively, except for hedge cost accounting for forward points related to designated hedging relationships, which existed on or were designated after January 1, 2017. · All hedging relationships designated in accordance with K-IFRS No. 1039 on December 31, 2017 met the hedging requirements in accordance with K-IFRS No.1109 on January 1, 2018. Therefore, the hedging relationship is considered to continue. K-IFRS No.1115 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ K-IFRS No.1115 is comprehensive framework for determining when and how much revenue is recognised. This standard replaces K-IFRS No.1018 ‘Revenue’, K-IFRS No.1011 ‘Construction Contracts’, K-IFRS No.2031 ‘Revenue’, K-IFRS No.2113 ‘Customer Loyalty Program’, K-IFRS No.2115 ‘Property Construction Contracts’ and K-IFRS No.2118 ‘Transfers of Assets from Customers’. The Group applied K-IFRS No.1115 for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018 and applied retrospectively to recognize the cumulative effect of initial application at the date of first day in accordance with K-IFRS No. 1008 ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors’. When applying K-IFRS No. 1115, the important impacts on the Group’s statement of comprehensive income ending December 31, 2018 are as follows. As of December 31, 2018, the impact on the consolidated statement of financial positions and cash flows is not significant. (In millions of won) Classification Financial statements Adjustment Disclosure Amount before application of K-IFRS No. 1115 Interest Income Credit card income Interest (*1) ￦97,650 (9,788) 87,862 Commission fees Credit card payment fee (*2) 47,169 (9,788) 37,381 (*1) Before applying K-IFRS No. 1115, the Group recognized unearned revenue for deferred revenue allocated to card points and recognized them as revenue when the points were used and the Group fulfilled the obligations under the customer’s use of the points. However, Under K-IFRS No. 1115, the points granted were estimated at fair value, such as financial benefits provided in consideration of the expected recovery rate and recognised as a deduction from the credit card interest income. (*2) The Group has changed the credit card membership service expense paid to credit card customers, which was previously recognized as fee expense, to be recognized as a deduction from credit card interest income in exchange for payment to customers in accordance with application of K-IFRS No. 1115. 3. Significant Accounting Policies Except for the changes explained in Note 2-5, the Group has consistently applied the following accounting policies to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements. (3-1) Operating segment The Group divides the segments based on internal reporting data periodically reviewed by the CEO to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and to evaluate the performance of the segment. As described in Note 4, there are six reportable segments, of which each is 116 the strategic units of the group. Strategic sales units provide different services and are operated separately because each unit has different skills and marketing strategies. (3-2) Basis of consolidation These consolidated financial statements are presented in Korean won, which is the Parent Group’s functional currency and the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates. (1) Business combinations (A) Business combinations A business combination is accounted for by applying the acquisition method, unless it is a combination involving entities or business under common control. Also, the Group measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree as of the acquisition date as a proportionate share of the non-controlling interest among the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. The consideration transferred in the acquisition is generally measured at fair value, as are the identifiable net assets acquired. Any goodwill that arises is tested annually for impairment, and any gain on a bargain purchase is recognized in profit or loss immediately. Transaction costs are expensed as incurred, except if related to the issue of debt or equity securities. Acquisition related costs are accounted for as expenses in the period in which the costs are incurred and the services are received, except K-IFRS No.1032, 'Financial Instruments: Presentation' and K-IFRS No.1039, 'Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement'. The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the settlement of pre-existing relationships. Such amounts are generally recognized in profit or loss. Any contingent consideration is measured at fair value at the acquisition date. If an obligation to pay contingent consideration that meets the definition of a financial instrument as equity, then it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity. Otherwise, other contingent consideration is remeasured at fair value at each reporting date and subsequent changed in the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognized in profit or loss. If share-based payment awards (replacement awards) are required to be exchanged for awards held by the acquiree’s employees (acquiree’s awards), then all or a portion of the amount of the acquirer’s replacement awards is included in measuring the consideration transferred in the business combination. This determination is based on the market-based measure of the replacement awards compared with the market-based measure of the acquiree’s awards and the extent to which the replacement awards relate to pre-combination service. (B) Goodwill In the case of the sum of a consideration transferred at the date of acquisition and a non-controlling interest in the acquire or, in the case of a staged business combination, the total fair value of the acquiree's share of the acquiree held by the Group exceeds the identifiable net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the excess amount is recognized as goodwill. The additional acquisition of non-controlling interests is accounted for as a transaction between the shareholders and, as a result, no related goodwill is recognized. (2) Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control commences until the date on which control ceases (3) Removal of internal transaction Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity-accounted investees are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Group’s interest in the investee. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment. (4) Non-controlling interests(NCIs) NCIs are measured at their proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets at the acquisition date. Changes in the Group’s interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions. (5) Loss of control When the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognizes the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, and any related NCI and other compo117 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT nents of equity. Any resulting gain or loss is recognized in profit or loss. Any interest retained in the former subsidiary is measured at fair value when control is lost. (6) Equity on investee under equity method The Group’s equity on investee under equity method comprise interests in associates and a joint venture. Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control or joint control, over the financial and operating policies. Interests in associates and the joint venture are accounted for using the equity method. They are recognized initially at cost, which includes transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, the consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the profit or loss and OCI of equity-accounted investees, until the date on which significant influence or joint control ceases. (3-3) Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, demand deposits, and short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value, and are used by the Group in management of its short-term commitments. Generally equity investments are excluded from cash and cash equivalents. However, redeemable preference shares, for which the period from the acquisition to redemption is short, are classified as cash and cash equivalents. (3-4) Non-derivative financial assets (1) Recognition and initial measurements Financial instruments and liabilities are recognized only when the Group becomes a party to the financial instrument. Upon initial recognition, a financial asset or financial liability is measured at fair value, and where it is not an FVTPL financial asset or FVTPL financial liability, any transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of that financial asset or the issuance of that financial liability is deducted from the fair value. (2)-1 Financial asset: Subsequent measurement and classification of applicable accounting policy from January 1, 2018 At initial recognition, financial assets are classified as measured at amortized cost, FVOCI debt instruments, FVOCI equity instruments or FVTPL. Financial assets are not reclassified after initial recognition, unless the Group modifies the financial asset management model, in which case all of the financial assets impacted are reclassified on the first day of the first reporting period after the change in the business model. Financial assets are measured at amortised cost if they meet the following conditions and are not designated at fair value through profit or loss: · If held under a business model whose objective is to collect contractual cash flows. · The terms and conditions of the financial asset result in cash flows that are solely principal payments and balances on a specific date. If the debt instrument meets the following conditions and are not designated at fair value through profit or loss, it is measured at fair value through other comprehensive income: · Financial assets are held under a business model that is aimed at both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets. · The terms of the financial asset result in cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on a particular date. At initial recognition of equity instruments that are not held for short-term sale, the group may choose to present subsequent changes in the fair value of the investment in other comprehensive income. However, cancellation is not available once selected. These choices are made by investment. Any financial asset not measured at amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive income describe above is measured at fair value through profit or loss. These financial assets include all derivative financial assets. On initial recognition, the Group may irrevocably designate a financial asset that otherwise meets the requirements to be measured at amortised cost or at FVOCI as at FVTPL if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch that would otherwise arise. Business model assessment The group assesses the objective of the business model in which an asset is held at a portfolio level because it best reflects how the business is managed and how information is provided to the management. The information considered includes: · The stated policies and objectives for the portfolio and the operation of those policies in practice. It focuses on acquiring contractual interest, maintaining a certain level of interest rates, aligning the duration of the debt with the duration of the financial asset and the duration of the financial asset, or leaking or realizing the expected cash flow through the sale of the asset and also includes executive strategy. · How the performance of the financial assets held by the business model is evaluated and reported to the Group’s management · The risks that affect the performance of the business model (and the financial assets held in the business model) and the way in which they are managed · How managers of the business are compensated (e.g. whether compensation based on the fair value of the assets managed or contractual cash 118 flows collected) · The frequency, amount, timing and reasons for the sale of financial assets in the past and the forecasts of future selling activities For the purpose, a transaction that transfers a financial asset from a transaction that does not meet the removal requirements to a third party is not considered a sale. A financial asset portfolio that meets the definition of short-term trading or whose portfolio performance is measured on a fair value basis should be measured by FVTPL. Assessment of whether Contractual Cash Flows are Solely Consisted of Principal and Interest The principal is defined as the fair value of the financial asset at initial recognition. Interest consists of profit as well as consideration for the time value of money, consideration for credit risk associated with principal balances in a given period, and consideration from other basic lending risks and costs (e.g. Liquidity risk and operating costs). In assessing whether the contractual cash flows consist solely of payments of principal and interest, the Group considers the contractual terms and conditions of the instrument. This includes assessing whether the financial asset contains a contractual term that could change the timing or amount of contractual cash flows such that it would not meet this condition. In making the assessment, the Group considers the following: · contingent events that would change the amount and timing of cash flows · provisions to adjust contractual nominal interest rate, including variable interest rate · prepayment and extension terms · terms of the contract that limit the Group’s claims to cash flows from specified assets (e.g. non-recourse loans) A prepayment feature is consistent with the solely payments of principal and interest criterion if the prepayment amount substantially represents unpaid amounts of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding, which may include reasonable additional compensation for early termination of the contract. Additionally, for a financial asset acquired at a discount or premium to its contractual par amount, a feature that permits or requires prepayment at an amount that substantially represents the contractual par amount plus accrued (but unpaid) contractual interest (which may also include reasonable additional compensation for early termination) is treated as consistent with this criterion if the fair value of the prepayment feature is insignificant at initial recognition. Subsequent measurement and gains or losses Financial assets at fair value through profit or These assets are subsequently measured at fair value. Net gain (loss) including any interest or dividend income, loss are recognized in profit or loss. Refer Note III-v for derivatives designated as hedging instruments. These assets are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. The amortized Securities at amortized cost cost is reduced by impairment losses. Interest income, foreign exchange gains and losses and impairment are recognized in profit or loss. Any gain or loss on derecognition is recognized in profit or loss. These assets are subsequently measured at fair value. Interest income calculated using the effective interest Financial debt instruments at fair value method, foreign exchange gains and losses and impairment are recognized in profit or loss. Other net gains and through other comprehensive income losses are recognized in other comprehensive income. On derecognition, gains and losses accumulated in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit of loss. These assets are subsequently measured at fair value. Dividends are recognized as income in profit or loss unless Financial equity instruments at fair value the dividend clearly represents a recovery of part of the cost of the investment. Other net gains and losses are through other comprehensive income recognized in other comprehensive income and are never reclassified to profit or loss. (2)-2 Financial Assets : Classification and Subsequent measurements – Policy applicable as of December 31, 2017 The group classifies financial assets as loans and receivables, held-to-maturity securities, available-for-sale securities and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss consist of financial assets designated as held for trading, derivatives and financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss. These assets are subsequently measured at fair value, and changes are recognized in profit or loss, including Financial assets measured at fair value interest or dividend income. Refer Note III-v for derivatives designated as hedging instruments. Financial assets at maturity These assets are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Loan and receivables These assets are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Changes in fair value, excluding impairment losses on debut instruments, interest income and foreign currency Available-for-sale financial assets translation differences are recognized in other comprehensive income. When these assets are derecognized, the gains and losses accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss. 119 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (3) De-recognition The Group derecognizes a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or it transfers the rights to receive the contractual cash flows on the financial asset in a transaction in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred. If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the transferred financial assets, the Group continues to recognize the transferred financial assets and recognizes financial liabilities for the consideration received. (4) Offsetting The Group is only offsetting financial assets and liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position if it currently has a legally enforceable right to the assets and liabilities recognized by the Group and intends to settle the liabilities at a net price or at the same time as the assets are realized. (3-5) Derivative financial instruments, including hedge accounting (1) Derivative and Hedge accounting – policy applicable from January 1, 2018 Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value, and changes therein are generally recognized in profit or loss. The Group holds forward exchange contracts, interest rate swaps, currency swaps and other derivative contracts to manage interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk. The Group designated derivatives as hedging instruments to hedge the risk of changes in the fair value of assets, liabilities or firm commitments (a fair value hedge). At inception of designated heading relationships, the Group formally documents the relationship between the hedging instrument(s) and hedged item(s), including the risk management objectives and strategy in undertaking the hedge transaction, together with the methods that will be used to assess the effectiveness of the hedging relationship. Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of a derivative hedging instrument designated as a fair value hedge are recognized in profit or loss, and the change in the fair value of the hedged item due to the hedged risk is also recognized in profit or loss. Fair value hedge accounting is discontinued when the group no longer designates the hedging relationship, when hedging instrument expires, sells, liquidates, exercised, or when the accounting requirements are no longer met. The carrying amount of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is amortised to profit or loss from the date where the hedge accounting is discontinued. The ineffective part in the change of the fair value of a derivative is recognized immediately in profit or loss. Cash flow hedge When a derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective part of the change in the fair value of the derivative is recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the hedge reserve. The effective part of the change in the fair value of the derivative recognized in other comprehensive income is limited to the cumulative change in hedged item determined on the basis of its present value from the inception of the hedge. The ineffective part in the change of the fair value of a derivative is recognized immediately in profit or loss. The Group designates only changes in the fair value of the spot component of the forward exchange transaction as a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge relationship. The 'forward point' of the component of forward exchange contracts is accounted separately as the hedge cost and recognized in the cost of hedging the equity. If the hedged transaction is subsequently recognized in non-financial assets, the accumulated hedge reserve and the cost of hedge are included directly in the initial cost of the non-financial asset when recognized. For other hedged transactions, the cumulative amount and the costs of hedges are reclassified to profit or loss in the same period or in the period in which the hedged expected future cash flows affect the profit or loss. If the hedge no longer meets the accounting requirements or the hedging instrument is sold, extinguished, terminated or exercised, hedge accounting is phased out. If a non-financial item is a recognised hedge transaction, the cumulative amount of the hedge reserve and the cost of the hedge are left in the equity item until the non-financial item is initially recognised and included in the cost of the non-financial item. For cash flow hedges that are not eligible, the cash flow hedge reserve and the cost of the hedge are reclassified to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment in the period in which the hedged future expected cash flows affect profit or loss. If the hedged future cash flows are no longer expected to occur, the accumulated cash flow hedge reserve and the cost of the hedge are reclassified immediately to profit or loss. Net Investment Hedge If a derivative or non-derivative financial liability is designated as a hedging instrument for a net investment in a foreign operation, the effective portion of the change in the fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income in the case of a non-derivative instrument and foreign currency translation gain or loss is recognised in equity. The ineffective portions are recognised immediately in profit or loss. The 120 amounts recognised in other comprehensive income shall be reclassified to profit or loss as reclassification adjustment when disposing of foreign operations. Embedded Derivatives Embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract and accounted for separately if the host contract is not a financial asset and certain criteria are met. (2) Derivative and Hedge accounting Policy applicable as of December 31, 2017 The accounting policies applied in the financial statements of the prior period presented are similar to those applied on 1 January 2018. However, for all cash flow hedge accounting, including hedges of transactions that result in the recognition of non-financial items, the accumulated cash flow hedge reserve is reclassified to profit or loss during the same period or in which the hedged future expected cash flows affect profit or loss. (3-6) Deferred recognition of day-one profit or loss The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument at initial recognition is the transaction price (the fair value of the consideration given or received) unless the fair value of that instrument is evidenced by comparison with other observable current market transactions in the same instrument or based on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets. If the valuation technique incorporates significant inputs that are not based on observable market data, the difference between the transaction price and the fair value based on the valuation technique (day-one profit or loss) is not recognized in profit or loss upon initial recognition but deferred. Deferred day-one profit or loss is recognized over the period between the trade date and the date when the variables are expected to become observable in the market, or over the life of the trade (whichever is shorter). (3-7) Impairment of financial assets (1) Policies applicable from January 1, 2018 The Group recognizes a loss allowance for expected credit losses in three phases for financial assets · Stage 1: 12-month Expected credit losses Financial assets that have not experienced significant increases in credit risk since initial recognition and that are determined to have low credit risk at the end of the reporting period are recognized by measuring and recognizing expected credit losses due to default events on financial instruments that may occur within 12 months after the end of the reporting period. · Stage 2 : Lifetime expected credit losses The lifetime expected credit losses are measured and recognized for financial assets that have not been creditimpaired but have significantly increased since initial recognition. · Stage 3: Lifetime expected credit losses If one or more impairment incidents have affected the estimated future cash flows of a financial asset, the financial asset is assessed to be credit-impaired. The Group measures and recognizes lifetime expected credit losses for credit-impaired financial assets and interest income by applying the effective interest rate to amortized cost. Measurement of expected credit losses Expected credit losses are probability-weighted estimates of credit losses. Credit losses are measured at the present value of all cash shortfalls (i.e., the difference between all contractual cash flows payable under the contract and cash flows expected to be received). Expected credit losses are discounted at the effective interest rate of the financial asset. Applicable timeline of expected credit losses Lifetime expected credit losses are resulting from all default events that may occur during the expected life of the financial instrument. he 12-month expected credit loss is the portion of expected credit loss that result from default events on a financial instrument that are possible within the 12 months after the reporting date (or a shorter period if the expected life of the instrument is less than 12 months). The longest period to consider when measuring expected credit losses is the longest contractual term for which the Group is exposed to credit risk. Evaluation of credit risk When determining whether the credit risk of a financial asset has increased significantly since initial recognition and estimating expected credit losses, the group considers information that is available, reasonable and supported without undue cost or effort. This includes quantitative and qualitative information and analysis based on the group's past experience, credit ratings, and forward-looking information, including forward-looking information. 121 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The Group uses internal and external credit, with past due dates to determine whether credit risk has increased significantly. The Group assumes that the credit risk of a financial asset increases significantly when the past due date exceeds 30 days. The Group considers credit risk to be low if the credit risk rating of a financial asset is at a level that is internationally understood as a 'investment grade'. Default and impairment The Group considers a financial asset to be in default when: · The borrower is unlikely to pay its credit obligations to the Group in full, without recourse by the Group to actions such as realizing security (if any is held); or · The financial asset is more than 90 days past due. At the end of each reporting period, the Group assesses whether the financial asset is credit-impaired. If there is more than one event that adversely affects the estimated future cash flows of a financial asset, it is impaired. Evidence of impaired credit for financial assets includes the following observable information · Significant financial difficulties of the issuer or borrower; · Breach of contract, such as default or more than 90 days overdue · Inevitable mitigation of the original borrowing conditions for economic or contractual reasons related to the borrower's financial difficulties; · The likelihood of a borrower's bankruptcy or other increases in financial restructuring · Expiration of an active market for a financial asset due to financial difficulties Presentation of credit loss allowance The loss allowance for financial assets measured at amortized cost is deducted from the carrying amount of those assets. For debt instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, the loss allowance is included in profit or loss and recognized in other comprehensive income. Write-off If there is no reasonable expectation of a full or partial recovery of the contractual cash flows of the financial asset, then the asset should be removed. This is usually the case when the group determines that the creditor does not have an income source or asset that will generate enough cash flows to repay the amount to which it is subject. However, financial assets that are derecognized may be subject to the collection of maturing amounts of the Group. (2) Policy applicable as of December 31, 2017 Since initial recognition, if there is objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired as a result of one or more impairment events affecting the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset, the financial asset is judged to be impaired. In the event that the issuer of a financial asset goes bankrupt or does not pay principal or interest, the entity determines that there is objective evidence of asset impairment, such as when the borrower's financial difficulties mitigate the borrowing conditions or when the active market for the financial asset expires. For equity instruments classified as available-for-sale financial assets, the entity determines that there is objective evidence of asset impairment if the fair value of the equity instruments falls below cost (more than 30%) or below cost for a long period of time (more than 6 months). For a particular class of financial assets, we are subsequently conducting a collective impairment test with respect to assets that are individually assessed to be unimpaired. The impairment loss on a financial asset measured at amortized cost is measured as the difference between the carrying amount of the asset and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate, deducted or directly deducted from the carrying amount of the asset using a provision account. In the event that an increase in the fair value of a financial asset is objectively related to an event that occurred after the impairment loss was recognized in subsequent periods, the impairment loss is reversed and recognized in profit or loss. An impairment loss on a financial asset measured at cost is measured as the difference between the present value and carrying amount of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of similar financial assets and is recognized in profit or loss. These impairments are not reversed. If there is objective evidence of impairment for available-for-sale financial assets that recognize a reduction in fair value in other comprehensive income, the cumulative losses recognized in other comprehensive income are reclassified from equity to profit or loss. For available-for-sale equity instruments, impairment losses recognized in profit or loss are not reversed. 122 Loans and Receivable The group first determines whether loans and receivables are individually important, then evaluates individually or collectively to establish loan-loss reserves. · Individual assessment on provision The individual assessment on provisions are based on management’s estimation of the present value of cash flows expected to be recovered from the bonds being assessed. In estimating such cash flows, the group determines all possible information, which includes the financial circumstances of the other party’s operating cash flows and the net realizable value of the related collateral. · Collective assessment on provision For collective assessment on provisions, the financial assets are classified on the basis of the credit rating evaluation of the group taking into characteristics of account credit risks, such as types of assets, industry, geographical location, type of collateral, past due status and other related factors. The future cash flows of a group’s financial assets that are collectively assessed for loan-loss reserves are estimated on the basis of the past experience of losses for assets with credit risk, similar to the cash flows of the group. The historical impairment loss experience is adjusted, based on the current observable data to reflect the effect of the current situation that did not affect the period of the past experience and excludes the effect of a situation that occurred in past, but not currently exist. Estimates of changes in future cash flows consistently apply changes in observable data (e.g., unemployment, asset prices, commodity prices, payment status or other variables that represent impairment losses and their magnitude in group of assets). The methodology and assumptions used to estimate future cash flows are reviewed regularly to reduce the gap between the estimation and the actual impairment loss. Impairment losses on loans and receivables are deducted using the provision account and amortized from the reserves if the financial asset is considered unrecoverable. If loans and receivables that were previously measured at amortized cost are subsequently recovered, then the provision are increased, and changes in the provision are recognized in profit or loss. Available-for-sale financial assets An available-for-sale financial asset that recognizes a reduction in fair value in other comprehensive income is reclassified from other comprehensive income to profit or loss, from less than its acquisition cost to less impairment losses on that financial asset already recognized in profit or loss in the previous period. Impairment losses on available-for-sale financial assets are recognized in profit or loss and are deducted directly from their carrying amount. If the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets increases in subsequent periods and the increase is objectively related to events that occurred after the impairment loss was recognized, the available-for-sale debt instrument is reversed to profit or loss and the available-for-sale equity instruments are reversed to other comprehensive income. (3-8) Property and equipment Property and equipment are initially measured at cost and after initial recognition, are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. The cost of property and equipment includes expenditures arising directly from the construction or acquisition of the asset, any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management and the initial estimate of the costs of dismantling and removing the item and restoring the site on which it is located. Subsequent to initial recognition, an item of property and equipment shall be carried at its cost less any accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. Subsequent costs are recognized in the carrying amount of property and equipment at cost or, if appropriate, as separate items if it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognized. The costs of the day-to-day servicing are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. Property and equipment, except for land, are depreciated on a straight-line basis over estimated useful lives that appropriately reflect the pattern in which the asset’s future economic benefits are expected to be consumed. A component that is significant compared to the total cost of property and equipment is depreciated over its separate useful life. Gains and losses on disposal of an item of property and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount of property and equipment and are recognized in profit or loss. Depreciation method and the estimated useful lives of the Group’s assets are as follows: Depreciation method Useful lives (years) Buildings Straight-line method 40 Leasehold improvements Straight-line method 5 Furniture, equipment and vehicles Straight-line method 5 123 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the end of each reporting period and adjusted, if appropriate. The amendment is accounted for as a change in an accounting estimate. (3-9) Intangible assets Intangible assets are measured initially at cost and, subsequently, are carried at cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses. Amortization of intangible assets except for goodwill is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets from the date that they are available for use. The residual value of intangible assets is zero. However, as there are no foreseeable limits to the periods over which club memberships are expected to be available for use, this intangible asset is determined as having indefinite useful lives and not amortized. The estimated useful lives of the Group’s assets are as follows: Useful lives (years) Computer software 4 Contributed acceptances 2 – 20 Usable and profitable donation assets 2 – 20 Amortization periods and the amortization methods for intangible assets with finite useful lives are reviewed at the end of each reporting period. The useful lives of intangible assets that are not being amortized are reviewed at the end of each reporting period to determine whether events and circumstances continue to support indefinite useful life assessments for those assets. Changes are accounted for as changes in accounting estimates. (i) Research and development Expenditures on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognized in profit or loss as incurred. Development expenditures are capitalized only if development costs can be measured reliably, the product or process is technically and commercially feasible, future economic benefits are probable, and the Group intends to and has sufficient resources to complete development and to use or sell the asset. Other development expenditures are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. (ii) Subsequent expenditures Subsequent expenditures are capitalized only when they increase the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates. All other expenditures, including expenditures on internally generated goodwill and brands, are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. (3-10) Borrowing costs The Group capitalizes borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset. Other borrowing costs are recognized in expense as incurred. A qualifying asset is an asset that requires a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale. Financial assets and assets that are ready for their intended use or sale when acquired are not qualifying assets. To the extent that the Group borrows funds specifically for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset, the Group determines the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalization as the actual borrowing costs incurred on that borrowing during the period less any investment income on the temporary investment of those borrowings. To the extent that the Group borrows funds generally and uses them for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset, the Group shall determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalization by applying a capitalization rate to the expenditures on that asset. The capitalization rate shall be the weighted average of the borrowing costs applicable to the borrowings of the Group that are outstanding during the period, other than borrowings made specifically for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset. The amount of borrowing costs that the Group capitalizes during a period shall not exceed the amount of borrowing costs incurred during that period. (3-11) Investment property Property held for the purpose of earning rentals or benefiting from capital appreciation is classified as investment property. Investment property is measured initially at its cost. Transaction costs are included in the initial measurement. Subsequently, investment property is carried at depreciated cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Subsequent costs are recognized in the carrying amount of investment property at cost or, if appropriate, as separate items if it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognized. The costs of the day-to-day servicing are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. 124 Investment property except for land, are depreciated on a straight-line basis over 40 years as estimated useful lives. Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the end of each reporting date and adjusted, if appropriate. The change is accounted for as a change in an accounting estimate. (3-12) Impairment of non-financial assets All non-financial assets, apart from assets arising from employee benefits, deferred tax assets and non-current assets classified as held for sale are reviewed at end of each reporting period for indications of asset impairment, and estimates the recoverable amount. However, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and not available are tested for impairment annually by comparing recoverable and carrying amounts, regardless of indications that the asset may be impaired. The recoverable amount is estimated either by individual asset or by the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs if the amount cannot be estimated. Recoverable amount is determined to be the larger of value in use and fair value less costs to sell. Value in use is estimated by discounting future cash flows that are expected to be generated by an asset or cash generating unit at an appropriate discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks of specialized assets that are not adjusted when estimating future cash flows. If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit falls short of its carrying amount, the asset is reduced and recognized immediately as profit or loss. The goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each cash-generating unit that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination. The impairment loss on the cash-generating unit first reduces the carrying amount of goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit and then the asset in proportion to the carrying amount of each other asset in the cash-generating unit. Impairment losses recognized for goodwill cannot be reversed in a subsequent period. At the end of each reporting period, the group will review whether there are any indications that the impairment losses recognized in the past other than goodwill are no longer present or are reduced, and will only be reversed if there is a change in the estimates used to determine recoverable amount after the recognition of the immediately preceding impairment loss. The carrying amount increased by the reversal of an impairment loss shall not exceed the balance after depreciation or amortization of the carrying amount before the impairment loss was recognized previously. (3-13) Leases The Group classifies and accounts for leases as either a finance or operating lease, depending on the terms. Leases where the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. All other leases are classified as operating leases. (1) If the Group is the lessor Financial Lease Financial lease assets are recognized as receivables in the same amount as net investment in lease, and interest income is recognized using the effective interest method for non-recurring net investment in finance leases. Lease payments are accounted for separately by the principal amount of the bond and interest income. The Group classifies as a financial lease or operating lease based on the substance of the transaction rather than on the form of the contract. One or more of the following is classified as a financial lease. · When ownership of a leased asset is transferred to the lease user or before the end of the lease term · The lease user has the option of a bargain purchase as of the date of the lease agreement and is sure to exercise · The lease term accounts for a significant portion of the economic life of the leased asset, even if the ownership of the leased asset is not transferred. · The present value of discounting the minimum lease fee at the intrinsic interest rate as of the inception of the lease accounts for most of the fair value of the leased asset. · If the lease asset is used in a special purpose by the lessee without any significant changes. Operating Lease Operating lease assets are calculated on the basis of the acquisition cost as of the lease effective date, and the acquisition cost includes interest expense and other similar financing loans incurred by the date for the borrowings used to acquire the operating lease assets. The residual value of the lease contract and the asset is amortized to a straight-line method over the lease term for the acquisition cost of the asset. The minimum lease payments are recognized as operating lease income, and the adjusted lease payments are recognized as gains and losses in the period in which the lease was incurred. In addition, direct costs incurred during the negotiation and contract phases of the operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the asset and recognized as expenses during the lease period in response to the return on lease payments. 125 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Prepaid Lease Assets Expenditure incurred in connection with a lease agreement that was entered into but not executed as of the end of the reporting period is recognized as a prepaid asset. Adjusted Lease payment Despite the amount has not been fixed, the portion of the lease payments that are determined on the basis of future generation of factors other than the period (e.g. a certain percentage of sales, usage, price index, and market interest rate) is recognized as a gain or loss in the period in which the lease occurs. However, if the recovery of the adjustment lease payments is not confirmed, the revenue is recognized at the time of recovery. (2) If the Group is a lessee Financial Lease The Group recognizes the present value of the minimum lease payments measured and the fair value of the leased assets as financial lease assets and liabilities respectively at the inception of the lease. Initial direct costs are included in the financial lease assets. Minimum lease payments are recognized by dividing them into financial costs and the repayment of lease liabilities, and financial costs are allocated during each reporting period of the lease to yield a fixed time interest rate on the liability balance. Adjusted lease payments are paid for the period in which they occur. Depreciation of a financial lease asset is amortized on a systematic basis that is consistent with other depreciable assets owned by the group, and depreciation over a short period of the lease term and the useful life of the leased asset if it is not certain to acquire ownership of the asset by the end of the term. In addition, the Group is considering whether to impair its financial lease assets. Operating Lease Operating lease is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term. Incentives for operating leases are recognized by deducting the total benefit from the lease expense over the term. (3) Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease To determine whether an arrangement is a lease or contains a lease, the Group examines whether a particular asset can be used to fulfil the agreement or transfer the right to use the asset according to the agreement. At inception or reassessment of the arrangement, the Group separates payments and other consideration required by such an arrangement into those for the lease and those for other elements on the basis of their relative fair values. If the Group concludes for a financial lease that it is impracticable to separate the payments reliably, the Group recognizes an asset and a liability at an amount equal to the fair value of the underlying asset that was identified as the subject of the lease. Subsequently, the liability shall be reduced as payments are made and an imputed finance charge on the liability recognized using the purchaser's incremental borrowing rate of interest. (3-14) Non-current assets held for sale If the carrying amount of a non-current asset or disposal group is expected to be recovered primarily through a sale transaction rather than through continuous use, the asset is classified as held for sale. These conditions are considered to be satisfied only when the asset (or disposal group) is immediately available for sale and is likely to be sold. The asset (or disposal group) is measured at the lower of its carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell immediately before the asset (or group of assets and liabilities) is initially classified as held for sale. If the fair value less costs to sell of an asset that has been recognized for impairment at the initial classification falls, the impairment loss is immediately recognized in profit or loss, and if the fair value less costs to sell increases, the accumulated impairment losses previously recognized are recognized in profit or loss. Non-current assets are not amortized if they are classified as held for sale or are part of a disposal group classified as held for sale. (3-15) Non-derivative financial liabilities (1) Policies applicable from January 1, 2018 The Group classifies financial liabilities other than derivative financial liabilities and financial guarantee contract liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss and other financial liabilities (depository liabilities, borrowings, etc.) and recognizes in the statement of financial position. Financial liabilities designated as fair value through profit or loss The Group may designate a financial liability as at fair value through profit or loss at initial recognition if it is able to eliminate or significantly reduce any inconsistency in recognition or measurement resulting from measuring the asset or liability on different criteria, and if a group of financial instruments managed on a fair value basis are in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy and their performance is evaluated. However, cancellation is inevitable when specified. Changes in fair value due to changes in the own credit risk of the financial liability des126 ignated at fair value through profit or loss are recognized in other comprehensive income. Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss are measured after initial recognition, and changes in fair value are recognized in profit or loss on financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss. Other Financial Liabilities Non-derivative financial liabilities other than financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are classified as other financial liabilities. At the date of initial recognition, other financial liabilities are measured at fair value minus transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition. Subsequent to initial recognition, other financial liabilities are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Derecognition of Financial Liabilities Financial liabilities are derecognised in the statement of financial position only when they expire; contractual obligation is satisfied, cancelled or expired. The Group derecognises the existing liability and recognises the new financial liability at fair value on the basis of the new contract if the terms of the financial liability have changed and the cash flows have changed substantially. When a financial liability is derecognised, the difference between the carrying amount and the paid amount (including transferred non-cash assets or liabilities assumed) are recognised in profit or loss. (2) Policies applicable as of December 31, 2017 The Group classifies financial liabilities, other than derivative financial liabilities and financial guarantee contract liabilities as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss and other financial liabilities (depository liabilities, borrowing liabilities, etc.) and recognized in the statement of financial position when they become parties to the contract. Financial liabilities at Fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities are classified as tradable items, derivatives, or as at fair value through profit or loss at initial recognition. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are measured after initial recognition and changes in fair value are recognized in profit or loss. On the other hand, transaction costs incurred in connection with the issue at initial recognition are recognized in profit or loss immediately when they occur. Other Financial Liabilities Non-derivative financial liabilities that are not classified as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are classified as other financial liabilities. Other financial liabilities are measured by deducting the transaction costs directly related to the issue at initial recognition.. Subsequently, other financial liabilities are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, which is recognized using the effective interest method. Elimination of Financial Liabilities Financial liabilities are derecognised in the statement of financial position only when they expire; when the contractual obligation is satisfied, cancelled or expired. The Group derecognizes the existing liability and recognizes the new financial liability at fair value on the basis of the new contract if the terms of the financial liability have changed and the cash flows have changed substantially. When a financial liability is derecognized, the difference between the carrying amount and the paid amount (including transferred non-cash assets or liabilities assumed) are recognized in profit or loss. (3-16) Fair value of financial instruments (1) Determination of fair value of financial instruments that are measured at fair value Financial instruments that are carried at fair value includes financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss and through other comprehensive income. The fair value of the financial instrument in which an active market exists was determined using the quoted market price in the active market. The fair value of financial instruments that do not have an active market was determined through valuation techniques. Evaluation techniques include how to use recent transactions between knowledgeable, willing parties, referring to current fair values of substantially the same other financial instruments, how to discount cash flows and an option pricing model. The valuation technique was used when market participants generally used to determine the price of a financial instrument and provided that the valuation technique provided were reliable estimates of the actual market transaction price. When fair value is determined by valuation technique, it may be demonstrated by comparison with observable current market transactions of the same financial instrument or assessed on the basis of valuation techniques including only the variables. However, in determining fair value through valuation techniques, not all major inputs are always observable in the market and in such cases, fair value is determined using reasonable assumptions or estimates. 127 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (2) Classification and level of disclosure for fair value Fair value through profit or loss and other comprehensive income measurement financial instruments have different assessment methods, so the fair value level is defined according to the account subjects and attributes of the securities system and the fair value level is assigned to each product. The fair value level classification criteria for each product are as follows; Level Description Level 1 Financial instruments are classified as Level 1 if their value is observable in an active market. If there are no quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets, financial instruments classified as Level 2 have been Level 2 valued using models whose inputs are observable in an active market. Financial instruments are classified as Level 3 if their valuation incorporates significant inputs that are not based Level 3 on observable market data (unobservable inputs). (3) Determination of fair value of financial instruments that are not measured at fair value Financial instruments that are not listed at fair value include deposits, amortized cost-measured loans, amortized cost-measuring financial assets, depository liabilities, borrowing liabilities, and other financial liabilities. These instruments are carried in the account at amortized acquisition cost. The fair value determination method for each product is as follows: Deposits and Loan measured at amortized costs The estimated fair value of deposits with maturity of six months or less is the carrying amount. The estimated fair value of non-impaired deposits and loan measured at amortized cost is the amount of the estimated future cash flows reflecting the credit risk discounted at the current market interest rate for individual assessments, and the collective valuation is the carrying amount of the loan receivable subtracted by the provision. Financial assets measured at amortized costs The fair value of financial assets measured at amortized cost uses either a market price or price disclosed by a broker/seller/public assessor. If the information is not available, estimates are made using the quoted market price for products with similar credit, maturity and yielded characteristics. Deposit liabilities The carrying amounts of non-interest bearing deposit liabilities and deposit liabilitieswith no stated maturity or a residual maturity less than 6 months are assumed to be fair values. The estimated fair value of an interest bearing deposit liability is the present value of future cash flows discounted at the interest rate (market rate) of a recently issued liability with the similar maturity. Borrowings The estimated fair value of the borrowings with a contractual maturity and a variable interest repayment period of less than six months is the carrying amount. The estimated process value of a borrower without a quoted market price in an active market is the amount of the future cash flows discounted to the present value using the interest rate on a new liability with a similar residual maturity. For borrowings, the won-dollar borrower will evaluate the carrying amount at estimated fair value and the carrying amount within six months of the foreign currency borrowings at estimated fair value. The total fair value of issued bonds is calculated based on the market price disclosed in the active market. For bonds that do not have a quoted market price in the active market, a DCF model is used based on the appropriate yield curve for the remaining period until maturity. (3-17) Employee benefits (1) Short-term employee benefits Short-term employee benefits are employee benefits that are due to be settled within 12 months after the end of the period in which the employees render the related service. When an employee has rendered service to the Group during an accounting period, the Group recognizes the undiscounted amount of short-term employee benefits expected to be paid in exchange for that service. (2) Other long-term employee benefits Other long-term employee benefits are employee benefits that are settled beyond 12 months after the end of the period in which the employees render the related service, and include the cost of training overseas which the Group grants to long-serving employees. The calculation method of the Group’s obligation is consistent with defined benefit plans. (3) Retirement benefits: defined contribution plans 128 When an employee has rendered service to the Group during a period, the Group recognizes the contribution payable to a defined contribution plan in exchange for that service as a liability (accrued expense), after deducting any contribution already paid. If the contribution already paid exceeds the contribution due for service before the end of the reporting period, the Group recognizes that excess as an asset (prepaid expense) to the extent that the prepayment will lead to a reduction in future payments or a cash refund. (4) Retirement benefits: defined benefit plans The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in the current and prior periods, discounting that amount and deducting the fair value of any plan assets. The calculation of defined benefit obligations is performed annually by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. When the calculation results in a potential asset for the Group, the recognized asset is limited to the present value of economic benefits available in the form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. To calculate the present value of economic benefits, consideration is given to any applicable minimum funding requirements. Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets (excluding interest) and the effect of the asset ceiling (if any, excluding interest), are recognized immediately in OCI. The Group determines the net interest expense (income) on the net defined benefit liability (asset) for the period by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the then-net defined benefit liability (asset), taking into account any changes in the net defined benefit liability (asset) during the period as a result of contributions and benefit payments. Net interest expense and other expenses related to defined benefit plans are recognized in profit or loss. When the benefits of a plan are changed or when a plan is curtailed, the resulting change in benefit that relates to past service or the gain or loss on curtailment is recognized immediately in profit or loss. The Group recognizes gains and losses on the settlement of a defined benefit plan when the settlement occurs. (5) Termination benefits Termination benefits are recognized as an expense when the Group is committed demonstrably, without realistic possibility of withdrawal, to a formal detailed plan to either terminate employment before the normal retirement date, or to provide termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy. Termination benefits for voluntary redundancies are recognized as an expense if the Group has made an offer of voluntary redundancy, it is probable that the offer will be accepted, and the number of acceptances can be estimated reliably. If benefits are payable more than 12 months after the reporting period, then they are discounted to their present value. (3-18) Provisions Provisions are a present obligation (legal or constructive obligation) that exist as a result of a past event, and is recognized when resources with economic benefits are likely to be exposed to satisfy and the amount required are reliably estimated. The amount recognized as a provision is the best estimate of the expenditure required to satisfy the present obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking into account the unavoidable risks and uncertainties about the events and circumstances involved. When the time value effect of currency is important, the provision is assessed as the present value of the expenditure to satisfy the obligation. If a third party is expected to reimburse some or all of the expenses required to settle a provision, the entity recognizes the reimbursement amount and accounts for it as a separate asset only when it is almost certain that it will be reimbursed. The Group reviews the balance of the provision at the end of each reporting period and adjusts it to reflect the best estimate as of the end of the reporting period. In case it is no longer probable that resources embodied in economic benefits will be leaked for the purpose of the obligation, the related provisions are reversed. A provision shall be used only for expenditures for which the provision was originally recognized. A financial guarantee contract is a contract where issuer has to pay a specified amount to compensate for losses incurred by the holder due to the failure of a particular creditor to pay at the date of payment in accordance with the initial or modified terms of the debt instrument. Such financial guarantees are provided to banks, financial institutions and other institutions on behalf of the customer in order to guarantee loan receivables and other credit limits. Financial guarantees are initially measured at fair value (when they are provided) and are counted as liabilities, and since financial guarantee contracts are not traded in active markets, fair value is calculated through valuation techniques, and the fair value of financial guarantee is calculated by combining the present value of the fees received and to be received in the future. After initial recognition, the amount recognized is amortized to net income during the warranty period (recognized as a commission income amount) and measure at a large amount in each settlement period by comparing the following, and if the amount is large than the amount is added as a payment guarantee allowance. 129 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT · Provision loss determined in accordance with K-IFRS No. 1109 ‘Financial Instruments’ · Accumulated of amortized cost deducted by amortized cost recognized in accordance with K-IFRS No.1115 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers, in accordance with initial recognition amount (fair value)’ The increase in all liabilities related to financial guarantee is recognized as current expense as an account of the transfer of provisions. (3-19) Foreign currencies (1) Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currencies of Group entities at exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated to the functional currency using the reporting date’s exchange rate. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at fair value are retranslated to the functional currency at the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined. Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognized in profit or loss, except for differences arising on the retranslation of availablefor-sale equity instruments, a financial liability designated as a hedge of the net investment in a foreign operation, or qualifying cash flow hedges, which are recognized in other comprehensive income. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. (2) Foreign operations If the presentation currency of the Group is different from a foreign operation’s functional currency, the financial statements of the foreign operation are translated into the presentation currency using the following methods: The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, whose functional currency is not the currency of a hyperinflationary economy, are translated to presentation currency at exchange rates at the reporting date. The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated to functional currency at exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. Foreign currency differences are recognized in other comprehensive income. When a foreign operation is disposed of, the relevant amount in the translation is transferred to profit or loss as part of the profit or loss on disposal. On the partial disposal of a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, the relevant proportion of such cumulative amount is reattributed to non-controlling interest. In any other partial disposal of a foreign operation, the relevant proportion is reclassified to profit or loss. Foreign exchange gains or losses arising from a monetary item receivable from or payable to a foreign operation, the settlement of which is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future and which in substance is considered to form part of the net investment in the foreign operation, are recognized in other comprehensive income in the translation reserve. (3) Conversion of net investment in Foreign operations Among monetary items to be received from or paid to a foreign operation, items unplanned to be settled in the foreseeable future and are unlikely to be settled are considered part of the net investment in foreign operations and are recognized in other comprehensive income in the consolidated financial statements and are reclassified to profit or loss at the time of disposal of the related net investment. (3-20) Equity capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity and the incremental costs incurred directly related to capital transactions are deducted from equity in a net amount reflecting tax effects. When the Group repurchases its share capital, the amount of the consideration paid is recognized as a deduction from equity and classified as treasury shares. The profits or losses from the purchase, disposal, reissue, or retirement of treasury shares are not recognized as current profit or loss. If the Group acquires and retains treasury shares, the consideration paid or received is directly recognized in equity. (3-21) Share-based payment transactions The Group has granted shares or share options to its employees and other parties. For cash-settled share-based payment transactions, the Group measures the goods or services acquired and the liability incurred at the fair value of the liability. Until the liability is settled, the Group remeasures the fair value of the liability at each reporting date and at the date of settlement, with changes in fair value recognized in profit or loss for the period. 130 (3-22) Recognition of revenue and expense The Group recognizes revenue by applying the five step revenue recognition model as below. 1. Contract identification -> 2. Identification of performance obligations -> 3. Calculation of transaction price -> 4.Allocation of transaction price to performance obligation -> 5. Recognition of revenue when performance obligation is satisfied (1) Interest income and expense Interest income and expense are recognized in profit or loss using the effective interest method. The effective interest method calculates the amortised cost of a financial asset or liability and allocates interest income or expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate exactly matches the present value of the future payment or receivable estimated during the expected life of the financial instrument with the total carrying amount of the financial asset or amortised cost of the financial liability. When calculating interest income or interest expense, the effective interest rate applies to the gross carrying amount of the asset (if the asset is not credit-impaired) or to the amortised cost of the liability. However, for financial assets that are subsequently credit-impaired since initial recognition, interest revenue is calculated using the effective interest rate at the amortised cost of the financial asset. If the asset is no longer considered as credit-impaired, the effective interest rate is applied to the gross carrying amount to calculate interest revenue. (2) Fees and commission The recognition of revenue for financial service fees depends on the purposes for which the fees are assessed and the basis of accounting for any associated financial instrument. Fees that are an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial instrument Such fees are generally treated as an adjustment to the effective interest rate. Such fees may include compensation for activities such as evaluating the borrower’s financial condition, evaluating and recording guarantees, collateral and other security arrangements, preparing and processing documents, closing the transaction and the origination fees received on issuing financial liabilities. However, when the financial instrument is measured at fair value with the change in fair value recognized in profit or loss, the fees are recognized as revenue when the instrument is initially recognized. Fees earned as services are provided Fees and commission income, including investment management fees, sales commission, and account servicing fees, are recognized as the related services are provided. In addition, if a certain loan commitment is unlikely to be contracted and the loan commitment is not within the scope of K-IFRS No. 1109, the commission fee is recognised as revenue over period of time. Fees that are earned on the execution of a significant action The fees that are earned on the execution of a significant act including commission on the allotment of shares or other securities to a client, placement fee for arranging a loan between a borrower and an investor and sales commission, are recognized as revenue when the significant act has been completed. (3) Dividends The Group recognizes dividend income when the shareholders' right to receive payment is established. (4) Insurance income The Group recognizes insurance income for the insurance premium paid of which the payment date arrived by the premium payment methods of the insurance contract; and recognizes advance receipts for the insurance premium paid of which the payment date has not arrived at the end of the reporting period. (3-23) Income taxes Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Current tax and deferred tax are recognized in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to a business combination, or items recognized directly in equity or in other comprehensive income. (i) Current tax Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable profit or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. The taxable profit is different from the accounting profit for the period since the taxable profit is calculated excluding the temporary differences, which will be taxable or deductible in determining taxable 131 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT profit (tax loss) of future periods, and non-taxable or non-deductible items from the accounting profit. (ii) Deferred tax The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and deferred income tax assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Group expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. The Group recognizes a deferred tax liability for all taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates, and interests in joint ventures, except to the extent that the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The Group recognizes a deferred tax asset for all deductible temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries and associates, to the extent that it is probable that the temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilized. The carrying amount of a deferred tax asset is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduces the carrying amount to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow the benefit of part or all of that deferred tax asset to be utilized. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realized or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period. The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and deferred income tax assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Group expects, at the end of the reporting period to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset only if there is a legally enforceable right to offset the related current tax liabilities and assets, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority and they intend to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis. (3-24) Accounting for trust accounts The Group accounts for trust accounts separately from its bank accounts under the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act. In connection with this, the funds borrowed from the trust accounts are included in the trust accounts as borrowings from the trust accounts, and in accordance with the financial investment business regulations, the funds received from the trust accounts are managed with paying trust fees. (3-25) Earnings per share The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) data for its ordinary shares. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Group by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, adjusted for own shares held. Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, adjusted for own shares held, for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. (3-26) Acquisition costs In accordance with Article 31 of the Regulation on Accounting of Insurance Business and Article 3 of the Addendum to the Regulation, the Group amortizes actual policy acquisition costs (excluding the amount exceeding expected costs), which arose from a long-term contract entered into on or before March 31, 2004, over the life of the contract (up to seven years) using the straight-line method. If the difference is immaterial, the Group calculates amortization by subtracting the difference between premium reserves based on a net premium method and premium reserves based on a surrender value method from acquisition costs arose in the current year and deferred unamortized acquisition costs. On the other hand, the lesser of the actual or expected costs for a new contract entered into after April 1, 2004, is amortized over the life of the contract (up to seven years). The Group additionally amortizes the excess amount if unamortized acquisition costs are more than the difference between premium reserves based on a net premium method and premium reserves based on a surrender value method As of December 31, 2018. (3-27) Insurance and investment contracts-classification The Group classifies a contract under which one party (the insurer) accepts significant insurance risk from another party (the policyholder) by agreeing to compensate the policyholder if a specified uncertain future event (the insured event) adversely affects the policyholder as an insurance contact. The Group assesses the significance of insurance risk contract by contract, considering the amounts payable if an insured event occurs, and the amounts payable if no insured event occurs. The Group classifies a contract that exposes the issuer to financial risk without significant insurance risk as an investment contract. Depending on whether an investment contract contains a discretionary participation feature or not, the accounting treatments of the investment contract is different. If there is the discretionary participation feature in the investment contract, it is treated as the same as insurance contracts, but if not, K-IFRS No.1109 ‘Financial Instruments’ is applied. If the group classifies as insurance contract, that contract maintains until all rights and obligations expire, and does not reclassify as an investment contract even if the insurance risk becomes immaterial during the term of the insurance contract. However, in the case of the investment contract, 132 the Group reclassifies as an insurance contract if insurance risk turns significant after the first recognition. (3-28) Insurance contract liabilities (policy reserves) In accordance with the Supervision Regulation and related rules, the Group is required to maintain policy reserves for payment on future claims or refunds, and on dividends to participating policyholders. Such policy reserves are to be provided based on calculation methods approved by the Insurance Business Act of Korea, related laws and rules, and the Minister of Strategy and Finance of the Republic of Korea. (1) Premium reserve Premium reserve refers to an amount calculated by the net premium method for payment on future claims, which is the bigger amount between the one calculated based on standard interest rate and standard risk rate issued by the Financial Supervisory Service and the one calculated based on standard rates applied to premium calculation. If premium reserve results in an amount below zero, the Group records the premium reserve as zero. (2) Reserve for unearned premium Reserve for unearned premium refers to the amount of premium at the collection date as of or prior to the statement of financial position date, which will be realized in the subsequent periods. (3) Guarantee reserve In accordance with the Insurance Business Act and the Regulation on Supervision of Insurance Business, guarantee reserve refers to an amount calculated based on the standard method of measuring the guarantee reserve, which is the guarantee amount for payment on future claims up to a reasonable level in consideration of future estimated loss. (4) Reserve for outstanding claims As of the end of the reporting period, the Group reserves the following amount of payment that has yet to be paid, or is estimated for contracts for which the reason for payment has occurred as follows · Individual estimated amount : The amount estimated by insurance accident reported to the group due to pending litigation (some payments are left after payment) · Unreported Losses (IBNR, Incurred But Not Reported) : Estimated amount based on reasonable statistical methods considering the experience performance of the group · Unclaimed expenses : Contracts that are not expired due to non-payment of insurance premiums, including the right to revive and reserve period · Accrued insurance expenses : Amount that are not paid at fixed amount, such as insurance, refund, dividend, etc. (5) Reserve for participating policyholders’ dividends Excess Crediting Rate Reserve For dividend insurance (contract prior to October 1, 1997), if the scheduled interest rate is lower than the average interest rate of a one year time deposit in the current business year, the amount is reserved for the policyholder compensating for the difference. Mortality Dividend Reserve For valid dividend insurance contracts that have been maintained for more than one year, the amount is reserved for the compensation given for the difference between the planned death rate and the actual death rate applied to the insurance premium calculation standard. Interest Dividend Reserve The amount is reserved for the dividend covering the difference between the interest dividend base rate and scheduled interest rate for each insurance product for an insurance contract that has been maintained for more than one year. However, for contracts signed before October 1, 1997, the amount is reserved for the difference between the interest dividend base rate and the scheduled interest rate for each insurance product, including the interest rate guarantee rate as of the beginning of the business year. Long-term Duration Dividend Reserve The amount is reserved for dividend insurance contracts that have been maintained for more than six years, the amount of cancellation deducted by the net insurance premium reserve as of the end of previous term multiplied by the long-term duration dividend rate. (6) Policyholders’ profit dividend reserve Dividend reserve for policyholders’ income participation refers to the amount to be reserved, in lump sum, depending on the business performance 133 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT for the purpose of appropriating it for future dividends to policyholders or for additional accumulation as part of policy reserve other than the reserve for participating policyholders’ dividends that is based on the contract terms and conditions. In accordance with the Supervisory Regulation, it is used for reserve for participating policyholders’ dividends and is required to be used within five years from the end of the year of occurrence. (3-29) Liability adequacy test The Group assesses, at the end of each reporting period, whether its recognized insurance liabilities are adequate, using current estimates of future cash flows under its insurance contracts. If that assessment shows that the carrying amount of its insurance liabilities (less related deferred acquisition costs and related intangible assets) is inadequate in the light of the estimated future cash flows, the entire deficiency shall be recognized in net income. In accordance with K-IFRS No.1104 Insurance Contact, the Group applies a liability adequacy test that meets specified minimum requirements. The minimum requirements are the following: · The test considers current estimates of all contractual cash flows and related cash flows, such as claims handling costs, as well as cash flows resulting from embedded options and guarantees. · If the test shows that the liability is inadequate, the entire deficiency is recognized in net income. (3-30) Reinsurance contracts The Group entered into reinsurance contracts with reinsurers to compensate them for losses on one or more contracts issued by the Group and shall not offset reinsurance assets against the related insurance liabilities or income or expense from reinsurance contracts against the expense or income from the related insurance contracts. Reinsurance assets are tested for impairment at least annually. If a reinsurance asset is impaired, the Group shall reduce its carrying amount accordingly and recognize that impairment loss in net income. A reinsurance asset is impaired if, and only if: · There is objective evidence, as a result of an event that occurred after initial recognition of the reinsurance asset, that the Group may not receive all amounts due to it under the terms of the contract; and · The event has a reliably measurable impact on the amounts that the Group will receive from the reinsurer. (3-31) Policyholders’ equity adjustment At the end of the reporting period, the Group assess the face value of balance sheet of the gain or loss on valuation of available-for-sale securities, based on the investment balance distribution method, and the Group and its shareholders are classified as contractors and shareholders, accordingly. However, in the event of a loss in the evaluation of available-for-sale securities, the total amount of the contractor's profit dividend reserve and the contractor's dividend stabilization reserve are limited to the contractual equity adjustment. (3-32) Valuation of separate account assets and liabilities In accordance with Article 108 of the Insurance Business Act and the Supervision Regulation of Insurance Business, all assets and liabilities related to retirement benefit insurance contracts are managed and accounted for separately as separate account assets and liabilities in the consolidated statements of financial position. According to the amended Article 4-1 of Supervision Regulation of Insurance Business, the Group presents receivables from and payables to the separate account as deduction from the separate account liabilities and the separate account assets, respectively. In addition, under Article 6-23 of Regulation on Supervision of Insurance, the Group does not present the income and expenses of the performance dividend special account (variable life insurance contract), and the income and expenses of the principal and interest guaranteed special account(retirement insurance contract) are totalized as subjects of special account income and expenses. (3-33) New Standards and interpretation not yet adopted The following new standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards have been published but are not mandatory for the Group for annual periods beginning after January 1, 2018, and the Group has not early adopted them. (1) K-IFRS No.1116, ‘Lease’ K-IFRS No.1116, published on May 22, 2017, replaces existing standards including K-IFRS No.1017, ‘Leases’, K-IFRS No.2104, ‘Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease’, K-IFRS No.2015, ‘Operating Leases Incentives’ and K-IFRS No.2027, ’Evaluating the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease’. At inception of a contract, an entity shall assess whether the contract is, or contains, a lease. However, as a practical expedient, for the contracts pre134 viously identified as leases or not, an entity is not required to reassess whether the contract is, or contains, a lease at the date of initial application. For a contract that is, or contains, a lease, a lessee or a lessor shall account for each lease component within the contract as a lease separately from non-lease components of the contract. A lessee shall recognize a right-of-use asset, which indicates an asset that represents a lessee’s right to use an underlying asset for the lease term, and a lease liability, which indicates obligation to make lease payments. However, a lessee may elect not to apply the requirements to short-term leases and leases for which the underlying asset is of low value. Also, as a practical expedient, a lessee may elect, by class of underlying asset, not to separate non-lease components from lease components, and instead account for each lease component and any associated non-lease components as a single lease component. There has not been a material change in the accounting treatments for a lessor from the existing standard K-IFRS No.1017. K-IFRS No.1116 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019, with earlier application permitted. In connection with the sales–related ease, the entity (seller-lessee) first applies K-IFRS No. 1115, 'Revenue from Contract with Customer', to determine whether the asset transfer should be accounted for as sale of asset. However, the Group does not re-evaluate sales-related leases made before the initial application date. Accounting treatment as lessee · Application method of K-IFRS No. 1116 ‘Lease’ The lessee is required to apply either retrospective application (full retrospective act) to each past reporting period presented in accordance with K-IFRS No. 1008, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors” or recognize the cumulative effect of the initial application at the date of initial application (cumulative effect of batch reconciliation action). The Group plans to apply CAS Statement No. 1116 for the first time by applying either cumulative effect or cumulative temporary adjustment measures as of January 1, 2019. Accordingly, the cumulative effect of applying K-IFRS No. 1116 is adjusted in the retained earnings (or, where appropriate, other components of equity) at the date of initial application and the comparative financial statements are not going to be restated. · Financial effects of K-IFRS No.1116 ‘Lease’ The Group assessed the impact on the financial statements for the year 2019 based on the information and available information as of January 1, 2019, in order to assess the financial impact of the initial adoption of K-IFRS 1116. The Group will account for each lease element and associated non-lease element as a single lease element, using the simplified method of accounting for contracts that include all or part of the lease or lease. As a result of a detailed analysis of the effect on the financial statements, the group expects the right-to-use assets and lease liabilities to be pledged as of January 1, 2019 to increase by ￦ 44,450 million and ￦ 42,849 million, respectively. Accounting treatment as lessor · Application method and financial effect of K-IFRS No.1116 “Lease” As a lessor, the Group expects that the present lease accounting will not have a significant effect on its financial statements, even if K-IFRS No. 1116 is applied. (2) K-IFRS No.2123, ‘Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments’ The Standard shall examine the probable acceptability of the tax treatment carried out by the taxing authority and maintain its tax accounting treatment if probable. If it is not, the most important thing is to account for the highest possible amount or expected value as an accounting treatment. The standard is mandatory for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019. The Group believes that the adoption of the standard does not have any significant effect on the financial statements. (3) K-IFRS No.1019, ‘Employee Benefits’ If the change in the defined benefit plan results in the revision, reduction or settlement of the plan, the assumptions used in remeasurement of the net defined benefit obligation (asset) to estimate the current service cost and net interest for the remaining period of the period after the adjustments in the plan. In addition, the decrease in excess of the amount of unrecognized actuarial gain or loss is reflected in profit or loss as a part of past service cost or settlement profit or loss. The amendments are applied prospectively to the amendment, reduction, and settlement of systems that have occurred since the fiscal year beginning on or after January 1, 2019. The Group believes that the adoption of the standard does not have any significant effect on the financial statements. 135 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 4. Operating Segments The Group has operating segments which consist of banking division, life insurance division, loan division, asset management division, and others based on its services, and conducts performance evaluations by operating segments as well as by divisions within those operating segments. An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s other components, whose operating results are reviewed regularly by the entity’s chief operating decision maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segments and assess its performance and for which discrete financial information is available. Its financial statements are consolidated based on similar economic characteristics of the service provided, and those are divided by six reportable segments by the importance of profit made. The six reportable segments are as follows: Description Business Area Banking Financial lending services to customers and depository services Securities Securities (including stocks) investment and operation Life Insurance Procurement and financial services for life insurance Loan Leasing, Installment loan, and FinTech Asset Management Trust Funds and Financial Investment Advisory Others Segments other than those above, including collection of bonds, and development and operation of software 136 (a) Information about reportable segments as of and for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 Banking Stock Life Loan Asset Subtotal Adjustment Consolidated Insurance Management Amount Interest Interest Income ￦ 1,716,606 36,914 163,809 145,663 394 2,063,386 (34,071) 2,029,315 Interest Expense 553,717 13,947 8,137 64,528 640,329 6,352 646,681 Subtotal 1,162,889 22,967 155,672 81,135 394 1,423,057 (40,423) 1,382,634 Fees and Fees and Commission 142,295 48,015 6,821 4,139 14,078 215,348 (7,667) 207,681 Commissions Income Commissions Expense 65,976 9,298 2,599 6,629 330 84,832 (7,771) 77,061 Subtotal 76,319 38,717 4,222 (2,490) 13,748 130,516 104 130,620 Other Other Operating Income 704,890 128,361 1,071,094 5,956 637 1,910,938 12,814 1,923,752 Operating Gain on Life Insurance 999,624 999,624 999,624 Gain on Financial Assets at 36,496 71,944 27,395 5,580 637 142,052 (537) 141,515 Fair Value through Profit or Loss Gain on Held-for-trading 383,347 39,745 423,092 57 423,149 Derivative Instruments Gain on Financial Instru16,250 16,250 16,250 ments at Fair Value through Profit or Loss Gain (Loss) on Adjustments (6,078) (6,078) (6,078) for Overlay Approach Gain on Financial Assets at 6,109 6,176 12,285 (1,951) 10,334 Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income Gain on Foreign Transactions 257,814 48 16,615 108 274,585 274,585 Reversal for Credit Losses 3,136 235 755 111 4,237 (26) 4,211 Other Operating Gain 17,988 139 26,607 157 44,891 15,271 60,162 Other Operating Expenses 1,622,527 176,054 1,236,282 54,668 6,517 3,096,048 4,328 3,100,376 Loss on Life Insurance 1,117,791 1,117,791 (24,546) 1,093,245 Loss on Financial Assets ate 33,736 42,951 8,342 3,046 54 88,129 (2,726) 85,403 Fair Value through Profit or Loss Loss on Held-for-trading 348,178 72,114 420,292 601 420,893 Derivatives Gain(loss) on Financial 7,905 7,905 215 8,120 Instruments at Fair Value through Profit or Loss Loss on Financial Assets at 32 126 314 472 472 Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income Loss on Foreign Transactions 276,436 2,116 9,388 140 288,080 (1) 288,079 Provisions for Credit Losses 163,462 5,205 71 22,842 5 191,585 (311) 191,274 General and Administrative 659,559 45,619 64,544 27,591 6,458 803,771 13,198 816,969 Expense Other Operating Loss 141,124 18 35,832 1,049 178,023 17,898 195,921 Subtotal (917,637) (47,693) (165,188) (48,712) (5,880) (1,185,110) 8,486 (1,176,624) Operating Income 321,571 13,991 (5,294) 29,933 8,262 368,463 (31,833) 336,630 Profit for the year 234,825 11,223 21 22,392 6,431 274,892 131,135 406,027 Controlling Interest 383,535 Non-controlling Interest 22,492 Total Assets 49,785,346 6,087,981 6,152,002 2,762,148 38,992 64,826,469 91,131 64,917,600 Total Liabilities ￦45,625,353 5,331,555 5,906,445 2,454,863 5,433 59,323,649 530,873 59,854,522 137 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (a) Information about reportable segments as of and for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: continued, (In millions of won) 2017 Banking Life Loan Asset Subtotal Adjustment Consolidated Insurance Management Amount Interest Interest Income ￦ 1,563,920 159,236 120,062 316 1,843,534 (19,681) 1,823,853 Interest Expense 468,552 6,212 52,371 527,135 5,369 532,504 Subtotal 1,095,368 153,024 67,691 316 1,316,399 (25,050) 1,291,349 Fees and Fees and Commission 138,613 4,617 3,547 11,520 158,297 (4,281) 154,016 Commissions Income Commissions Expense 63,910 2,672 4,945 661 72,188 1,417 73,605 Subtotal 74,703 1,945 (1,398) 10,859 86,109 (5,698) 80,411 Other Other Operating Income 746,174 902,844 5,624 480 1,655,122 8,777 1,663,899 Operating Gain on Life Insurance 843,013 843,013 843,013 Gain on Financial Instru14,090 2,236 745 480 17,551 (583) 16,968 ments Held-for-trading Gain on Available-for-sale 453,386 487 453,873 1 453,874 Derivative Instruments Gain(loss) on Financial 232 95 327 583 910 Instruments at Fair Value through Profit or Loss Gain on Financial Instrument 44,858 21,466 2,116 68,440 (10,571) 57,869 Available-for-sale Gain on Foreign Transactions 216,240 310 100 216,650 216,650 Other Operating Gain 17,600 35,587 2,081 55,268 19,347 74,615 Other Operating Expense 1,529,909 1,052,718 49,927 5,884 2,638,438 (12,022) 2,626,416 Loss on Life Insurance 946,533 946,533 (40,405) 906,128 Loss on Financial Instru2,654 1,857 3 108 4,622 4,622 ments Held-for-trading Loss on Derivative Instru475,324 597 475,921 (1) 475,920 ments Available-for-sale Loss on Financial Assets at Fair Value through Profit 1,299 1,557 392 3,248 3,248 or Loss Loss on Financial Instruments Held-for-trading 91 207 298 298 Loss on Foreign Transactions Provisions for Credit Gains 175,192 31,239 898 207,329 1 207,330 General and Administrative 162,927 1,387 24,560 3 188,877 (36) 188,841 Expense 577,400 62,977 22,255 5,773 668,405 8,454 676,859 Other Operating Losses Subtotal 135,022 6,961 1,222 143,205 19,965 163,170 (783,735) (149,874) (44,303) (5,404) (983,316) 20,799 (962,517) Operating Income 386,336 5,095 21,990 5,771 419,192 (9,949) 409,243 Profit for the year 294,133 12,624 16,865 4,418 328,040 (11,769) 316,271 Controlling Interest 302,208 Non-controlling Interest 14,063 Total Assets 48,325,115 5,813,948 2,567,262 33,997 56,740,322 (6,485) 56,733,837 Total Liabilities ￦ 44,546,091 5,542,817 2,271,644 2,339 52,362,891 175,156 52,538,047 138 (b) Profit or loss on interest for each reporting segments from external customers and internal divisions as of and for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 Banking Stock Life Loan Asset Subtotal Adjustment Consolidated Insurance Management Amount Profit/Loss on Interest From External ￦ 1,161,897 22,967 155,672 87,326 141 1,428,003 (45,369) 1,382,634 Profit/Loss on Interest From Internal 992 (6,191) 253 (4,946) 4,946 Total ￦ 1,162,889 22,967 155,672 81,135 394 1,423,057 (40,423) 1,382,634 (In millions of won) 2017 Banking Life Loan Asset Subtotal Adjustment Consolidated Insurance Management Amount Profit/Loss on Interest From External ￦ 1,095,621 153,024 74,418 189 1,323,252 (31,903) 1,291,349 Profit/Loss on Interest From Internal (253) (6,727) 127 (6,853) 6,853 Total ￦ 1,095,368 153,024 67,691 316 1,316,399 (25,050) 1,291,349 (c) Profit or loss on fees and commissions for each reporting segments from external customers and internal divisions as of and for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 Life Asset Consolidated Banking Stock Insurance Loan Management Subtotal Adjustment Amount Profit/Loss on Interest From External ￦ 72,209 38,717 4,424 (1,701) 10,916 124,565 6,055 130,620 Profit/Loss on Interest From Internal 4,110 (202) (789) 2,832 5,591 (5,591) Total ￦ 76,319 38,717 4,222 (2,490) 13,748 130,516 104 130,620 (In millions of won) 2017 Banking Life Loan Asset Subtotal Adjustment Consolidated Insurance Management Amount Profit/Loss on Interest From External ￦ 70,849 2,107 (432) 10,616 83,140 (2,729) 80,411 Profit/Loss on Interest From Internal 3,854 (162) (966) 243 2,969 (2,969) Total ￦ 74,703 1,945 (1,398) 10,859 86,109 (5,698) 80,411 139 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 5. Cash and Due from Banks (a) Cash and Due From Banks Cash and due from banks as of December 31,2018 and December 31, 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Cash and Cash Equivalents ￦ 424,761 465,695 Due from Banks in Won The Bank of Korea 1,296,803 1,083,224 Commercial Banks 274,431 268,339 Others 358,340 6,203 Subtotal 1,929,574 1,357,766 Due from Banks in The Bank of Korea 24,702 64,038 ForeignCurrencies Commercial Banks 55,415 93,000 Overseas Banks 160,691 273,060 Others 6,356 1,252 Subtotal 247,164 431,350 Total ￦ 2,601,499 2,254,811 (b) Restricted Due From Banks Restricted due from banks as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) Depository December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Restrictions Reserve Deposits in Won The Bank of Korea ￦ 1,206,803 953,224 Reserve Commercial Banks 10,689 5,150 Collateral, Pledges, etc. Investor Deposit 132,344 Money Market and Compliance about Financial Investment, etc. Others 154,236 Securities Lending, etc. Subtotal 1,504,072 958,374 Reserve Deposits in The Bank of Korea 24,702 64,038 Reserve in Foreign Currencies Foreign Currencies Overseas Banks 79,978 63,280 Due from banks for legal fees and business Overseas stock Investment Deposit 1,678 Money Market and Compliance about Financial Investment, etc. Subtotal 106,358 127,318 Total ￦ 1,610,430 1,085,692 140 6. Held-for-trading Financial Assets Held-for-trading financial assets as of December 31, 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) December 31, 2017 Book Value Fair Value Gain (loss) on Before Valuation (Book Value) Valuation Equity Securities Stocks ￦ 27,320 18,326 (8,994) Debt Securities Government Bonds 14,852 24,627 9,775 Financial Bonds 177,789 178,027 238 Corporate Bond 15,729 15,729 Others 210,540 210,747 207 Subtotal 418,910 429,130 10,220 Beneficiary Certificate 62,956 63,479 523 Total ￦ 509,186 510,935 1,749 7. Financial Assets at Fair Value through Profit or Loss (a) The hybrid securities that are not currently separated from the host contract and designated as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) December 31, 2017 Book Value Fair Value Gain (loss) on Before Valuation (Book Value) Valuation Equity Securities Redeemable Preferred Stocks ￦ 26,896 25,300 (1,596) Other Securities Derivatives-Linked Securities 55,359 54,617 (742) Total ￦ 82,255 79,917 (2,338) (b) Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) December 31, 2018 Book Value Fair Value Gain (loss) on Before Valuation (Book Value) Valuation Equity-Linked Securities ￦ 408,393 396,788 11,605 Derivative-Linked Securities 118,110 120,582 (2,472) Day 1 Loss Adjustment for Derivative-Linked Securities 544 424 120 Total ￦ 527,047 517,794 9,253 During the 2018, change in fair value of 30 million won (before tax) related to change in the entity’s credit risk where a financial liability has been designated at fair value through profit or loss is recognized in other comprehensive income. 141 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 8. Financial Instruments at Fair Value through Profit or Loss (a) Details of Financial Assets at Fair Value through Profit or Loss Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) December 31, 2017 Classification Fair Value (Book Value) Equity Securities Stocks ￦ 16,218 Others 45,994 Subtotal 62,212 Debt Securities Government Bonds 2,540,567 Financial Bonds 853,572 Corporate Bond 865,392 International Bond 53,815 Beneficiary Certificate 709,186 Equity Investment 82,503 Others 493,743 Subtotal 5,598,778 Loans Private Equity Investment 47,271 Deposits Structured Deposit (*) 119,142 Others 450,563 Total ￦ 6,277,966 (*) In accordance with K-IFRS No.1104, the Group designated to apply the overlay approach to financial assets related to insurance contracts (Deposit of 114,422 in millions of won, financial assets available for sale of 127,085 in millions of won, and financial assets held-to-maturity of 308,460 in millions of won). For those financial asset at fair value through profit or loss, the Group reclassified its profit or loss in accordance with K-IFRS No.1109 as it had been classified originally in accordance with K-IFRS No.1039. (b) Details of Financial Liabilities at Fair Value through Profit or Loss Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) December 31, 2018 Classification Fair Value (Book Value) Available-for-sale securities Stocks ￦ 32,154 Government Bonds 380,879 Special Bonds 138,418 Total ￦ 551,451 (c) Application of Overlay Approach The Group applies overlay approach in accordance with K-IFRS No.1104 when it first applies K-IFRS No.1109 Financial assets that overlay approach has been applied as of December 31, 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) Classification December 31, 2018 Financial Assets at Fair Value through Profit or Loss Deposits ￦ 104,410 Debt Securities 561,853 Total ￦ 666,263 142 (c) Application of Overlay Approach, continued Regarding financial assets that overlay approach has been applied, reported amounts in accordance with K-IFRS No.1109 and those in accordance with K-IFRS No.1039 as of and for the year ended December 31, 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) Classification K-IFRS No.1109 K-IFRS No.1039 Operating Income Interest ￦ 19,083 11,284 Dividend 7,827 Financial-Related Profit 13,327 409 Operating Expenses Financial-Related Loss (7,758) (946) Profit Before Adjustment 24,652 18,574 Adjusted Profit (6,078) Profit After Adjustment ￦ 18,574 18,574 Change in other comprehensive income resulting from reclassification of profit or loss and other comprehensive income as of and for the year ended December 31, 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) Classification 2018 Beginning Balance ￦ (13,654) Reclassification due to acquisition and valuation 6,529 Reclassification due to disposition (539) Reclassification due to amortization 89 The effect of corporate tax (1,446) Ending Balance ￦ (9,021) 9. Available-for-sale Financial Assets (a) Financial assets available-for-sale as of December 31, 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) December 31, 2017 Classification Fair Value (Book Value) Equity Securities Listed Equity Securities ￦ 3,490 Unlisted Equity Securities 259,287 Others 40,682 Subtotal 303,459 Debts Securities Government Bonds 1,378,504 Financial Bonds 1,130,753 Corporate bonds 306,673 Available-for-sale Securities in Foreign Currencies 402,815 Others 527,312 Subtotal 3,746,057 Beneficiary securities 449,480 Total ￦ 4,498,996 Accumulated losses on valuation of fair value include a loss on valuation of fair value related to hedged items of ₩ 9,741 million as of December 31, 2017. 143 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (b) Changes in Unrealized Holding Gain or Loss Changes in unrealized holding gain or loss of financial assets available-for-sale as of and for the year ended December, 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) December 31, 2017 Classification Equity Securities Debt Securities Beneficiary Total Securities Securities Securities Beginning Balance ￦ 52,962 (49,960) (1,621) 1,381 Realized Loss (gain) on Disposition of (10,321) (2,548) (320) (13,189) Securities Changes Due to Reclassification 7,436 7,436 Gain or Loss on Valuation 7,751 (21,680) 1,748 (12,181) Ending Balance 50,392 (66,752) (193) (16,553) Equity Adjustment 5,848 Deferred Income Tax Assets (liabilities) 7,801 Net balance ￦ (2,904) (c) Impairment Loss Available-for-sale financial assets that recognized impairment loss as of December 31, 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) December 31, 2017 Classification Amount Before Amount After Impairment Impairment Impairment Loss Equity Securities ￦ 11,937 6,017 5,920 Beneficiary Certificates 10,128 9,193 935 Total ￦ 22,065 15,210 6,855 144 (d) Available-for-sale securities carried at cost Lists of available-for-sale securities carried at cost As of December 31, 2018, since there is no available market prices in current market and fair value cannot be estimated reliably, the consolidated group has classified equity securities as available-for-sale securities carried at cost. Those are as follows: (In millions of won) Classification December 31, 2017 Korea Asset Management Corp.(*) ￦ 1,570 Daegu Dream Education 599 Evergreenkeanggi Co., Ltd. 692 Evergreencampus Co., Ltd. 674 CHAMSARAM Co., Ltd 607 Nam Yang Kwang-Jin C&G., Co., Ltd. 520 Yeongdeok Enviro 516 Cheongramhakdang 226 Busan Mirae Education Co., Ltd 164 Green Yeosu Enviro 470 JinCheonWaterResource Co., Ltd 303 Gyeongbook Commercial Intercourse 300 Namsanedu 295 KMA Consultants Inc. 150 ART VALEY Co., Ltd 150 Boseong Facilities 13 Dongyang Engineering & Construction 8 Microfinance & Badbank Harmony Co.,Ltd (preferred stock) 1 Dongsin Hydraulic 34 Dooray Metek 1 K-Bank 12,200 Kamur 7th Private Equity Fund No.7 1,700 Smilegate Green Growth Fund No.1 100 Korea Omega Growing Industry No.1 Association 200 Centroid Buy-out Private Equity Fund No.2 2,000 Total ￦ 23,493 (*) Measured at cost since it is difficult to estimate cash flows for the financial instruments for the current year and there is no suitable comparison in similar industry and size which makes impossible to estimate reliable fair value. Gain on disposal of securities carried at cost for the year ended December 31, 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2017 Classification Book value (*) Gain on disposal Microfinance & Badbank Harmony Co., Ltd (preferred stock) ￦ 1 29 Busan Mirae Education Co., Ltd 20 Kangaroo Republic 900 228 Total ￦ 921 257 (*) Beginning Carrying Amount Before Disposal 145 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Impairment losses on securities carried at cost as of and for the year ended December 31, 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2017 Classification Amount Before Amount After Impairment Impairment Impairment Loss Daegu Dream Education ￦ 999 599 400 Cheongramhakdang 488 226 262 Busan Mirae Education Co., Ltd 481 164 317 Total ￦ 1,968 989 979 (e) Securities Lending Transactions When consolidated group lends their securities, ownership of the securities transfers to borrower, but the Group gets the security back upon the expiration. As a result, most of related risks and rewards of the ownership of those securities are held by the Group, and the Group keeps recognizing all the events that happen in those securities lending transactions. The details of securities lending of available-for-sale financial assets as of December 31, 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) December 31, 2017 Classification Fair Value of Fair Value of Transferred Assets Related Liabilities Available-for-sale financial assets Government Bonds ￦ 19,693 10. Financial Assets at Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income (a) Financial Assets at Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income as of December 31, 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) December 31, 2018 Classification Fair Value (Book Value) Equity Securities Listed Equity Securities ￦ 645 Unlisted Equity Securities 68,429 Subtotal 69,074 Debt Securities Government Bonds 1,661,469 Financial Bonds 1,123,754 Corporate Bonds 719,189 Available-for-sale Securities in Foreign Currencies 459,134 Subtotal 3,963,546 Total ￦ 4,032,620 146 (b) Equity securities of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income as of December 31, 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) Classification Book Value Purpose of Acquisition Listed Equity Securities Kumho Industrial Co., Ltd ￦ 645 Financing Conversion Others Exco 2,878 Public Contribution BC Card 11,430 Strategic Contribution Korea Asset Management Corp. 1,570 Strategic Contribution Daegyeong Investment Corp. 4,373 Public Contribution Tauraus Investment & Securities Co., Ltd. 1,085 Strategic Contribution National Happiness Fund Co., Ltd. Redeemable preferred stocks 11,708 Retention Strategy Korea Trust Co., Ltd 6,351 Strategic Contribution K-Bank 12,200 Participation Korea Financial Investment Association 249 Others YesStock Inc. 291 Others Korea Exchange 12,411 Others Korea Secureities Financial Corporation 863 Others Fund Online Korea Co., Ltd. 3,020 Others Subtotal 68,429 Total ￦ 69,074 (c) Recognized dividend income from equity securities at fair value through other comprehensive income as of and for the year ended December 31, 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) Classification Disposed Equity Securities Retained Equity Securities Listed Equity Securities ￦ 465 24 Unlisted Equity Securities 2,691 Total ￦ 465 2,715 (d) Lists of disposed financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income as of and for the year ended December 31, 2018, and reasons of those are as follows: (In millions of won) Classification Fair Value at Accumulated Gain(loss) on Reason of Disposition Valuation(*) Disposal Microfinance & Badbank Harmony Co.,Ltd (preferred stock) Redemption ￦ 86 Redemption STX Engine 2,352 1,206 Sell Total ￦ 2,438 1,206 (*) Accumulated gain on valuation is replaced by retained earnings. 147 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (e) Securities Lending Transactions When consolidated group lends their securities, ownership of the securities transfers to borrower, but the Group gets the security back upon the expiration. As a result, most of related risks and rewards of the ownership of those securities are held by the Group, and the Group keeps recognizing all the events that happen in those securities lending transactions. The details of securities lending of available-for-sale financial assets as of December 31, 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) December 31, 2018 Classification Fair Value of Fair Value of Transferred Assets Related Liabilities Financial Assets at Fair Value through OCI Government bonds ￦ 20,752 Foreign Currency Bonds 31,824 Total ￦ 52,576 (f) Changes in total book value of financial assets(debt securities) at fair value through other comprehensive income as of and for the year ended December 31, 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) Classification 12-month Lifetime Credit-Impaired Total Expected Credit Loss Expected Credit Loss Beginning Balance (*1) ￦ 3,746,057 3,746,057 Reclassification to 12-month Expected Credit Loss Reclassification to Lifetime Expected Credit Loss Reclassification to Impaired Lifetime Expected Credit Loss Effect of Change in Scope of Consolidation 178,985 178,985 Acquisition of Financial Assets 2,827,858 2,827,858 Disposed Financial Assets (2,772,315) (2,772,315) Others (*2) (17,039) (17,039) Ending Balance ￦ 3,963,546 3,963,546 (*1) Reclassification and remeasurement effect of applying K-IFRS No. 1109 (*2) Include changes due to financing conversion, foreign exchange rate, etc. 11. Held-to-maturity Financial Assets (a) Held-to-maturity Financial Assets Held-to-maturity financial assets as of December 31, 2017 is as follows: (In millions of won) 2017 Classification Book Value Acquisition Cost Amortized Cost (Book Value) Government Bonds ￦ 4,846,589 4,962,011 4,969,270 Financial Bonds 410,000 413,461 411,955 Corporate Bonds 410,000 442,294 419,076 Foreign Currency Bonds 311,113 326,357 310,703 Others 1,814,507 1,830,678 1,840,185 Total ￦ 7,792,209 7,974,801 7,951,189 148 (b) Transferred held-to-maturity financial assets that are not derecognized in their entirety Transferred held-to-maturity financial assets that are not derecognized in their entirety as of December 31, 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) December 31, 2017 Held-to-maturity Related Financial Assets Liabilities Classification Book Value Fair Value Book Value Fair Value Net Position Securities Sold Under Repurchase Agreement(*) ￦ 921,398 912,245 815,553 815,497 96,748 (*) The Group transfers a contractual right which allows to take cash from transferred held-to-maturity bonds, but makes the agreement to repurchase the transferred assets with a pre-determined price after sale or the amount of selling price plus fixed return. 12. Securities at Amortized Cost (a) Securities at Amortized Cost Securities at amortized cost as of December 31, 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) December 31, 2018 Classification Face Value Acquisition Cost Amortized Cost (Book Value) Government Bonds ￦ 4,838,410 4,925,703 4,932,173 Financial Bonds 590,000 593,632 591,829 Corporate Bonds 1,860,620 1,885,223 1,881,054 Foreign Currency Bonds 439,997 456,197 441,378 Allowance for Doubtful Account (328) Total ￦ 7,729,027 7,860,755 7,846,106 (b) Transferred Securities at Amortized Cost that are not derecognized in their entirety Transferred securities at amortized cost that are not derecognized in their entirety as of December 31, 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) December 31, 2018 Securities at Related Amortized Cost Liabilities Classification Book Value Fair Value Allowance Book Value Fair Value Net Position Securities Sold Under Repurchase Agreement(*) ￦ 929,648 931,131 (127) 759,473 759,552 171,579 Loaned Securities ￦ 97,946 99,112 (5) 99,112 (*) The Group transfers a contractual right which allows to take cash from transferred securities at amortized cost, but makes the agreement to repurchase the transferred assets with a preselected price after sale or the amount of selling price plus fixed return. (c) Profit (loss) from Disposal of Securities at Amortized Cost for the reporting period are as follows: (In millions of won) Classification Face Value Book Value Loss on Disposal Corporate bonds, etc. ￦ 27,024 27,028 4 During 2018, the consolidated group disposed of the securities at amortized costs by exercising the debt securities issuer’s right of recourse. 149 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (d) Changes in total book value of securities at amortized cost as of and for the year ended December 31, 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) Collective evaluation Classification 12-month Lifetime Credit-Impaired Total Expected Credit Loss Expected Credit Loss Beginning Balance (*1) ￦ 7,623,361 7,623,361 Reclassification to 12-month Expected Credit Loss 9,807 9,807 Reclassification to Lifetime Expected Credit Loss Reclassification to Impaired Lifetime Expected Credit Loss Acquisition of Financial Assets 1,168,347 1,168,347 Disposed Financial Assets (931,650) (931,650) Others (*2) (23,431) (23,431) Ending Balance ￦ 7,846,434 7,846,434 (*1) The beginning balance for 2018 was restated in accordance with K-IFRS No.1109. (*2) Include changes due to financing conversion, foreign exchange rate, etc. 13. Collateralized Securities Investment securities pledged to various institutions as of December 31, 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) December 31, 2018 Face Value Book Collateralized Assets Reasons (Collateralized Value) Value Guarantees At Fair Value through Bank of Korea Borrowings ￦ 50,000 50,408 Korea Securities Depository Other Comprehensive Margin Call 160,000 157,348 Korea Securities Depository Income Repurchase Agreements Transactions 55,501 55,501 Korea Securities Depository, etc. Securities Lending 12,411 12,411 Korea Securities Finance Subtotal 277,912 275,668 At Amortization Collateral on Bank of Korea Payments 270,000 271,387 The Bank of Korea, Korea Securities Depository Collateral on Bank of Korea Borrowings 398,000 397,727 The Bank of Korea, Korea Securities Depository Bank of Korea Dalylight Overdraft 220,000 219,828 The Bank of Korea, Korea Securities Depository Borrowings in Foreign Currencies 50,000 51,538 Sumitomo Mitsui Bank, Seoul Brunch Derivatives Transactions 24,050 23,486 NH Futures, Samsung Futures Inc. Bonds Sold under Repurchase Agreements 929,880 929,648 The Bank of Korea, Korea Securities Depository Others 435 439 Korea Securities Depository Derivatives Transactions 1,391 1,330 KB Bank Derivatives Transactions 3,700 3,699 KDB Bank Derivatives Transactions 2,100 2,100 Shinhan Bank Subtotal 1,899,556 1,901,182 At Fair Value through ETF Lending Transactions and Derivative Transactions Margin 44,661 100,563 Korea Securities Depository Profit or Loss Debts Lending Transactions and Derivative 3,398,967 3,536,299 Korea Securities Depository, etc. Transactions Margin Subtotal 3,443,628 3,636,862 Total ￦ 5,621,096 5,813,712 150 14. Investments in Associates (a) Ownership Ownership on associates as of and for the year ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 Associates(*1) Relation Number of Ownership Acquisition Net Asset Book Shares Owned Cost Value Value DGB Luxury Index Securities Investment Trust Associate 5,000,000,000 30.08% ￦ 5,000 4,221 4,221 Daegu FC(*2)(*3) Associate 300,000 9.20% 516 470 470 Korea Omega Project No.2 Association Associate 10 20.00% 1,000 993 993 KoFC-Partners Pioneer Champ 2011-1st Investment Fund Associate 36 21.21% 2,800 10,188 2,161 HI GOLD OCEAN KMARIN NO.8 SHIP INVESTMENT COMPANY Associate 7,133,667 47.86% 15,431 32,560 7,792 Hi ROKI1 Global Robo-Advisor Securities Investment Trust H Associate 2,042,970,380 39.65% 2,100 5,083 1,840 Hi Global Dynamic Property Distribution Investment Trust Associate 5,006,647,974 31.96% 5,000 15,380 4,581 Hi Japan High-Dividends Focus Securities Investment Trust Associate 2,884,653,839 48.87% 2,900 5,773 3,089 Hi Korea Reunification Renaissance Investment Trust Associate 2,441,198,767 37.61% 2,400 5,970 2,031 Tribridge Capital Management Associate 958,000 23.93% 6,930 (In millions of won) 2017 Associates(*2) Relation Number of Ownership Acquisition Net Asset Book Shares Owned Cost Value Value Daegu FC(*2)(*3) Associate 300,000 9.20% ￦ 516 278 278 DGB Index Plus Securities Feeder No.1 Associate 75,300,000 33.42% 10,000 10,078 10,078 (*1) Consus Nara Sarang BTL 1, which is not included in an associate, had a 29.9% ownership interest, but was not classified as an associate because the arrangement does not bind the Investment Advisory Committee, which provides advice on the determination of investment trusts and the sale, recovery and disposal of future investments. (*2) Associate’s acquisition cost and book value are the carrying amount under previous K-GAAP on the date of transition to K-IFRS. (*3) Interests in Daegu FC is less than 20%, but it was classified as an associate as the Group can exercise significant influence over Daegu FC through sharing of management. (b) Valuation about Investments in Associates Changes in assets of investments in associates as of and for the year ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 Associates Beginning Changes Due Acquisition Disposal Equity Gains or Ending Balance to Business Method Losses Balance Combination Dividend on Equity Method DGB Luxury Index Securities Investment Trust ￦ 10,078 (10,000) (78) DGB KRX 300 Index 10,000 (5,000) (779) 4,221 Daegu FC(*2)(*3) 278 192 470 Korea Omega Project No.2 Association 1,000 (7) 993 KoFC-Partners Pioneer Champ 2011-1st Investment Fund 2,210 (49) 2,161 HI GOLD OCEAN KMARIN NO.8 SHIP INVESTMENT COMPANY 8,097 (106) (199) 7,792 Hi ROKI1 Global Robo-Advisor Securities Investment Trust H 1,830 10 1,840 Hi Global Dynamic Property Distribution Investment Trust 4,566 15 4,581 Hi Japan High-Dividends Focus Securities Investment Trust 3,076 13 3,089 Hi Korea Reunification Renaissance Investment Trust 2,020 11 2,031 Tribridge Capital Management Total ￦ 10,356 21,799 11,000 (15,000) (106) (871) 27,178 151 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (In millions of won) 2017 Associates Beginning Acquisition Disposal Gains or Losses Ending Balance Balance on Equity Method DGB Index Plus Securities Feeder No.1 ￦ 403 (125) 278 Daegu FC(*2)(*3) 70,000 (60,000) 78 10,078 Total ￦ 403 70,000 (60,000) (47) 10,356 (c) Summarized Financial Information Summarized financial information of associates as of the year ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Classification Assets Liabilities Gross Net Assets Liabilities Gross Net revenue loss revenue loss DGB Index Plus Securities Feeder No.1 ￦ 30,181 25 2,477 2,423 DGB KRX300 Index Securities Investment Trust 14,515 483 1,183 (2,883) Daegu FC 7,351 2,245 8,066 2,079 5,287 2,260 3,726 (1,197) Korea Omega Project No.2 Association 4,980 16 (36) KoFC-Partners Pioneer Champ #2011-1 Investment Association 10,393 205 601 (233) HI GOLD OCEAN KMARIN NO.8 SHIP INVESTMENT COMPANY 38,397 5,838 220 (1,491) Hi ROKI1 Global Robo-Advisor Securities Investment Trust H 5,083 17 24 Hi Global Dynamic Asset Allocation Securities Investment Trust 15,487 107 318 47 Hi Japan High-Dividends Focus Securities Investment Trust 5,773 244 28 Hi Korea Unity Renaissance Securities Investment Trust 5,971 278 30 Tribridge Capital Management (d) Standard Date of Financial Statement Standard date of financial statements used to evaluate the investments’ shares of subsidiaries and associates as of December 31, 2018 are as follows: Corporation Settlement Month Standard date of evaluation DGB Luxury Index Securities Investment Trust February 2018-12-31 Daegu FC December 2018-09-30 Korea Omega Project No.2 Association December 2018-12-31 KoFC-Partners Pionner Champ #2011-1 Investment Association December 2018-12-31 HI GOLD OCEAN KMARIN NO.8 SHIP INVESTMENT COMPANY December 2018-12-31 Hi ROKI1 Global Robo-Advisor Securities Investment Trust H December 2018-12-31 Hi Global Dynamic Asset Allocation Securities Investment Trust December 2018-12-31 Hi Japan High-Dividends Focus Securities Investment Trust December 2018-12-31 Hi Korea Unity Renaissance Securities Investment Trust December 2018-12-31 152 15. Loans at Amortized Cost (a) Loans at Amortized Cost Balance Loans at amortized cost as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) Classification December 31, December 31, 2018 2017 Loans at Amortized Costs Loans in Won Loans to Enterprises ￦ 25,824,490 25,174,243 Loans to Households 11,187,847 10,540,175 Loans to Public Sectors and Others 554,689 561,627 Subtotal 37,567,026 36,276,045 Loans in Foreign Currencies Loans to Enterprises 523,238 547,631 Loans to Households 152,533 Subtotal 675,771 547,631 Loans to Other Banks 252,972 345,313 Financial Lease Bonds 716,036 703,642 Others Bill Bought 14,968 12,848 Bill Bought in Foreign Currencies 132,632 151,051 Payments on Guarantees 63,776 1,502 Credit Card Accounts 419,345 396,976 Bonds Purchased under Re-Sale Agreements 90,200 478,000 Call Loans 214,977 142,561 Privately Placed Debentures 121,533 169,116 Privately Placed Public Loan 317,270 250,275 Other Bonds 529,820 90,524 Subtotal 1,904,521 1,692,853 Loans Subtotal 41,116,326 39,565,484 Allowance For Loan Losses (338,825) (270,955) Present Value Discount(-) (101) (1,431) Present Value Discount(+) 132 337 Deferred Loan Origination Fees(-) (6,114) (6,841) Deferred Loan Origination Fees(+) 55,533 49,114 Total ￦ 40,826,951 39,335,708 (b) Loans in Won Loans in won as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) Classification December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Loans to Enterprises Operation Loans ￦ 13,891,802 13,413,517 Facility Loans 11,932,688 11,760,726 Subtotal 25,824,490 25,174,243 Loans to Households Operation Loans 5,961,925 6,097,994 Housing Loans 5,225,922 4,442,181 Subtotal 11,187,847 10,540,175 Loans to Public Operation Loans 110,499 117,163 Sectors and Others Housing Loans 444,190 444,464 Subtotal 554,689 561,627 Total ￦ 37,567,026 36,276,045 153 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (c) Loans in Foreign Currencies Loans in foreign currencies as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) Classification December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Loans to Enterprises Operation Loans ￦ 239,334 253,288 Facility Loans 47,413 46,883 Domestic Import Usance 236,491 247,460 Subtotal 523,238 547,631 Loans to Households 152,533 Total ￦ 675,771 547,631 (d) Deferred Subsidiary Expenses(Earnings) for Loan Changes in Deferred Subsidiary Earnings for Loan (In millions of won) Classification 2018 2017 Beginning ￦ 6,841 7,350 Increase 5,829 6,865 Decrease (6,556) (7,374) Ending ￦ 6,114 6,841 Changes in Deferred Subsidiary Expenses for Loan (In millions of won) Classification 2018 2017 Beginning ￦ 49,114 43,739 Increase 54,796 45,601 Decrease (48,377) (40,226) Ending ￦ 55,533 49,114 (e) Financing Lease The fair value of financing leases’ total investments and minimum lease payments as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are same (In millions of won) December 31, 2018 Total Investments in the Lease Classification Minimum Lease Unguaranteed Residual Unearned Interest Net Investment in the Payment Value Lease Within 1 year ￦ 294,052 25,076 268,976 Exceed 1 year and within 5years 456,281 23,088 433,193 Total ￦ 750,333 48,164 702,169 154 (In millions of won) December 31, 2017 Total Investments in the Lease Classification Minimum Lease Unguaranteed Residual Unearned Interest Net Investment in the Payment Value Lease Within 1 year ￦ 290,134 25,538 264,596 Exceed 1 year and Within 5 years 429,229 21,922 407,307 Exceed 5 years 13,800 2 13,798 Total ￦ 733,163 47,462 685,701 (f) Changes in book value of loans at amortized cost as of and for the year ended 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) Collective Assessment Individual Assessment Classification 12-month Lifetime CreditLifetime Impaired Total Expected Expected Impaired Expected Bonds Credit Loss Credit Loss Credit Loss Beginning Balance (*1) ￦ 36,979,581 2,180,915 115,738 236,484 39,512,718 Reclassification to 12-month Expected Credit Loss 542,502 (538,162) (4,340) Reclassification to Lifetime Expected Credit Loss (1,998,839) 2,025,236 (3,129) (23,268) (Collective Assessment) Reclassification to Impaired Lifetime Expected Credit Loss (71,451) (42,927) 114,378 (Collective Assessment) Reclassification to Lifetime Expected Credit Loss (19,333) (62,788) 83,177 (1,056) (Individual Assessment) Reclassification to Impaired Lifetime Expected Credit Loss (75,506) (62,092) (1,810) 139,408 (Individual Assessment) Changes Due to Business Combinations 732,992 732,992 Execution & Acquisition 13,401,390 1,134,382 13,757 5,501 24,728 14,579,758 Dispositions (*2) (12,801,107) (825,457) (80,332) (14,491) (13,721,387) Sale of Non-Performing Loans (95) (16,392) (135,468) (151,955) Others (*3) 162,558 1,642 164,200 Ending Balance ￦ 36,852,692 3,809,107 137,870 88,678 227,979 41,116,326 (*1) The beginning balance for 2018 was restated in accordance with K-IFRS No.1109. (*2) Loans reduction due to amortization and repayment (*3) Others are changes due to financing conversion, foreign exchange rate, etc. 155 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 16. Allowance (a) Changes in allowance for financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income as of and for the year ended December 31, 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) Collective Assessment Classification 12-month Expected Lifetime Credit-Impaired Total Credit Loss Expected Credit Loss Beginning Balance (*) ￦ 1,131 1,131 Reclassification to 12-month Expected Credit Loss Reclassification to Lifetime Expected Credit Loss Reclassification to Impaired Lifetime Expected Credit Loss Disposition (56) (56) Reversal of Allowance for Doubtful Account (246) (246) Execution & Acquisition 90 90 Ending Balance ￦ 919 919 (*) The beginning balance for 2018 was restated in accordance with K-IFRS No.1109. (b) Changes in allowance for securities at amortized cost as of and for the year ended December 31, 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) Collective Assessment Classification 12-month Expected Lifetime Credit-Impaired Total Credit Loss Expected Credit Loss Beginning Balance (*) ￦ 198 198 Reclassification to 12-month Expected Credit Loss Reclassification to Lifetime Expected Credit Loss Reclassification to Impaired Lifetime Expected Credit Loss Disposition (3) (3) Reversal of Allowance for Doubtful Account 22 22 Execution & Acquisition 111 111 Ending Balance ￦ 328 328 (*) The beginning balance for 2018 was restated in accordance with K-IFRS No.1109. 156 (c) Changes in allowance for loans at amortized cost and other financial assets as of and for the year ended December 31, 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) Collective Assessment Individual Assessment 12-month Lifetime CreditLifetime CreditTotal Expected Expected Impaired Expected Impaired Credit Loss Credit Loss Credit Loss Loans at Amortized Cost Beginning Balance (*) ￦ 121,421 51,569 42,572 75,363 290,925 Reclassification to 12-month Expected Credit Loss 9,531 (8,955) (576) Reclassification to Lifetime Expected Credit Loss (15,044) 21,291 (1,211) (5,036) (Collective assessment) Reclassification to Impaired Lifetime Expected Credit Loss (5,189) (6,146) 11,393 (58) (Collective assessment) Reclassification to Lifetime Expected Credit Loss (117) (2,140) 3,313 (1,056) (Individual assessment) Reclassification to Impaired Lifetime Expected Credit Loss (2,332) (5,622) (1,136) 9,090 (Individual assessment) Changes Due to Business Combinations 7,285 7,285 Provision for Losses (42,551) (5,986) 67,393 17,969 81,177 118,002 Execution & Acquisition 38,702 15,425 5,571 2,657 9,793 72,148 Bad Debt Expenses (2,883) (1,240) (82,866) (58,142) (145,131) Collection of Loans Written-off 39,238 384 39,622 Disposal of Loans (2,668) (19,656) (22,324) Effect of Exchange Rate, etc. 1,425 242 1,667 Gain on Interest of Impaired Debts (23,348) (21) (23,369) Ending Balance ￦ 110,248 58,196 54,604 23,939 91,838 338,825 Other Financial Assets at Amortized Costs Beginning Balance (*) ￦ 11,192 455 680 490 12,817 Reclassification to 12-month Expected Credit Loss 28 (27) (1) Reclassification to Lifetime Expected Credit Loss (Collective (55) 65 (7) (3) assessment) Reclassification to Impaired Lifetime Expected Credit Loss (38) (62) 113 (13) (Collective assessment) Reclassification to Lifetime Expected Credit Loss (Individual (8) 8 assessment) Reclassification to Impaired Lifetime Expected Credit Loss (4) (8) (43) 55 (Individual assessment) Changes due to Business Combination 2,974 2,974 Provision for Losses (1,182) (163) 101 61 35 (1,148) Execution & Acquisition 178 114 52 27 46 417 Effect of Exchange Rate, etc. 276 276 Ending Balance ￦ 13,369 366 895 96 610 15,336 (*) The beginning balance for 2018 was restated in accordance with K-IFRS No.1109. 157 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (d) Changes in allowance for loan and other financial assets as of and for the year ended December 31, 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) Classification December 31, 2017 Beginning Balance ￦ 281,758 Provision for Losses 181,986 Collection of Loans Written-off 35,012 Disposal of Loans (7,464) Write-offs (187,199) Unwinding Effect (19,611) Effect of Exchange Rate (419) Others (184) Ending Balance ￦ 283,879 (*) The beginning balance for 2018 was restated in accordance with K-IFRS No.1109. 17. Restructured Loans Restructured loans under workout plans or other similar restructuring programs as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) December 31, 2018 Classification The Number of Balance Before Allowance Balance After Companies Restructuring Restructuring Workout 4 ￦ 36,146 (13,872) 22,274 Restructuring, Industrial Rationalization 20 12,668 (1,366) 11,302 Total 24 ￦ 48,814 (15,238) 33,576 (In millions of won) December 31, 2017 Classification The Number of Balance Before Allowance Balance After Companies Restructuring Restructuring Workout 7 ￦ 54,591 (24,943) 29,648 Restructuring, Industrial Rationalization 23 14,546 (827) 13,719 Total 30 ￦ 69,137 (25,770) 43,367 158 18. Derivative Instruments (a) Notional amounts of unsettled derivative instruments Notional amounts of unsettled derivative instruments as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Classification Trading Hedging Total Trading Hedging Total Currency Related Forward ￦6,966,442 550,806 7,517,248 6,621,346 532,472 7,153,818 Swap 30,260 202,599 232,859 Short Future 105,971 105,971 Subtotal 7,102,673 753,405 7,856,078 6,621,346 532,472 7,153,818 Interest Rate Related Swap 11,181 11,181 336,420 336,420 Long Future 12,741 12,741 Short Future 2,444,570 2,444,570 Subtotal 2,457,311 11,181 2,468,492 336,420 336,420 Stock Related Long options 34,156 34,156 85,225 85,225 Short options 38,061 38,061 68,359 68,359 Swap 270,597 270,597 Future 201,904 201,904 Long option 42,457 42,457 Subtotal 587,175 587,175 153,584 153,584 Others Commodity Future 2,949 2,949 Other Derivatives 4,721 4,721 Subtotal 7,670 7,670 Total ￦10,154,829 764,586 10,919,415 6,774,930 868,892 7,643,822 (b) Valuation on Trading and Hedging Transactions Valuation on trading and hedging transactions as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) December 31, 2018 Valuation Gain (Loss) Fair Value (Trading) Fair Value (Hedging) (Profit for Hedging Loss) Classification Trading Profit or Loss OCI Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Currency Related Forward ￦3,692 2,580 36,774 35,144 9,934 4,253 Swap 597 1,179 305 753 4,363 2,461 Interest Related Swap 206 30 196 Future (1,493) Stock Related Option 163 220 213 Future 3,676 1 48,196 Swap (7,251) 3,248 17,836 Short Stock Index Option (7,003) 577 Others Commodity Future 28 90 8 Other Derivatives (899) 638 Day 1 Profit Adjustments (379) 68 184 Reserve for Credit Risk Adjustment (138) (1) (391) (9) Total ￦(8,801) 3,788 305 40,763 102,787 14,493 6,714 159 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ( In millions of won) December 31, 2017 Valuation Gain (Loss) Fair Value (Trading) Fair Value (Hedging) Classification (Profit for Hedging Loss) Trading Profit or Loss OCI Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Currency Related Forward ￦1,205 20,232 97,764 96,560 20,232 Interest Related Swap 1,202 163 1,108 Stock Related Option (507) 1,912 927 Reserve For Credit Risk Adjustment 900 (262) (17) (1) Total ￦1,598 21,434 99,414 97,470 20,395 1,107 (c) Gain (Loss) on Valuation of Hedged Assets Gain (loss) on valuation of hedged assets as of and for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) 2018 2017 Classification Gain on Loss on Gain on Loss on Valuation Valuation Valuation Valuation Available-for-sale Financial Assets (Net Gain/loss on Available-for-sale Financial Assets) ￦68 Available-for-sale Financial Assets (Net gain(loss) on Foreign Exchange) 307 15,203 Financial Assets at Fair Value through OCI 9 363 Held-to-maturity Financial Assets (Net gain(loss) on Foreign Exchange) 3 16,036 Debentures (Net Other Operating Profit/loss) 7,428 1,047 1,105 Securities at Amortized Cost 9,177 8,008 Total ￦16,614 9,418 310 32,412 (d) Hedge of Net Investment in Foreign Operations The Group applied hedge accounting on some of the investments in foreign operations, and profit/loss of foreign operations as a result of hedge as of and for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follow: ( In millions of won) Classification 2018 2017 Borrowings in Foreign Currency ￦3,979 Debentures in Foreign Currency (9,466) 4,814 Total ￦(9,466) 8,793 160 19. Property and Equipment (a) Net Book Value of Property and Equipment Net book value of property and equipment as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Classification Acquisition Accumulated Government Net book Acquisition Accumulated Net book cost depreciation Grants value cost depreciation value Land ￦260,262 260,262 170,303 170,303 Buildings 466,877 (84,665) 382,212 270,572 (74,977) 195,595 Leasehold Improvement 65,236 (52,461) 12,775 52,985 (42,761) 10,224 Furniture, Equipment and Vehicles 275,053 (188,194) (259) 86,600 195,800 (148,986) 46,814 Construction-in-Progress 63 63 52,545 52,545 Total ￦1,067,491 (325,320) (259) 741,912 742,205 (266,724) 475,481 (b) Changes in property and equipment as of and for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) 2018 Classification Beginning Change Due Acquisition Real Estate Disposal Depreciation Account Profit/Loss Provision for Ending Balance to Business Investment Transfer on Oversea Restoration Balance Combination Business Costs Land ￦170,303 6,646 66,665 20,401 (3,753) 260,262 Buildings 195,595 1,912 19,686 1,584 (941) (8,028) 172,404 382,212 Leasehold Improve10,224 1,069 4,948 (404) (3,994) 29 903 12,775 ment Furniture, Equip46,814 11,937 43,498 (827) (17,705) 2,852 31 86,600 ment and Vehicles Construction-in Progress (*) 52,545 122,774 (175,256) 63 Total ￦475,481 21,564 257,571 21,985 (5,925) (29,727) 60 903 741,912 (*) The amount of construction in progress includes the interest payment amounting to 2,344 million won resulting from capitalized borrowing costs. ( In millions of won) 2017 Classification Beginning Acquisition Disposal Depreciation Real Estate Account Profit/Loss Provision for Ending Balance Investment Transfer on Oversea Restoration Balance Business Costs Land ￦170,026 8,137 (8,659) 799 170,303 Buildings 201,667 6,537 (5,738) (6,855) (16) 195,595 Leasehold Improvement 8,617 4,418 (54) (3,392) (9) 644 10,224 Furniture, Equipment and Vehi41,990 18,250 (38) (13,334) (54) 46,814 cles Construction-in Progress 6,687 46,533 (675) 52,545 Total ￦428,987 83,875 (14,489) (23,581) 783 (675) (63) 644 475,481 161 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (c) Operating Lease Payment Due to non-refundable operating lease contracts, acquisition, minimum future lease payment, and total amount as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Classification Operating Lease Operating Lease Operating Lease Operating Lease Revenues Expenses Revenues Expenses Within 1 year ￦493 15,404 445 6,491 Exceed 1 year and within 5 years 185 23,836 120 6,964 Exceed 5 years 501 375 Total ￦678 39,741 565 13,830 In case of rental property, as it is included in operating lease, future expected rental income and expenses are considered as operating lease payments 20. Intangible Assets Changes in intangible assets as of and for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) 2018 Classification Beginning Business Additions Disposal Amortization Impairment Profit or Loss Ending Balance Combinations Loss on Oversea Balance Business Goodwill ￦21,690 29,091 1,267 52,048 Software 44,321 1,332 17,213 (21,393) 16 41,489 Contributed Acceptance Assets 9,659 (925) 8,734 Membership 7,121 6,230 2,936 (434) (13) 30 15,870 Customer-Related Intangible Assets 2,596 (86) 2,510 Brand 5,738 5,738 Others(*) 65,163 15,597 10,265 (2,313) (15,348) 73,364 Total ￦147,954 60,584 30,414 (2,747) (37,752) (13) 1,313 199,753 (*) Others consist of usable and profitable donation assets of ￦57,387 million. ( In millions of won) 2017 Classification Beginning Acquisition Disposal Amortization Asset Impairment Profit or Loss Ending Balance Transfer (*1) Loss on oversea Balance business Goodwill ￦21,690 21,690 Software 41,888 20,953 (19,162) 675 (33) 44,321 Contributed Acceptance Assets 10,693 (1,034) 9,659 Membership 7,910 200 (888) (34) (67) 7,121 Others(*2) 50,916 27,880 (13,633) 65,163 Total ￦133,097 49,033 (888) (33,829) 675 (34) (100) 147,954 (*1) Software of ￦675 million was transferred from construction-in-progress. (*2) Others consist of usable and profitable donation assets of ￦64,615 million. 162 21. Investment Property (a) Changes in Investment Property Changes in investment property as of and for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) 2018 Beginning Change Due Acquisitions Disposal Replacement Depreciation Ending Balance to Business to Tangible Balance Classification Combination Property Land ￦56,283 1,311 127,770 (1,453) (20,401) 163,510 Buildings 37,308 419 18,561 (1,031) (1,584) (2,325) 51,348 Total ￦93,591 1,730 146,331 (2,484) (21,985) (2,325) 214,858 ( In millions of won) 2017 Beginning Disposal Replacement from Depreciation Ending Classification Balance Tangible Property Balance Land ￦58,816 (1,734) (799) 56,283 Buildings 40,799 (1,629) 16 (1,878) 37,308 Total ￦99,615 (3,363) (783) (1,878) 93,591 (b) Book Value and Fair Value of Invesetment Property by Category Book value and fair value of investment property as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: i. As of December 31, 2018 ( In millions of won) 2018 Classification Book Value Fair Value Difference Land ￦163,510 182,481 18,971 Buildings 51,348 61,996 10,648 Total ￦214,858 244,477 29,619 ii. As of December 31, 2017 ( In millions of won) 2017 Classification Book Value Fair Value Difference Land ￦56,283 78,288 22,005 Buildings 37,308 40,810 3,502 Total ￦93,591 119,098 25,507 The fair value of investment property is determined by factoring in the price of similar real estate transactions by independent real estate appraisal experts. 163 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (c) Rental Income and Expenses of Investment Property Rental income and expenses of investment property as of and for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) 2018 2017 Classification Incomes Expenses Incomes Expenses Property With Rental Income ￦9,976 1,609 2,662 843 Property Without Rental Income 247 197 Total ￦9,976 1,856 2,662 1,040 22. Other Assets (a) Other assets as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) Classification 2018 2017 Other Financial Assets Receivable ￦933,618 ￦282,142 Accrued Income 397,594 335,300 Deposits 175,309 148,889 Non-collectable Domestic Bonds 135,417 155,014 Reinsurance Assets 11,709 10,536 Others 29,899 35,859 Allowance For Doubtful Account (15,336) (12,923) Present Value Discount (2,558) (1,826) Subtotal 1,665,652 952,991 Other Non-Financial Assets Pre-Payments ￦98,777 ￦35,584 Prepaid Expenses 9,903 11,986 Deferred Acquisition Costs 96,355 81,621 Separate Account Assets 132,173 108,855 Others 12,435 20,905 Subtotal 349,643 258,951 Total ￦2,015,295 ￦1,211,942 164 (b) Change in book value of other financial assets as of and for the year ended December 31, 2018 are as follows: ( In millions of won) Collective Assessment Individual Assessment Classification 12-month Lifetime CreditLifetime Impaired Total Expected Expected Impaired Expected Bonds Credit Loss Credit Loss Credit Loss Beginning Balance (*1) ￦957,290 6,480 1,992 1,898 967,660 Change in Business Combination 825,208 825,208 Reclassification to 12-month Expected Credit Loss 1,268 (1,260) (8) Reclassification to Lifetime Expected Credit Loss (4,350) 4,409 (19) (40) (Collective Assessment) Reclassification to Impaired Lifetime Expected Credit Loss (259) (254) 520 6 (13) (Collective Assessment) Reclassification to Lifetime Expected Credit Loss (55) (202) 257 (Individual Assessment) Reclassification to Impaired Lifetime Expected Credit Loss (178) (165) (101) 444 (Individual Assessment) Execution & Acquisition (115,118) (348) (30) 68 (288) (115,716) Others (*2) 6,794 (6) (394) 6,394 Ending Balance ￦1,670,600 8,660 2,354 325 1,607 1,683,546 (*1) The beginning balance for 2018 was restated in accordance with K-IFRS No.1109. (*2) Include changes due to financing conversion, foreign exchange rate, etc. 23. Depository Liabilities (a) Depository Liabilities Depository Liabilities as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Classification Book Value Book Value Demand Deposits ￦15,313,216 15,420,216 Time Deposits 22,235,907 21,764,956 Certificate of Deposits 693,808 654,578 Guarantee Deposits in Fiduciary Loans 4,957 Withholdings 481,569 Total ￦38,729,457 37,839,750 165 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (b) Demand Deposits Demand deposits as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) Classification December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Deposits in Won Checking Accounts ￦1,374,662 1,356,031 Saving Accounts 8,055,855 8,137,356 Corporate Free Saving Account 4,397,157 4,114,896 Others 1,074,023 1,138,436 Subtotal ￦14,901,697 14,746,719 Deposits in Foreign Currencies Checking Accounts 387,311 487,166 MMDA Accounts 23,453 184,499 Others 755 1,832 Subtotal 411,519 673,497 Total ￦15,313,216 15,420,216 (c) Time Deposits Time deposits as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) Classification December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Deposits in Won Time Deposits ￦20,252,087 19,866,989 Installment Savings Deposits 980,206 1,034,590 Long-Term Housing Saving 91,945 103,584 Mutual Installment Deposits 413,204 359,555 Others 283,262 289,461 Subtotal ￦22,020,704 21,654,179 Deposits in Foreign Time Deposits 208,493 109,359 Notice Deposits 6,710 1,418 Subtotal 215,203 110,777 Total ￦22,235,907 21,764,956 166 24. Borrowings and Debentures (a) Borrowings and Debentures Borrowings and debentures as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Classification Average Book Average Book Interest Rate Value Interest Rate Value (%) (%) Borrowings Borrowings in Won The Bank of Korea 0.7 ￦451,037 0.71 ￦495,794 Others 1.95 1,857,161 1.64 1,362,459 Subtotal 2,308,198 1,858,253 Borrowings in Foreign CurBorrowings From Banks 1.97 706,586 1.22 586,310 rencies Bonds Sold under Repurchase Non-Bank 2.21 3,286,587 1.6 815,553 Agreements Call Money Borrowings in Won 1.69 120,000 1.21 50,000 Borrowings in Foreign Cur2.13 14,662 1.02 74,998 rencies Subtotal 134,662 124,998 Others Bills Sold 1.39 6,387 1.27 9,256 Less Discounts on Borrowings (61) in Foreign Currencies Total ￦6,442,359 ￦3,394,370 Debentures Debentures in Won 2.65 4,976,184 2.49 4,040,572 Debentures in Foreign Cur3.75 335,430 2.25 319,823 rencies Less Discount on Debentures (7,774) (3,743) Total ￦5,303,840 ￦4,356,652 Borrowings and Deben￦11,746,199 ￦7,751,022 tures (b) Details of Debentures Debentures as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Classification Interest Rate (%) Amount Interest Rate (%) Amount Debentures in Won General Debentures 1.56 ~ 3.53 ￦4,081,184 1.37~3.53 ￦3,135,000 Subordinated Debentures 3.03 ~ 5.60 895,000 3.03~5.60 905,572 Discounted Bonds (4,844) (3,628) Subtotal 4,971,340 4,036,944 Debentures in Foreign CurGeneral Debentures 3.75 335,430 2.25 319,823 renc-ies Discounted Bonds (2,930) (115) Subtotal 332,500 319,708 Total ￦5,303,840 ￦4,356,652 167 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 25. Provisions (a) Changes in provisions as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) Classification December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Unused Commitment (*1) ￦22,630 12,880 Allowance (*2) Provision for financial guarantee 2,408 223 Non-financial guarantee contract 2,412 1,716 Allowance for Restoration (*3) 7,225 5,732 Other Allowance 14,400 8,639 Total ￦49,075 29,190 (*1) In the case that there is the commitment to provide the credit line, allowance for unused commitment is recognized because the additional withdrawing amount and time for unused commitment is not certain and the Group is exposed to credit loss risk. (*2) Allowance is accounted for as the estimated amount that requires the Group to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the terms of a guarantee obligation. (*3) Allowance for restoration is calculated as the present value of the restoration expense estimated and calculated at a discount rate as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 (b) Changes in unused commitment and provision for financial guarantee contract as of and for the year ended December 31, 2018 are as follows: ( In millions of won) Unused Commitment Financial Guarantee Contract Classification 12-Month Lifetime Credit12-Month Lifetime CreditTotal Expected Expected Impaired Expected Expected Impaired Credit Loss Credit Loss Credit Loss Credit Loss Beginning (*) ￦18,519 3,750 3,746 223 26,238 Reclassification to 12-month Expected 1,603 (1,603) Credit Loss Reclassification to Lifetime Expected (852) 1,466 (614) Credit Loss (Collective Assessment) Reclassification to Impaired Lifetime (32) (81) 113 Expected Credit Loss Reversal of Provision for Others (5,156) 4,682 (2,619) 356 (2,738) Changes in Foreign Exchange 16 17 Others (308) 1,829 1,521 Ending Balance ￦13,774 8,214 642 2,408 25,038 (*) The beginning balance for 2018 was restated in accordance with K-IFRS No.1109. 26. Defined Benefit Obligations (a) Major Assumptions of Actuarial Valuation Major assumptions of actuarial valuation as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: December 31, 2018 Classification DGB Financial Daegu Bank HI Investment & DGB Life Insurance DGB Capital Group Co., Ltd Futures Corporation Co., Ltd Co., Ltd Discount Rate (%) 1.95 3.41 2.85 2.68 2.85 Salary Increases Application of salary increase rates of each job group and age group based on experience statistics 168 December 31, 2018 Classification DGB Financial Daegu Bank DGB Life Insurance DGB Capital Group Co., Ltd Co., Ltd Co., Ltd Discount Rate (%) 2.42 3.72 2.93 3.35 Salary Increases Application of salary increase rates of each job group and age group based on experience statistics (b) The Profit and Loss of Defined Benefit Plans The gain and loss of defined benefit plans as of and for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) Classification 2018 2017 Current Service Cost ￦32,292 31,220 Interest Expense 7,959 6,643 New/Transfer 668 Interest Income on Plan Assets (6,757) (6,086) Total ￦34,162 31,777 (c) Retirement Benefit Obligation Retirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) Classification 2018 2017 Present Value of Retirement Benefit Obligations with Accumulated Fund ￦322,305 226,235 Fair Value on Plan Assets (287,244) (212,010) Net Liabilities for Benefit Obligation ￦35,061 14,225 (d) Changes in Present Value of Retirement Benefit Obligation Changes in present value of retirement benefit obligation as of and for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) Classification 2018 2017 Defined Benefit Obligations at Beginning of the Year ￦226,235 204,291 Current Service Cost 32,292 31,220 Interest Expense 7,959 6,643 New/Transfer 668 Re-measurement 37,723 1,766 Benefit Paid (19,244) (17,685) Changes Due to Business Combinations 36,672 Defined Benefit Obligations at End of the Year ￦322,305 226,235 169 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (e) Changes in Fair Value of Plan Assets Changes in fair value of plan assets as of and for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) Classification 2018 2017 Fair Value of Plan Assets at Beginning of the Year ￦212,010 195,518 Interest Income on Plan Assets 6,757 6,086 Re-measurement 933 (4,146) Contribution of Employer 50,565 22,119 Benefit Paid (16,145) (7,567) Changes Due to Business Combinations 33,124 Fair Value of Plan Assets at End of the Year ￦287,244 212,010 (f) Fair value of plan assets by category i. In accordance with the Group’s policy, it is preferred to invest in stable products rather than the products with high risk and high return. Accordingly, the Group is investing the plan assets in fixed interest rate products with guaranteed principal and in floating interest rate products with guaranteed interests. ii. Fair value of plan assets by category as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) Classification December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Due From Banks(*) ￦287,243 202,712 Debt Securities 9,297 Contribution to National Pension Plan 1 1 Total ￦287,244 212,010 (*) Due from banks comprise retirement pensions of Samsung Life Insurance, Kyongnam Bank, Busan Bank and Industrial Bank of Korea. These include principal guaranteed products. 27. Insurance Contract Liabilities Insurance Contract Liabilities as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) Classification December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Premium Reserve ￦5,383,693 5,108,513 Reserves For Unearned Premium 5,358 4,850 Minimum Guarantee Reserve 13,088 16,518 Reserve For Outstanding Claims 109,593 101,843 Reserve For Participating Policyholders' Dividends 5,038 4,616 Reserve For Policyholders' Profit Dividends 532 924 Loss Preservation Reserve For Participating Insurance 980 852 Policyholders’ Equity Adjustment 559 202 Others 30,541 36,990 Total ￦5,549,382 5,275,308 170 28. Other Liabilities Other liabilities as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) Classification December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Other Financial Liabilities Accounts Payable ￦1,024,909 374,991 Accrued Expenses 534,611 373,331 Domestic Exchange Settlement Credits 33,531 4,162 Prepaid Cards 6,009 6,741 Debit Cards 330 360 Guarantee Deposit For Securities Subscription 711 1,884 Liabilities Incurred By Agency Relationship 82,830 62,524 Deposit For Credit Control 362 1,500 Withholding Taxes 33,550 15,772 Deposits For Letter Of Guarantees and Other 214,321 220,143 Account For Agency Business 131,050 86,414 Financial Guarantee Contract 214 328 Insurance Claims Payable 12,097 11,692 Others 206,799 144,702 Subtotal 2,281,324 1,304,544 Other Non-Financial Liabilities Separate Account Liabilities 134,564 111,185 Unearned Revenue 37,108 27,033 Prepaid Insurance 16,314 15,802 Others 102,892 35,160 Subtotal 290,878 189,180 Discount Present Value (12,325) (11,980) Total ￦2,559,877 1,481,744 171 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 29. Assets and Liabilities Denominated in Foreign Currencies (a) Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In thousands of dollars, In millions of won) December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Classification Foreign Currency Translation Foreign Currency Translation (USD) into Won (USD) into Won Assets Cash in Foreign Currencies $64,000 ￦71,558 $62,446 ￦66,922 Due From Banks in Foreign Currencies 221,057 247,164 402,604 431,350 Financial Assets at Fair Value through Profit or Loss 48,131 53,815 Financial Assets at Fair Value through OCI 410,638 459,134 Available-for-sale financial assets 365,840 402,815 Securities at Amortized Costs 394,758 441,378 Held-to-maturity financial assets 276,848 317,462 Loans in Foreign Currencies 604,393 675,771 511,137 547,631 Loans to Other Banks in Foreign Currencies 98,440 110,066 209,927 224,916 Loans and Bills Bought in Foreign Currencies 118,622 132,632 140,985 151,051 Receivable Advances for Customers in Foreign Currencies 1,844 2,062 1,305 1,398 at AmorCredit Card Accounts in Foreign Currencies 2,971 3,321 2,877 3,082 tized Costs Call Loans in Foreign Currencies 174,382 194,977 133,061 142,561 Privately Placed Debentures in Foreign Currencies 39,725 44,417 31,648 33,908 Subtotal 1,040,377 1,163,246 1,030,940 1,104,547 Others Deposits in Foreign Currencies 372 416 122 130 Total $2,179,333 ￦2,436,711 $2,138,800 ￦2,323,226 Liabilities Deposits in Foreign Currencies $560,524 ￦626,722 $732,009 ￦784,275 Borrowings Borrowings in Foreign Currencies 631,898 706,525 547,237 586,310 Call Money in Foreign Currencies 13,113 14,662 70,000 74,998 Subtotal 645,011 721,187 617,237 661,308 Debentures Debentures in Foreign Currencies 300,000 335,430 298,509 319,823 Less Discount on Debentures (2,620) (2,930) (107) (115) Subtotal 297,380 332,500 298,402 319,708 Others Financial Guarantees in Foreign Currencies 98 109 161 172 Foreign Exchanges Payable 29,989 33,531 3,885 4,162 Import Deposit Money in Foreign Currencies 9,026 10,092 13,300 14,248 Accounts Payable in Foreign Currencies 833 931 684 732 Accrued Expenses in Foreign Currencies 10,079 11,270 3,380 3,621 Subtotal 50,025 55,933 21,410 22,935 Total $1,552,940 ￦1,736,342 $1,669,058 ￦1,788,226 (b) Gain and loss on foreign currency transactions Gain and loss of foreign currency transactions for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017are as follows: ( In millions of won) Classification 2018 2017 Gain on Foreign Currency Transactions ￦274,585 216,650 Loss on Foreign Currency Transactions (288,079) (207,330) Net Gain on Foreign Currency Transactions ￦(13,494) 9,320 172 30. Capital, Capital Stock, Capital Surplus, Capital Adjustment and Non-Controlling Interests (a) Controlling Interest as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) Classification December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Authorized Shares 500,000,000 shares 500,000,000 shares Number of Shares Issued 169,145,833 shares 169,145,833 shares Par Price 5,000 won 5,000 won Capital Stock ￦845,729 ￦845,729 Hybrid Bonds 149,401 Capital Surplus 1,560,909 1,560,891 Capital Adjustment (991) (991) (b) Details of Hybrid Bonds Hybrid bonds that are classified as an asset as of December 31, 2018 are as follows. Hybrid bonds that the consolidated group has an absolute right to avoid transfer of financial assets such as cash, etc. for payment obligation under contracts are classified as equity securities and shown as an asset on the statement. ( In millions of won) Classification Date of Issuance Maturity Interest Rate (%) December 31, 2018 DGB Financial Group Capital (New-Permanent-5 Call)(*) 2018-02-21 Perpetual Bonds 4.47 149,401 Dividends for Hybrid Bonds 5,774 (*) Hybrid bonds can be redeemed earlier after 5 years from the date of issuance by the consolidated group. (c) Non-Controlling Interests Hybrid bonds issued by the DGB are classified as non-controlling interests and hybrid bonds dividends are accounted for as profits attributable to non-controlling interests in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Non-controlling interests as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) Description Issuance Date Maturity Date Interest Rate (%) December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 DGB()34-05 120A-28 (*1) 2013-05-28 2043-05-28 4.53 ￦199,700 199,700 DGB()34-10 120A-25 (*1) 2013-10-25 2043-10-25 5.55 59,911 59,911 DGB()34-11 120A-01 (*1) 2013-11-01 2043-11-01 5.55 29,954 29,954 DGB()39-01 A-30 2018-01-30 Perpetual Bonds 4.49 99,668 DGB()39-07 A-12 2018-07-12 Perpetual Bonds 4.53 99,667 DGB()39-11 5CallA-6 2018-11-06 Perpetual Bonds 4.09 99,667 Subtotal 588,567 289,565 Others (*2) 130,161 1,025 Total ￦718,728 290,590 Hybrid Bonds Dividends 20,917 14,061 (*1) Hybrid bonds may be redeemed earlier after 10 years from the date of issuance and the Group may extend the maturity(30 years from the date of issuance) with the same conditions at maturity. The Group cannot pay dividends to common stock if it does not pay dividends to hybrid bond holders. (*2) Others are non-controlling interests in Hi Investment & Futures Corporation and DGB Capital Co., Ltd. 173 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 31. Retained Earnings (a) Retained earnings as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) Classification 2018 2017 Legal reserve (*1) ￦236,715 197,328 Discretionary appropriated reserve (*2) 1,235 1,181 Unappropriated retained earnings (*3) 1,630,725 1,356,321 ￦1,868,675 1,554,830 (*1) The Financial Holding Company Act requires a financial holding company to appropriate at least 10% of its net income after income taxes as legal reserve until such reserve equals 100% of its paid-in capital. This reserve is not available for payment of cash dividends; however, it can be used to reduce the Company’s deficit or be transferred to capital. (*2) The Company calculates and discloses its regulatory reserves for loan losses in the separate financial statements in accordance with Article 27-1 and 27-2 of the Supervisory Regulations on Financial Holding Companies. (*3) Unappropriated retained earnings includes reserve for trust of ￦9,618 million and ￦9,159 million as of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. (b) The statement of disposal of retained earnings as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) 2018 2017 (Expected date of appropriation: (Fixed date of appropriation: March 28, 2019) March 23, 2018) Unappropriated retained earnings ￦132,264 105,197 Unappropriated retained earnings carried forward 38,848 17,355 Effects of changes in accounting policies (58) Profit share of hybrid capital stock (5,774) Net income 99,248 87,842 Retained earnings disposal 70,846 66,349 Profit reserve 9,925 8,785 Reserve for bad debts 29 54 Dividend 60,892 57,510 Unappropriated retained earnings to be carried forward ￦61,418 38,848 (c) Regulatory reserves for loan losses In accordance with the Supervisory Regulations on Financial Holding Companies, the Group reserves the difference between allowance for credit losses by K-IFRS and the Supervisory Regulations on Financial Holding Companies in the account of regulatory reserves for loan losses. Regulatory reserves for loan losses as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are summarized as follows: ( In millions of won) Classification 2018 2017 Regulatory reserves for loan losses ￦296,042 303,991 Adjustment Effects of Changes in Accounting Policy (20,224) Estimated transfer to regulatory reserves for loan losses (11,385) (7,949) Regulatory reserves for loan losses at end of the year ￦264,433 296,042 Details of profits after adjusting for regulatory reserves for loan losses for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) Classification 2018 2017 Net profit attributable to controlling shareholders ￦383,535 302,208 Shared profit for hybrid Capital Securities (5,774) Estimated transfer to regulatory reserves for loan losses 11,385 7,949 Adjusted profit after regulatory reserves for loan losses 389,146 310,157 Earnings per share after adjusting regulatory reserves for loan losses (in won) ￦2,301 1,834 174 32. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 as follows: ( In millions of won) 2018 Classification Allowance for Net gain on Net gain on Net gain on Net investment Profit or loss Remeasurement of Changes in the Total doubtful debts securities at fair valuation of translation hedge adjustment defined benefit credit risk of a estimated value through cash flow of foreign accounting approach plan. financial liability at fair value comprehensive hedges operations for foreign at fair value through other income operations through profit comprehensive or loss income Beginning balance(*) ￦1,131 (26,559) (284) 3,013 (13,654) (54,776) (91,129) Net decrease due to valuation (213) (213) Net increase due to valuation of 42,784 6,529 49,313 financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income Classification due to equity secu1,839 1,839 rities as retained earnings at fair value through other comprehensive income Classification due to debt securi(1,206) (1,206) ties valuation net gains at fair value through other comprehensive income Net gain on the fair value hedge 31 31 accounting Classification as retained earnings of 30 30 changes in the credit risk of financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Net profit on valuation (450) (450) Contractor’s Equity Adjustment Dis(357) (357) tribution amount Net increase due to derivative val405 405 uation Net gain on Investment Hedge (9,466) (9,466) Accounting Net loss on translation of foreign 10,520 10,520 operations Remeasurements of employee (36,790) (36,790) benefits Effect of income taxes (9,424) (100) (2,586) 2,317 (1,446) 9,215 (8) (2,033) Replacement of Non-controlling 1 (122) (11) 268 (3) 134 Equity Net balance at end of period ￦919 6,986 305 7,639 (4,136) (9,021) (82,083) 19 (79,372) (*) Restated as of K-IFRS No. 1109. 175 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ( In millions of won) 2017 Classification Net gain on Net gain on Net gain on Remeasure-ment Total valuation of valuation of held to translation of of defined benefit available-for-sale maturity financial foreign plan financial assets assets operations Beginning balance ￦1,607 15,837 5,565 (50,394) (27,385) Net increase(decrease) due to valuation (12,249) (12,249) Changes due to reclassification 7,436 (7,436) Realized gain on disposition (13,189) (7,475) (20,664) Net loss on the fair value hedge account68 68 ing Effect of hedge of net investment 8,793 8,793 Gain on translation of foreign operations (12,825) (12,825) Remeasurements of employee benefits (5,790) (5,790) Fluctuation of policy reserve adjustment 4,299 4,299 Effect of income taxes 9,124 (1,232) 1,195 1,408 10,495 Net balance at end of period ￦(2,904) (306) 2,728 (54,776) (55,258) 33. Interest Income and Interest Expense (a) Interest income Interest income for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) Classification 2018 2017 Interest on due from banks ￦10,072 13,007 Financial assets held for trading 8,338 Interest on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 38,861 Interest on available-for-sale financial assets 71,889 Interest on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 66,323 Interest on held-to-maturity financial assets 205,005 Interest on securities at amortized cost 195,837 Interest on loans 1,522,741 Interest on loans at amortised cost 1,713,653 Others 4,569 2,873 Total ￦2,029,315 1,823,853 (b) Interest expense Interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) Classification 2018 2017 Interest on deposits ￦436,181 362,556 Interest on borrowings 74,562 49,983 Interest on debentures 128,312 111,957 Interest on borrowings from trust accounts 3,546 3,061 Others 4,080 4,947 Total ￦646,681 532,504 176 34. Fee and Commission Income / Commission Expense (a) Fee and commission income Fee and commission income for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) Classification 2018 2017 Commissions received ￦183,807 136,911 Guarantee fees 9,178 4,620 Commissions received related to trust accounts 14,696 12,485 Total ￦207,681 154,016 (b) Fee and commission expense Commission expenses for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) Classification 2018 2017 Commissions paid ￦32,593 26,578 Commissions on credit cards 37,381 46,759 Commissions paid related to trust accounts 7,087 269 Total ￦77,061 73,606 35. Insurance Income and Insurance Expenses (a) Insurance income Insurance income for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) Classification 2018 2017 Insurance revenue ￦955,112 800,236 Reinsurance revenue 40,242 38,056 Fees on reinsurance revenue 4,265 4,716 Separate account revenue 5 6 Total ￦999,624 843,014 (b) Insurance expenses Insurance expense for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) Classification 2018 2017 Insurance expense ￦123,146 90,457 Refunds expense 566,216 570,185 Policyholder dividends 498 454 Reinsurance premium 46,778 44,979 Deferred acquisition costs of new or renewal insurance contracts (60,839) (47,151) Expenses on acquisition costs of new or renewal insurance contracts 98,792 64,087 Contribution to insurance reserve 272,544 155,570 Separate account expense 5 5 Amortization expenses on deferred acquisition costs of new or renewal insurance 46,105 27,542 contracts Total ￦1,093,245 906,128 177 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 36. Net Gain (Loss) on Financial Instruments Held for Trading Net gain (loss) on financial instruments held for trading for the year ended December 31 2017 is as follows: ( In millions of won) Description 2017 Gain on securities held for trading Dividend income ￦359 Gain on disposal 14,937 Gain on valuation 2,255 Subtotal 17,551 Gain on derivatives instruments held for trading Gain on transaction 354,505 Gain on valuation 98,696 Reversal of reserve for credit risk adjustment 905 Subtotal 454,106 Gain on financial instruments held for trading ￦ 471,657 Loss on securities held for trading Commission expenses (acquisition expenses) 143 Loss on disposal 3,973 Loss on valuation 506 Subtotal 4,622 Loss on derivatives instruments held for trading Commission expenses (acquisition expenses) ￦ 248 Loss on transaction 377,901 Loss on valuation 98,581 Reserve for allowance of credit risk adjustment 5 Subtotal 476,735 Loss on financial instruments held for trading 481,357 Net gain (loss) on financial instruments held for trading ￦(9,700) Net gain (loss) on financial assets held for trading contains interest income, interest expense, dividend income, net income on valuation and net income on disposal of financial assets held for trading. 178 37. Net Gain on Financial Assets at Fair Value through Profit or Loss Net gain on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss for the years ended December 31, 2018 are as follows: ( In millions of won) Classification 2018 Gain on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Dividend income ￦608 Gain on disposal 67,258 Gain on valuation 46,431 Others 27,218 Subtotal 141,515 Gain on derivative instruments held for trading Gain on transaction 378,516 Gain on valuation 44,633 Subtotal ￦423,149 Adjustments for overlay approach (6,078) Gains on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 558,586 Loss on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Commission expenses (acquisition expenses) 47 Loss on disposal 46,341 Loss on valuation 39,016 Subtotal ￦85,404 Loss on derivative instruments held for trading Commission expenses (acquisition expense) 335 Loss on transaction 367,123 Loss on valuation 53,296 Reserve for credit value adjustment 138 Subtotal ￦420,892 Loss on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 506,296 Net gain on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss ￦52,290 Net gain on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss contains dividend income, net income on valuation and net income on disposal of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. 38. Net Gain (loss) on Financial Assets Designated at Fair Value through Profit or Loss (a) Net gain(loss) on financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss for the year ended December 31, 2018 is as follows: ( In millions of won) Classification 2018 Gain on valuation ￦16,235 Gain on disposal 15 Total profit on financial assets at designated at fair value through profit or loss 16,250 Loss on valuation 6,982 Loss of disposal 1,138 Total loss on financial assets at designated at fair value through profit or loss 8,120 Net gain(loss) on financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss ￦8,130 Net gain (loss) on financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss contains net income on valuation and net income on disposal of financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss. 179 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (b) Net gain (loss) on financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss for the year ended December 31, 2017 is as follows: (In millions of won) Classification 2017 Gain on valuation ￦95 Total profit on financial assets at designated at fair value through profit or loss 95 Loss on valuation 2,433 Total loss on financial assets at designated at fair value through profit or loss 2,433 Net gain(loss) on financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss ￦(2,338) Net gain (loss) on financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss contains dividend income, net income on valuation and net income on disposal of financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss. 39. Net Gain on Available-for-sale Financial Assets Net gain on available-for-sale financial assets for the years ended December 31, 2017 is as follows: (In millions of won) Classification 2017 Gain on available-for-sale financial assets Dividend income ￦19,837 Gain on disposal 38,032 Gain on valuation of fair value hedged items Subtotal 57,869 Loss on available-for-sale financial assets Loss on disposal 230 Loss on valuation of fair value hedged items 68 Subtotal 298 Net gain on available-for-sale financial assets ￦57,571 40. Net Gain on Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income Net gain on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income as of the year ended December 31, 2018 is as follows: (In millions of won) Classification 2018 Gain on disposal ￦7,154 Dividend income 3,180 Total gain on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 10,334 Loss on valuation of fair value hedged items 31 Loss on disposal 441 Total cost of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 472 Net gain on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income ￦9,862 41. Impairment Loss on Financial Assets Impairment losses on financial assets for the year ended December 31, 2017 is as follows: (In millions of won) Classification 2017 Impairment loss on available-for-sale financial assets ￦6,855 Impairment on loan losses 181,986 Total ￦188,841 180 42. Provision for Credit Losses Provision for credit losses for the year ended December 31, 2018 is as follows: (In millions of won) Classification 2018 Provision for credit losses Loans at amortized cost and other financial assets ￦190,150 Securities at amortized cost 133 Provision for financial guarantee 356 Provision for non-financial guarantee 635 Subtotal 191,274 Reversal of provision for credit losses Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 730 Securities at fair value through other comprehensive income 156 Provision for non-financial guarantee 230 Provision for unused commitment 3,095 Subtotal 4,211 Total ￦187,063 43. General and Administrative Expenses (a) General and administrative expenses General and administrative expense for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) Classification 2018 2017 Employee Short-term employee benefits ￦430,564 365,884 benefits Retirement benefit 34,133 31,862 Other long-term employee benefits 1,122 945 Termination benefit 57,653 25,297 Subtotal 523,472 423,988 Rent 26,510 22,250 Depreciation 30,625 24,693 Amortization 37,516 33,606 Tax and dues 28,447 24,395 Advertising expense 16,269 14,613 Physical training expense 1,461 1,540 Service expense 53,165 41,048 Others 99,504 90,726 Total ￦816,969 676,859 181 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (b) Equity linked special incentives The Group grants equity linked special incentives to executives and employees and measures compensation expenses at fair value. The maximum number of stocks to grant are determined at the time when the agreement is made, and cash compensation is awarded if the pre-determined conditions are met. The performance compensation shall be paid immediately in cash for 40 percent of the amount calculated according to the results of the performance evaluation. The remainder is converted to shares and is deferred and paid equally in three years in relation to the share prices at the base dates. 1) Key characteristics and range Short-term performance compensation Grant in 2016 Grant in 2017 Grant in 2018 Shares to be granted 90,716 shares 95,787 shares 127,110 shares Shares outstanding 30,239 shares 63,858 shares 127,110 shares Grant date 2016-03-25 2017-02-24 2018-02-23 Grant method Cash settlement Cash settlement Cash settlement + + + Difference settlement Difference settlement Difference settlement Exercise price per share in won Conditions Service conditions/ Service conditions/ Service conditions/ Performance conditions Performance conditions Performance conditions Payment method Cash settlement Cash settlement Cash settlement Vesting period 1 year 1 year 1 year Long-term performance compensation Initially granted 6th 7th 8th(*) 9th(*) 10th Shares to be granted 22,834 shares 15,772 shares 14,601 shares 22,512 shares 18,535 shares Shares outstanding 6,051 shares 0 shares 4,867 shares 10,631 shares 18,535 shares Shares extinguished 6,401 shares 10,514 shares 9,734 shares 11,881 shares 0 shares Grant date 2015-12-24 2016-12-27 2017-03-21 2017-12-26 2018-05-31 Grant method Cash settlement Cash settlement Cash settlement Cash settlement Cash settlement + + + + + Difference settlement Difference settlement Difference settlement Difference settlement Difference settlement Exercise price per share in won Conditions Service conditions/ Service conditions/ Service conditions/ Service conditions/ Service conditions/ Performance conPerformance conPerformance conPerformance conPerformance conditions ditions ditions ditions ditions Payment method Cash settlement Cash settlement Cash settlement Cash settlement Cash settlement Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 182 13th 16th 17th(*) 18th(*) 19th Shares to be granted 14,522 shares 23,658 shares 14,601 shares 51,540 shares 7,879 shares Shares outstanding 7,261 shares 7,886 shares 14,601 shares 47,196 shares 7,879 shares Shares extinguished 0 shares 0 shares 0 shares 4,344 shares 0 shares Grant date 2015-12-24 2016-12-27 2017-03-21 2017-12-26 2018-03-23 Grant method Cash settlement Cash settlement Cash settlement Cash settlement Cash settlement + + + + + Difference settlement Difference settlement Difference settlement Difference settlement Difference settlement Exercise price per share in won Conditions Service conditions/ Service conditions/ Service conditions/ Service conditions/ Service conditions/ Performance conPerformance conPerformance conPerformance conPerformance conditions ditions ditions ditions ditions Payment method Cash settlement Cash settlement Cash settlement Cash settlement Cash settlement Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years (*) Employees of DGB Financial Holding Co., Ltd. and Daegu Bank who hold additional position are paid according to the standard of calculating the payment rate by each company and are compensated by the ratio of their employees holding additional position. Fixed deferred payments To be exercised in 2019 To be exercised in 2020 To be exercised in 2021 Shares outstanding(*) 26,938 shares 10,321 shares 10,321 shares Grant method Cash settlement Cash settlement Cash settlement + + + Difference settlement Difference settlement Difference settlement Exercise price per share in won Payment method Cash settlement Cash settlement Cash settlement Vesting conditions satisfaction status Satisfied Satisfied Satisfied (*) Fixed deferred payment is the quantity given after meeting the vesting conditions as of the end of the current term, minus the payment amount. 2) Changes in share-based compensation (quantity) Short-term performance compensation Fixed deferred payments 2018 2017 At beginning of year 175,961 shares 157,971 shares Shares to be granted 127,110 shares 95,787 shares Shares exercised 81,864 shares 77,797 shares At end of the period 221,207 shares 175,961 shares Long-term performance compensation Initially granted 2018 2017 At beginning of year 165,387 shares 127,051 shares Shares to be granted 26,414 shares 103,254 shares Shares exercised 24,020 shares 64,918 shares Extinction of shares 42,874 shares 0 shares At end of the period 124,907 shares 165,387 shares 183 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The weighted average term to maturity of long-term performance compensation as of December 31, 2018 is 1.69 years. Deferred payments 2018 2017 At beginning of year 52,957 shares 25,374 shares Shares to be granted 14,037 shares 30,380 shares Shares exercised 19,414 shares 2,797 shares At end of the period 47,580 shares 52,957 shares 3) Major factors of measuring fair value of long-term performance share plan in the Black-Scholes option pricing model as of December 31, 2018 are as follows: (In won) Stock Exercise Expected Expected Risk free Fair Classification Option pricing model price price variance life rate value DGB 8th Black-Scholes option ￦ 8,310 23.92% 1.22 years 1.78% ￦ 8,015 Financial Holding pricing model 9th Black-Scholes option 8,310 24.38% 1.99 years 1.83% 7,835 pricing model 10th Black-Scholes option 8,310 23.73% 2.25 years 1.84% 7,775 pricing model Degu Bank 17th Black-Scholes option 8,310 23.92% 1.22 years 1.78% 8,015 pricing model 18th Black-Scholes option 8,310 24.38% 1.99 years 1.83% 7,835 pricing model 19th Black-Scholes option 8,310 23.83% 2.23 years 1.84% 7,780 pricing model To be exercise in 2019 Black-Scholes option 8,310 15.61% 0.25 years 1.75% 8,249 pricing model To be exercise in 2020 Black-Scholes option 8,310 23.76% 1.25 years 1.78% 8,008 pricing model To be exercise in 2021 Black-Scholes option 8,310 23.73% 2.25 years 1.84% 7,775 pricing model Fixed in 2016 Black-Scholes option 8,310 15.61% 0.25 years 1.75% 8,249 pricing model Fixed in 2017 Black-Scholes option 8,310 23.76% 1.25 years 1.78% 8,008 pricing model Fixed in 2018 Black-Scholes option 8,310 23.73% 2.25 years 1.84% 7,775 pricing model 4) Impact on management performance and financial position Expense of special incentive for the periods ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 2017 Short-term performance compensation expense ￦ 1,480 ￦ 2,379 Long-term performance compensation expense 86 441 184 Liability of special incentive for periods ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 2017 Short-term performance accrued expense ￦ 3,573 ￦ 3,371 Long-term performance accrued expense 792 906 44. Other Operating Loss, Net Other operating loss, net for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 2017 Other operating income Gain on sale of loans ￦ 16,384 13,992 Reversal of other provision 752 2,416 Earnings related to hedging derivatives 26,940 37,434 Others 16,087 20,773 Subtotal 60,163 74,615 Other operating loss Fees for credit guarantee fund 58,544 56,414 Deposit insurance premiums 52,433 51,773 Loss on sale of loans 28,340 23,862 Transfer of other provision 556 2,592 Loss on valuation of debentures 1,105 Costs related to hedging derivatives 35,090 6,441 Others 20,958 20,983 Subtotal 195,921 163,170 Other operating loss, net ￦ (135,758) (88,555) 185 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 45. Non-Operating Income, Net Non-operating income and expenses for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 2017 Non-operating income Gain on disposal of property and equipment ￦ 463 8,294 Gain on disposal of investment property 509 148 Gain on disposal of intangible assets 332 19 Rental income 9,540 3,364 Earnings related to equity method 818 4,988 Return of negative goodwill 161,344 Oters 8,072 2,541 Subtotal 181,078 19,354 Non-operating expenses Loss on disposal of property and equipment 2,121 1,134 Loss on disposal of investment propery 1,188 11 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 14 21 Loss related to equity method 4,414 46 Collecting expenses for written-off loans 172 161 Donations 14,815 6,301 Others 6,914 10,621 Subtotal 29,638 18,295 Non-operating income, net ￦ 151,440 1,059 46. Income Tax Expenses (a) Income tax expenses Income tax expenses for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 2017 Current income tax ￦ 74,002 103,386 Changes in temporary differences 9,157 (17,157) Income tax expenses directly recorded to equity (1,116) 7,802 Income tax expenses ￦ 82,043 94,031 (b) The reconciliation of effective tax rate The reconciliation of effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 2017 Profit before income tax expenses ￦ 488,069 410,303 Income tax calculated at the statutory tax rate 123,857 98,831 Adjustments: Non-taxable income (40,148) (29,205) Non-deductible expenses 2,313 4,707 Additional payment of income taxes for prior year (refund of income taxes) 4,111 1,778 Effect of a subsidiary 615 2,194 Others (8,705) 15,726 Income tax expenses ￦ 8,2043 94,031 Effective tax rate 16.81% 22.92% 186 The corporate tax rate applicable to the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are 10% of the corporate tax amount. Tax base 2018 2017 Up to ₩200 million 10% 10% More than ₩200 million ~ Up to ₩20 billion 20% 20% More than ₩20 billion ~ Up to ₩300 billion 22% 22% More than ₩300 billion(*) 25% (*) Asaresultoftherevisionofthetaxlawduringthecurrentyear,thecorporatetaxrateof25%isappliedtothetax base exceeding ₩300 billion over the fiscal year after January 1, 2018, and deferred income tax is adjusted to reflect this rate change at the end of the period. (c) Changes in deferred income tax assets (liabilities) Changes in deferred income tax assets (liabilities) for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: ( In millions of won) 2018 Temporary differences to be deducted from (added to) taxable income Deferred Beginning balance Increase Decrease Ending balancel income tax assets (liabilities) Temporary differences Accrued income ￦ (219,731) (289,412) (238,084) (271,059) (66,653) Present value discount on securities (23,167) (23,382) (23,167) (23,382) (5,750) Gain on valuation of securities (30,989) (7,311) (16,157) (22,143) (5,445) Loss on valuation of derivatives 372 59,092 21,035 38,429 9,450 Other provisions, etc. 23,843 64,748 44,134 44,457 10,932 Unused annual/ monthly leave 33,316 37,243 32,855 37,704 9,271 Dormant deposit 8,291 5,542 1,407 12,426 3,056 Unamortized deferred acquisition costs of new 24,238 (14,645) 38,883 9,561 or renewal insurance contracts Others 361,246 260,453 219,952 401,747 98,790 Total ￦ 177,419 106,973 27,330 257,062 63,212 ( In millions of won) 2017 Temporary differences to be deducted from (added to) taxable income Deferred Beginning balance Increase Decrease Ending balancel income tax assets (liabilities) Temporary differences Accrued income ￦ (220,847) (219,671) (220,787) (219,731) (53,438) Present value discount on securities (28,659) (23,167) (28,659) (23,167) (5,634) Gain on valuation of securities (51,295) 40,750 20,444 (30,989) (7,537) Loss on valuation of derivatives 8,310 372 8,310 372 90 Other provisions, etc. 24,163 23,738 24,058 23,843 5,799 Unused annual/ monthly leave 32,203 32,776 31,663 33,316 8,102 Dormant deposit 6,594 2,790 1,093 8,291 2,016 Unamortized deferred acquisition costs of new 54,307 30,069 24,238 5,895 or renewal insurance contracts Others 291,195 211,217 141,166 361,246 87,855 Total ￦ 115,971 68,805 7,357 177,419 43,148 187 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (d) Deferred income tax assets (liabilities) before offsetting Deferred income tax assets (liabilities) before offset as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 2017 Deferred tax assets ￦ 144,649 115,220 Deferred tax liabilities (79,405) (72,072) Deferred tax assets, net 65,244 43,148 Deferred tax liabilities, net (*) (2,032) (*) Deferred tax liabilities held by the group's overseas subsidiaries, DGB Specialized Bank and Hi Investment & Securities Co., are not offset by deferred tax assets because the taxation authorities are not the same. The Group sets off a deferred tax asset against a deferred tax liability of the same taxable entity if, and only if, they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the entity has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities. 47. Earnings per Share (a) Income tax expenses Income tax expenses for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In won, except share information) 2018 2017 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Group ￦ 383,535,407,978 302,207,988,217 Dividends to hybrid bond (5,773,750,000) Net profit available for common stock ￦ 377,761,657,978 302,207,988,217 Weighted average number of common shares 169,145,833 169,144,817 Basic and diluted earnings per share in won 2,233 1,787 (b) DWeighted average number of common shares outstanding Weighted average number of common shares outstanding as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In shares) 2018 Date Shares(*) Weight Weighted average numberof common shares outstanding Beginning common shares 2018.01.01 169,145,833 365/365 169,145,833 (*) 1 share of self-share acquired as of April 3, 2018 was excluded from the calculation as it had no effect on the number of common shares (In shares) 2017 Date Shares(*) Weight Weighted average numberof common shares outstanding Beginning common shares 2017.01.01 169,053,154 365/365 169,053,154 Paid-in capital increase 2017.01.05 92,679 361/365 91,663 Ending common shares 169,145,833 169,144,817 (b) Diluted earnings per share Diluted earnings per share are equal to the basic earnings per share because the Group has not issued dilutive securities. 188 48. Cash flow (a) Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents on statements of cash flows as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 2017 Cash and due from banks ￦ 2,601,499 2,254,811 Restricted cash and depositsk (1,610,430) (1,085,692) Due from banks with original maturities of more than three months. (168,017) (215,002) Cash and cash equivalents ￦ 823,052 954,117 (b) Significant Non-Cash Transactions Significant non-cash transactions for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 2017 Decrease in loans due to writing-off ￦ 171,941 187,199 Replacement of the main account of the asset 175,256 Substitution of advance payments related to investment in subsidiaries 10,000 Adjustment amount of profit or loss approach 6,078 (c) Changes of liabilities from financing activities Changes of debentures Changes of debentures from financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 Debentures Beginning balance ￦ 4,356,652 Issuance 2,484,271 Repayment (1,747,860) Amortization 2,454 Loss on valuation 1,597 Gain on foreign currency transactions 2,267 Hedges of net investment in foreign operations 9,466 Consolidated amount 194,993 Ending balance ￦ 5,303,840 (In millions of won) 2017 Debentures Beginning balance ￦ 4,107,517 Issuance 1,292,982 Repayment (1,005,780) Amortization 2,389 Loss on valuation 1,105 Gain on foreign currency transactions (36,317) Hedges of net investment in foreign operations Others (4,814) Others (430) Ending balance ￦ 4,356,652 189 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Changes of borrowings and other liabilities Changes of borrowings and other liabilities from financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 Beginning Increase Gain or loss Gain or loss on Others Consolidated Ending balance (decrease) Foreign translation of amount balance currency foreign transactions operations Borrowings ￦ 3,394,370 (621,861) 110,321 10,350 3,549,179 6,442,359 Borrowings from trust accounts 106,956 2,484 109,440 Borrowings from fund accounts 244 169 413 Foreign exchange settlement credit 4,162 24,281 5,088 33,531 Deposits for letter of guarantees 220,143 (216) 1,275 (6,941) 60 214,321 Domestic exchange settlement credit 95 95,590 95,685 Total ￦ 3,725,970 (499,553) 116,684 10,350 (6,941) 3,549,239 6,895,749 (In millions of won) 2017 Beginning Increase Gain or loss Gain or loss on Hedges of net Ending balance balance (decrease) Foreign translation of investment in currency foreign foreign transactions operations operation Borrowings ￦ 3,174,782 295,728 (43,470) (28,691) (3,979) 3,394,370 Borrowings from trust accounts 82,670 24,286 106,956 Borrowings from fund accounts 166 78 244 Foreign exchange settlement credit 10,750 (6,103) (458) (27) 4,162 Deposits for letter of guarantees 199,358 22,123 (1,338) 220,143 Domestic exchange settlement credit 23 72 95 Total ￦ 3,467,749 336,184 (45,266) (28,718) (3,979) 3,725,970 49. Commitments and Contingencies (a) Pending litigation As of December 31, 2018, there are 61 pending lawsuits brought to court by the Group, as a plaintiff, amounting to ￦15,215 million and 31 pending lawsuits against the Group amounting to ￦21,911 million. The major lawsuit case is as follows: (In millions of won) Defendant Plaintiff Legal details Legal Value Remarks Korea Land and Housing CorDaegu Bank et al 9 Checking the existence of debts ￦ 2,173 First and second trials as winporation related to the termination of PF ning cases partially project and claim for damages GM Capital DGB Capital Lawsuit (title of debt) 1,311 DGB Capital et al 3 Technology Guarantee Fund Revocation of fraudulent act 1,010 SP Tank Terminal, NongHyup Bank Diesel fund theft case 9,645 Third trial in progress Hi Investment & Securities Co. Republic of Korea Hi Investment & Securities Co. Dividend income tax mispayment 1,192 Non-Payment Reaction Claims In addition to the above case, the group is in the process of a claim to confirm the senior bond holders of ￦16,571 million from the plaintiff (Hanwha Savings Bank), but ￦323 million in bonds related to the group has been fully amortized. The group counts the best estimate as a provision as of December 31, 2018, for cases in which the provision criteria are met, and the Group recognized no provision in respect to the lawsuit as of December 31, 2018 (b) There is a collateral of ￦8,143 million related with a lease deposit in regard to the Group’s land and buildings as of December 31, 2018. 190 (c) Non-financial guarantee contracts Non-financial guarantee contracts as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 2017 Acceptances and guarantees outstanding in won ￦ 303,021 266,341 Acceptances and guarantees outstanding in foreign currencies 32,343 30,928 Contingent acceptances and guarantees 166,023 214,921 Loan commitments 10,438,018 6,508,843 Purchasing commitments for securities 213,160 209,720 Total ￦ 11,152,565 7,230,753 (d) Financial guarantee contracts Financial guarantee contracts as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 2017 Financial guarantee contract in won ￦ 516,546 10,302 Financial guarantee contract in foreign currencies 23,768 19,707 Purchasing commitments for ABCP 107,000 134,000 Total ￦ 647,314 164,009 (e) Insurance commitment The Group’s general and special account derived from insurance contracts with clients as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won / thousand cases) 2018 2017 Numbers Contract amount Numbers Contract amount General account 1,508 ￦ 21,737,933 1,487 ￦ 21,354,223 Separate account 167 176 Total 1,508 ￦ 21,738,100 1,487 ￦ 21,354,399 (f) Reinsurance agreement The details of the Group’s ceding agreements as of December 31, 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won / thousand cases) Method of Cession Reinsurance company Ceding amount/ratio Product type Nonproportional General Re Corporation ￦ 55 million Life insurance Korean Re 20 million ~80 million Products before financial year 2000 Proportional Korean Re 30% ~ 50% Life, disability, cancer insurance Korean Re 22.5% ~ 37.5% All products (new after financial year 2009) Korean Re 50% Child insurance (2013 co-developed product) Korean Re 80% Living benefit insurance (among year 2002~2006) Korean Re 50% ~ 60% Lifetime cancer insurance Munich Reinsurance 50% Silver cancer insurance Score Reinsurance 50% Cancer insurance giving living expenses monthly Korean Re 80% Long-term care insurance Korean Re 50% Health insurance Korean Re 50% VIP term insurance General Re Corporation 30% Health insurance 191 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (g) Commitments with financial institutions that the Group makes about the issuance of letters of credit. Commitments with financial institutions that the Group makes as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Commitments related to letters of credit (In millions of won) Financial Institution 2018 2017 KOOKMIN BANK ￦ 15,000 ￦ 15,000 Commitments related to the borrowings (In millions of won) 2018 2017 Financial Institutions Limit Usage Limit Usage Korea Development Bank ￦ 30,000 30,000 70,000 23,302 NH Nonghyup Bank 100,000 20,000 Woori Investment Bank 20,000 20,000 Shinhan Bank 20,000 20,000 Korea Development Bank 25,000 1,081 KEB Hana Bank 20,000 20,000 Busan Bank 30,000 Woori Bank 40,000 Kookmin Bank 20,000 10,000 Shinhan Bank 20,000 10,000 Korea Securities Finance 1,030,000 288,613 Kyongnam Bank 5,000 Meritz & Co., Ltd. 30,000 Korea Securities Finance 10,000 Total ￦ 1,400,000 379,694 110,000 23,302 (g) Product of immediate annuity at maturity Due to the announcement of the application by the Financial Supervisory Service in July 2018 for underpayment of overdue pension products, the Group is likely to pay additional premiums. However, due to the need for legal judgment on the application of comprehensive remediation policy, it is not possible to estimate reliably the amount of payment and the timing of payment as of the December 31, 2018. Accordingly, the Group has not established a provision under Korean IFRS 1109. 50. Transactions with Related Parties (a) Status of related parties The status of related parties excluding subsidiaries as of December 31, 2018, are as follows: Related parties Relationship Daegu FC(*1) Affiliates DGB Luxury KRX300 Index Investment Trust(*1) Affiliates Korea Omega Project No.2 Association(*2) Affiliates Hi Japan High-dividends Focus Securities Investment Trust(*3) Affiliates Tribridge Capital Management(*3) Affiliates KoFC-Partners Pioneer Champ No. 2011-1 Investment Fund(*3) Affiliates Hi ROKI1 Global Robo-advisor Securities Investment Trust H(*3) Affiliates Hi Global Dynamic Asset Allocation Securities Investment Trust(*3) Affiliates Hi Korea Unity Renaissance Securities Investment Trust(*3) Affiliates Hi Gold Ocean Kmarin No.8 Ship Investment Company(*3) Affiliates (*1) Related party of the Group’s subsidiary, DGB Co., (*2) Related party of the Group’s subsidiary, DGB Capital Co., (*3) Related party of the Group’s subsidiary, Hi Investment & Securities Co., 192 (b) Related party transactions with the Group i) Details of bond and debt with the related parties The details of bond and debt between the Group and the related parties as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 2017 Daegu FC Hi Japan HighHi ROKI1 Global Hi Global Hi Korea Unity Daegu FC dividends Focus RoboAdvisor Dynamic Asset Renaissance Securities Securities Allocation Securities Investment Trust Investment Securities Investment Trust Trust H Investment Trust Assets Credit card bonds ￦ 11 16 Accrued revenue 13 2 6 4 Total 11 13 2 6 4 16 Liabilitie Deposit from bank 2,571 3,393 and customers Others 17 15 Total ￦ 2,588 3,408 ii) The details of related party transactions The details of related party transactions as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 2017 Daegu FC Hi Japan HighHi ROKI1 Global Hi Global Hi Korea Unity Daegu FC dividends Focus RoboAdvisor Dynamic Asset Renaissance Securities Securities Allocation Securities Investment Trust Investment Securities Investment Trust Trust H Investment Trust Incomes Fee and commis￦ 13 9 18 8 sion incom Expenses Accrued revenue 32 28 Interest expense on deposits Others 3,000 Total ￦ 32 3,028 iii) Details of related party financial transactions The details of financial transactions between the Group and the related parties as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 2017 DGB Index Plus Securities DGB Luxury KRX300 Index Korea Omega Project No.2 DGB Index Plus Securities Feeder No.1 Securities Investment Trust Association Feeder No. Cash contribution ￦ 10,000 1,000 70,000 Return on contribution 9,247 5,000 60,000 (c) Details of payment guarantee and Collaterals with related parties There are no collateral or payment guarantees provided by the Group for the purpose of financing the related parties, etc. (d) Compensation for top managements Details of compensation for top managements as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, are as follows: 193 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (In millions of won) 2018 2017 Short-term employee benefits ￦ 12,208 8,370 Other long-term employee benefits 402 1,010 Severance pays 2,325 1,414 Total ￦ 14,935 10,794 51. Financial Risk Management The Group has exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk, market risk and operational risk from financial instruments. The Group's risk management system aims at maintaining capital adequacy and managing stability through the comprehensive appraisal and management of significant risks that arise in management activities. By optimizing risk and return balance, the risk management system realizes the stable growth of the Group, while maximizing company value and maintaining an adequate equity capital level as well as achieving business strategies, policies and plans. 51-1. Credit Risk (a) Maximum exposure of credit risk Maximum exposure of credit risk as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 2017 On balance accounts(*1) Due from banks(*2) ￦ 855,233 ￦ 641,854 Financial assets held for trading(*4) 429,130 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss (*4) 54,617 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss(*3) 6,215,754 Available-for-sale financial assets(*4) 3,746,057 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 3,963,546 Held-to-maturity financial assets 7,951,189 Securities at amortized cost 7,846,106 Loans at amortized cost 40,826,951 Loans 39,340,414 Other financial assets at amortized cost 1,665,652 942,455 40,763 99,414 Derivative assets – hedge accounting 14,493 20,395 Reinsurance assets 11,709 10,536 ￦ 61,440,207 ￦ 53,236,061 Off-balance accounts Financial guarantee ￦ 647,314 ￦ 164,009 Commitments 10,651,178 6,718,563 Non-financial guarantee 501,387 512,190 ￦ 11,799,8794 ￦ 7,394,762 (*1) After impairment and setting off (*2) Excluding due from Bank of Korea (*3) Excluding equity securities (*4) Excluding equity securities, beneficiary securities and investment funds 194 Degree of credit risk exposure is based on the net book value of financial position. In the case of financial guarantee, it is measured as the maximum amount to be paid for the debtor and in the case of loan contract which cannot be cancelled or can be cancelled if critical changes occur, it is measured as the entire amount of the contract. (b) Degree of industrial risk concentration of financial assets which have credit risk Degree of industrial risk concentration of financial assets which have credit risk as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 Balance account (*1) Off-balance account Financial Financial Securities Loans Derivative Total Financial NonCommitTotal assets held assets measured measured assetsguarantee financial ments for trading designated at at hedging contracts guarantee (*2) at fair amortized amortized contracts value cos cost through profit or loss (*2) Enterprises Manufacturing ￦ 73,636 16,257 19,998 10,592,011 10,701,902 16,021 1,715,314 232,958 1,964,293 Construction 30,987 20,056 110,017 1,020,540 1,181,600 77,000 316,298 1,466 394,764 Wholesale 10,582 10,050 3,546,374 3,567,006 5,406 656,544 223,714 885,664 and retail Financial 1,348,643 1,719,458 2,036,688 1,468,275 6,573,064 30,000 652,313 4,982 687,295 services and insurance Others 1,904,762 302,184 699,622 11,857,442 14,764,010 518,887 749,540 38,267 1,306,694 Subtotal 3,368,610 2,068,005 2,866,325 28,484,642 36,787,582 647,314 4,090,009 501,387 5,238,710 Households 11,340,380 11,340,380 4,253,375 4,253,375 Government and public insti2,847,144 1,895,541 4,980,109 871,959 10,594,753 71,624 71,624 tutions Credit card 419,345 419,345 2,236,170 2,236,170 Derivatives 55,647 55,647 Reserve for credit risk adjust(391) (391) ment Allowance (328) (338,825) (339,153) Present value (101) (101) discount Present value premium 132 132 Deferred loan originated cost 49,419 49,419 and fee Total ￦6,215,754 3,963,546 7,846,106 40,826,951 55,256 58,907,613 647,314 10,651,178 501,387 11,799,879 (*1) After impairment and setting off (*2) Except for equity securities and beneficiary securities 195 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (In millions of won) 2017 Balance account (*1) Off-balance account Financial Financial Securities Loans ㅍ Loans Derivative Total Financial NonCommitTotal assets assets measured measured assetsguarantee financial ments held for designatat at hedging contracts guarantee trading ed at fair amortized amortized contracts (*2) value cos cost through profit or loss (*2) Enterprises Manufacturing ￦ 58,744 50,011 11,099,498 11,208,253 15,132 1,711,111 273,646 1,999,889 Construction 10,405 131,880 1,157,231 1,299,516 104,000 217,858 4,532 326,390 Wholesale 3,549,129 3,549,129 4,257 544,267 203,544 752,068 and retail Financial 178,027 14,364 1,426,493 1,065,074 1,932,456 4,616,414 30,000 414,393 783 445,176 services and insurance Others 221,475 40,253 378,466 716,345 10,078,052 11,434,591 10,620 268,821 29,685 309,126 Subtotal 399,502 54,617 1,874,108 1,963,310 27,816,366 32,107,903 164,009 3,156,450 512,190 3,832,649 Households 10,540,175 10,540,175 1,180,775 1,180,775 Government and public 24,627 1,871,949 5,987,879 811,902 8,696,357 29,942 29,942 institutions Credit card 396,976 396,976 2,351,396 2,351,396 Derivatives 120,072 120,072 Reserve for credit risk (262) (262) adjustment Allowance (266,249) (266,249) Present value discount (1,431) (1,431) Present value premium 402 402 Deferred loan originated 42,273 42,273 cost and fee Total ￦424,129 54,617 3,746,057 7,951,189 39,340,414 119,810 51,636,216 164,009 6,718,563 512,190 7,394,762 (*1) After impairment and setting off (*2) Except for equity securities and beneficiary securities 196 (c) Degree of credit risk concentration for each credit rating Degree of credit risk concentration for each credit rating as of December 31, 2018 is as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 Credit rating(*1) 12 Months Expected Total period Expected Loans impaired Total credit loss measurement credit loss measurement Enterprises 1~6 ￦ 24,438,947 2,993,402 27,432,349 7 11,388 349,101 360,489 8(*2) 5,760 44,113 46,010 95,883 9(*2) 3,099 10,972 73,102 87,173 10(*2) 2,432 8,667 190,318 201,417 Not rated(*3) 298,567 2,021 6,743 307,331 24,760,193 3,408,276 316,173 28,484,642 Households 1~6 10,154,737 43,692 10,198,429 7 136,280 205,381 341,661 8(*2) 34,704 86,885 4,096 125,685 9(*2) 18,664 55,602 6,516 80,782 10(*2) 5,108 31,114 26,466 62,688 Not rated(*3) 531,060 75 531,135 10,880,553 422,674 37,153 11,340,380 Public sectors and others 1~6 861,822 1,304 863,126 7 255 88 343 8(*2) 2,592 2,592 9(*2) 4,911 4,911 10(*2) 100 887 987 Not rated(*3) 862,077 4,084 5,798 871,959 Credit card 1~6 298,908 17,455 316,363 7 20,633 16,516 37,149 8(*2) 12,895 13,633 562 27,090 9(*2) 4,975 8,771 605 14,351 10(*2) 1,623 6,364 5,482 13,469 Not rated(*3) 10,835 12 76 10,923 349,869 62,751 6,725 419,345 Total ￦ 36,852,692 3,897,785 365,849 41,116,326 (*1) The Group assesses and manages credit rating of loans classifying loans into enterprises (external audit, non-external audit, individual business, financial institute, public sector and special finance) and loans to households. Combined evaluation model of financial model and non-financial model is used for loans to enterprises other than loans to financial institute, public sector and special finance. Regular check for adequacy is conducted to guarantee the adequacy of credit rating. (*2) The definition of bankruptcy in Basel II is based on overdue criteria and default criteria and is applied to the definition of impairment of the Group. Impairment unit is borrower criteria thus there might be loans under 8th degree which are neither overdue nor impaired. (*3) Amount of non-rated loan is ₩849,389 million as of December 31, 2018 and arises from inter-bank transactions such as inter-bank loans and loans related with sound collateral (deposits and warranty) and sound bills (discounted bills and electronic factoring). Amount of not rated loans from interbank transactions and sound loan borrowers is ₩252,972 million and ₩596,417 million and as of December 31, 2018 respectively. 197 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Relationship between internal credit rating and external credit rating are as follows: Classification of rating Internal credit rating External credit rating Current 1~6 AAA~BBPrecautionary 7 B Substandard 8 CCC Doubtful 9 CC, C Estimated loss 10 D (d) Loans Loans as of December 31, 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2017 Enterprises Households Public sectors and Credit card Total others Neither overdue nor impaired loans ￦ 27,368,886 10,477,298 807,527 391,698 39,045,409 Not impaired but overdue loans 100,926 38,508 14 290 139,738 Impaired loans 346,554 24,369 4,361 4,988 380,272 Subtotal 27,816,366 10,540,175 811,902 396,976 39,565,419 Allowance for loan losses (231,147) (24,037) (3,336) (7,729) (266,249) Present value discount (1,431) (1,431) Present value premium 402 402 Deferred loan origination cost and fee 22,470 19,415 388 42,273 Net book value ￦ 27,606,660 10,535,553 808,954 389,247 39,340,414 Overdue occurs when the counterparty of the contract is not able to pay the principal and interest on the date of contract. Impairment is the case when there is objective evidence of impairment and the loss event had an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or the group of financial assets and a reliable estimate of the loss amount can be made. The evidences of impairment are such as: past due more than 90 days, bad credit information according to credit information management regulation, restructuring of receivables and debt in overdue condition and revolving of bad exposure. (e) Loans that are neither overdue nor impaired (*1) Credit qualities of loans as of December 31, 2017 that are neither overdue nor impaired refer to the credit appraisal system and are as follows: (In millions of won) 2017 Credit rating(*1) Enterprises Households Public sectors and Credit card Total others 1~6 ￦ 26,417,686 9,852,266 805,366 292,590 37,367,908 7 344,558 305,765 2,161 32,732 685,216 8(*2) 35,563 117,861 24,580 178,004 9(*2) 14,354 62,746 12,852 89,952 10(*2) 8,681 27,392 7,490 43,563 Not rated(*3) 548,044 111,268 21,454 680,766 ￦ 27,368,886 10,477,298 807,527 391,698 39,045,409 (*1) The Group assesses and manages credit rating of loans classifying loans into enterprises (external audit, non-external audit, individual business, financial institute, public sector and special finance) and loans to households. Combined evaluation model of financial model and non-financial model is used for loans to enterprises other than loans to financial institute, public sector and special finance. Regular check for adequacy is conducted to guarantee the adequacy of credit rating. (*2) The definition of bankruptcy in Basel II is based on overdue criteria and default criteria and is applied to the definition of impairment of the Group. Impairment unit is borrower criteria thus there might be loans under 8th degree which are neither overdue nor impaired. (*3) Amount of non-rated loan is ₩680,766 million as of December 31, 2017 and arises from inter-bank transactions such as call loans, purchase of RP, and inter-bank loans and loans related with sound collateral (deposits and warranty) and sound bills (discounted bills and electronic factoring). Amount of not rated loans from inter-bank transactions and sound loan borrowers is ₩345,313 million as of December 31, 2017 and ₩335,453 million and as of December 31, 2017 respectively. 198 (e) Loans that are past due but not impaired Age analysis of loans that are overdue but not impaired is as follows: (In millions of won) 2017 Enterprises Households Public sectors and Credit card Total others Less than 30 days ￦ 79,733 35,428 14 254 115,429 More than 30 days ~ less than 60 days 16,047 2,662 36 18,745 More than 60 days ~ less than 90 days 5,146 418 5,564 Total ￦ 100,926 38,508 14 290 139,738 Estimated fair value of collateral for the loans that are overdue but not impaired is as follows: (In millions of won) 2017 Enterprises Households Credit cards Total Real estate ￦ 25,246 27,162 162 52,570 Movable property 15,728 5,632 21,360 Securities and debentures 70 80 150 Guarantee 16,657 1,802 18,459 Others 156 156 Total ￦ 57,701 34,832 162 92,695 (f) Impaired loans Loans which have evidence of impairment are measured either individually or collectively according to material criteria of the loan. Loans either individually or collectively measured for impairment, collateral and estimated fair value of other credit reinforcement are as follows: (In millions of won) 2017 Enterprises Households Public sectors and Credit card Total others Individual assessment Impaired loans ￦ 264,787 1,013 4,351 476 270,627 Allowance for doubtful 76,418 34 273 335 77,060 accounts Collective assessment Impaired loans 81,767 23,356 10 4,512 109,645 Allowance for doubtful 26,758 9,098 7 3,045 38,908 accounts Total Impaired loans 346,554 24,369 4,361 4,988 380,272 Allowance for doubtful ￦ 103,176 9,132 280 3,380 115,968 accounts (g) Estimated fair value of collateral for impaired loans (In millions of won) 2018 Enterprises Households Public sectors and others Total Real estate ￦ 121,500 14,051 1,894 137,445 Movable asset 22,578 1,932 24,510 Securities and debentures 5 5 Guarantee 17,752 1,600 19,352 Others 504 504 Total ￦ 162,334 17,588 1,894 181,816 199 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (In millions of won) 2017 Enterprises Households Public sectors and others Total Real estate ￦ 106,313 7,603 3,970 117,886 Movable asset 11,880 266 12,146 Securities and debentures 2 2 Guarantee 11,528 534 12,062 Others 301 301 Total ￦ 130,022 8,405 3,970 142,397 (h) Restructuring loans and receivables Restructuring loans and receivables is an activity to maximize the collection of loans and receivables by changing the condition of a financially troubled borrower and includes extension of maturity, postponement of payment and relief of interest rate. Restructured loans and receivables as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are ￦48,814 million and ￦69,137 million, respectively. (i) The amount of debt securities for each rating via the rating system of provision for credit losses as of December 31, 2018 is as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 Financial assets held for Financial assets Available-for-sale financial Total trading designated at fair value assets Held-to-maturity through profit or Loss financial assets Securities at amortized cost AAA ￦ 2,898,399 2,898,399 AA+ ~ AA430,949 430,949 A+ ~ A63,226 63,226 Not rated 4,453,860 4,453,860 Subtotal 7,846,434 7,846,434 other financial assets at fair value through comprehensive income AAA 1,399,404 1,399,404 AA+ ~ AA437,971 437,971 A+ ~ A54,442 54,442 Not rated 2,071,729 2,071,729 Subtotal 3,963,546 3,963,546 Total ￦ 11,809,980 11,809,980 200 (j) The Group manages debt securities using external creditrating and debt securities classified by external credit rating and categories are as follows: i) Debt securities in won (In millions of won) 2017 Financial assets held Financial assets Available-for-sale Held-to-maturity Total for trading designated at fair financial assets financial assets value through profit or Loss Long term credit rating AAA ￦ 179,197 7,654 1,287,159 2,422,375 3,896,385 AA+ ~ AA14,364 9,487 483,704 328,071 835,626 A+ ~ A26,233 90,583 116,816 BBB+ ~ BBB4,786 4,786 Others 4,461 4,461 Not rated 9,827 37,476 1,647,077 5,200,743 6,895,123 Subtotal 238,868 54,617 3,508,523 7,951,189 11,753,197 Short term credit rating A1 53,935 53,935 A2 ~ A3 131,326 131,326 Subtotal 185,261 185,261 Total ￦ 424,129 54,617 3,508,523 7,951,189 11,938,458 ii) Debt securities in foreign currencies (In millions of won) 2017 Available-for-sale financial assets AAA ￦ 20,864 AA+ ~ AA138,844 A+ ~ A77,826 BBB+ ~ BBBTotal ￦ 237,534 (k) Offsets of financial assets and financial liabilities The Group has financial instruments which are subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement. The similar agreements include derivative clearing agreements, repurchase agreements, securities lending agreements, etc. Some of the derivative instruments are subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement. In accordance with this agreement, all the derivatives transactions are terminated in the credit event such as bankruptcy of any of the counterparties and the net amounts offset in each transaction will be paid from one party to another at the time of termination. The Group’s repurchase agreement transactions, and securities lending transactions, etc., are also subject to an agreement similar to ISDA (International Derivatives Swaps and Dealers Association) offsetting agreements. Financial assets and liabilities are not offset in the statement of financial position because ISDA offsetting agreements and similar agreements are exercisable only in the credit event and the parties to transactions have no intention to either settle on a net basis, or realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 201 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT i) Offsetting financial assets Financial assets subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 Gross amounts Gross offset Net amounts of Related amounts not set off in the statement of of recognized amounts of financial asset financial position financial assets recognized spresented in financial the statement of Financial Collateral received liabilities financial position instruments Securities Cash Net amount Bonds purchased under ￦ 60,200 60,200 56,353 3,847 resale agreements Accrued balance spot 264,158 264,158 264,060 98 exchange Trading derivative assets 26,824 26,824 7,299 1,185 58 18,282 Hedging derivative assets 14,494 14,494 4,090 961 9,443 Total ￦ 365,676 365,676 275,449 58,499 58 31,670 (In millions of won) 2017 Gross amounts Gross offset Net amounts of Related amounts not set off in the statement of of recognized amounts of financial assets financial position financial assets recognized presented in the financial statement of Financial Collateral received liabilities financial position instruments Securities Cash Net amount Bonds purchased under ￦ 478,000 478,000 478,000 resale agreements Accrued balance spot 89,273 89,273 89,036 237 exchange Trading derivative assets 87,607 87,607 27,282 190 60,135 Hedging derivative assets 269 269 106 163 Total ￦ 655,149 655,149 116,424 478,000 190 60,535 ii) Offsetting financial liabilities Financial liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 Gross amounts of Gross offset Net amounts of Related amounts not set off in the recognized financial amounts of financial liabilities statement of financial position assets recognized financial presented in the assets statement of Financial Collateral provided financial position instruments Net amount Bonds sold under repur￦ 774,873 774,873 774,873 chase agreements Accrued balance spot 509,006 509,006 508,879 127 exchange Trading derivative liabil28,026 28,026 10,163 1,306 16,557 ities Hedging derivative lia6,714 6,714 4,090 2,624 bilities Total ￦ 1,318,619 1,318,619 523,132 778,803 16,684 202 (In millions of won) 2017 Gross amounts of Gross offset Net amounts of Related amounts not set off in the recognized financial amounts of financial liabilities statement of financial position assets recognized financial presented in the assets statement of Financial Collateral provided financial position instruments Net amount Bonds sold under repur￦ 815,553 815,553 815,553 chase agreements Accrued balance spot 155,341 155,341 155,100 241 exchange Trading derivative liabil58,105 58,105 3,175 900 54,030 ities Hedging derivative lia1,108 1,108 1,108 bilities Total ￦ 1,030,107 1,030,107 973,828 900 55,379 51-2. Liquidity Risk Financial liabilities held for trading and demand deposits are recognized as fair value and included in the 'On demand' section. i) Non-derivative financial liabilities Contractual maturity analysis for financial liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 On demand Less than 1~3 4~6 7 ~ 12 13 ~ 36 37 ~ 60 More than Total 1 month months months months months months 60 months On-balance accounts Deposits ￦ 15,371,153 3,660,781 5,134,795 5,212,613 7,949,758 1,392,778 205,753 262,03 39,189,661 Debts 3,943,678 370,610 508,234 471,164 635,020 314,733 284,693 6,528,132 Debentures 298,545 468,902 485,882 573,414 2,219,689 1,194,930 495,738 5,737,100 Financial liabilities at 551,451 551,451 fair value through profit or loss Fair value changes on 1,978 306 7,759 399,327 108,424 517,794 financial liabilities designated at fair value Other financial liabilities 1,433,551 27,854 37,068 47,967 139,586 10,863 12,804 1,709,693 Total ￦ 15,371,153 9,888,006 6,004,139 6,244,103 9,050,062 4,786,400 1,726,279 1,163,689 54,233,831 Off-balance accounts Financial guarantee ￦ 647,314 647,314 contract Commitments 10,651,178 10,651,178 Payments on guarantees 501,387 501,387 Total ￦11,799,879 11,799,879 203 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (In millions of won) 2017 On demand Less than 1~3 4~6 7 ~ 12 13 ~ 36 37 ~ 60 More than Total 1 month months months months months months 60 months On-balance accounts Deposits ￦ 15,473,905 3,284,331 5,264,450 5,935,433 6,865,355 982,675 213,231 288,262 38,307,642 Debts 922,724 554,051 394,087 746,571 515,910 373,280 373,280 3,708,530 Debentures 161,927 206,242 598,026 779,816 1,869,412 319,852 475,704 4,410,979 Other financial liabilities 731,898 19,543 8,831 28,825 141,289 100 727 931,213 Total ￦ 15,473,905 5,100,880 6,044,286 6,936,377 8,420,567 3,509,286 906,463 966,600 47,358,364 Off-balance accounts Financial guarantee ￦ 164,009 164,009 contract Commitments 6,718,563 6,718,563 Payments on guarantees 512,190 512,190 Total ￦ 7,394,762 7,394,762 ii) Derivative financial liabilities (In millions of won) 2018 Less than 1 ~ 3 months 3 ~ 6 months 6 ~ 12 months 1~3 years 3~5 years Total 1 month Trading derivatives Currency related ￦ 12,380 5,367 13,979 3,254 164 35,144 Stock related 6 48,788 39 153 17,836 66,822 Others 8 638 646 Subtotal 12,386 54,163 14,018 3,407 18,638 102,612 Hedging derivatives Interest rate related 753 2,928 733 1,544 1,166 7,124 Total ￦ 12,386 54,916 16,946 4,140 20,182 1,166 109,736 (In millions of won) 2017 Less than 1 ~ 3 months 3 ~ 6 months 6 ~ 12 months 1~3 years 3~5 years More than Total 1 month 5 years Trading derivatives Currency related ￦ 40,081 26,315 18,212 11,949 3 96,560 Stock related 6 21 78 47 775 927 Subtotal 40,087 26,336 18,290 11,996 3 775 97,487 Hedging derivatives Interest rate related 1,108 1,108 Total ￦ 40,087 26,336 19,398 11,996 3 775 98,595 Available assets to fulfill the payment obligations of liabilities and to carry out the unpaid loan contracts are cash, due from The Bank of Korea, loans, equity securities and debt securities. The Group is able to deal with unexpected cash flows through the disposal of securities and by additional fund raising resources such as the asset securitization market. 204 51-3. Market Risk (a) Trading Position i) VaR by risk types (trading position) VaR by risk types as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 Period end Average Minimum Maximum Interest rate risk ￦ 3,268 3,638 2,995 4,660 Foreign exchange risk 1,484 1,447 852 1,992 Stock risk 4,493 5,809 2,590 6,714 Diversification effect (3,587) (3,648) (1,581) (2,818) Total risk ￦ 5,658 7,246 4,856 10,548 (In millions of won) 2017 Period end Average Minimum Maximum Interest rate risk ￦ 345 592 278 1,102 Foreign exchange risk 486 674 310 1,336 Stock risk 988 953 338 1,960 Diversification effect (621) (1,042) (263) (2,159) Total risk ￦ 1,198 1,177 663 2,239 The sum of VaR for each risk type does not match the total VaR due to correlation between risk factors and the diversification effect. The correlation between risk factors and the volatility are calculated using the simple moving average method. 205 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (a) Trading Position, continued ii) The interest rate risk of DGB Life Insurance Co., Ltd. The interest rate risk of DGB Life Insurance Co., Ltd. as of December 31, 2017 and 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2017 Exposure Interest rate Interest rate Exposure Interest rate Interest rate sensitivity (%) sensitivity amount sensitivity(%) sensitivity amount I. Interest-bearing liability 1. Interest rates fixed ￦ 1,753,643 14.72 25,822,370 1,641,554 12.33 20,236,806 2. Interest rates linked 3,545,743 6.54 23,192,852 3,375,727 5.51 18,595,588 Subtotal 5,299,386 9.25 49,015,222 5,017,281 7.74 38,832,394 II. Interest bearing assets 1. Due from banks 264,980 0.19 50,900 245,714 0.21 52,100 2. Financial Assets des34,710 2.35 81,512 ignated at fair value through profit or loss 3. Financial assets at fair 811,215 7.17 5,816,099 value through other comprehensive income 4. Securities at amor3,852,396 9.63 37,109,835 tized cost 5. Loans at amortized 397,483 10.67 4,241,534 cost 6. Financial assets at 54,617 2.19 119,774 fair value through profit or loss 7. Available-for-sale finan1,028,408 4.93 5,069,368 cial assets 8. Held-to-maturity 3,506,824 8.94 31,358,901 9. Loans 368,104 8.71 3,207,635 Subtotal ￦ 5,360,784 8.82 47,299,880 5,203,667 7.69 39,807,778 III. The maturity mismatch 25,730 14,631 amount IV. The minimum interest 129,227 118,935 rate amount V. The interest rate back 6,480 spread amount VI. The interest rate risk ￦ 129,227 125,415 amount =[max(III,IV)+V] (a) Trading Position, continued iii) Other price risks of DGB Life Insurance Co., Ltd. Other price risks of DGB Life Insurance Co., Ltd. are the risks that financial instrument’s cash flow or fair value is changed due to the change of market price other than an exchange risk or interest risk. The price risk is an analysis about KOSPI 200 index changes, and 10% increase and decrease are used for reasonable and possible fluctuations. This shows management’s evaluation about the reasonable and possible fluctuations of the stock index. (In millions of won) 2018 2017 Profit or loss Other comprehensive Profit or loss Other comprehensive income income Beneficiary certificate 10% increase ￦ 5,378 115 10% decrease (5,378) (115) (b) Non-trading position The Group manages interest rate risk for non-trading position. Interest rate risk of non-trading position is the risk that the net asset value or net interest income might decrease due to the inconsistency of interest rate maturity and the unfavorable change of market interest rate. The Group 206 measures interest rate risk for interest assets such as loans, dues from banks and bonds, for interest rate liabilities such as deposits and borrowings and for hedge derivatives. Among non-trading positions, marketable available-for-sale financial assets (stocks) are managed through VaR.. i) Method of interest rate risk management The tolerance limit to manage the interest rate risk on trading positions is required to be set in principle at least once a year, and approved by the Committee. To verify complying with the tolerance limit, the interest risk is measured and managed at least once a month, and reported to the management, the Council and the Committee. ii) Assessment methods for interest rate risk Value at Risk (VaR) Interest rate VaR measures potential losses in value of a net asset over a defined period for a given confidence interval. The Group calculates interest rate VaR by the gap of interest rate and the modified duration. Earning at Risk (EaR) EaR is the quantity by which net income is projected to decline in the event of an adverse change in prevailing interest rates. Others The Group evaluates interest rates risk by using the rate of interest gap, and conducts the interest risk analysis of crisis situations under abnormal market conditions one or more times a quarter. Also, the department verifies the accuracy, completeness and suitability one or more times a year regularly and observes measurement-related data constantly and independently. Interest rate VaR (non-trading position) Interest rate VaR as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) End Average Minimum Maximum 2018 ￦ 129,898 118,163 37,727 153,699 2017 29,431 29,248 11,395 71,999 (c) Foreign exchange bias Foreign exchange risk is the risk that the fair value of financial instruments or future cash flows are affected by the volatility of foreign exchange rate. The Group does not divide foreign exchange position into trading position and nontrading position but manages it on the whole. Exposures to foreign exchange risk as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) USD JPY EUR Others 2018 Foreign currency financial assets 2,224,863 111,981 113,110 491,012 Foreign currency financial liabilities 1,851,381 110,571 37,616 189,082 2017 Foreign currency financial assets 2,133,701 147,526 191,645 356,307 Foreign currency financial liabilities 1,612,108 134,505 28,411 196,262 51-4. Capital Management Regulated capital and BIS ratio (neither audited nor reviewed by the external auditor) of the Group as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows. The Group has complied with all the external capital maintenance restriction conditions for the past two years. (In millions of won) 2018 2017 Total capital (A) ￦ 5,014,663 4,414,109 Basic capital (B) 4,426,663 3,814,530 Common stock (C) 3,831,182 3,581,258 Supplementary capital (D) 588,000 599,579 Risk weighted asset (E) 39,109,962 35,063,409 Ratio of total capital (A/E) 12.82% 12.59% Ratio of basic capital (B/E) 11.32% 10.88% Ratio of common stock capital (C/E) 9.80% 10.21% 207 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 52. Disclosures for Fair Value 52-1. Account classification and fair value of financial instruments Book value and fair value of each financial instrument as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 Book value Fair value Financial Assets Cash and deposits ￦ 2,601,499 2,601,499 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 6,277,966 6,277,966 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income 4,032,620 4,032,620 Securities at amortized cost 7,846,434 8,007,644 Loan receivables at amortized cost 40,826,951 40,854,907 Derivative financial assets held for trading (*) 41,154 41,154 Derivative financial assets held for hedging (*) 14,493 14,493 Other financial assets 1,665,652 1,668,374 Total ￦ 63,306,769 63,498,657 Financial Liabilities Loan payables ￦ 38,729,457 38,456,845 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 551,451 551,451 Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss 517,794 517,794 Derivative financial liabilities held for trading (*) 102,796 102,796 Derivative financial liabilities held for hedging (*) 6,714 6,714 Borrowings 6,442,359 6,425,406 Debt securities issued 5,303,840 5,293,973 Other financial liabilities 2,281,324 2,282,695 Total ￦ 53,935,735 53,637,674 (*)Amounts before deducting provision for credit loss (In millions of won) 2017 Book value Fair value Financial Assets Cash and deposits ￦ 2,254,811 2,254,811 Financial assets held for trading 510,935 510,935 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 79,917 79,917 Available-for-sale financial assets 4,498,996 4,498,996 Held-to-maturity financial assets 7,951,189 7,915,077 Loans and receivables 40,278,163 40,362,449 Derivative financial assets held for trading (*) 99,676 99,676 Derivative financial assets held for hedging (*) 20,395 20,395 Total ￦ 55,694,082 55,742,256 Financial Liabilities Deposits from bank and customers ￦ 37,839,750 37,804,629 Derivative financial liabilities held for trading (*) 97,487 97,487 Derivative financial liabilities held for hedging (*) 1,108 1,108 Borrowings 3,394,370 3,391,396 Debt securities issued 4,356,652 4,370,515 Other financial liabilities 1,292,457 1,292,457 Total ￦ 46,981,824 46,957,592 (*)Amounts before deducting provision for credit loss 208 52-2. Hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities at fair value (1) Hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities at fair value in the consolidated financial statements (a) Hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities at fair value in the consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 Classification of levels Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial Assets Financial Assets at fair value through profit or loss Equity securities ￦ 16,218 45,994 62,212 Debt securities 216,629 4,737,945 691,475 5,646,049 OthersTotal 386,450 183,255 569,705 Subtotal 232,847 5,124,395 920,724 6,277,966 Financial Assets at fair value through other comprehensive income Equity securities 1,047 68,027 69,074 Debt securities 1,323,171 2,640,375 3,963,546 Subtotal 1,324,218 2,640,375 68,027 4,032,620 Derivative financial assets Derivative financial assets held for trading(*) 90 37,742 3,322 41,154 Derivative financial assets held for hedging(*) 14,493 14,493 Subtotal 90 52,235 3,322 55,647 Total financial assets 1,557,155 7,817,005 992,073 10,366,233 Financial Liabilities Financial Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Equity securities 32,154 32,154 Debt securities 519,297 519,297 Subtotal 32,154 519,297 551,451 Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss Others 517,794 517,794 Derivative financial liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading(*) 48,780 35,996 18,020 102,796 Derivative financial liabilities for hedging(*) 6,714 42 6,714 Subtotal 48,780 710 18,020 109,510 Total financial liabilities 80,934 562,007 535,814 1,178,755 (*)Amounts before deducting provision for credit loss 209 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (a) Hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities at fair value in the consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2017 Classification of levels Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial Assets Financial Assets held for trading Equity securities ￦ 18,326 18,326 Debt securities 34,582 394,548 429,130 Beneficiary certificate 10,166 53,313 63,479 Subtotal 63,074 447,861 510,935 Financial assets designated through profit or loss Equity securities 820 24,480 25,300 Other securities 54,617 54,617 Subtotal 820 54,617 24,480 79,917 Available-for-sale financial assets Equity securities 3,893 209 299,357 303,459 Debt securities 1,511,585 2,234,472 3,746,057 Beneficiary certificate 4,479 280,548 164,453 449,480 Subtotal ￦ 1,519,957 2,515,229 463,810 4,498,996 Derivative financial assets Derivative financial assets held for trading(*) 97,764 1,912 99,676 Derivative financial assets held for hedging(*) 20,395 20,395 Subtotal 118,159 1,912 120,071 Total financial assets ￦ 1,583,851 3,135,866 490,202 5,209,919 Financial Liabilities Derivative financial liabilities held for trading(*) ￦ 96,560 927 97,487 Derivative financial assets held for hedging(*) 1,108 1,108 Total financial liabilities ￦ 97,668 927 98,595 (*)Amounts before deducting provision for credit loss 210 (b) The variable inputs used to measure the valuation technique and fair value of financial assets and liabilities classified as Level 2 as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 Valuation method Variable inputs Financial Assets Financial assets at fair value through Debt securities Discounted Cash Flow method Discount rate profit or loss Others Discounted Cash Flow method, Net Discount rate asset value, etc. Financial assets at fair value through Debt securities Discounted Cash Flow method Discount rate other comprehensive income DCF model Discount rate Derivative financial assets held for trading Discounted Cash Flow method, Net Discount rate, currency rate, Stock price asset value, etc index and etc. Derivative financial assets held for hedging Discounted Cash Flow method, EmbedDiscount rate, currency rate and etc. ded forward rate agreement, etc. Financial liabilities Discounted Cash Flow method Financial liabilities at fair value through Debt securities Discount rate, Stock price and etc. profit or loss Discounted Cash Flow method and etc. Derivative financial liabilities held for trading Discount rate, currency rate and etc. Embedded forward rate agreement Derivative financial liabilities held for hedging and etc.. Discount rate (In millions of won) 2017 Valuation method Variable inputs Financial Assets Financial assets for trading Debt securities Discounted Cash Flow method Discount rate Beneficiary certificates Discounted Cash Flow method Discount rate Financial assets designated at fair Other securities Binomial model and etc. Discount rate, variability, and growth value through profit or loss rate Available-for-sale financial assets Debt securities Discounted Cash Flow method Discount rate Beneficiary certificates, equity secuDCF model Discount rate rities Derivative financial assets held for trading Discounted Cash Flow method and etc. Discount rate, currency rate and etc. Derivative financial assets held for hedging Discounted Cash Flow method and etc. Discount rate, currency rate and etc. Financial liabilities Derivative financial liabilities held for trading Discounted Cash Flow method and etc. Discount rate, currency rate and etc. Derivative financial liabilities held for hedging Embedded forward rate agreement calDiscount rate culating method and etc. 211 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (c) The inputs used to measure the valuation technique and fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities classified as Level 2 as of the end of December 31, 2018 and 2017, are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 Valuation method Unobservable variable inputs Range Financial Assets Financial assets at fair value Equity securities Binomial method Discount rate, Variability, 8.87 ~ 9.71%, 18.30%, 0% through profit or loss Growth rate Debt securities Binomial method Discount rate, Variability, 12.14 ~ 39.45%, 4.56 ~ 11.93%, Liquidating value 0% Discounted Cash Flow method Discount rate 5.58% Others Net Asset value and etc. Financial assets at fair value Equity securities Discounted Cash Flow method Discount rate, Variability, 12.13 ~ 21.18%, 0%, 0% through other comprehenLiquidating value sive income Derivative financial assets Black-Scholes model, HullVariability, Correlation 7.32 ~ 33.79%, -58.47% ~ 99.7% held for trading White model coefficient Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value Others Black-Scholes model, HullVariability, Correlation 7.32 ~ 33.79%, -58.47% ~ 99.7% through profit or loss White model coefficient Derivative financial liabilities held for trading (In millions of won) 2017 Valuation method Unobservable variable inputs Range Financial Assets Financial assets designated at fair Equity securities Binomial method etc. Discount rate 8.34%~13.26% value through profit or loss Variability Growth rate 0% Available-for-sale financial assets Equity securities Net asset value, etc. Discount rate 4.34%~21.67% Beneficiary certificates Growth rate 0% Derived financial assets for trading Binomial method etc. Variability 5.68%~26.98% Correlation coefficient 9.33%~81.57% Financial liabilities Derivative financial liabilities held for Binomial method etc. Variability 5.68%~26.98% trading Correlation coefficient 9.33%~81.57% 212 (d) Changes in financial assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 during the years ended December 31, 2018 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 Financial assets at fair value through profit or Financial liabilities Financial assets at Derivatives for trading loss designated at fair fair value through value through profit other comprehensive and loss income Equity Debt Others Others Equity Derivative Derivative securities Securities securities assets assets Beginning(*) ￦ 37,011 556,874 51,157 152 927 Acquisition due to business 85 72,247 179,829 522,263 13,611 3,089 10,262 combinations Amount at fair value 9,048 7,379 3,426 9,253 233 7,758 through profit or loss Amount recognized in other (30) 3,160 comprehensive income Purchase amount 147,122 100 Amount sold (150) (92,147) (13,692) (1) Amount changed from level (152) (927) 3 to another level Total ￦ 45,994 691,475 183,255 517,794 68,027 3,322 18,020 (*) Restated based on K-IFRS 1109. (d) Changes in financial assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 during the years ended December 31, 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2017 Available-for-sale financial assets Derivatives for trading Financial assets designate at fair value through profit Debt Securities Profit securities Derivative assets Derivative liabilities or loss Beginning ￦ 26,896 270,144 161,649 5,375 2,535 Total profit Amount recognized in (1,596) (4,493) (1,670) (349) profit or loss Amount recognized in 6,863 533 other comprehensive income Purchase amount 56,747 9,779 631 Amount sold (29,904) (7,508) (534) 631 Amount issued Paid amount (1,890) (1,890) Amount changed from (820) level 3 to another level Total ￦ 24,280 299,357 164,453 1,912 927 213 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (e) Sensitivity analysis of financial instruments classified as Level 3 Sensitivity analysis of financial instruments is divided into advantageous and disadvantageous changes based on changes in the value of financial instruments due to changes in unobservable input variables using statistical techniques. And when fair value is affected by more than one input variable, it is based on the most advantageous or most disadvantageous amount. The sensitivity of financial instruments classified as Level 3 as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 is as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 Advantageous changes Disadvantageous changes Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (*1)(*2) ￦ 9,279 (8,651) Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive 3,282 (1,601) income(*3) Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or 22,452 (22,296) loss and Derivative financial instruments for trading(*4) (*1) Fair values of certain equity securities such as PEF are measured by the asset approach method. Fair value changes of such equity securities are excluded as sensitivity calculation by changes in inputs is practically impossible. (*2) Fair value changes are calculated by increasing or decreasing discount rate (-1%p ~ 1%p) and growth rate (0% ~ 1%). (*3) Fair value changes are calculated by increasing or decreasing growth rate (0%p~1%p) and discount rate (-1%p~1%p) or increasing or decreasing liquidating value (-1%~1%) and discount rate (-1%p~ 1%p). (*4) Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss and derivative financial instruments for trading are calculated by increasing or decreasing the volatility and correlation of the major unobservable input variables (10%). (In millions of won) 2017 Advantageous changes Disadvantageous changes Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss ￦ 1,614 (1,485) Available-for-sale financial assets 4,798 (3,139) Derivative instruments for trading(*) 115 (88) (*) Fair value changes are calculated by increasing or decreasing volatility (10%). (f) Deferred recognition of day-one profit or loss The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument at initial recognition is the transaction price (the fair value of the consideration given or received) unless the fair value of that instrument is evidenced by comparison with other observable current market transactions in the same instrument or based on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets. If the valuation technique incorporates significant inputs that are not based on observable market data, the difference between the transaction price and the fair value based on the valuation technique (day-one profit or loss) is not recognized in profit or loss upon initial recognition but deferred. Deferred day-one profit or loss is recognized over the period between the trade date and the date when the variables are expected to become observable in the market, or over the life of the trade (whichever is shorter). The deferred day-one profit or loss for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 2017 Due from banks at fair value from profit or loss Derivative financial assets for trading Beginning balance ￦ (1,080) (1,312) Increase Recognized loss 174 232 Ending balance (906) (1,080) 214 (2) A fair value hierarchy of financial assets and financial liabilities that are not measured at fair value but are disclosed at fair value (a) Valuation method of fair value for financial instruments measured at amortized cost Valuation method of disclosed fair value for assets and liabilities that are not measured at fair value are as follows: Valuation method Cash and due from banks The estimated fair values of cash and due from banks are the carrying amounts. Held-to-maturity financial assets The fair values of held-to-maturity financial assets are determined using prices evaluated by credible evaluators. The fair values of loans are the present value of contractual cash flows discounted at market rates by factoring in Loans the default rates and credit spreads. The estimated fair values of demand deposits are the carrying amounts. The estimated fair values of time Depository liabilities deposits are the present value of future cash flows discounted at the interest rate. The estimated fair values of call money and borrowings in won are the carrying amounts. The fair values of other Borrowings borrowings are the present value of future cash flows discounted at the interest rate. The fair values of debentures are the present value of future cash flows discounted at the interest rate. Debentures (b) Classification and fair value hierarchy of financial instruments measured at amortized cost The classification and the fair value hierarchy of financial instruments measured at amortized cost as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2018 Type Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Cash and due from banks ￦ 2,601,499 2,601,499 Held-to-maturity financial 2,315,013 5,692,63 8,007,644 assets Loans 40,854,907 40,854,907 Receivables 1,668,374 1,668,374 ￦ 4,916,512 5,692,631 42,523,281 53,132,424 Financial liabilities Depository liabilities ￦ 15,338,640 23,118,205 38,456,845 Borrowings 134,662 6,290,744 6,425,406 Debentures 174,574 5,119,399 5,293,973 Other financial liabilities 2,282,695 2,282,695 ￦ 15,473,302 174,574 36,811,043 52,458,919 (In millions of won) 2017 Type Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Cash and due from banks ￦ 2,254,811 2,254,811 Held-to-maturity financial 3,097,911 4,817,166 7,915,077 assets Loans 39,426,575 39,426,575 Receivables 935,874 935,874 ￦ 5,352,722 4,817,166 40,362,449 50,532,337 Financial liabilities Depository liabilities ￦ 15,235,717 22,568,912 37,804,629 Borrowings 124,998 3,266,398 3,391,396 Debentures 4,370,515 4,370,515 Other financial liabilities 1,292,457 1,292,457 ￦ 15,360,715 31,498,282 46,858,997 215 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (c) Valuation method and inputs of level 2 Valuation method and inputs used in measuring fair values of financial instruments measured at amortized cost using level 2 inputs as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: 2018 Type Valuation method (*) Inputs (*) Financial assets Securities at amortized cost DCF method Discount rate 2017 Type Valuation method (*) Inputs (*) Financial assets Held-to-maturity financial DCF method Discount rate assets (*) Valuation methods and inputs of items which carrying amounts are assumed to be fair values are not disclosed. (d) Valuation method and inputs of level 3 Valuation method and significant unobservable inputs used in measuring fair values of financial instruments measured at amortized cost using level 3 inputs as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: 2018 Type Valuation method (*) Unobservable inputs (*) Financial assets Loans measured at amorDCF method Discount rate, credit spreads, prepayment rate tized cost Others DCF method Discount rate Financial liabilities Depository liabilities DCF method Discount rate Borrowings DCF method Discount rate Debentures DCF method Discount rate Other financial liabilities DCF method Discount rate (*) Valuation methods and inputs of items whose carrying amounts are considered to be reasonable approximation of fair values are not disclosed. 2017 Type Valuation method (*) Unobservable inputs (*) Financial assets Loans DCF method Discount rate, credit spreads, prepayment rate Receivables DCF method Discount rate Financial liabilities Depository liabilities DCF method Discount rate Borrowings DCF method Discount rate Debentures DCF method Discount rate Other financial liabilities DCF method Discount rate (*) Valuation methods and inputs of items whose carrying amounts are considered to be reasonable approximation of fair values are not disclosed. 216 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP APPENDIX GRI STANDARDS INDEX 218 THIRD-PARTY ASSURANCE STATEMENT 220 THIRD-PARTY VERIFICATION STATEMENT OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION 222 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT INITIATIVES 223 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI STANDARDS INDEX Disclosure Universal Standards Page Note GRI 102: General Disclosure 102-1 Name of the organization 6 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 6-7 102-3 Location of headquarters 6 102-4 Location of operations 6, 10-20 102-5 Ownership and legal form 6, 69 102-6 Markets served 6, 27-29 Organizational Profile 102-7 Scale of the organization 6, 79, 86, 92 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 84, 93 102-9 Supply chain 74 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain ABOUT THIS REPORT 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 70-71 102-12 External initiatives 101 102-13 Membership of associations 101 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2-3 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 7, 56 Ethics and Integrity 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 42, 85, 94 102-18 Governance structure 68-69 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 68-69 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 68-69 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 68-69 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 57 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 68 Governance 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 69 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 57 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 57, 68 102-35 Remuneration policies 69 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 69 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 69 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 69 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 60 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 85, 93 Stakeholder 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 60 Engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 60-63, 91 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 64-65 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 79 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries ABOUT THIS REPORT 102-47 List of material topics 64-65 102-48 Restatements of information 102-49 Changes in reporting ABOUT THIS REPORT 102-50 Reporting period ABOUT THIS REPORT Management Approach 102-51 Date of most recent report ABOUT THIS REPORT 102-52 Reporting cycle ABOUT THIS REPORT 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report ABOUT THIS REPORT 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards ABOUT THIS REPORT 102-55 GRI content index 96-97 102-56 External assurance 98-99 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 26, 32, 36, 40 Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 26, 32, 36, 40 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 26, 32, 36, 40 218 APPENDIX GRI STANDARDS INDEX Disclosure Topic-specific Standards Page Note GRI 200: Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 79 Economic Performance 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 38, 72-73 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 42, 92 Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 40-43 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 40 GRI 300: Environmental Performance 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 88 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 88 Energy 302-3 Energy intensity 88 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 88 Water 303-5 Water consumption 87 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 89 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 89 Emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 89 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 89 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 89 Effluents and Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 88 Supplier Environmental 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 89 Assessment GRI 400: Social Performance 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 84, 93 Employment 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time 47-49 employees 401-3 Parental leave 46, 85, 93 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 85 30days Labor/Management Relations Occupational 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 84, 94 Health and Safety 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 85, 93 Training and Education 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 44 Diversity and Equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 85, 93 Opportunity 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 84 Human Rights Assessment 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 40, 94 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development 50-54 Local Communities programs 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities Not relevant Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 91, 92 Socioeconomic Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 91, 92 GRI Financial Services Standard Disclosures FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines 36-39 FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines 36-39, 89 FS3 Processes for monitoring clients' implementation of and compliance with environmental 36-39 and social requirements included inagreements or transactions product portforlio FS4 Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and social 36-39 policies and procedures as applied to business lines FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environmental and social 36-39 risks and opportunities FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro/SME/ 36-39 large) and by sector FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type 66-67 local Communities FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people 66-67 FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services 36-39 product and Service labeling FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary 66-67 219 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THIRD-PARTY ASSURANCE STATEMENT To the Readers of DGB Financial Group Sustainability Report 2018-2019: Foreword Korea Management Registrar Inc. (hereinafter “KMR”) has been requested by of DGB Financial Group to verify the contents of its 2018-2019 Sustainability Report (hereinafter “the Report”). DGB Financial Group is responsible for the collection and presentation of information included in the Report. KMR’s responsibility is to carry out assurance engagement on specific data and information in the assurance scope stipulated below. Scope and standard DGB Financial Group describes its efforts and achievements of the corporate social responsibility activities in the Report. KMR performed a type2, moderate level of assurance using AA1000AS (2008) and SRV1000 from KMR Global Sustainability Committee as assurance standards. KMR’s assurance team(hereinafter “the team”) evaluated the adherence to Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, and the reliability of the selected GRI Standard indices as below, where professional judgment of the team was exercised as materiality criteria. The team checked whether the Report has been prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI Standards which covers the followings. GRI Reporting Principles Universal Standards Topic Specific Standards · Management approach of Topic Specific Standards · Economic Performance: 201-1 · Anti-corruption: 205-1, 205-2, 205-3 · Energy: 302-1, 302-2, 302-3, 302-4 · Water: 303-5 · Emissions: 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5 · Effluents and Waste: 306-2 · Supplier Environmental Assessment: 308-2 · Employment: 401-1, 401-2, 401-3 · Labor/Management Relations: 402-1 -· Occupational Health and Safety: 403-2 · Training and Education: 404-1, 404-2 · Diversity and Equal Opportunity: 405-1, 405-2 · Human Rights Assessment: 412-2 · Local Communities: 413-1, 413-2 · Customer Privacy: 418-1 · Socioeconomic Compliance: 419-1 This Report excludes a data sand information of joint corporate, contractor etc. which is outside of the organization, i.e. DGB Financial Group, among report boundaries. Our approach In order to verify the contents of the Report within an agreed scope of assurance in accordance with the assurance standard, the team has carried out an assurance engagement as follows: Reviewed overall report Reviewed materiality test process and methodology Reviewed sustainability management strategies and targets Reviewed stakeholder engagement activities Interviewed people in charge of preparing the Report 220 APPENDIX THIRD-PARTY ASSURANCE STATEMENT Our conclusion Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews and interviews, we had several discussions with DGB Financial Group on the revision of the Report. We reviewed the Report’s final version in order to confirm that our recommendations for improvement and our revisions have been reflected. When reviewing the results of the assurance, the assurance team could not find any inappropriate contents in the Report to the compliance with the principles stipulated below. Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the data included in the verification scope are not presented appropriately. Inclusivity Inclusivity is the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability · DGB Financial Group is developing and maintaining stakeholder communication channels in various forms and levels in order to make a commitment to be responsible for the stakeholders. The assurance team could not find any critical stakeholder DGB Financial Group left out during this procedure. Materiality Materiality is determining the relevance and significance of an issue to an organization and its stakeholders. A material issue is an issue that will influence the decisions, actions, and performance of an organization or its stakeholders. · DGB Financial Group is determining the materiality of issues found out through stakeholder communication channels through its own materiality evaluation process, and the assurance team could not find any critical issues left out in this process. Responsiveness Responsiveness is an organization’s response to stakeholder issues that affect its sustainability performance and is realized through decisions, actions, and performance, as well as communication with stakeholders. · The assurance team could not find any evidence that DGB Financial Group’s counter measures to critical stakeholder issues were inappropriately recorded in the Report. We could not find any evidence the Report was not prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI standards. Recommendation for improvement We hope the Report is actively used as a communication tool for stakeholders and recommendation for improvements. DGB Financial Group has published the performance indicator report on individual sustainability strategic initiatives with consistency, along with midto long-term goals. The organization is advised to expand the report scope to cover not just a small number of key affiliates but the entire group. Our independence With the exception of providing third party assurance services, KMR is not involved in any other DGB Financial Group’s business operations that are aimed at making profit in order to avoid any conflicts of interest and to maintain independence. June, 18th, 2019 CEO 221 2018-2019 DGB FINANCIAL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT THIRD-PARTY VERIFICATION STATEMENT OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION DGB FINANCIAL GROUP and STAKEHOLDERS Introduction KSA has been commissioned by DGB FINANCIAL GROUP to independently verify Greenhouse Gas (Scope 1,2,3) Inventory Report for the calendar year 2018(aka “the report”). KSA independently proposes verification opinion based on the review of date and data management system on the report written by DGB FINANCIAL GROUP. Any liability or responsibility for acquisition of data, organization, and opinion is on DGB FINANCIAL GROUP. KSA holds responsibility for verifying the data on the report is written and assessed in accordance with the standards and proposing verification opinions. Independence KSA has no stake in DGB FINANCIAL GROUP’s business other than third-party verification on the report. Moreover, KSA has no biased or prejudiced opinion on any DGB FINANCIAL GROUP’s stakeholders or people concerned. Verification Object and Level of Assurance Verification objects are Greenhouse Gas (Scope 1,2,3) Inventory Report for the calendar year 2018 of head office and domestic sites of Daegu Bank and DGB FINANCIAL GROUP’s subsidiaries. During this process, KSA verified that the risks associated with error, omission, or inappropriate information on emissions and energy consumption are based upon a reasonable level of assurance. Verification Criteria The verification has been performed in accordance with the verification principles and tasks outlined in IPCC Guideline : 1996/2006, KSA ISO 14064-1,2,3 and Emission Target Management system : 2016-255. -In case of Scope 3, Domestic/Overseas trips and commuting travel of Daegu Bank’s associates have been assessed autonomously based on internal activity data and following the standards suggested by associated agency. KSA assures that this method of assessment is constant and precise. Verification Procedures and Limitations The verification procedures included document examination, on-site evaluation, interviews, applying of modification, and report publication based on the report submitted by DGB FINANCIAL GROUP. The assessment techniques are Risk-based Approach and Sampling Techniques, and there are possibilities of the errors, omissions, and false statements that are not found by verifier. Verification Opinions and Overall Opinions Verifier was able to secure objective evidence needed to assess Greenhouse Gas emission and energy consumption reported by DGB FINANCIAL GROUP through Greenhouse Gas (Scope 1,2,3) Inventory Report for the calendar year 2018. The submitted report was assessed in accordance with the standards. Parts were inconsistent, but were asked to modify through indication, and verified the modification as appropriate afterward. Therefore, verifier has confidence in Greenhouse Gas emission and consumption reported by DGB FINANCIAL GROUP during the reported period (2018.1.1 ~ 2018.12.31), and thus assess verification opinion as ‘reasonable’ on the reported emission. April 10, 2019 KOREAN STANDARDS ASSOCIATION PRESIDENT OF KSA 222 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT INITIATIVES Sustainability Management Initiative UN Global Compact CEO Water Mandate UN Environment Programme Climate Disclosure Standard · Reported on water resource Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) Board (CDSB) · Signatory since 2006 management since 2010 · Participant in Korea group · Member of 2012 CDSB Korea · DGB Financial Group Chairman is a meetings working group director of UNGC Korea · UN Sustainable Development Carbon Disclosure Project Dow Jones Sustainability FTSE4Good Indexes Goals (SDGs) Indexes (DJSI) · Annual signatory since 2007 · Listed for 8 consecutive years · Selection of goals appropriate for · Listed for 9 consecutive years in · Recognized for excellence 7 times, DGB Financial Group Asia-Pacific including 2018 · Listed for 10 consecutive years in Korea Science Based Targets Task Force On Climate-rePrinciples for Responsible lated Financial Disclosure Banking (PRB) · Signatory to 2018 targets (TCFD) · Participation as a support · Participated as a organization in 2018 TCFD member in 2018 UN Global Compact We have been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since July 2006, and we comply with the Ten Principles covering four areas (human rights, labor standards, environment, anti-corruption). Classification Page Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 75 Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 75 Labour Standards Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 85, 93 Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 75 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and 75 Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 46 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 38, 72-73 Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 38, 72-73 Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 72-73 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 40-43 June 2018 DGB Financial Group 2018-2019 Integrated Sustainability Report was printed on eco-friendly papers using soybean oil printing techniques.
